24 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court grants bail to Disha||Terming the ‘toolkit’ shared by climate change activist Disha Ravi as “innocuous”, a Delhi court on Tuesday granted her bail. Ms. Ravi was arrested for sharing the ‘toolkit’ relating to the ongoing farmers’ protest against three contentious farm laws. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana said, “The perusal of the said ‘toolkit’ reveals that any call for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent.” Dealing with the interpretation of the word ‘sedition’, a charge slapped by the Delhi Police on the 22-year-old activist, the judge said, “Law proscribes only such activities as would be intended, or have a tendency, to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence”. “There is not even an iota of evidence brought to my notice connecting the perpetrators of the violence on January 26, 2021, with the said PJF [Poetic Justice Foundation] or the applicant/accused [Ravi],” the court said, terming the evidence against Ms. Ravi “scanty and sketchy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-disha/article33918240.ece
24 February 2021||Chennai,||T.N. debt burden to cross Rs. 5 lakh crore in 2021-22||The interim Budget, presented by Tamil Nadu’s Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday, ahead of the Assembly election in the State, reflected the significant impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the State’s finances. Besides a wider-than-expected revenue deficit and fiscal deficit for 2020-21, the State’s debt is expected to cross Rs. 5 lakh crore in 2021-22.   The interim Budget was largely devoid of populist announcements, barring schemes providing accident-cum-life insurance cover for 55.67 lakh breadwinners from Below the Poverty Line (BPL) families and enhanced medical insurance cover for government employees. In aggregate, the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) was expected to be Rs. 1,09,968.97 crore in the revised estimates for 2020-21, marking an 18% decline from Rs. 1,33,530.3 crore in the Budget estimates for 2020-21, Mr. Panneerselvam said while presenting the interim Budget for 2021-22. The Deputy Chief Minister, who holds the Finance portfolio, noted that the SOTR collapsed in the first four months of the current financial year due to the COVID-19 lockdown and the additional time provided for remitting tax dues. “The collections of State GST and Value Added Tax started picking up from August 2020. The collections of stamp duty and registration fees have also revived. However, motor vehicle tax collections are yet to fully recover,” he added. Fall in central tax share Mr. Panneerselvam pointed out that Tamil Nadu’s share of central taxes was reduced to Rs. 23,039.46 crore in the Union Budget (revised estimates for 2020-21) from Rs. 32,849.34 crore in the Budget estimates for 2020-21. “While the reduction in the share of central taxes is partly attributable to the fall in revenue collection due to COVID-19, the shrinking of the divisible pool of central taxes due to the increase in the share of cesses and surcharges is also a significant factor,” he said. He reiterated his appeal to the Centre to merge cesses and surcharges with the basic rate of tax.  The interim Budget forecasts an 18% decline in total revenue receipts to Rs. 1,80,700.62 crore for 2020-21 from the Budget estimates for 2020-21. The aggregate revenue expenditure as per the revised Budget estimates stands at Rs. 2,46,694.69 crore, about Rs. 6,000 crore more than the Rs. 2,40,992.78 crore projected in the Budget estimates for 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-debt-burden-to-cross-rs-5-lakh-crore-in-2021-22/article33918291.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine rollout for older people soon: Health Ministry||Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday that COVID-19 vaccination for the older population (over 50 years) is expected to start soon and that the immunisation programme would see greater private sector participation. Speaking at a Health Ministry press conference, Mr. Bhushan said more private hospitals would be utilised to increase the speed and coverage of COVID-19 vaccination in the coming days. “Approximately 10,000 hospitals are being used for administering vaccines in a day. Out of these, 2,000 hospitals are private. This shows how essential the private sector is... In the coming days, more private sector hospitals will be utilised to increase the vaccination coverage and speed,” he said. Teams sent to States Stating that the Ministry had sent Central teams to some States which had shown a surge in COVID-19 cases recently, Mr. Bhushan said these teams would analyse the reasons for the spike in cases. NITI Aayog’s member (health) V.K. Paul said there was no current scientific data available to establish a direct relation between the recent surge in cases in Maharashtra and other States with the mutant virus strains N440K and E484Q detected in the country. Dr. Paul said besides the U.K. strain (187 cases), South Africa strain (6) cases and Brazil strain (1 case), India had also found cases with N440K and E484Q. “The variants have been now detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana,” he added. Balram Bhargava, ICMR Director General, said the two strains had been detected in other nations too and were not specific to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-rollout-for-older-people-soon-health-ministry/article33918246.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Blow to PM Oli as Nepal SC reinstates Lower House||In a major setback to the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, the Supreme Court of Nepal on Tuesday reinstated the House of Representatives, the Lower House of the Nepal’s Parliament. A special Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, which declared the verdict in response to 13 writ petitions, ordered that the 275-member House should convene within 13 days. Former Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai said the verdict would help build better Delhi-Kathmandu ties. The development comes two months after President B.D. Bhandari dissolved the Lower House, on the recommendation of Mr. Oli’s cabinet. The President also announced that polls should be held during April-May. The move to dissolve the House of Representatives came after Mr. Oli had been challenged by his colleagues in the Standing Committee of the ruling Nepal Communist Party with a possible no- confidence motion being planned against him. The judgment by the Bench, led by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher JBR, observed that the issue was political in nature but the court had to deal with it in the interest of upholding the Constitution of Nepal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blow-to-pm-oli-as-nepal-sc-reinstates-lower-house/article33918247.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Deliberate subversion of justice in riots cases’||The horrors of the north-east Delhi riots are still fresh in the memories of Mohd. Wakeel, a resident of Shiv Vihar, and Mallika, a resident of Bhagwati Nagar, a year since the violence destroyed their lives. Ms. Mallika fights back tears as she recounts February 25, 2020, when she last saw her husband, Musharraf, whom she hid in a box bed in their home before applying sindoor (vermilion)  and fleeing with her three-year-old son. Mr. Wakeel’s scars do not even allow him to tear up as he lost both his eyes when a mob threw acid on his face. A common thread that binds the victims, who shared their stories at the Press Club of India on Tuesday on the first anniversary of the riots, is the loss of trust in the police who, they alleged, did not answer their distress calls during the riots and afterwards, when they sought justice. Speaking at the event, Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat alleged that there has been a “deliberate subversion of justice as truth has been hijacked to serve political interests and to save BJP leaders who were seen in the area during the riots”. ‘Government protection’ She said BJP leader Kapil Mishra, who is accused of making inflammatory spee-ches ahead of the riots, had the temerity to say that “he could repeat what he did a year ago, if need be” because the “government has given protection to these leaders ”. Ms. Karat also questioned the role of the Delhi police and alleged that the number of personnel deployed was grossly inadequate to tackle the violence. “On February 23, 2020, there were 1,393 police and central forces deployed [in the area] and 700 distress calls were received, most of which went unanswered. On February 24, 2020, 13 deaths were reported and the [Union] Home Ministry added only six more personnel, as the official figure for deployment on that day according to the Delhi police’s own submission to the court is 1,399.” She said it was only on the evening of February 24, 2020 that Section 144 of the CrPC was imposed. The number of police personnel was increased to 4,291 and 4,663 in the next two days when 29 and eight deaths, respectively, were reported. Ms. Karat said despite the victims alleging that the police did not come to their rescue, the Delhi police have given themselves a clean chit by saying no cognisable offence has been found in the manner in which they conducted themselves. “We demand an independent probe into the communal violence in north-east Delhi. The role of the police needs to be questioned and questions need to be asked about how the Capital was allowed to burn for five days under the eyes of the Home Minister himself,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deliberate-subversion-of-justice-in-riots-cases/article33918794.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra again reports more than 6,000 cases||After slipping below 5,000 for a day, new COVID-19 cases again crossed the 6,000 mark in Maharashtra on Tuesday on the back of a spike in the Akola division, while 51 patients died, a multi-week high, in the State, the Health Department said. The State reported 6,218 new COVID-19 cases, up from 5,210 on Monday, taking the tally to 21,12,312, it said. The State, which has witnessed an upsurge in COVID-19 cases since February 10, reported 6,112 infections on February 19, followed by 6,281 on February 20, and 6,971 on February 21. Also, Maharashtra on Tuesday reported one of the highest fatality counts in recent times at 51, taking the death toll to 51,857, an official said. Of the 51 deaths, 32 occurred in the last 48 hours and 12 in the last week. Remaining seven deaths were in the period before the last week, he said. The Akola division in Vidarbha reported the highest number of cases at 1,392, leaving behind the Mumbai division, which usually leads the daily infection tally, at 1,250. The Akola division, which consists of Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Washim and Akola districts, has emerged as the new COVID-19 epicentre in Maharashtra. Mumbai city reported 643 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 3,20,532. Eight more deaths pushed the city’s toll to 11,454, the official said. With 1,250 new cases, the Mumbai division’s tally increased to 7,16,299, while 11 fresh deaths took the toll to 19,768. The Pune division also reported higher number of cases than the Mumbai division. With 1,288 cases, the Pune division’s tally reached 5,17,760, while the fatality count stood at 11,716.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-again-reports-more-than-6000-cases/article33918912.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Farmers to get back land given for Kakinada SEZ||The State Cabinet on Tuesday approved the cabinet sub-committee report which recommended to return 2,180 acres given by the farmers to Kakinada SEZ, a promise made by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during 2019 polls. Also, the State government decided to provide a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the farmers whose lands were utilised. Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkatramaiah said the Cabinet decided to move a resolution in the Assembly opposing the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The objective was to mount more pressure on the Centre, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-move-resolution-in-assembly-opposing-vsp-privatisation/article33918190.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC upholds NIA court order, grants bail to Areeb Majeed||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday upheld the order of the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court and granted bail to 27-year-old Areeb Majeed, who was accused of being involved with the Islamic State terror network. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale directed that Mr. Majeed be released on a bond of Rs. 1 lakh and said, “He has already undergone incarceration for more than six years and there is a likelihood of the trial being delayed for considerable period.” It is the NIA’s case that Mr. Majeed, along with three other absconding accused, had visited Iraq ostensibly for pilgrimage in a group. However, the four men never visited the sites of pilgrimage and instead escaped into Iraq and Syria with the intention of indulging in jihadi activities by joining Islamic State for Iraq and Levant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-upholds-nia-court-order-grants-bail-to-areeb-majeed/article33918914.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Schools to reopen for students of classes VI to VIII||The stage is all set for reopening of schools across the State allowing physical attendance of students of classes VI to VIII from Wednesday. The decision follows instructions from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The physical classes for students would commence from Wednesday and not later than March 1 as far as possible. Physical classes for students of class IX and above had started from February 1. Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy said the managements of the schools should strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines on the premises of the schools. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a teleconference with the district collectors and senior officials at the district-level ahead of the reopening of the schools from Wednesday. All precautions for the safety of students and teachers should be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-vi-to-viii/article33918827.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mother’s love||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mothers-love/article33918463.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A stork of luck||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-stork-of-luck/article33918792.ece
24 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab: curbs on gatherings from March 1||Amid growing concern over the rising COVID-19 cases in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered restriction on indoor gatherings to 100 persons and 200 for outdoor events from March 1. He also authorised the Deputy Commissioners to impose night curfew in hotspots, if needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-curbs-on-gatherings-from-march-1/article33918795.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Indradhanush 3.0 to fill gap in immunisation||The States and the Union Territories have rolled out the Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 3.0 scheme to cover children and pregnant women who missed routine immunisa-tion during the COVID-19 pandemic.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indradhanush-30-to-fill-gap-in-immunisation/article33918244.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Nikita, Disha and Shantanu questioned||The Delhi Police questioned lawyer Nikita Jacob, engineer Shantanu Muluk and activist Disha Ravi for the second consecutive day at the cyber cell office in Dwarka on Tuesday. Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk arrived for the investigation at 11 a.m.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nikita-disha-and-shantanu-questioned/article33918248.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. to ensure healthcare for all, says PM||Stating that the budget allocation for the health sector this year has been unprecedented, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said this indicated his government’s commitment to providing healthcare to every citizen.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-ensure-healthcare-for-all-says-pm/article33918249.ece
24 February 2021||Kolkata,||Swastha Sathi: “Hospitals will lose licence for non-compliance”||The Bengal government on Tuesday issued a notification saying hospitals and health establishment will face cancellation of licence if Swastha Sathi scheme beneficiaries are not entertained. The Swastha Sathi is an insurance scheme rolled out by the government providing Rs. 5 lakh cashless treatment to every family. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has extended the scheme to all 10 crore residents. “All clinical establishments with an indoor strength of 10 beds and above are mandated to empanel themselves in the scheme,” the notification said. It is one of the 11 flagship schemes of the State government under the Duare Sarkar campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swastha-sathi-hospitals-will-lose-licence-for-non-compliance/article33918464.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||The Mumbai Customs on Tuesday seized smuggled goods worth Rs. 15 crore. A highly placed source confirmed that the seizure was made following an operation that began on February 17. The official said, “Usually such items are found in cargo, but it is uncommon to find a parcel of this worth and so many items from Dubai. It was sent from the UAE postal service – Emirates.” From February 17 to 18, twelve consignments from Chakala MIDC Post Office were seized, and from February 19 to 23, twenty-six consignments from Foreign Post Office, and five consignments from Air Parcel Sorting Office were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33918913.ece
24 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Aquaculture farm to be modernised using AI||The College of Fisheries here is all set to modernise its aquaculture farm at Yekkur at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.9 crore under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY). A unique feature of the modernisation will be the application of artificial intelligence (AI) while developing the ultra modern aquaculture units. Minister for Fisheries S. Angara launched work on the project on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aquaculture-farm-to-be-modernised-using-ai/article33918901.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘AAP emerging as an alternative in Gujarat’||The Aam Aadmi Party said it has significantly improved its vote share in the municipal elections of Gujarat and citizens of different States are “accepting” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s model of development-based politics as a key alternative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-emerging-as-an-alternative-in-gujarat/article33918790.ece
24 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Ajit Singh meets injured farmers in Muzaffarnagar||Rashtriya Lok Dal president Ajit Singh reached Soram village in Muzaffarnagar on Tuesday to meet the farmers who were injured in a clash with the aides of Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ajit-singh-meets-injured-farmers-in-muzaffarnagar/article33918796.ece
24 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan BJP discusses strategy for bypolls||A core group of the BJP, formed to address faction-alism in the party’s Rajasthan unit, met here on Tuesday to deliberate on the strategies for the upcoming Assembly bypolls for four seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-bjp-discusses-strategy-for-bypolls/article33918797.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Fee reduction: More meetings planned||Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday said that he will again call for a meeting with school managements and parents’ associations to discuss the order on fee reduction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fee-reduction-more-meetings-planned/article33918411.ece
24 February 2021||Mysuru,||JD(S) to play kingmaker in mayoral polls||The JD(S) will play the role of kingmaker in the election to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Mysuru City Corporation on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jds-to-play-kingmaker-in-mayoral-polls/article33918530.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Six killed as explosives go off in Chickballapur||Six people were killed in an accidental gelatin and detonator explosion near a quarry and crushing site at Hirenagavalli in Chickballapur district at 12.30 a.m. on Tuesday. The explosion occurred when the deceased, all employees of the quarry and crusher unit, were carrying the illegally procured and stored explosives to dispose them off in a forested area post midnight, to escape police action. All six were killed on the spot. Amid strong criticism by the Opposition and condolences offered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the State government handed over the probe to the Criminal Investigation Department. In a tweet, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said stringent action would be taken against the guilty. The driver of the goods carrier in which the explosives were transported sustained severe injuries in the blast and is the lone survivor. This comes close on the heels of a similar explosion that left six dead in a quarry at Hunasodu village in Shivamogga district, the Chief Minister’s home town. BJP links The Gudibande police, who have registered a case of “culpable homicide not amounting to murder”, which has also come under criticism, have secured four persons, including two partners in the firm, Bhramara Vasini M-Sanders Ltd. However, the main accused, G.S. Nagaraja, a local BJP leader, and brothers Raghavendra Reddy and Shivakumar Reddy, from Lepakshi in Andhra Pradesh, are at large. On February 7, the police, led by Superintendent of Police Mithun Kumar, had raided the quarry in the village, and sealed it before confiscating illegally procured and stored explosives. The firm possessed more illegal explosives and wanted to conceal or dispose them off in the forest area and the tragedy occurred when they were transporting them. Riyaz, the sole survivor of the incident, said a group of six workers at the crusher woke him up around Monday midnight and asked him to drive the vehicle to the nearby forest area, with a gunny sack of gelatin sticks and detonators. “As I parked the vehicle, the six men, all my colleagues at the crusher, took the gunny sack of explosives and went into the forest. I heard a huge explosion within minutes. I was injured, but I saw all of them killed on the spot,” he recounted to villagers. The deceased have been identified as Uma Mahesh, who worked as supervisor; Gangadhara Babu, 35, who worked as a manager; Murali Krishna, a labourer hailing from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh; Ramu, 27, who worked as a computer operator, and Abhilash Nayak, 23, a labourer, both from Hirenagavalli; and another labourer Mahesh Sing, a Nepali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-killed-in-gelatine-blast-in-chickballapur/article33918176.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Disha quizzed for second day||The Delhi Police questioned lawyer Nikita Jacob, engineer Shantanu Muluk and activist Disha Ravi on second consecutive day at the cyber cell office in Dwarka on Tuesday. Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk arrived at the office at 11 a.m. to join investigation. On Monday, Ms. Jacob left the office at 8 p.m. and Mr. Muluk at 11 p.m. A senior police officer said each of the co-accused was confronted with the other two as they were made to answer a set of questions that primarily focused on the creation of the alleged toolkit. The police said they were questioned for around four hours to get more details about the conspiracy that was planned to defame India on the Republic Day. Later, Ms. Ravi was taken to the Patiala House courts for bail hearing and the other two remained at the office for investigation. “We are trying to connect the sequence of the events to establish the role of each person in the case. The actual creator of the toolkit, their source of funding and the people backing them were some of the key questions asked,” said the officer. The officer said Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk left the office around 8 p.m. If required, they will be asked to join the investigation again. During investigation, they have got some more information. They are verifying the facts to get more details about the people involved in it. “Disha had destroyed a crucial piece of evidence in the form of WhatsApp chats from her phone. A team of technical experts is working on it to recover the chat and the details of members in the WhatsApp group. A technical team is working to identify the people who are trying to tamper with or delete digital footprints to escape being caught,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disha-quizzed-for-second-day/article33918205.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. will ensure healthcare for all: PM||Stating that the budget allocation for the health sector this financial year has been unprecedented, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said this indicated his government’s commitment to providing healthcare to every citizen. He added that the COVID-19 pandemic had taught the country a lesson on how to be prepared to fight similar challenges in the future. Speaking at a webinar on effective implementation of budget provisions in the health sector, Mr. Modi said, “The world has watched us closely and India has shown its strength during the pandemic. The country’s healthcare sector’s reputation and trust are at a new level all over the world.” “From medical equipment to medicines, ventilators to vaccines, scientific research to surveillance infrastructure, and doctors to epidemiologists, we have to focus on everything. All this is aimed at being better prepared for any health disaster in the future,” he added. The Prime Minister said this was the inspiration behind the PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat scheme. “Under this scheme, it has been decided that a modern ecosystem will be developed for research, testing and treatment in the country itself. This scheme will increase our capabilities in every spectrum,” he said. “The government’s emphasis is not only on investment in healthcare, but also to expand the access to healthcare in far flung areas of the country. These investments not only improve health, but also increase employment opportunities,” Mr. Modi said. He added that the world now clearly appreciated the strength and resilience shown by India’s health sector during the pandemic. “The trust in the country’s health sector has increased manifold all over the world. The world’s attention will definitely shift towards India’s medical education system and there will be a huge influx of foreign students to study medicine in the country,” he said. The Prime Minister said the current government treated health issues in a holistic manner rather than in a fragmented manner. Therefore, the focus was on wellness and not just treatment. “The government is working with a four-pronged strategy for a healthy India. The first is prevention of illness and promotion of wellness, including measures such as Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, yoga, timely care and treatment of pregnant women and children. The second is to provide cheap and effective treatment to the poorest of the poor. The third is to increase the quality of health infrastructure and healthcare professionals, while the fourth is to work on a mission mode to overcome obstacles,” he said. In his speech, the Prime Minister lauded the efforts of the AYUSH sector during the pandemic and said its infrastructure had also been of great help in the country with regard to increasing immunity and scientific research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-will-ensure-healthcare-for-all-pm/article33918226.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Kerala ignored Centre’s warning on U.S. firm’||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Tuesday said the Kerala government had struck a Rs. 5,000-crore agreement with EMCC International to build a deep-sea fishing fleet despite being forewarned by the Centre that the firm existed only on paper. On October 3, 2019, State Transport secretary K.R. Jyothilal had written to the Ministry of External Affairs seeking the help of the Indian Consulate in New York to verify the firm’s legitimacy. India’s Consular General wrote back on October 21, 2019, that the firm lacked a proper address. The company existed only on paper and in the virtual domain. It had no business or physical presence and had remained dormant. He informed the Kerala government that the company was a fake one. Two agreements signed However, the government ignored the cautionary report. It inked two agreements with the “suspect” company on February 28, 2020. Mr. Muraleedharan said the deal smacked of corruption. The political executive was trying to take cover from public anger by making government officials scapegoats. Ministers had claimed that KSINC and KSIDC officials had blindsided them. Their statements lacked credibility. Corruption had motivated the government to advantage the foreign firm, he said. EMCC has, however, contested Mr. Muraleedharan’s statement. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said the Centre had not warned the State about EMCC’s bona fide. He denied that the KSIDC had given industrial park land to the firm. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said in Pattambi in Palakkad that the government’s agreements with EMCC were exploratory. The government annulled them after it found it ran against the grain of the State’s fisheries policy. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded a judicial inquiry into the “deceitful” initiative to allow a foreign firm to steal the State’s marine wealth. He announced a coastal campaign to spotlight the government's “betrayal”. RSP leader Shibu Baby John and T.N. Pratapan, MP, would spearhead the initiative, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-ignored-centres-warning-on-us-firm/article33918186.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Terrorism is a crime against humanity’||Terrorism is a “crime against humanity”, said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Tuesday. Addressing the High Level Segment of the 46th Session of Human Rights Council (HRC), he said India’s commitment to human rights is seen in the way the government has handled the pandemic. “Terrorism continues to be one of the gravest threats to humankind. It is a crime against humanity and violates the most fundamental human right, namely the ‘Right to Life’...Terrorism can never be justified, nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims,” said Mr. Jaishankar highlighting India’s experience “as an inclusive and pluralistic society and vibrant democracy”. Major challenge Mr. Jaishankar said human rights agenda in the world is facing a major challenge from terrorism and expressed India’s desire to work with other members of the HRC. He highlighted the special importance of the rights that are enshrined in the Constitution as the Fundamental Rights. “These continue to evolve through legislation by Parliament, progressive interpretation of laws by the judiciary and active participation of civil society and citizens.” The Minister’s comments came days after India reacted angrily to observations by the Special Rapporteurs on Minority Issues and Freedom of Religion or Belief on apparent erosion of rights in Kashmir and the rest of India. The Ministry had termed the observations as “deplorable”. Mr. Jaishankar reached out to the HRC: “Our approach to the UN Human Rights Council is guided by our spirit of engagement, dialogue and consultation. We believe that equal emphasis should be placed on both promotion and protection of human rights. Both are best pursued through dialogue, consultation and cooperation among States as well as technical assistance and capacity building.” Mr. Jaishankar said the government provided “direct food support to 800 million Indians and financial support to 400 million” to counter the impact of the pandemic. “In the same spirit, India has pledged to use its vaccine manufacturing capacity to make vaccines accessible and affordable to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terrorism-is-a-crime-against-humanity/article33918198.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DAC clears bids worth Rs. 13,700 crore||The Defence Acquisitions Council (DAC) headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday cleared procurement proposals worth Rs. 13,700 crore, including 118 Arjun MK-1A tanks for around Rs. 8,400 crore. The improved tank was formally handed over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the Army last week. Separately, Bharat Forge announced that it has received a Rs. 117.95-crore order from the Defence Ministry under emergency procurement to supply its Kalyani M4 Kalyani M4 armoured vehicles to the Army. “All these acquisition proposals will be indigenously designed, developed and manufactured. These will include inter alia platforms and systems designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO),” the Ministry said. Three acceptance of necessities (AoNs) were accorded approval, which include for proposals for the three Services. Other proposals from the DRDO cleared by the DAC include Nag missile carrier Namica, Arudhra medium power radars, Armour-Piercing Fin-Stabilized Discarding Sabot (APFSDS) 125mm practice ammunition. With the AoN accorded for the tanks, the Army will now place the indent with the Heavy Vehicle Factory (HVF), Avadi, a defence official said. Within 30 months from the date of indent, the HVF will deliver five tanks called the “pre-production model”. The Army will put them through General Service Quality Requirement (GSQR) evaluation and accord the Bulk Production Clearance (BPC) if found satisfactory, the official said. To systematically work towards reducing the time taken for capital acquisition, the DAC also approved that all capital acquisition contracts (delegated and non-delegated) other than design and development cases shall be concluded in two years. The Ministry, in consultation with the Services and all stakeholders, will come up with a detailed plan of action for achieving it, the Ministry said. Blast protection vehicles The Kalyani M4 is a multi-role platform, designed for quick mobility in rough terrain and in areas affected by mine and Improved Explosive Devices (IED) threats. An official said the deal is for 27 vehicles. “It offers best in-class levels of ballistic and blast protection — up to 50kg TNT side blast or IED, roadside bombs due to its innovative design, built on a flat-floor monocoque hull,” the company said. It successfully completed a series of extreme vehicle trials, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dac-clears-bids-worth-rs-13700-crore/article33918211.ece
24 February 2021||Srinagar,||PoK women seek travel papers||Days after the Jammu and Kashmir administration disallowed women from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) to meet visiting foreign envoys, they held a protest march in Srinagar on Tuesday demanding travel documents to meet their relatives across the Line of Control (LoC). Dozens of women assembled at the Press Enclave and marched up to Ghanta Ghar in Srinagar, and demanded citizenship and the right to travel across the LoC. “We have not committed any crime by marrying a Kashmiri [in PoK during their stay]. These Kashmiris are citizens of India. We are just demanding equal rights,” Saira, one of the protesters, said. Most of the women, many of whom are divorcees now, are not allowed to return to PoK. “The government should deport us if it does not accept us. We just demand travel documents so that we can visit our homes,” said another bride from PoK. “Adnan Swami [from Pakistan] was granted citizenship. Sania Mirza [from India] is married to a Pakistani cricketer and is a Pakistani national. But she continues to represent India. Unfortunately, we are being treated like terrorists,” she said. Many of their relatives had died since they came to Kashmir, but they were not allowed “to participate in their funerals,” a woman said. Toiba, another protester, said they had been left without a identity. “We have no ration cards and no schools to admit our children.” According to the official figures, around 150 brides from PoK moved to Kashmir, along with ex-militant husbands, after the rollout of the 2010 rehabilitation policy. Official figures suggest that around 212 people returned through Nepal and other routes between 2010 and 2012, against 219 cases approved after security clearance. A J&K High Court judgment, issued in 1971 in the Mohsin Shah case, had observed that no deportation exercise could take place for such couples because “one person had merely travelled from one part of India to another”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pok-women-seek-travel-papers/article33918217.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ministry disowns ‘cow science’ examination||With the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) having cancelled its “indigenous cow science” examination after widespread criticism about its promotion of fake claims and pseudoscience, the Animal Husbandry Department said the two-year-old body had “no mandate” to conduct such an examination. Any future awareness programme would be conducted “on a scientific basis”, a senior official overseeing the RKA told The Hindu . Under the leadership of Vallabhbhai Kathiria, the body’s Chairman, the RKA had announced a national “Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar Prasar Exam” to be held on February 25. Reference materials for the exam made a number of unscientific claims, including that the dung of indigenous cows protected against radioactivity, their milk had traces of gold, and that cow slaughter caused earthquakes. The RKA had the backing of the University Grants Commission (UGC), which publicised the examination, causing widespread outrage. “This gau vigyan [cow science] programme was announced by the then Chairman, Mr. Kathiria. And his term was up to February 20 only. Before leaving the office, he postponed it,” said O.P. Chaudhary, Joint Secretary in the Animal Husbandry Department, which oversees the RKA. Mr. Kathiria did not respond to calls or requests for comment on the postponement. ‘No role’ “Until date, the Ministry was not involved. Only Mr. Kathiria was involved and he was conducting the exam. The Ministry does not know about the exam paper and did not play any role in the reference material for it... We will now examine everything on a scientific basis, and then take a decision,” Dr. Chaudhary told The Hindu . He said when the RKA was set up in February 2019, it was given a mandate as an advisory body on issues related to the protection, conservation and development of the indigenous cow and its progeny. After examining the situation, the Ministry would appoint a new Chairperson for the RKA and send fresh information to those who had already registered for the exam, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-disowns-cow-science-examination/article33918219.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Microsoft CEO harps on data privacy, AI ethics||Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella on Tuesday underscored the need for tech firms to develop products that ensure privacy of data, are secure and conform to AI ethics as well as fundamental internet safety. With technology becoming more pervasive and set to touch lives, society and economy like never before, “I think as [technology] companies building platforms and tools, we need to take responsibility to ensure by design that we build for privacy, security, AI ethics and internet safety,” he said. Participating in a virtual fireside chat, Charcha2021: Healthcare to ‘Hit Refresh’, with Telangana IT and Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao, organised as part of BioAsia 2021, Mr. Nadella said “these four things are not things we can wait even for regulation. We have to, even from an engineering and design ethos perspective, build it into our core.” He said tech companies cannot afford to say that “we have built it, we will see what breaks and then fix it... [such] attitude is frankly not tolerated in any other industry and it should not be even in the tech industry.” Given the importance of data privacy, there are bound to be regulations such as GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation). WFH changes When Mr.Rao sought his views on the changes work from home (WFH), amid the pandemic, has brought out, Mr.Nadella said WFH has ensured that collaboration is still possible. “Pandemic has ensured that you can always work from home but still collaborate with other people. WHF is no longer [restricted to] knowledge workers, [but] is even for frontline workers. Going forward, more flexibility in terms of time, site and place can be expected.” Also, the pandemic has accelerated the digital transformation across the board. “I even shudder to think what would the world’s level of productivity and economy have been if it was not for the current generation of technology, whether it is cloud and technologies like Teams. We became digital first responders to all the first responders out there, whether it is in healthcare, critical manufacturing. This is a real structural change... I don’t think we are going to go back ever.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/microsoft-ceo-harps-on-data-privacy-ai-ethics/article33918837.ece
24 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Ajit Singh meets injured farmers in Muzaffarnagar||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Ajit Singh reached Soram village in Muzaffarnagar on Tuesday to meet farmers who were injured in a clash with the aides of Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan on Monday. “I am not saying farmers are with me, I have come here to say that I am with you,” he said. Addressing hundreds of farmers in the village, Mr. Singh demanded that an FIR be registered against those who had roughed up the farmers and entered their houses. “This is the least you could do. It is the law,” he told the officials present at the meeting. Earlier, BKU president Naresh Tikait said those who were injured were farmers and not RLD workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajit-singh-meets-injured-farmers-in-muzaffarnagar/article33918196.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||Indradhanush 3.0 to fill gap in immunisation due to COVID||The States and Union Territories (UTs) have rolled out the Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 3.0 scheme to cover children and pregnant women who missed routine immunisation during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Health Ministry said in a release issued on Tuesday. More than 29,000 children and 5,000 pregnant women were covered on the first day, it added. “Various States and UTs have started implementation of the Intensified Mission Indradhanush 3.0, a campaign aimed to reach those children and pregnant women who have been missed out or been left out of the Routine Immunisation Programme. This is aimed to accelerate the full immunisation of children and pregnant women through a mission mode intervention. The first phase has been rolled out from February 22 for 15 days,” it said. The campaign is scheduled to have two rounds of immunisation lasting 15 days (excluding routine immunisation and holidays). It is being conducted in 250 pre-identified districts/urban areas across 29 States/UTs.  Remote areas Beneficiaries from migration areas and remote areas would be targeted as they may have missed their vaccine doses during the pandemic. As per the guidelines released for IMI 3.0, the districts have been classified to reflect 313 low risk, 152 medium risk and 250 high risk districts. The Ministry said adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour (CAB) during immunisation activities has been strongly emphasised. The States have been asked to follow a “staggered approach” to avoid crowding at the session sites and even plan break-up sessions if a staggered approach is not effective. The sessions have also been planned in such a way that not more than 10 beneficiaries are present at the session site at one given point in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indradhanush-30-to-fill-gap-in-immunisation-due-to-covid/article33918209.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No bar on travel from Kerala’||Following Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to intervene in the matter of Karnataka laying restrictions on people entering from the neighbouring State, Health Minister K. Sudhakar has clarified that there is no prohibition on travel but there are protocols to be followed in the light of a spike in COVID-19 cases. He said in a tweet, “Karnataka has not prohibited inter-State travel between Karnataka and Kerala. However, as a precautionary measure, guidelines have been issued that travellers entering Karnataka from Kerala must mandatorily possess a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours.” Dr. Sudhakar pointed out that similar steps had been taken for people visiting Karnataka from Maharashtra. “These steps are necessary to keep a check on transmission of COVID-19 virus from Kerala and Maharashtra as they are witnessing a spike in recent weeks,” said the Minister. Cluster formations in Bengaluru and Mangaluru have been attributed to people arriving from these States. Meanwhile, Ramachandra Bairy, Dakshina Kannada District Health and Family Welfare Officer, said that those travelling from Kerala are being asked to produce either COVID-19 negative certificate or SMS received on their mobile phones for having given the throat and nose swab samples for testing. For daily commuters from Kerala, the college principals and company authorities have been made responsible for getting the students and their employees tested. Students appearing for examinations are not being stopped. “We are not preventing the movement of people between the two States,” Dr. Bairy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-bar-on-travel-from-kerala/article33918715.ece
24 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya BJP caught in internal fight||The cracks in the Meghalaya unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party are out in the open. The State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of BJP, has threatened to launch a State-wide protest if the “internal issues” are not resolved by changing the leadership. This followed a cold war between the two BJP legislators – Alexander L. Hek and Sanbor Shullai – and State BJP president Ernest Mawrie over the latter’s alleged tendency to take whimsical decisions or rail against coalition partners. On February 20, Mr. Shullai claimed Mr. Mawrie got the State president’s post through manipulations. “The State BJP is sinking each passing day under his leadership. His removal will help BJP grow in Meghalaya,” the MLA said. He also defended Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma’s observation that half the BJP leaders in the State want Mr. Mawrie’s ouster. “The Chief Minister has every right to say this since our central leadership has directed us (two MLAs) to support the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government,” Mr. Shullai said. Mr. Mawrie has been critical of the BJP’s allies, specifically the National People’s Party (NPP) and its alleged misrule in the tribal councils. The BJP is part of the multi-party MDA headed by Mr. Sangma’s NPP. State BJYM vice-president Wallambok Khongwir said some BJP leaders have divided the party. He added that the BJP should set its house in order and bring back all disgruntled leaders who quit over the internal rumblings. Barbs from allies NPP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong has advised the BJP to quit the coalition if it thinks the MDA government is corrupt. “On one hand, they are accusing us of corruption while on the other they continue to be part of the government and one of their two MLAs holds a Cabinet portfolio. Who are they trying to fool, the voters,” asked Mr. Tynsong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cracks-in-meghalaya-bjp-out-in-the-open/article33918800.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rahul interacts with PSC rank holders||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday made an impromptu visit to PSC rank holders’ agitation venue in front of the Secretariat here in Kerala. His visit seems to have thrust the month-old agitation for placement into the national limelight. Mr. Gandhi interacted with the protesters, who began a hunger strike from Monday seeking revival of their rank list. They told him that the government was yet to give any assurance regarding their placement prospects. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the government had repeatedly refused to engage the youth in talks. It had despatched officials instead. Moreover, Ministers had resorted to vindictive and individualised criticism against some rank holders who had gone to meet them personally. Mr. Gandhi said he wanted to meet the youth after Mr. Chennithala apprised him of the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-interacts-with-psc-rank-holders/article33918188.ece
24 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Curbs on gatherings in Punjab from March 1||Amid growing concern over the rising COVID-19 cases in the State, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered restriction on indoor gatherings to 100 persons and 200 for outdoor events from March 1. Chairing a high-level virtual meeting to review the situation, the Chief Minister also authorised the Deputy Commissioners to impose night curfew in hotspots in their districts if needed, with micro containment strategy to be adopted. He directed the police force to ensure strict enforcement of wearing of masks, along with notification of COVID-19 monitors by all restaurants and marriage halls with the Excise and Taxation department as the nodal agency. The Chief Minister said a decision on reducing occupancy in cinema halls will be taken after March 1. Private offices and restaurants shall be encouraged to display latest tests done for all employees, he added. While directing increased testing, Capt. Amarinder ordered mandatory testing of 15 contacts per positive case, with monitoring to be done by COVID Patient Tracking Officers and review to be undertaken by the Health department. Expressing concern over the 3.23 case fatality rate, the Chief Minister took note of the mortality audit findings that many of the deaths are taking place within 2-14 days of hospitalisation. Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed that Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, SAS Nagar and SBS Nagar districts had shown a spike in positivity in recent days, triggering concerns over a possible fresh wave in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curbs-on-gatherings-in-punjab-from-march-1/article33918802.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. leaders call for rethink on candidates||The resignation of Congress lawmakers and the eventual collapse of the Puducherry government has triggered a debate among a section of theparty leaders on the process of choosing party candidates. With Puducherry following the Madhya Pradesh (March 2020) and Karnataka (July 2019) model, in which elected lawmakers resigned from the Assembly to bring down the government and later joined the BJP, the Congress may have to rethink its candidate selection process for the upcoming Assembly elections in States such as Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal. Senior leader from Karnataka B.K. Hariprasad on Tuesday said, “There should be a rethink on whom we give the party’s ticket to. The criterion of money power needs to be done away with and the party cadre should be identified at the block and district levels.” Post the Bihar debacle, the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) not only raised the issue of ticket distribution publicly, senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad during the January 23 meeting of the CWC demanded that there should be elected members in the Central Election Committee, the body that decides who gets to contest an election. Though Mr. Hariprasad did not agree with the idea of an elected CEC, he too talked of empowering the District Congress Committees. “One reason why Congress sees desertion is because of party’s preference for opportunists over loyalists. It is also true that when we form governments in States, our leaders are cut off from workers and MLAs alike,” AICC member from Bihar, Kishore Jha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leaders-call-for-rethink-on-candidates/article33918203.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC upholds NIA court order, grants bail to Areeb Majeed||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday upheld the order of the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court and granted bail to 27-year-old Areeb Majeed, who was accused of being involved with the Islamic State (IS) terror network. A division Bench of justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale directed that Mr. Majeed be released on a bond of Rs. 1 lakh and noted, “He has already undergone incarceration for more than six years and there is a likelihood of the trial being delayed for considerable period.” It is NIA’s case that Mr. Majeed, along with three other absconding accused, had visited Iraq ostensibly for pilgrimage in a group. However, the four men never visited the sites of pilgrimage and instead escaped into Iraq and Syria with the intention of indulging in jihadi activities by joining Islamic State for Iraq and Levant (ISIL). As per the NIA, all four men formed a lawful association with an intention to promote terrorism in Iraq, Syria and India. They also participated in terrorist activities in Syria and Iraq and they were likely to commit such acts in India also. Mr. Majeed allegedly returned to India with the intention of carrying out such terrorist acts in India, including blowing up the Police Headquarters at Mumbai. On November 29, 2014, the NIA arrested Mr. Majeed, and he is currently lodged at Arthur Road jail. The court observed, “Mr. Majeed is an educated person, who was completing his graduation in Civil Engineering when he left for Iraq at the age of 21. He categorically stated before us that as a 21-year-old, he was carried away and that he had committed a serious mistake, for which he had already spent over six years behind bars. In the past six years of his incarceration, he has argued his case on his own before the NIA Court. He represented his own case before this Court as well as the NIA Court and we could find that he was presenting his case by maintaining decorum and in a proper manner.” The court also took into account, “His father is a doctor of Unani medicine and his sisters are also doctors. His brother is an engineer. This shows that he comes from an educated family and that if stringent conditions are imposed upon him, with an undertaking to cooperate with the trial proceedings before the NIA Court, his release on bail may not be harmful to the society at large and it would not adversely affect the trial proceedings.” The 37-page judgment said, “There is no dispute about the fact that right to fair and speedy trial is recognised under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The Supreme Court and various High Courts, including this court, have consistently held that the undertrials cannot be allowed to languish for years together in jail, while the trials proceed at snail’s pace. If ultimately, the accused are found to be not guilty, the number of years, months and days spent by such accused as undertrials in jail, can never be given back to them and this is certainly a violation of their valuable right under Article 21 (no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty). The courts are required to perform a balancing act, so as to ensure that a golden mean is reached between the rights of the individual and those of the society at large.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-upholds-nia-court-order-grants-bail-to-areeb-majeed/article33918471.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC puts off Lavalin case hearing again||The Supreme Court on Tuesday, yet again, adjourned the hearing of the SNC Lavalin corruption case appeals against the discharge of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the basis of a request made by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). This is the third time the appeals have been adjourned in 2021. The corruption case concerns the loss of Rs. 86.25 crore in the Kerala State Electricity Board’s (KSEB) contract with Lavalin for the renovation and modernisation of Pallivasal, Sengulam and Panniar hydroelectric projects in Idukki district of Kerala. Mr. Vijayan was the State’s Power Minister then. On December 4, a Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit had conceded to a plea made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for CBI, for an adjournment. On that day, Justice Lalit noted that the appeals have been shuttled from one date to another. The first of the appeals had been filed in October 2017. In a hearing on October 8, Justice Lalit had cautioned the CBI that the appeals may fail unless the arguments against Mr. Vijayan’s discharge in the corruption case were cast-iron. On Tuesday, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju appeared for the CBI. As soon as the case was called, Mr. Raju sought an adjournment. Justice Lalit, reluctant to adjourn the hearing, said the court was willing to wait and hear the case at the end of the board — that is, after the day’s list of cases were over. After a short discussion, Justice Lalit posted the case for April 6. The case has skipped from one date to another since January 2018, when the apex court had stayed the trial. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana, which was hearing the case initially, had also admitted the CBI appeal against Mr. Vijayan’s discharge in the graft case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-puts-off-lavalin-case-hearing-again/article33918171.ece
24 February 2021||Kolkata,||CBI questions MP’s wife in coal theft case||A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday questioned Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira Banerjee, in connection with a case involving coal theft. The CBI officials were present at her residence for more than an hour. Minutes before the team of CBI officers arrived at Mr. Banerjee’s residence on 188 Harish Chatterjee Street, he was visited by his aunt and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The Chief Minister spent about 10 minutes before leaving for the State Secretariat. The CBI has earlier questioned Mr. Banerjee in connection with a case registered on November 27, 2020 involving coal theft. On Sunday, the CBI served a notice on Ms. Rujira under Section 160 of Code of Criminal Procedure. In the notice, the agency asked her to be present at her residence on Sunday to answer questions relating to the case. “Though I am unaware of the reason for me being called for questioning or the subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence as per your convenience between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. tomorrow, i.e. 23 February 2021,” Ms. Banerjee had said in her reply to the CBI on Monday. Over the past few months, the CBI has conducted several raids in Kolkata and other parts of State in connection with the coal theft case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-questions-mps-wife-in-coal-theft-case/article33918202.ece
24 February 2021||KASARAGOD,||Karnataka temporarily lifts curbs on border||The Karnataka government which had closed 13 interstate roads with Kerala and had insisted that people from the State produce COVID-19-negative certificates to cross the border temporarily lifted the restrictions on Tuesday. The neighbouring State had imposed restrictions on the border in the wake of ‘increasing’ COVID-19 cases in Kerala. However, following protests in Kasaragod district and the intervention of political parties, a decision was taken to temporarily lift the restrictions. Dakshina Kannada district health chief S.K. Ramachandra Bairy said the decision was taken considering the fact that passengers needed time to get the RT-PCR certificate. The Karnataka government ruled that COVID-19-negative certificates were not mandatory for two days. Earlier, the Karnataka government had made production of RT-PCR negative certificates issued within 72 hours mandatory to cross border check-posts. Based on this, 13 roads to the State from Kerala were closed. Only the Mangaluru-Thalappadi, Jalsur-Sullia, Sardka-Bantwal and Nettanige-Puthur roads were kept open. This led to widespread protests on the border and the protesters had altercations with an Karnataka inspection team. The protesters blocked vehicles from Karnataka also. Karnataka has now come up with new proposals, including setting up of antigen testing facilities on all major roads, including the Thalappady National Highway.  CM writes to PM Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lift the new restrictions imposed by Karnataka on the entry of people from Kerala. In a letter to Mr. Modi, he said students, trucks carrying essential goods and patients seeking medical treatment in the neighbouring State were put to great hardship by the restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-temporarily-lifts-curbs-on-border/article33918503.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi court grants bail to activist Disha Ravi||“Citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments,” Judge Rana remarked. The court highlighted that the Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S.V. Raju had, during the course of the hearings, conceded that there is no direct evidence establishing the link between Ms. Ravi and the violence that took place on January 26 in Delhi. The court also pointed out that the ASG had admitted that PJF is not a banned organisation and even no criminal action is pending against its founders, Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal. On the Delhi police’s allegation that Ms. Ravi gave a global audience to the secessionist elements by manipulating support of international youth icon Ms. Greta Thunberg, the court said, “The right to dissent is firmly enshrined under Article 19 of The Constitution of India. In my considered opinion the freedom of speech and expression includes the right to seek a global audience”. AS-G Raju had alleged that the ‘toolkit’ has embedded hyper links with an intent to malign India abroad. But the court said there was “absolutely nothing objectionable” in the hyperlink ‘askindiawhy.com’ embedded with the ‘toolkit’. On another hyperlink ‘Genocide.org’ embedded in the ‘toolkit’, the court concurred with the ASG that the imputations are really objectionable in the website. “However, even if the said imputations are found to be objectionable in nature, I cannot but disagree with AS-G that the said material is seditious in nature,” Judge Rana said. The Delhi police had alleged that Ms. Ravi along with her associates under the pretext of protesting against the farm laws have resolved to vandalize Indian Embassies and specifically attack symbols of India i.e. Yoga and Chai. “Except for a bare assertion, no evidence has been brought to my notice to support the contention that any violence took place at any of the Indian Embassies pursuant to the sinister designs of the applicant/accused and her co-conspirators,” the court said. “Conspiracy cannot be proved merely on the basis of inferences. The inferences have to be backed by evidence,” the court noted. It added, “In my considered opinion creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous Toolkit is not an offence.” “In the absence of any evidence to the effect that the applicant/accused (Ms. Ravi) agreed or shared a common purpose to cause violence on January 26 with the founders of PJF, it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence caused on January 26,” the court added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-activist-disha-ravi/article33918170.ece
24 February 2021||Hirenagavalli,||Villagers had protested in a bid to stop quarrying||“We have tried our best to stop stonequarrying on this hill. We held protests and later tried installing a Hanuman statue on the hill. But nothing has worked. The politicians and the bureaucracy are hand in glove with the miners,” lamented Venugopal Reddy, a resident of Hirenagavalli, the village where an accidental explosion at a stone quarry killed six in the early hoursof Tuesday. The tales of woe are not restricted to Hirenagavalli. Surrounding villagers too have complained of stone quarrying leading to constant sound, cracked buildings, respiratory disorders, and crop loss, leading to loss of livelihood. “It has been years since I was able to harvest a good crop in my farm that abuts one of the quarries. While we were promised compensation, no one in our village has got it,” said A.K. Gangappa, a farmer. The monolithic Hirenagavalli hill (also locally called Mayalafakir Konda) is believed to be the site of a popular Telugu folk story of Balanagamma. It was the site of the annual village fair till 2011, which is when the government permitted stone quarrying of the hill. Today, more than 18 quarry pits and 44 stone crushers are mining the hill. “In a bid to stop the mining, we installed a Hanuman statue overnight. But that did not deter them. The statue is now at a nearby police station,” said Venkataramanappa, another farmer. District in-charge Minister K. Sudhakar said he had earlier opposed mining on the hill sinceit was a rare monolithic hill that was also revered by the locals. “Chickballapur, being next to Bengaluru, has borne a disproportionate brunt of the development needs of the city. I will appeal to the government to limit the licences granted per taluk,” he said. R. Anjaneya Reddy, a prominent irrigation activist from the district, said, “While stone quarrying has been happening for decades now and has also adversely impacted life in the district, what has worsened it is the M-sand units. Since boulders are anyway powdered to make M-sand, there are reckless explosions and the risking of life,” he said. He has filed a PIL petition challenging the recently passed Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers (Amendment) Act, 2020, in the High Court. “The amendment eases restrictions on the crushers, impacting the safety of workers and the public. The collusion of miners, politicians, and bureaucrats is evident,” he said.  It has been years since I was able to harvest a good crop in my farm that abuts one of the quarries. While we were promised compensation, no one in our village has got it A.K. Gangappa,farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/villagers-had-protested-in-a-bid-to-stop-quarrying/article33918172.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Vaccine rollout for older people soon’||Speaking at the press meet, NITI Aayog’s member (health) V.K. Paul said there was no current scientific data available to establish a direct relation between the recent surge in cases in Maharashtra and other States with the mutant virus strains N440K and E484Q detected in the country. Dr. Paul said besides the U.K. strain (187 cases), South Africa strain (6) cases and Brazil strain (1 case), India had also found cases with N440K and E484Q. “The variants have been now detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana,” he added. Balram Bhargava, ICMR Director General, said the two strains had been detected in other nations too and were not specific to India. “Moreover, they have been found earlier in some States in India. The E484Q strain was earlier detected in four sequences in Maharashtra as early as March and July 2020. The N440K mutation has been reported on 13 different occasions between May and September 2020 in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Assam. The current upsurge in Maharashtra cannot be attributed to the currently discussed point mutations,” Dr Bhargava said. The statement comes amidst surge in COVID cases, with Maharashtra and Kerala reporting 75% of the active COVID cases. Cautioning that the virus is still very much around, Dr. Paul said, “People should not abandon COVID appropriate behaviour as we are still vulnerable. The surge in the COVID cases are a warning signal to us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-rollout-for-older-people-soon/article33918191.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Blow to Oli as Nepal SC reinstates lower House||The verdict also indicated that political decisions should be taken within the boundaries and limits laid down by the Constitution. Mr. Bhattarai who is currently undergoing treatment in a hospital in South Delhi, while welcoming the verdict, said, “This is not only the restoration of Parliament but virtually restoration of constitutionalism and democracy in Nepal which was greatly endangered under the leadership of PM K P Sharma Oli. This will also pave the way of re-polarisation of the democratic forces in Nepal, so that we can maintain national unity, have better Nepal-India relation and contribute to the rapid economic development of the country.” Former prime minister Madhav Kumar Nepal, who has been agitating against the dissolution of the House, termed Tuesday’s order as “historic”. “The historic verdict from the Supreme Court of Nepal is a victory of the people of Nepal which will safeguard democracy in Nepal,” said Mr. Nepal in a statement thanking the people, and the Nepalese media for supporting the democratic process. Nepali Congress leader Shekhar Koirala has said Prime Minister Oli does not have any “moral right” to stay on in his post after Tuesday’s decision from the Supreme Court. Co-chair of Nepal Communist Party Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ who led the move against Mr. Oli in the Standing Committee of the party, said there is no scope of reaching an agreement with the Prime Minister under the current circumstances. Mr. Oli's decision had split the Nepal Communist Party down the middle, with one of the wrote petitions in the Supreme Court filed by the Chief Whip of the party, Dev Prasad Gurung.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blow-to-oli-as-nepal-sc-reinstates-lower-house/article33918192.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||Left-Cong. alliance yet to finalise seat-sharing||Six days before the first rally of the Left-Congress alliance on the brigade ground in Kolkata, the parties are yet to finalise the seat-sharing arrangement. Sources say chief patron of Furfura Sharif Abbas Siddiqui demanded 80 seats for his newly formed party — Indian Secular Front. As both the Left and the Congress flatly rejected the demand, he scaled it down to 40. “We have decided to give the ISF 20-25 seats. A few of these will go from our account and the remaining the Congress has to spare,” a Left leader said. There is still reluctance among many members of the alliance on including the ISF. “This is probably the first time in Bengal’s history that we are aligning with a religious party,” a CPI leader said. For the members of the alliance, Mr. Siddiqui’s inclusion is a last resort to make themselves relevant in an increasingly bipolar fight between the Trinamool and the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-cong-alliance-yet-to-finalise-seat-sharing/article33918193.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Kerala draws BJP ire||The BJP on Tuesday reacted sharply to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Thiruvananthapuram, lauding voters in Kerala for being more interested in issue-based politics in comparison to the north, with party president J.P. Nadda accusing him of “spewing venom”. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Nadda said: “A few days back he [Mr. Gandhi] was in the Northeast, spewing venom against the western part of India. Today in the South, he is spewing venom against the North. Divide and rule politics won’t work, @RahulGandhi Ji! People have rejected this politics. See what happened in Gujarat today!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-gandhis-speech-in-kerala-draws-bjp-ire/article33918702.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao granted bail in Surajgarh case||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted bail to poet Varavara Rao in the 2016 Surajgarh iron case at Gadchiroli. So, he will be released from a private hospital. He had moved a single judge Bench of Justice Swapna Joshi after the Principal Bench of the Bombay High Court on Monday granted him bail for six months on medical grounds. Chargesheet He was arrested on January 30, 2019, by the Gadchiroli police in the Surajgarh iron case after being arrested on August 28, 2018, by the Pune police in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. The chargesheet filed by the Gadchiroli police alleges that evidence collected by the Pune police connects him to a case in 2016. On December 25, 2016, some Naxals are believed to have torched 75 trucks carrying iron ore from Surjagarh mines in Etapalli tehsil of Gadchiroli. Advocate Firdos Mirza, representing Mr. Rao before the Nagpur Bench, told The Hindu , “Even after being released on bail by the Bombay High Court, Mr. Rao was not released because of this case. Now he has been granted bail on the same conditions, and we can initiate the formalities for his release.” Advocate Surendra Gadling was also arrested in the Surajgarh case and he is a co-accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The two have been charged with various Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Bombay Police Act, and the Arms Act. Mr. Rao’s plea has relied upon the order passed by a Division Bench of Justice S.S. Shinde on February 22. The order read, “This is a genuine and fit case to grant relief; or else, we will be abdicating our constitutional duty and function as a protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by the Constitution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varavara-rao-granted-bail-in-surajgarh-case/article33918703.ece
24 February 2021||New delhi,||Death certificates may be given to flood victims’ kin||The local administration is considering the possibility of issuing death certificates to the families of those missing after the flash floods in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on February 7. The death toll has now gone up to 70, while 135 persons still remain untraced. “We are exploring the possibility of issuing death certificates to the families of missing persons to facilitate the processing of various claims. It may take about a month. However, searches will continue,” said a senior Uttarakhand police officer.  Identities established The identities of 39 bodies have been established so far. In all, 29 body parts have so far been found at different places. The Joshimath police have registered 205 missing persons reports. The police have sent the DNA samples of 110 family members of the missing persons and 86 bodies/body parts to the forensic science laboratory in Dehradun for matching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-certificates-may-be-given-to-flood-victims-kin/article33918224.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||150 companies of Central forces sought for polls||Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena on Tuesday said a request had been placed for 150 companies of Central forces for providing security cover for the upcoming Assembly polls in the State. The Election Commission has already allotted 25 companies of the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) for Kerala and they are expected in the State on Thursday, Mr. Meena said, inaugurating the COVID-19 vaccination drive for election officials by receiving the first jab. The forces The personnel have been drawn from the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force and the Central Industrial Security Force. There will be special emphasis on deployment of the Central forces in regions, especially north Kerala districts, that have a history of bogus voting. Stern action will be initiated against election officials who aid and abet vote fraud, Mr. Meena said. Candidates and political parties are required to submit information on criminal cases pending against candidates, he said. “This is a standing instruction. During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections also we had conveyed to the political parties that there is a mandatory requirement where candidates have to disclose the details of cases pending against them through an affidavit at the time of filing the nomination,” the Chief Electoral Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/150-companies-of-central-forces-sought-for-polls/article33918502.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Nomination process for MLC polls ends||State TDP president and candidate for the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ constituency L. Ramana criticised the State and Central governments for completely failing to devise employment opportunities for the youth. “The TRS government could not fulfil its promise of unemployment allowance, while land, drug and sand mafia are ruling the State,” he said, while urging people to vote for him to get their issues voiced in the Legislative Council. He filed his nomination on Tuesday at the Returning Officer Priyanka Ala’s office in GHMC headquarters. He also criticised the government for withholding pay revision and dearness allowance for employees. State and Central governments have left people to their own means during COVID-19 times, he said. Projecting his 27 years’ political experience in various capacities as MLA, minister and MP, he said that development of Mahabubnagar, Ranga Reddy and Hyderabad was possible only during TDP’s rule. Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali along with Mayor Vijayalakshmi R. Gadwal and TRS legal cell representatives filed another set of nomination papers on behalf of TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi on Tuesday, in addition to the one filed by her on Monday. Nominations for MLC polls came to a closure on Tuesday, the last day for the process. On Tuesday alone, a total of 89 sets of nominations were filed by 51 candidates. In order to withstand the last minute crowding, tokens were issued for candidates who arrived to file nominations after 3 p.m. In all, a total of 110 aspirants have filed 179 nominations by Tuesday. The papers will be scrutinised on Wednesday, and the deadline for withdrawals was set as February 26. Surabhi Vani Devi from the TRS, G. Chinna Reddy from Congress, N. Ramchander Rao from BJP, academic and former MLC K. Nageshwar as Independent candidate and L. Ramana from TDP are prominent candidates in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nominations-for-mlc-polls-come-to-a-close/article33918867.ece
24 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Govt. has lost good sense’||“When the end draws near, the first thing that a man loses is his good sense,” said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra in Mathura on Tuesday, quoting from legendary Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar’s popular poem Krishna Ki Chetawani.  At a kisan panchayat in Pali Khera on the outskirts of Mathura, she said when the ruler became arrogant, his policies would not be in the interest of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-has-lost-good-sense/article33918194.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Cauvery Calling’ is not govt. project, says Isha Outreach||It has been clarified in the website of the ‘Cauvery Calling’ project that it is not a project by the government of Karnataka and saplings planted as a part of it were planted in the land belonging to farmers and not that of the government, the High Court of Karnataka was informed on Tuesday. Isha Outreach, which is managing the project, told the court that it has included such a clarification in the website just below the link through which the public can contribute trees by paying a donation of Rs. 42 per tree through online mode for the project. Written statement A written statement in this regard has been submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition. Public notice Meanwhile, it was submitted on behalf of the State government that it would be issuing a public notice in newspapers on February 24 clarifying that it was not a project of the government. The court had suggested issuing such a clarification after it found certain discrepancy in the claims made by the government on the project.  The petition was treated as suo motu initiated by the court by removing the petitioner, a city-based advocate, after he sent an email in August last year threatening Discovery TV channel of contempt of court action if it had aired documentary on ‘Cauvery Calling’ project when his petition was pending adjudication before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cauvery-calling-is-not-govt-project-says-isha-outreach/article33918415.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chithranjali Studios to get a makeover||The Chithranjali Studios at Thiruvallam here is set to get a makeover. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the first-phase renovation on Wednesday. To be taken up at a cost of Rs. 150 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, the work will put in place the latest facilities for film production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chithranjali-studios-to-get-a-makeover/article33918880.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Policeman goes missing||The Thumba police registered a man-missing case after Jai Ghosh, former gunman of a UAE consulate attache, was reported to have gone missing on Tuesday. Attached to the Armed Reserve camp, he was questioned by the National Investigation Agency in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. Mr. Ghosh was found to have gone incommunicado by his brother-in-law after the former had dropped his wife at her work place at Vazhuthacaud. The police traced his two-wheeler and mobile phone to Nemom. They also found a note in which Mr. Ghosh said he was battling depression and had gone on a tour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policeman-goes-missing/article33918881.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Schools open for Classes 6 to 8 in Telangana||The stage is all set for reopening of schools across the State allowing physical attendance of students of classes VI to VIII from Wednesday. The decision follows instructions from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The physical classes for students would commence from Wednesday and not later than March 1 as far as possible. Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy said that school managements should strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines on the premises of the schools. Obtaining consent of parents for allowing students inside the schools would be mandatory. Physical classes for students of class IX and above had started from February 1. The government had decided to allow physical attendance of students from class VI upwards as part of phase-wise reopening of the schools which were closed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a teleconference with the district collectors and senior officials at the district-level ahead of the reopening of the schools from Wednesday. He wanted the classes to start from Wednesday as far as possible and not later than March 1. In addition to students who are already allowed to attend the classes, about 17.24 lakh students would physically attend the classes following the government’s decision. The government had directed the District Level Education Monitoring Committee chaired by the respective district collectors to meet and take steps for reopening schools for Classes VI to VIII. The officials concerned, including the district educational officers, were directed to take all precautions for the safety of students and teachers. Special measures should be taken for schools opening for the first time since their closure due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/schools-open-for-classes-6-to-8-in-telangana/article33918177.ece
24 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,||Drug-sex racket busted in Kerala||The Childline in the district has exposed a high-profile drug-and-sex racket involved in accosting schoolgirls through Instagram. The racketeers have been found drugging the girls they befriend through Instagram and trapping and abusing them sexually. A 14-year-old girl from a well-to-do family in the district was rescued by the Childline last week. The ninth standard girl had become a drug addict and was raped for months by many people. The girl has revealed that she was given ganja first, then hashish oil and cocaine. The girl was reportedly promised higher drugs of injection. Currently in the custody of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), the girl is showing withdrawal symptoms. Some of those who abused the girl had reportedly threatened to finish her off if she revealed their names. Seven identified Although the girl identified seven people involved in the racket, the police arrested only one of them. Seven cases have been registered at the Kalpakanchery police station. Those involved in the care and protection of children in the district have been dismayed by the laxity displayed by the police in the case. The police produced the abused child before the CWC on Tuesday only after having been asked to do so by CWC chairman Shajesh Bhaskar. “This is not an ordinary POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ) case. This is a case of extreme seriousness demanding serious and immediate intervention. I was shocked to see such a crime. Never before could we detect such a thing in Malappuram. The racket traps girls through Instagram, makes them addicts to drugs, and abuses them sexually,” said Mr. Bhaskar. Crime at home What was more shocking for the authorities was that the girl was raped in her own house at night. She opened the door for them secretly. They gave her drugs, showed her smut videos, and abused her sexually in her house repeatedly for months while her family was asleep. The police said they were investigating the case. They said most of the accused had gone underground. District Police Chief Sujith Das did not answer the call from The Hindu . The CWC chairman said the girl was in need of de-addiction. “We have arranged for her de-addiction. Apart from her de-addiction, her protection is also a matter of grave importance for us,” Mr. Bhaskar said. He said he would not wait for more than two days before writing to the government seeking higher intervention. Childline officials said the girl’s case was just a tip of the iceberg. Several girls are feared to have fallen in the online trap set by the drug gangs, especially after schools and colleges turned to online classes during the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-sex-racket-uses-instagram/article33918516.ece
24 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||BJP sweeps Gujarat local body elections||The BJP swept the urban local body polls of Gujarat winning all the six municipal corporations in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar for which the results were announced on Tuesday. The ruling party won 69 out of 76 seats in Vadodara, 68 out of 72 in Rajkot, 50 out of 64 in Jamnagar and 44 out of 52 seats in Bhavnagar in its largest victory in the civic bodies of the State. In Surat, the party won 93 out of 120 seats while counting for Ahmedabad is under way but the saffron party is likely to cross 160 out of 192 seats in the city. Though the BJP was expected to win all the six municipal corporations, the party’s victory margin, winning more than 80% of the total seats, came as a surprise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-sweeps-municipal-polls-in-gujarat/article33918199.ece
24 February 2021||Bathinda,||R-Day violence accused takes part in meet||Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted in connection with the violence in Delhi on Republic Day, on Tuesday attended a public meeting in Punjab’s Bathinda in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agri laws. A video clip showed him seated on the dais. There was speculation whether the gangster-turned-activist would take part in the public meeting as he is wanted by the Delhi Police for his alleged role in the violence that broke out during a tractor parade on January 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/r-day-violence-accused-takes-part-in-meet/article33918200.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||Gangster Ravi Pujari sent to police custody||The special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime court remanded underworld gangster Ravi Pujari in police custody till March 9 in a case of firing outside a hotel in suburban Mumbai in 2016. Pujari was extradited to India from Senegal in February 2020 and produced before the court on Monday after being brought from Bengaluru. The case against him is that on October 21, 2016, a few shots were fired by Pujari’s gang members at complainant, the owner of the hotel in Vile Parle. They are alleged to have given Pujari’s contact details to the owner but he didn’t call him. The shooter and seven others were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gangster-ravi-pujari-sent-to-custody-in-firing-case/article33918206.ece
24 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Naudeep Kaur alleges torture in custody||Labour rights activist Naudeep Kaur, who was arrested by the Haryana police on January 12 and is currently in Karnal Jail, said in her bail plea before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday that she had been severely beaten up by officials at a police station. The 24-year-old activist was arrested on charges of attempt to murder and rioting, among other charges under the IPC. The court had on February 22 adjourned Ms. Kaur’s bail hearing and listed it for February 24. In the plea the activist stated that after being arrested, she was beaten and tortured, and suffered multiple injuries. The plea also said she was taken to the police station in the absence of any woman police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naudeep-kaur-alleges-torture-in-custody/article33918207.ece
24 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Give asylum to Myanmar villagers’||Mizoram’s apex students’ body has asked the State government to provide asylum to some villagers in Myanmar affected by the military coup there. The State’s Mizo National Front (MNF) government, headed by Chief Minister Zoramthanga, said asylum would be considered if there was a formal request cleared by the Centre. People belonging to Myanmar’s Chin community were seeking to migrate to Mizoram to escape a military crackdown, primarily because of the Chin National Army (CNA), an extremist group seeking self-determination in Chin State across the border. The Chin community and the Mizos in India belong to the Zo ethnic group, which share the same ancestry. Claiming that the Chins have been affected by the civil unrest in Myanmar, the Mizo Students’ Union appealed to the State government to play a proactive role and accept those affected as refugees. Mizoram’s Home Minister Lalchamliana said his government had not yet received a request for asylum from any individual or group. Representatives of the CNA had about a fortnight ago approached the authorities of a border village in Mizoram’s Champhai district, seeking shelter for the Chin people. The district’s Deputy Commissioner Maria C.T. Zuali brought the matter to the notice of the State government. “If they need political asylum, they should apply as per protocol,” Ms. Zuali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-group-seeks-asylum-for-coup-hit-myanmar-villagers/article33918212.ece
24 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Monks flay push for new projects||A group of Buddhist monks in Tawang district has opposed the Arunachal Pradesh government’s renewed push for hydropower projects. In a statement issued on February 22, the monks-led Save Mon Region Federation (SMRF) said the proposed projects would not only affect the nesting grounds of the endangered black-necked crane, but also threaten several Buddhist pilgrimage sites in the region. “The projects will damage the geographically volatile and highly seismic Tawang region,” the SMRF said. Chief Minister Pema Khandu had in a couple of statements this month hinted at reviving the projects in the Tawang basin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monks-flay-push-for-new-projects/article33918214.ece
24 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||Girl found dead, cousin injured in U.P.||A four-year-old girl was found dead in a field with injuries to her head in rural Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, the police said on Tuesday. Her older cousin was found seriously injured at a place nearby. The two girls had been missing from their village in the Kanth police station limits since Monday evening after they went to a madrasa to learn Urdu, a senior officer said. The girls were last seen bathing near a primary school in their village around 3.30 p.m., said S. Anand, Superintendent of Police, Shahjahanpur. The girls would return home from the madrasa usually by 6 p.m. When they did not return, their families launched a search and found the younger girl’s body in a field in a village a kilometre away, Mr. Anand said. “She had injuries on her head,” he said. The injured elder girl, her cousin, was found later at 11.30 p.m. in a field and was rushed to a hospital, Mr. Anand said. “A team of doctors is treating her. Her condition has improved since. Her CT scan was normal. The CMS [chief medical superintendent] said there were no complications.” The officer said the girl had injuries on her head and the neck was swollen. Her vitals were normal, the officer said. More than a dozen persons were summoned for questioning. The police suspect the crime was committed by a local person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-year-old-girl-found-dead-older-cousin-injured-in-up/article33918215.ece
24 February 2021||KOCHI,||HC declines plea to restrain Sunny Leone||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday declined a petition to restrain Bollywood actor Sunny Leone from going abroad in view of a cheating case registered against her and her husband in connection with a show that did not come off. When the petition filed by the actor and others seeking anticipatory bail came up for hearing, counsel for the coordinator of the show who filed the cheating case submitted that the actor be restrained from going abroad and sought her presence in the country in view of the criminal case. Justice Ashok Menon observed that the insistence by the counsel of the complainant for restraining Ms. Leone’s travel abroad could not be granted at present. The court noted that counsel for Sunny had promised that she would be available for interrogation as and when called for by the police.    The court adjourned to March 8 the hearing on the anticipatory bail petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-declines-plea-to-restrain-sunny-leone/article33918500.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Sale of Coronil won't be allowed in Maharashtra’||The sale of Coronil tablets of Patanjali will not be allowed in Maharashtra without "proper certification", State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday. The statement came a day after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed shock over the "blatant lie of WHO certification" for Coronil tablets which Patanjali claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight COVID-19. The WHO clarified that it had not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of COVID-19.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sale-of-coronil-wont-be-allowed-in-maharashtra/article33918469.ece
24 February 2021||Kochi,||Actor rape case: court defers order on cancellation of bail||The additional special sessions court conducting the trial in the actor abduction and rape case on Tuesday deferred announcing its order on the prosecution’s plea seeking cancellation of the bail granted to actor Dileep, the eighth accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-rape-case-court-defers-order-on-cancellation-of-bail/article33918179.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI, West Bengal govt. spar over contempt case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday posted a contempt case filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against former Kolkata police chief Rajeev Kumar and others in connection with the Saradha chit fund scam case, for hearing after two weeks. The West Bengal government told a Bench led by Justice S. Abdul Nazeer that the “age-old” contempt case had “come alive” before the Assembly election in the State. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the CBI, retorted that “contempt always remains alive”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-west-bengal-govt-spar-over-contempt-case/article33918213.ece
24 February 2021||Kolkata,||Narcotics seizure: Another Bengal BJP leader held||The Bengal police on Tuesday arrested BJP leader Rakesh Singh in a case involving seizure of narcotics. On February 19, the Kolkata police arrested the secretary of the party’s youth wing, Pamela Goswami, on charges of possession of about 90 grams of cocaine in the New Alipore area. Ms. Goswami had said that she was being framed by Mr. Singh. “I want the CID to probe the matter. Mr. Singh, who is close to Kaliash Vijayvargiya, is behind all this,” she told journalists while being produced before court on February 20. The police had sent a notice to Mr. Singh under Section 160 of the Cr.P.C. but he refused to present himself before them. The day witnessed dramatic developments with a huge contingent arriving at his residence in Kidderpore. For hours, the police personnel were not allowed to enter the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narcotics-seizure-another-bengal-bjp-leader-arrested/article33918465.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||Order on Stan Swamy’s bail on March 2||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court will pass its order on Father Stan Swamy’s petition for bail in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case on March 2. Fr. Swamy (83), a jesuit priest and activist working with tribals for decades, is currently at the Taloja Central Jail. He was arrested from Ranchi on October 9 last year and was directly sent to judicial custody. He has Parkinson’s disease, has lost hearing in both his ears, and suffers from intense pain from lumbar spondylosis. Fr. Swamy sought bail on the ground that the prosecution had failed to establish how he had taken part or committed or incited the commission of any unlawful activity. Therefore, Section 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) could not be applied. Advocate Sharif Shaikh, appearing for Fr. Swamy, previously argued that the prosecution had not brought anything on record to suggest that he was involved in any kind of terrorist act. Therefore, Sections 16 (punishment for terrorist act), 20 (punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organisation), and 39 (offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation) of the UAPA were not applicable to him, Mr. Shaikh said. However, special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, representing the NIA, pointed out that it had been established during the investigation that Fr. Swamy was a staunch supporter of organisations like Vistapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan and People's Union for Civil Liberties that were working as frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoists). He said Fr. Swamy had tried to dispose of evidence by deleting files showing his involvement in the activities of the CPI(Maoists) and the NIA had managed to recover them. The special NIA court had rejected Fr. Swamy’s interim medical bail on October 23 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/order-on-stan-swamys-bail-on-march-2/article33918220.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||manipur CM felicitates army officer in viral Galwan picture||The Army officer who was seen raining blows on a Chinese soldier in a video of the last year’s June 15 Galwan incident, recently released by the Chinese state media, was felicitated by Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh on Tuesday. Captain Soiba Maningba Rangnamei of the 16 Bihar regiment was identified from the screen-grab of the 2.14 minute video released by China’s state media on February 19. “We wanted to honour his courage and valour. I told him that he has enhanced Manipur’s image,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-cm-felicitates-army-officer-in-viral-galwan-picture/article33918222.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 816.8 crore project planned to restore Pallikaranai Marsh||Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday announced an integrated project to restore the absorptive capacity of the Pallikaranai Marsh in Chennai at a tentative cost of Rs. 816.8 crore. Presenting the interim Budget, he expressed his government’s commitment to protecting the marshland, which he said was one of the recognised wetlands in the State and played a major role in absorbing flood water and recharging groundwater. In light of the recent flooding episodes in the southern suburbs of the city, an integrated project in collaboration with the Public Works Department (PWD), the Highways Department and the Greater Chennai Corporation will be undertaken. The purpose of the project is to clear and drain waterways feeding into and out of the Pallikaranai Marsh and to restore the absorptive capacity of the wetland. The Deputy Chief Minister said funding from the National Adaptation Fund for Climate Change was anticipated. The Conservation Authority of Pallikaranai Marshland had been constituted and restoration activities were being implemented at a cost of Rs. 165.68 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-8168-crore-project-planned-to-restore-pallikaranai-marsh/article33918752.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor conditions plague major entry and exit points of city||Chaos prevails at Perungalathur, Poonamallee and Red Hills, the three main entry and exit points of the city, with traffic and unhygienic conditions causing major inconvenience to pedestrians and motorists alike. Dug up roads, vendors on the carriageway, autorickshaws and call taxis occupying roadsides and buses parked in the middle of roads have become a nightmare for residents of these localities. For the last few years, all mofussil buses have been diverted through the Tambaram-Maduravoyal Bypass Road to the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus (CMBT) instead of allowing them to criss-cross city roads. People in the southern parts of the city or other parts have to cross the Perungalathur bus stop to reach the southern and western districts. Regulating traffic in Perungalathur continues to be a major challenge as private omnibuses and even government buses encroach on the carriageway, resulting in heavy traffic jams. Kathiresan, a resident of Adambakkam, said, “It is always a nightmarish experience when we return from our native town. In the early hours, no police personnel is present to regulate the traffic. Immediately after disembarking, we get accosted by autorickshaw and call taxi drivers. The entire stretch is encroached by them, blocking the free flow of incoming vehicles.” Those who disembark from buses or other vehicles have to bear foul odour as many early morning travellers use the place as an open urinal. There are no toilet facilities on either side of the road. Passenger amenities In case a commuter wants to catch a train, they have to cross the railway track to reach the ticket counter which is on the opposite side. At the halting point for buses headed towards Tambaram, there is no bus shelter or seating facility. Though a shelter exists on the eastern side of the bus stop, it is hardly adequate to accommodate everyone. The waiting passengers are left to wait in the open, unhygienic roadside. K.V. Radhakrishnan, forcer vice-chairman of Peerkankaranai town panchayat, said, “Several bus services of the State Transport Corporation converge on the spot at the same time. This naturally leads to massive traffic jams, with vehicles piling up for more than a kilometre.” Anand N., a businessman and regular commuter from Chromepet, said, “It is a harrowing experience to cross the stretch in my car. Traffic is always heavy between Tambaram and Perungalathur. During weekends, it takes me three hours to get through. GST Road is regularly hit by traffic snarls in Guduvanchery too.” R. Panneerselvam, president of the Federation of Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners’ Coordination, said this important point lacks basic facilities like waiting rooms, restrooms and drinking water dispensers. “Buses are parked recklessly in the middle of the roads, blocking free flow of traffic. Traffic is not properly managed. Though traffic police are present at Perungalathur and other spots, they can do little to manage the large number of vehicles piling up,” he said. Weekend rush A senior traffic police official said, “We deploy adequate manpower round the clock to regulate traffic and patrol the area. As and when there are breakdowns, we attend to it quickly. Due to our consistent steps, we have reduced traffic congestion here. However, on weekends, a large number of motor vehicles pass by. Once the new bus stand in Kilambakkam is opened, traffic on GST Road will reduce considerably.” The situation is similar at the Poonamallee bus stop, which is a major transit point for people who travel to the northern districts of the State or are coming to the city. K. Baskar, a social activist and advocate, said both sides of the road were encroached upon by shopkeepers who extended their businesses to the roadsides, shrinking the road and blocking free space. “Autorickshaws also encroach into the space,” he said. Though traffic congestion on the roads leading to Red Hills had reduced to some extent, once an Outer Ring Road at Padianallur was commissioned, authorities should restrict the entry of heavy vehicles. “The bus stand should be improved with basic amenities,” said Jude Mathew, Tamil Nadu Independent Vehicle Owners’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-conditions-plague-major-entry-and-exit-points-of-city/article33918758.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 55 lakh will benefit from accident-cum-life insurance plan||The State government’s accident-cum-life insurance cover will benefit about 55.67 lakh breadwinners from Below the Poverty Line (BPL) families. Around 32.51 lakh beneficiaries in rural areas and 23.15 lakh in urban areas will be brought under the Puratchi Thalaivi Amma Comprehensive Accident-cum-Life Insurance Scheme. The State government will fully bear the burden of annual premium payment, which will be Rs. 330 for life cover and Rs. 12 for accident cover per beneficiary. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, during the course of his Interim Budget address in the Assembly, made a reference to the launch of the scheme. According to an order issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department on Tuesday, approximately Rs. 114 crore would be required annually. Beneficiaries of life cover will be in the 18-50 age group and those under accident cover in the 18-70 group. The extension of the policy under life cover can be done up to 55 years. The idea is to provide compensation of Rs. 2 lakh in case of natural death of the beneficiary and a maximum of Rs. 2 lakh in the event of permanent incapacitation. If those in the 18-50 age group die due to accidents, their legal heir would be paid Rs. 4 lakh each. For those in the 51-70 age group, the compensation under accident cover would be Rs. 2 lakh. The government has enlisted the services of Life Insurance Corporation for life cover and United India Insurance for accident cover. As regards the identification of beneficiaries, the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women carried out the task. Several parameters, such as income criterion and asset indexing, had been used to identify BPL families, officials said. The Corporation is responsible for addition and deletion of BPL families. The scheme has been formulated on the lines of the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana of the Central government. Two years ago, when the State government announced the scheme, it planned to converge it with the Central schemes. But with effect from April 1 last year, the Centre decided not to have any convergence arrangement with the States. Referring to the existing Accident Relief Scheme (ARS) and the Distress Relief Scheme (DRS), a senior official clarified that the two, envisaging payment of Rs. 20,000, would benefit BPL families not covered under the insurance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-55-lakh-will-benefit-from-accident-cum-life-insurance-plan/article33918324.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 442 new cases, 6 deaths||Another 442 fresh cases of COVID-19 were identified in the past 24 hours in the State. As on date 4,074 people are undergoing treatment for the infection. Till date, as many as 8,49,166 people have been infected. At the same time, in a day 453 people were discharged from various health facilities, taking the tally of those cured to 8,32,620. The State also registered six deaths. With this, 12,472 people have died of the infection, according to the daily bulletin of the Director of Public Health. Of the 2,584 passengers who returned from the United Kingdom between January 8 and February 23, as many as 2,025 had been traced and tested. While 12 people tested positive, 1,995 tested negative for the new variant. Results of 18 passengers are awaited, health officials said. The details of the passengers include cross notification from/to other States. The Health Department is tracing other passengers as well. So far, the State has identified 36 primary cases and 20 others who were in contact with them. Of this, six primary cases tested positive and were in a separate isolation ward. The rest of them tested negative on follow-up RT-PCR and had been discharged but are under home quarantine. Out of 56 RT-PCR positive patients sent for whole genome sequencing till date, 11 people were positive and 28 negative. The results of 17 others were awaited. No deaths In Chennai district, another 148 people tested positive in the past several hours and 113 more were discharged post-treatment. As on date, 1,700 people are under treatment in various health facilities. No deaths were recorded in the district, however. Till date 2,34,652 cases have been reported in the district, of which 2,28,810 people have been discharged. The district also recorded 4,142 deaths. While Perambalur and Kallakurichi did not record any fresh case, nine districts recorded cases in double digits. Three of the six deaths in the last 24 hours were recorded in government hospitals. While five of the deaths were due to pre-existing co-morbid conditions, one person died due to complications arising from the infection. A 51-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had been admitted to a private hospital in the city on February 16, tested positive the next day for COVID-19. He had been admitted with complaints of fever and cough for five days and loss of appetite for three days. He died on Monday evening due to COVID-19 pneumonia, as per the records. 15,332 vaccinated Meanwhile, as many as 15,332 people were vaccinated on Tuesday. Of this 9,967 beneficiaries received the first dose and 5,365 the second dose. Among them were 11,249 healthcare workers and 2,242 frontline workers, other than the police. A total of 1,793 police personnel and 41 RPF staff were administered the vaccine. Seven staff on election duty were also inoculated. Till date, 4,00,698 people – healthcare workers, frontline workers, police and election staff – had been administered the vaccine in the State. Over 3.18 lakh healthcare workers, who handle patients, had been inoculated. The number of frontline workers who took the jab was 48,349. A total of 34,003 police personnel and 133 RPF beneficiaries had been given the shots so far. As on date, 34 election staff had also been administered the vaccine. Among them, 3,59,607 people received the first dose of the vaccine while 41,091 persons received the second dose. The State has built a capacity to offer 18,32,175 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. Of this, 17,79,281 doses are of Covishield and 52,894 doses are of Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-442-new-cases-6-deaths/article33918293.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Companies face hurdles at Rail Auto Hub||Five years since the Rail Auto Hub at Walajabad, near Kancheepuram, commenced operations several infrastructure challenges remain in and around this hub. Sources in the automobile industry pointed out that there are not many takers for this particular location. Data shows that in the last five years, 29,685 vehicles have been sent out through this hub till January 2021. Of these, 24,838 vehicles were from Hyundai Motor India Ltd. (HMIL). In 2016, the Union Government in its railway budget said that Tamil Nadu will be getting the country’s first Rail Auto Hub for transportation of cars by rail. “Despite Chennai being the Detroit of India, Hyundai is the only firm which has consistently and frequently using the facility since its inception. The volume of consignments from other firms is miniscule,” said a source, who tracks the automobile industry in Tamil Nadu. The reason is “the infrastructure is not up to the mark and there is a lack of marketing. Both Railways and the government should promote and market this space,” he said. In terms of infrastructure, logistics firms and companies whom The Hindu spoke to said there were no proper approach roads for trailers or trucks. The area also lacked fencing. Locals freely entered the area. “Here is where the service providers have to depute security officials to avoid freight/vehicle damages,” a spokesperson of Renault Nissan Automotive India Private Ltd. (RNAIPL) said. “In several areas, there is a single loading bay, which results in trains waiting for unloading and loading. This leads to delayed schedules,” the spokesperson said. A HMIL spokesperson said, “Considering the increased interest that not just Hyundai but other auto OEMs are evincing in this mode, a significant enhancement of the infrastructure in the hubs — increased storage space for cars, more lines for loading/unloading multiple rakes simultaneously, surveillance towers for increased security and amenities for the workers can help facilitate greater utilisation of this significant mode of transportation.” The HMIL spokesperson said the Railways had responded favourably to such representations and had assured that these would be looked into. Railway officials said work was on to extend the line. The 478 m line would be extended by another 200m. The yard can accommodate 16 NMG wagons and there was a proposal to extend it up to 25 NMG wagons. Eco-friendly transport The HMIL spokesperson said, “Apart from being more convenient (supporting bulk loads movement) and faster to reach the customer, it is an eco-friendly mode because of the drastic reduction in carbon emissions. At present, around 14% of our total domestic volumes of cars are despatched through the railway mode.” Hyundai had actively pursued railway-based logistics as a ‘green’ and efficient mode of transporting its cars. The RNAIPL spokesperson said, “One of the important aspects is that the lead time has reduced from 6.5 days to now 4 days. This has resulted in a cost benefit of approximately 4% to 8% depending on the destination compared to the road.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/companies-face-hurdles-at-rail-auto-hub/article33918996.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court restrains Tangedco from opening bids for coal import tender||The Madras High Court on Tuesday restrained the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) from opening the techno commercial and price bids received for a Rs. 1,330 crore worth tender for supply of 20 lakh tonnes of imported steam coal of any origin to be delivered at the Kamarajar port at Ennore near here between May 2021 and May 2022. Justice B. Pugalendhi directed Tangedco to defer the bid opening date, originally scheduled for Tuesday, until he passes necessary orders on a writ petition that had challenged the tender notification issued on February 8 calling for bids within 15 days from domestic bidders on payment of Rs. 13 crore, or $1,756,757 by foreign bidders, towards Earnest Money Deposit. The judge also gave the liberty to Tangedco to issue a corrigendum and extend the last date for submission of bids by 15 more days, if it was advised to do so. The interim orders were passed on a writ petition filed by a private firm which claimed that it was a statutory requirement to grant a minimum of 30 days of time to submit the bids for such a high value tender. Senior counsel Satish Parasaran, representing the petitioner company, said Rule 20 of the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tender Rules requires a minimum of 30 days’ time to be given for submission of bids for tenders valued over Rs. 2 crore. However, the rule had not been followed in letter and spirit by Tangedco despite calling for a Rs. 1,330 crore tender, he said. In its affidavit, the petitioner company alleged that Tangedco was showing undue haste in finalising the tenders, without even calling for a pre-bid meeting, “probably due to the impending announcement of model code of conduct for the upcoming State elections.” It also wondered the necessity for importing coal in May when wind energy production would be at its peak. Claiming that thermal power stations would be shut down during May, the petitioner said: “That being the case, there is no reason for the present tender to be called with such undue haste by flouting all tender norms.” It also claimed that the tender conditions were so that they would exclude the participation of Indian firms and promote only foreign bidders. On the other hand, Advocate General Vijay Narayan questioned the maintainability of the writ petition and contended that a company which was not even qualified to participate in the bidding process could not be allowed to question the tender. He said the petitioner company had not provided any details regarding its eligibility in the affidavit filed in support of the writ petition. He pointed out that only companies with a turnover of Rs. 335 crore in any one of the financial years between 2017-18 and 2019-20 and those that had supplied five lakh tonnes of imported steam coal to public sector undertakings or private power utilities in any of those three years were eligible to submit their bids for the Rs. 1,330 crore tender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-restrains-tangedco-from-opening-bids-for-coal-import-tender/article33918333.ece
24 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Arappor Iyakkam raises red flag against Tangedco’s coal tender||Arappor Iyakkam, a Chennai-based organisation, has raised serious doubts about the tender process adopted by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) for procuring over 20 lakh tonnes of imported coal at a cost of Rs. 1,330 crore. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, claimed the floating of the tender had become seriously flawed through the introduction of new clauses, and the tender was completely against the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act and Rules. He alleged that the tender, which had clauses restricting participation by domestic players, had been floated with the sole aim of selecting a foreign company for supplying coal. Mr. Jayaram also picked holes in the tender publication and questioned the urgency of the process when a minimum of 30 days’ gap was needed to be given from the date of publication of the tender.  “This tender specifies the commencement date as February 8, but was published on the website only on February 12, and the last date for submission was fixed as February 23. Only a 15-day gap has been given, as against the mandatory 30 days’ gap,” he said. Above all, when it had been prescribed that any tender carrying a value of above Rs. 75 crore needed to be published in theIndian Trade Journal, this tender, carrying a value of more than Rs. 1,000 crore, had not been published in it, he added.  ‘No approval’ Arappor Iyakkam also questioned the urgency of Tangedco in importing coal for one year when the date for the Assembly election was set to be announced. It questioned the necessity to call for such a huge quantity for thermal plants, which were operating only at 40% capacity, that too, when the wind season was set to start in May. Mr. Jayaram said the tender was flawed also because Tangedco did not get the approval of the Board for changes in the procurement clauses. A senior official of Tangedco said they would be looking into the concerns raised by Arappor Iyakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arappor-iyakkam-raises-red-flag-against-tangedcos-coal-tender/article33918331.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gowri Ashokan is head of women’s panel||The Tamil Nadu government has reconstituted the State Commission for Women with Gowri Ashokan as its Chairperson. The Chairperson and the Members of the Commission will hold office for three years. According to a G.O. issued by the State government, which was notified in a government gazette, R. Jamuna, T. Deepa, T. Shylaja, B. Dakshayani and Manisha Chordia are the other members of the panel. “The tenure of other two existing members of the Tamil Nadu State Commission for Women who were nominated by the government among the members of the Legislative Assembly will cease to be the members of the Commission from the day on which they cease to be the members of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly," it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gowri-ashokan-is-head-of-womens-panel/article33918768.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MMC’s historic ground is getting a facelift||After being utilised as a parking lot, the historic ground of the Madras Medical College (MMC) is now getting a facelift. It will soon sport playing fields for cricket, football, hockey, a synthetic basketball court and an athletic track. In an effort to restore the ground to its past glory, the administration of MMC had begun work recently. A few years ago, the ground started to be used as a parking lot, mainly for cars of doctors, a move that drew flak from many students. MMC’s ground is not without historical significance. Historian V. Sriram said the MMC grounds was one of the pioneering grounds where hockey was played in the city. “It is definitely a historic ground. Hockey began in 1894 at the Madras Cricket Club. We do know that hockey matches were played from the 1920s, and the MMC ground was one of the very important venues for the games. In a way, it is good that the ground is going back to its sporting role and is not used for any other purpose,” he said. “Probably, legends such as Dhyan Chand could have played at the MMC ground,” he added. Over the years, the ground turned into a full-fledged parking lot. A faculty member recounted that a few tournaments were held at the ground a number of years ago and as space shrunk due to parking, students had to move outside for practice. The continuous parking of vehicles also caused damage to the ground. “There were several pits. We have around 1,250 students in five batches and it is important that they have a space for sports activities. Realising this, we started to stop vehicles from parking here. We found that outsiders were also parking their vehicles here. After stopping this, we took up levelling work from November 2020,” E. Theranirajan, dean of MMC, said. A committee, comprising faculty members, and a sports club was formed to look into the project. All playfields were coming up, while the gallery and space for practising cricket would also be readied, he said. One of the faculty members involved in coordination said, “The ground had lost its base, and had many depressions and elevations. Proper levelling was needed to create playfields with an athletic track. Hence, we started filling the pits with sand and proceeded to level the ground with red gravel. Simultaneously, garbage and debris, which were dumped on the sides of the ground were removed, making us realise that the actual space was much wider than we initially thought. The ground approximately measures 1,65,000 sq ft.” MMC alumni and students are enthusiastic about the renovation work. “We are receiving support from MMC alumni. Our students have been supportive and came forward to ensure protecting the ground by restricting entry of vehicles and putting up barricades,” the faculty member added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mmcs-historic-ground-is-getting-a-facelift/article33918745.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Recommendations of finance panel disappointing: Dy. CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday termed the final report of the 15th Finance Commission placed before Parliament “disappointing”. In his Interim Budget speech in the Assembly, Mr. Panneerselvam said the final report of the 15th Finance Commission belied the hopes held out by the interim report for 2020-21 of a fairer treatment for a well-performing State such as Tamil Nadu. “The recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission are disappointing, and the injustice done to Tamil Nadu by the earlier Commissions, and in particular by the 14th Finance Commission, has not been redressed,” he said. The Deputy Chief Minister said the final report had recommended a reduced revenue deficit grant of Rs. 2,204 crore, that too only for the first year, 2021-22. He further said the amount of local body grants had come down to Rs. 3,979 crore, from Rs. 5,344 crore in 2020-21. This was because the 15th Finance Commission adopted an incorrect base for the proportion of the overall population and area of each State to national population and area, and not the proportion of a State’s urban population to the national urban population, he said. Due to this, urbanised States such as Tamil Nadu had suffered, he added. He also criticised the panel’s recommendations for the State Disaster Risk Management Fund, and termed them “hopelessly inadequate”. “The high level of expenditure from SDRF underscores that the size of the State Disaster Risk Management Fund for Tamil Nadu, recommended by the 15th Finance Commission at Rs. 1,360 crore in 2020-21 and 2021-22, is hopelessly inadequate,” he said.  The amount of local body grants have come down to Rs. 3,979 crore, from Rs. 5,344 crore in 2020-21 O. Panneerselvam Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recommendations-of-finance-panel-disappointing-dy-cm/article33918319.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu demands merger of cesses and surcharges||Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday urged the Centre to merge all cesses and surcharges with a basic rate of taxes and ensure that the States receive their legitimate share of revenue. Presenting the Interim Budget in the Assembly, Mr. Panneerselvam, who also holds the Finance portfolio, said though revenue to the Centre on account of various levies on petrol and diesel saw a growth of 48% between April and November 2020, Tamil Nadu had received 39.4% less in the corresponding period as its share of Union excise duties on petrol and diesel. Recalling his request for merging all cesses and surcharges in the pre-Budget meeting in January, he said despite this, the agriculture infrastructure cess levied in the Union Budget had further reduced the basic excise duty on petrol and diesel. Mr. Panneerselvam pointed out that while the levy of surcharge on personal income tax, first introduced in 2013-14 and further expanded and increased since, had become a big revenue earner for the Centre, there was no increase in the share for the State. He said measures, including reduction in the basic Customs duty on gold, silver, alcoholic beverages, crude edible oil, coal, lignite, pears, apples, varieties of pulses and specialised pulses, which had been substituted by the agricultural infrastructure development cess, had further shrunk the divisible pool of taxes. Citing the report of the 15th Finance Commission that cesses and surcharges as a percentage of gross tax revenue of the Centre had grown from 10.4% in 2011-12 to 20.2% in the revised estimates in 2019-2020, he said it had not made any categorical recommendation for merging cesses and surcharges. This was very disappointing to many States, including Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-demands-merger-of-cesses-and-surcharges/article33918321.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State levies not responsible for higher petrol prices’||Finance Secretary S. Krishnan on Tuesday said State levies were not responsible for higher petrol prices. At a post-Budget press conference, he was responding to a question on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s remark that the Centre and the States needed to work together and figure out a way to keep retail fuel prices at a reasonable level. Mr. Krishnan said the State had changed the way it taxed petrol and diesel in May. The new system moved away from a VAT levy on the basis of value of the product to a combination of value and on a fixed basis per litre to ensure that the State’s revenue is protected from fluctuations in international oil prices. “When we effected the change, the Centre also levied cess on petroleum products and reduced the basic duty component in the levy of Union Excise Duties on petrol and diesel.” Although revenue to the Centre on account of various levies on petrol and diesel saw a growth of 48% in April-November 2020, from the comparable period in 2019, Tamil Nadu received 39.4% less as share of union excise duties on petrol and diesel, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam had pointed out in his Interim Budget speech. Mr. Krishnan said the focus of the Interim Budget was on allocating funds for ongoing schemes and managing the fiscal situation. To a query on increasing debt levels in the State, he said it was within permissible limits. “When the State’s economy grows, the debt levels also increase. The key thing to watch is how the debt is utilised and the State’s ability to repay it,” Mr. Krishnan said. He said the State economy could post a double-digit growth of 10-11% in 2021-22 as things returned to normal. To a question on the 15th Finance Commission’s observation that Tamil Nadu’s fiscal indicators had deteriorated drastically, he said the Commission had done a lot of damage to the State as a whole. He said the Commission was silent about the increase in the number of cess levies and surcharges by the Centre. For instance, he said after the recent levies announced in the Union Budget, they accounted for almost 25% of the Central gross tax revenue. “This means that although you have said that States will get 41% share in Central taxes, you get that 41% in a much lower share,” he said. He said the 15th Finance Commission talked about sector-specific and State-specific grants, but did not make allocations. It recommended Rs. 4,784 crore as sector-specific grants and Rs. 2,200 crore as State-specific ones. The Action Taken Memorandum presented by the Union Finance Minister before Parliament said the Centre would give due consideration on sector-specific grants while formulating and implementing existing and new Centrally-sponsored schemes, Mr. Krishnan said.  “Our concern is whether sector-specific grants will be included as part of Centrally-sponsored schemes instead of grants,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-levies-not-responsible-for-higher-petrol-prices/article33918326.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates infrastructure projects||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday unveiled several infrastructure projects implemented by various government departments across the State. In a series of video conference events from the Secretariat, he launched these projects. Mr. Palaniswami launched the boiler light up, a key step towards the commissioning of the 800 MW North Chennai Thermal Power Station Stage III, which is being set up at a cost of Rs. 6,376 crore at Athipattu, in Tiruvallur district. “This project will be completed in August 2021 and will produce 19.2 million unit of power a day. Through this project, Tamil Nadu will get an additional power of 6,000 million units annually,” an official press release stated. Four-lane highway He unveiled the four-lane highway running across Dindigul and Tiruppur districts connecting Oddanchatram, Dharapuram and Avinasipalayam, laid at a cost of Rs. 713.45 crore. He also inaugurated 26 bridges and two other roads built by the Highways Department at an investment of Rs. 362.19 crore. The foundation stone for four road projects worth Rs. 1,115.66 crore and buildings and bridges worth Rs. 30.13 crore to be constructed in multiple locations for the Rural Development Department were also unveiled. Pension scheme An employees’ pension scheme for those who retire from the primary agricultural cooperative credit societies (PACCS) was launched. The beneficiaries would be paid a monthly pension of Rs. 1,000 from the PACCS employees ex-gratia pension corpus. A booklet in Tamil and English, highlighting the government’s achievements and also a compilation of select speeches of the Chief Minister, were released. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan, Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju, Minister for Rural Industries P. Benjamin, Minister for Khadi and Village Industries Board G. Baskaran, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan and senior officials participated.   The Athipattu project will be completed in August 2021 and will produce 19.2 million unit of power a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-inaugurates-infrastructure-projects-in-tn/article33918765.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SIMA sets benchmark for industrial estates||The SIPCOT estate at Irungattukottai stands out in the State for its success in nurturing a model industrial township. Managed by SIPCOT Irungattukottai Manufacturers Association (SIMA), the cluster houses a number of automotive companies and auto ancillary units. SIMA, which was founded in 2010, has as its members Hyundai Motor, Schwing Stetter, JKM Automotive and Asahi India Glass. The cluster has, within a decade, evolved into a model township consisting of well laid-out roads lined with avenue trees and pavements, electricity distributed through underground power lines, a concrete-paved truck terminal to de-congest the service roads of the industrial township, LED street lights, and a police security booth at the entrance. Industrialist and SIMA president S. Thyagarajan said civic infrastructure had been developed in cooperation with the SIPCOT with members contributing 50% of the cost. Thanking the State government and SIPCOT for reducing the lease rental from Rs. 7 to Rs. 2 per square feet, and helping increase the built-up coverage to 75% from 50%, Mr. Thyagarajan wanted SIPCOT to change the land holding rights to freehold from leasehold. States such as Karnataka and Gujarat had been handing over industrial lands in a free-hold concept, while Tamil Nadu still followed the leasehold system. Mr. Thyagarajan said representations had been made to SIPCOT and to Industries Minister M.C. Sampath. Skill centre B. Prabhu, president of SIMA, said the industrial estate, with the cooperation of SIPCOT, had opened a skill enhancement centre, giving heavy machine training to students, vocational classes such as tailoring and basic computer education and offering free consultancy services to industries to help them comply with labour and legal issues. About changing the leasehold to free-hold rights of land, a senior official of SIPCOT said the leasehold aspect had been enshrined in the policy of SIPCOT and the board had rejected the demand.  Civic infrastructure has been developed in cooperation with SIPCOT   S. Thyagarajan SIMA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sima-sets-benchmark-for-industrial-estates/article33918994.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Questions raised over efficacy of crop loan scheme||The State government’s scheme for waiver of crop loans extended by cooperative societies has triggered a debate on the efficacy of such credit. This assumes relevance as the Reserve Bank of India, in a study during 2019, hinted that Tamil Nadu was among those States where the possibility of diversion of credit for non-agricultural purposes existed. The bank made the assessment, using the data for 2015-2017 which revealed that in Tamil Nadu, the ratio of agricultural credit outstanding in relation to its agricultural gross domestic product (GDP) was about 170%-180%. Again, using the data for 2014-16, the bank concluded that the State got the credit four times the value of input cost requirement. Another finding was that contrary to the trend of Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) emerging as a preferred credit instrument, 88% of crop loans was disbursed in the State outside the scheme, which meant that not all the loans were lent against the production of land documents. The general practice has been to issue loans against gold jewellery. Normally, the cooperative institutions account for 10% of the crop loans given to farmers every year. Considering the disbursal of Rs. 9,700 crore through primary agricultural credit cooperative societies (PACCS) this financial year, it is estimated that about Rs. 1 lakh crore would have been issued to farmers, mostly through commercial banks. The State government’s waiver scheme found a mention in the debate of Rajya Sabha recently when M. Thambi Durai of the AIADMK wanted the Centre to announce a similar scheme for loans taken by farmers from nationalised banks. If repaid within the stipulated period, usually a year, the loans carry nil interest rate in respect of the cooperative societies and 4% in the case of banks. Personal loan Officials, familiar with farm credit issues in the State, said a substantial portion of the crop loans was used as “consumption or personal loans”. An unintended positive effect of this practice is that it keeps the rural economy going. However, the purpose of giving the loans was not served. There could be an improved version of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), an income support scheme. P.R. Pandian, a farmer-leader based in Mannargudi, said the existing arrangement benefits “non-farmers,” who own farmlands but are not dependent on agriculture, more than small and marginal farmers. Arupathy P. Kalyanam, national organiser of the Self-Sufficient Green Village Movement, suggests that funds allocated under the PM-KISAN scheme and those provided by the Centre and States for the crop insurance scheme be merged. Notwithstanding the criticism about the working of the cooperative sector, Seeniappan, a farmer of Dharmapuri district and M. Duraisamy of Namakkal, say that these days, the societies give the loans after ensuring that loanees have the KCCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/questions-raised-over-efficacy-of-crop-loan-scheme/article33918998.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC comes to rescue of BHEL workers||The Madras High Court on Tuesday extended a helping hand to a group of Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) canteen workers, who had been facing a legal battle for nearly 35 years. This despite favourable judicial orders passed by a Labour Court, followed by a single judge of the Madras High Court, then a Division Bench and the Supreme Court. Presiding over the first Division Bench with Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee dismissed a review petition filed by the General Manager of BHEL at Ranipet in 2015 after the dismissal of a special leave petition by the Supreme Court. The Bench directed the company to settle the service and monetary benefits due to eligible workers within two months. Senior counsel R. Vaigai, representing the workers, pointed out that most of them had either died or retired since 1987 and that only 57 out of 118 were in service now. The judges directed BHEL to take every possible effort to trace the legal heirs of the deceased employees and ensure that the entitled monetary relief was handed over to them. On the insistence of Ms. Vaigai to impose costs on BHEL for having made the workers wait for 35 years, the Chief Justice said, he was in fact tempted to impose penal interest on the company. However, he restrained himself since such interest could not be imposed on a review petition filed by the company. “We could have done it if it was a case filed by the workers,” he said. Ms. Vaigai said the BHEL Canteen Workers Union had approached the Labour Officer in 1987, seeking the status of permanent employees. The company denied the existence of employer-employee relationship and so the State government referred the dispute to a Labour Court under the Industrial Disputes Act of 1947. The Labour Court on December 17, 1999, declared the canteen workers as regular employees of BHEL with retrospective effect from 1987 and ordered disbursement of all monetary benefits and other service benefits. BHEL moved the High Court in 2000 challenging the Labour Court’s order. In 2010, a single judge confirmed the Labour Court’s order with respect to conferment of the status of permanent workmen of BHEL. The company took this order too on appeal, but a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed it on February 10, 2015. In April 2015, the Supreme Court also refused to entertain a special leave petition after which a review was filed before the court and it was kept pending for last six years. Empathising with the workers and their families, the Chief Justice remarked: “Our system is such that we punish only the poor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-comes-to-rescue-of-workers/article33918776.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Multi-level parking lot in T. Nagar to begin operations on Feb. 26||Starting Friday, the Greater Chennai Corporation will open the multi-level parking lot on Thanikachalam Road in T. Nagar. People can park their vehicles for free till March 2. Collection of parking charges will begin on March 3. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated the facility on Tuesday. “The structure can accommodate 222 cars and 512 two-wheelers. It will begin operations on Friday. We will not collect parking charges for the first five days. After that, it will be Rs. 20 per hour for cars and Rs. 5 per hour for two-wheelers,” an official said. The parking lot will remain open from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Motorists can pay in cash, card or other modes, such as Google Pay. Attendants will assist motorists in parking and retrieving the vehicles. The vehicles can be retrieved in 90 seconds. Residents will not be permitted inside the multi-level parking lot. The civic body tested the multi-level parking lot with 200 cars before the launch. Traders visit facility On Tuesday, traders visited the parking lot and officials explained all aspects of the facility to the representatives of the 500 business units from Pondy Bazaar. Following the inauguration by the Chief Minister on Tuesday, Corporation officials have planned to conduct a meeting with more representatives of traders and residents before the facility is opened. Representatives led by G. Venugopal, president of the Pondy Bazaar Merchants’ Association, welcomed the inauguration of the multi-level parking lot in T. Nagar. T. Babu, of Kanchi Plaza, said the multi-level parking lot was expected to ease traffic congestion in one of the oldest markets in the city. “Pondy Bazaar is an international market, with customers from countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, South Africa and Sri Lanka. We expect more foreign customers to come because of the Smart City Project,” he said. The location with over 1 lakh daily visitors was expected to become even more attractive for shoppers after the parking lot started operations, an official said. Trading of garments is the dominant trade in Pondy Bazaar, with over 30% of the business units selling textiles. Traders who participated in the inaugural ceremony demanded that the government take action to prevent crime in Pondy Bazaar. Traders and residents have demanded additional buildings for public toilets in Pondy Bazaar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multi-level-parking-lot-in-t-nagar-to-begin-operations-on-feb-26/article33918748.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘273 of 413 suggestions of panel implemented’||The Tamil Nadu government has so far implemented 273 recommendations and observations made by the Dr. C. Rangarajan Committee, constituted to advise the State government on medium-term policy responses to the economic impact of COVID-19, Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister O. Panneerselvam said on Tuesday. Mr. Panneerselvam said the committee had made 413 recommendations and observations relating to immediate relief and revival measures following the COVID-19 lockdown and sector-specific measures covering agriculture and allied activities, manufacturing including MSME and emerging sectors, construction, real estate, banking and finance, tourism, social sector, inter-State migrant labour and State finances. “The government acted promptly on the recommendation of the high-level committee of incurring capital expenditure of at least Rs. 10,000 crore additionally in 2020-21. Additional sanctions, over and above the provisions made in the Budget estimates 2020-21 were granted for capital works — irrigation, construction of buildings, roads and highways, housing, water supply and sanitation — amounting to Rs. 20,013 crore,” he said. As a result of these actions, Tamil Nadu is expected to register a positive growth rate of 2.02% at 2011-12 constant prices in 2020-21. This is against an all-India negative growth of 7.7% in 2020-21, Mr. Panneerselvam said. The strongest performance is of the primary sector at 5.23%, with livestock and fisheries registering even stronger growth, he said. Mr. Panneerselvam further said growth in the secondary sector at 1.25% and in the services sector at 1.64% were better than expected on account of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/273-of-413-suggestions-of-panel-implemented/article33918328.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro stations get sanitary napkin dispensers||In all 39 Metro stations, sanitary napkin vending machines will be installed and free napkins will be available for women commuters. Minister for Industries M.C. Sampath, who inaugurated the initiative, said this was planned to make napkins readily available for women passengers who are in a rush. At the launch of the initiative, jointly by the Geo India Foundation and Rotary International, Priya Jemima, of the foundation, said each machine would hold up to 100 pads and back-up stock would be available in the station. Hygienic conditions Pradeep Yadav, managing director, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), said they were taking a host of steps to maintain cleanliness in stations and trains during the COVID-19 pandemic. The construction of Metro’s phase II project, running to 118.9 km, would begin in June and some contracts were getting finalised now, officials said. “The preparation for tunnelling work and viaduct construction should start in about four-five months. After we award the contract, the company has to bring in equipment and manpower, which will take some time,” an official said. Since it is one of the biggest projects to be carried out and contracts have to be closely monitored, CMRL has set up a Project Management Information System, which will help in tracking every contract. “We are going to build a 118.9 km network, and this will be done as different sections. Since it will be a massive task to track all this, we have the system now. It will show every key date and target that a contractor has been given. If they have missed it, we will know easily. This is not just for civil contracts but for system contracts as well,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-stations-get-sanitary-napkin-dispensers/article33918746.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK has destroyed the State’s finances, alleges DMK||Accusing the AIADMK government of destroying the State’s finances, the DMK on Tuesday boycotted the presentation of the interim Budget. “Even as we were staging a walkout, I heard the announcement that the debt had crossed Rs. 5.7 lakh crore. This is a shame. The AIADMK does not have the right to rule the State,” said the DMK’s deputy leader in the House Duraimurugan. Congress members also boycotted the session. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam have created a financial disaster and crisis for the people of Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Duraimurugan alleged. The DMK leader claimed that while the State government had failed to provide any financial assistance to poor and middle class people, who lost their livelihoods during the COVID-19 pandemic, it still called for tenders and shared the spoils with its ‘benamis’. “Now, the government is spending Rs. 1,000 crore on advertisements in the media to project itself as the great saviour. Mr. Palaniswami has emptied the State’s coffers. He has turned the clock back by 50 years. He and Mr. Panneerselvam are black spots on Tamil Nadu,” he said. Mr. Duraimurugan said the DMK will come to power in Tamil Nadu with the support of the people, probe all irregularities and repair the State’s finances.  ‘Hollow announcements’ Criticising the AIADMK government over the interim Budget, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said the announcements could only be considered hollow since there were no financial resources available for implementing them. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced a waiver of crop loans to the tune of Rs. 12,110 crore for farmers. But the interim Budget has allocated only Rs. 5,000 crore. What right does the AIADMK government have to shift the burden on to the incoming government?” Mr. Alagiri said in a statement. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran described the interim Budget as a document prepared for the sake of keeping a record. In a statement, he said it was disappointing that the State government had only made a suggestion to the Centre to merge all cesses and surcharges with the basic rate of tax, when there was widespread expectation that the State government would announce a reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel, along the lines of similar moves by other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-has-destroyed-the-states-finances-alleges-dmk/article33918317.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils portraits of leaders||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday unveiled the portraits of freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram Pillai and former Chief Ministers P. Subbarayan and Omandur P. Ramaswamy Reddiar in the Assembly hall. Mr. Palaniswami lauded the patriotic qualities and leadership displayed by the leaders. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal and Assembly Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman also hailed the personalities. The Chief Minister also honoured Chidambaram Waleswaran, grandson of Pillai, and Selvi Muruganandham, great-granddaughter of the late leader. Advocates honoured He honoured advocate Shivakami Kumaramangalam and Mohan Kumaramangalam (working president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee), the great-grandchildren of Subbarayan. He also honoured O.P. Venkatachalapathy, a close relative of Reddiar. Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan was present during the event. Later, Ms. Shivakami told The Hindu: “ Our great-grandfather was a true statesman. A man ahead of his time, he fought for equal rights for all — women, Dalits and other disadvantaged communities. We, the Kumaramangalams, hope to continue his legacy of generosity and leadership.” During the current AIADMK regime, portraits of five late leaders were unveiled in the Assembly hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-portraits-of-leaders-in-tn-assembly/article33918391.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of people adhering to COVID-19 norms has fallen drastically, says survey||Amid a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases, only 30% of the people in the country are complying with the norm of wearing masks and only 12% are observing distancing norms, a survey that covered 8,000 respondents has found. The respondents said with a fall in cases in tier 2, 3 and 4 towns and rural areas and with social events being permitted, people believed that there was no need to fear. Also, the survey found that in metropolitan cities and tier 1 and 2 districts, the compliance was better. LocalCircles, which conducted the survey, said it had received reports from citizens about non-compliance with the wearing of masks and the lack of physical distance in public and private events and markets. With schools beginning to function in many States and workplaces making physical attendance mandatory, people had also started returning to pre-COVID-19 activities, the survey said. The responses to the survey came from people in 238 districts in the country. As many as 51% of them lived in a metro or tier 1 district while 28% were located in tier 2 districts. Tier 3, 4 or rural districts accounted for 21% of the responses. Additional masks LocalCircles pointed out that while in countries around the world, people were upgrading their masks or going in for double basic masks for protection, in India mask compliance fell from 67% in September to 30% now. The respondents said discomfort, poor enforcement of rules by local authorities and the declining case load in their area were the reasons for the lowering of the guard. As many as 35% respondents in tier 1 cities rated mask-wearing as effective in their cities. In tier 2 locations, it dropped to 29% and in tier 3 and 4 and rural locations, it fell to 19%, the survey found. Data analysed based on locations found that compliance with physical distancing norms was 15% effective in tier 1 locations; 10% in tier 2 locations; and 7.5% in tier 3 and 4 and rural locations. The survey pointed out that the experiences of Maharashtra and Kerala should serve as a warning to ensure better compliance. “States that are seeing even a minor rise week over week must sensitise residents about wearing masks and following physical distancing norms and take timely calls on imposing localised restrictions in order to prevent further spread of COVID-19 and its mutant strains,” the survey said. Of those who were surveyed 32% were women respondents; 51% were from tier 1; 28% from tier 2 and 21% were from tier 3 and 4 and rural districts. LocalCircles is a community social media platform that enables the government to make policies that are citizen and small business-centric.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-people-adhering-to-covid-19-norms-has-fallen-drastically-says-survey/article33918754.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman IPS officer accuses top police officer of harassment||A top police officer in Tamil Nadu has been accused of harassment by a woman IPS officer, police sources said on Tuesday. The complainant allegedly accused the top officer of misbehaving with her when they were on duty during the tour of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to the central districts recently as part of his public outreach programme. The matter would be referred to the committee constituted to enquire into complaints of sexual harassment in the force, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/top-police-officer-faces-harassment-charge/article33918334.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transport trade unions call strike on Feb. 25||Opposition transport trade unions have called for a State-wide strike on February 25 over the government’s failure to conclude wage talks. A joint press release, issued by nine transport trade unions, including the LPF, the CITU and the INTUC, called for a strike covering eight State Transport Undertakings (STUs), including the Metropolitan Transport Corporation. It also listed the unions’ key demands. The members of the unions pointed out that the most recent wage agreement ended on September 1, 2019, and wage talks hadn’t been held for two years. They demanded wage parity with other government employees, allotment of adequate funds by the State government instead of loans, improvement of the overall situation of the Transport Department and immediate settlement of retirement benefits. The unions, in the joint press release, alleged that over Rs. 8,000 crore in provident fund amount belonging to transport workers had been used for running the STUs. As the current Assembly was set to end and the election date was expected to be announced shortly, they had been reiterating their demand on the wage talks since December last year. They had earlier called for a strike on December 3, but didn’t carry it out due to “social responsibility”, the unions said.  Unions alleged that over Rs. 8,000 crore in provident fund amount had been used for running the STUs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-trade-unions-call-state-wide-strike-on-february-25/article33918336.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kilambakkam bus terminus to be opened partially||Yet another major bus terminus may open shortly at the outskirts in Kilambakkam, near Vandalur, and the hope is that it will ease traffic congestion in the city and cater to south-bound buses. The new terminus is expected to cater to about 1.5 lakh passengers with parking space for 250 buses, 270 cars and 3,500 two-wheelers. The facility is coming up at an estimated cost of Rs. 393.74 crore in an area of 44.74 acres. The built-up area will be 6.40 lakh sq ft. The terminus will have escalators as well as other amenities. It will also have dormitories for the bus crew, a waiting hall for passengers and other facilities. Delay due to lockdown The foundation was laid in 2019 but the construction work was affected due to a shortage of workers during the lockdown. The construction has now resumed. Recently, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam inspected the site and expedited the works. Official sources said they are planning to open a part of the facility, so MTC buses could operated out of it. It would take another five to six months to complete the remaining portion of the bus terminus. After that, buses bound for the southern districts will likely be operated from here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kilambakkam-bus-terminus-to-be-opened-partially/article33918759.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||280 sovereigns of gold jewellery goes missing||A manager of a private firm has lodged a complaint with the Royapuram police station stating that 280 sovereigns of gold jewellery has gone missing from his house. The police said the complainant Raja, 46, and his wife Syamala live in an apartment in Grace Garden, Royapuram. On Tuesday, when Ms. Syamala looked in an almirah, she noticed that her gold jewellery had gone missing. Then, Mr. Raja lodged a complaint with the police. The police suspect some insiders could have been involved since no damage was noticed on the lock, door and windows of the house. Investigation is on to trace the missing valuables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/280-sovereigns-of-gold-jewellery-goes-missing/article33918760.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former IPS officer moves HC seeking better pay for Home Guards||Former IPS officer K. Annamalai has filed a public interest litigation petition in the Madras High Court challenging a February 19, 2019 Government Order which restricts the number of call out duties that could be assigned to the Home Guards, those who voluntarily serve as an auxiliary force to the police, to just 10 days a month. When the case was listed for admission before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Tuesday, the judges ordered notices to the Home Secretary, Director General of Police and others returnable by 10 weeks. The judges directed State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to get instructions by June 15. Mr. Annamalai said Home Guards was a voluntary force raised in 1946 to assist the police in controlling civil disturbances and communal riots. Their role was to serve as an auxiliary force to the police in maintenance of internal security and help in any kind of emergency such as an air-raid, fire, cyclone, earthquake, epidemic and so on. Home Guards were recruited from cross sections of society and utilised to carry out all functions performed regularly by police constables. They had been working as part and parcel of the police department and perform duties such as driving, traffic control, night patrolling, VIP bandobust, election duty and serving of court summons, the petitioner added. Pointing out that the Home Guards were originally paid a meagre amount of Rs. 150 a day in Tamil Nadu, the petitioner said the amount was increased to Rs. 560 a day by way of a Government Order (G.O.) issued on July 7, 2017. However, that G.O. decreased the number of call out duties for them from 16 to five days a month thereby virtually nullifying the pay increase. On February 19, 2019 another G.O. was issued increasing the call out duties to 10 days a month. Nevertheless, stating that it would not be sufficient, the petitioner pointed out that the Home Guards in neighbouring States were paid for almost 30 days a month and some States even offered them a pay equal to the monthly pay of a Grade II police constable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-ips-officer-moves-high-court-seeking-better-pay-for-home-guards/article33918767.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks govt. response to plea over appointment of SHRC Chairman||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to respond to a public interest litigation petition, which challenged the appointment of former judge S. Baskaran as the Chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on the ground that it lacked transparency. The First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to get instructions from the Public Department Secretary within four weeks with respect to the PIL petition filed by S. Logeshwar, an advocate. Representing the litigant, senior counsel A. Sirajudeen said Justice Baskaran was fully qualified to hold the post since he had served as a judge of the High Court and that was the reason a writ of quo warranto was not filed questioning the authority under which he was holding the position. However, complaining about the selection process, counsel said that no notification was issued, and no applications were invited for the post. He claimed that many other retired judges might have applied for the post if a notification had been issued by the State government. The petitioner stated that the SHRC Chairperson’s post was lying vacant since 2019. Suddenly, the government convened the selection committee meeting on December 26, 2020, and the Law Minister proposed the name of Justice Baskaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-govt-response-to-plea-over-appointment-of-shrc-chairman/article33918769.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Interim Budget allocates Rs. 7,217.4 cr. to offset loss incurred by Tangedco||The interim Budget has allocated Rs. 7,217.4 crore in the estimates for 2021-22 to offset losses incurred by Tangedco, as per commitments under the Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY). A sum of Rs. 8,413.98 crore had been provided towards tariff subsidy in the revised estimates for 2020-21, which has been further increased to Rs. 8,834.68 crore in the interim Budget estimates for 2021-22. A total of Rs. 4,563 crore has been provided towards the fifth and final instalment for converting Tangedco’s debt into a grant over a five-year period under UDAY, in the interim Budget estimates for 2021-22. The government has also provided Rs. 37,130.3 crore as a guarantee to Tangedco for availing loans from financial institutions and banks during the financial year 2020-21 to tide over its financial crisis. The interim Budget pointed out that 2020-21 was a difficult year for transport corporations due to COVID-19, and State Transport Undertakings had incurred revenue loss of Rs. 3,717.36 crore till January 2021. The government permitted transport corporations to obtain loans based on a government guarantee of Rs. 3,739 crore to meet ongoing commitments. In addition, Rs. 2,914.44 crore had been released towards student and other concessions, besides Rs. 526.47 crore as short-term loan and Rs. 135.87 crore as diesel subsidy to enable STUs to meet salary, pension and operational commitments. The interim Budget estimates for 2021-22 provide Rs. 623.59 crore towards a project to procure 12,000 buses, including 2,000 electric buses, over the next few years. The provision for food subsidy has been increased from Rs. 6,500 crore to Rs. 9,604.27 crore in the revised estimates for 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-budget-allocates-rs-72174-cr-to-offset-loss-incurred-by-tangedco/article33918773.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TARATDAC resumes protests across Tamil Nadu||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) resumed protests across the State on Tuesday, demanding that the monthly financial allowance be increased to a minimum of Rs. 3,000. Citing this demand and also calling for the implementation of 5% reservation of jobs for persons with disabilities in the private sector, the association had begun protests from February 9. The protests were postponed by a week following talks with the Social Welfare Department. “Our demands have not been considered yet and we have resumed protests. We have occupied spaces outside government offices and will continue to sit here through the night,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary, TARATDAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taratdac-resumes-protests-across-tamil-nadu/article33918749.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Satellite built by college team to be launched on Feb. 28||Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology is set to launch its own PSLV c-51 satellite, named SRISAKTHI SAT, from the Indian Space Research Organisation, Sriharikota, on February 28. S. Thangavelu, chairman and head of the institution, said since 2010, the students and teachers had worked towards their dream of creating their own satellite and had set up a research centre for the same. Speaking about how they went about the project, Dr. Thangavelu said the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Center (IN-SPACe), launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June 2020, helped them. “While the Pico satellite weighs only about 460 g, it has the capacity to operate like other 10 kg Nano satellite. This will be a low Earth orbit (LEO) satellite as it revolves at 500-575 km from the ground level,” he added. Research scholar Nikhil Riyas worked with three professors and 12 students on the project, and the institution is also associated with the Space Research Centre in Serbia, who provided technical assistance to set up their ground station.  This will be a low Earth orbit satellite as it revolves at 500-575 km from the ground level S. Thangavelu Chairman, Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/satellite-built-by-college-team-to-be-launched-on-feb-28/article33918743.ece
24 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. offices to function on Feb. 27||The State government on Tuesday announced that all government offices across the State will work on February 27. The decision was in view of the ongoing Assembly session, which is scheduled to until Saturday. A Government Order to this effect was issued by Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-offices-to-function-on-feb-27/article33918392.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||220 kg of ganja seized, two arrested||The Prohibition and Enforcement Wing (PEW) on Tuesday seized 220 kg of ganja from two accused near Nesapakkam. Following a tip-off, a special team mounted surveillance and intercepted a car with an Andhra Pradesh registration number plate near a junction between M.G.R. Nagar and Nesapakkam. On searching the vehicle, personnel recovered the contraband. The police identified the accused as Sethuraman, 49, of Puzhal, and Suresh Kumar, 40, of Red Hills. They also recovered a car, two mobile phones and cash from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/220-kg-of-ganja-seized-two-arrested/article33918742.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Search on for man who harassed actor||The police are on the look out for a pizza delivery executive, who misbehaved and harassed an actor in Teynampet a year ago. Actor Gayatri Sai, who starred in the film Anjali , lodged a complaint with the Teynampet All-Women police station in February 2020 after an inebriated delivery agent from a Teynampet pizza outlet allegedly shared her number on several adult groups on WhatsApp. The police launched a manhunt for Parameshwaran, the delivery executive. His anticipatory bail petition was recently rejected by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-man-who-harassed-actor/article33918747.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DFR ready for Metro in Coimbatore||A detailed feasibility report (DFR) for establishing Metro Rail in Coimbatore at a cost of Rs. 6,683 crore has been prepared and is under examination. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, while presenting the Interim Budget, said the project would cover 44 km in the first phase. He said as the Centre had committed to counterpart funding for phase-II of the Chennai Metro, the entire financing of the project was tied up. A DPR for the extension of Chennai Metro from Airport to Kilambakkam Bus Terminus, via Tambaram, was being prepared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dfr-ready-for-metro-in-coimbatore/article33918318.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health insurance enhanced||Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday announced that the Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Health Insurance Scheme would be extended with enhanced benefits. The scheme is coming to an end in June 2021. Mr. Panneerselvam, who presented the Interim Budget, said the overall coverage would be increased from Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh. “Coverage in the case of select treatments will be increased from Rs. 7.5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. A special provision will be made for coverage for rare diseases and exceptional circumstances, with a total benefit of Rs. 20 lakh. Process for availing of cashless treatment will be further streamlined,” he said. Mr. Panneerselvam said the largest contribution to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund during the year was made by government employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-insurance-enhanced/article33918322.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Personal interview postponed||Tamil Nadu Construction Workers’ Welfare Board has postponed the in-person interview for several posts it had called for in May last. The Board had advertised for the posts of registrar and driver. The certificate verification for aspirants for the registrar post was to be conducted from February 24 to 27. Assessment  The performance assessment of the candidates for the post of driver was to be conducted from February 27 to March 2. A new date would soon be announced, the Board said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/personal-interview-put-off/article33918892.ece
24 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New head for Commission for Women||The Tamil Nadu government has reconstituted the State Commission for Women with Ms. Gowri Ashokan as its Chairperson. The Chairperson and the members would hold office for three years. According to a G.O. issued by the State government which was notified in a government gazette, R. Jamuna, T. Deepa, T. Shylaja, B. Dakshayani and Manisha Chordia are the members of the panel. “The other two existing members who were nominated by the government from among the MLAs will cease to be the members of the Commission from the day on which they cease to be the members of the Assembly,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-head-for-commission-for-women/article33918997.ece
24 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Reconsider decision to shut down Sterlite plant’||A section of the engineering units here have appealed to the State government to not shut down the Sterlite plant at Thoothukudi permanently as copper prices have increased manifold in the last few months. The Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association and Railway Suppliers Association said copper prices on March 22 last year were Rs. 380 a kg and shot up to Rs. 712 a kg now. In February this year, the prices had seen 21 % hike and there was a threat of further increase. In Coimbatore, there were nearly 1,000 manufacturers of pumps and motors. Enamelled copper wire was one of the essential raw materials for these units. The cost of copper was approximately 20 % in the price of a small electric motor. It had increased to 33 % now. The manufacturers could not pass on this cost. Refined copper imports had increased 120 % in 2018-19 compared to the previous year. In 2019-20, nearly one lakh tonne was imported. Meanwhile, indigenous production came down 50 % in 2018-19. Hence, the Central government should abolish Customs Duty on copper scrap. The 2.5 % reduction announced in the Union Budget would not help the MSMEs. The State government should reconsider its decision to permanently shut down the Sterlite plant. The government should come out with strict safety provisions so that environment safety and public health were not affected. Increase in indigenous copper production would shield the small units from high raw material prices. The government should also introduce dual price policy to major copper producing plants, the associations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconsider-decision-to-shut-down-sterlite-plant/article33918781.ece
24 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||One lakh people to attend PM’s public meeting||About one lakh people are expected to attend the public meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address here on Thursday. BJP district president R. Nandakumar inspected the preparatory works at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex grounds where the Prime Minister will address the meeting. He told mediapersons BJP cadre from 12 district units, industrialists, community leaders and the public were expected to attend the meeting. C.T. Ravi, BJP national general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu, along with other leaders from the party would be present with the Prime Minister. According to police sources, the Coimbatore City Police have deployed at least 3,000 police personnel in the city ahead of the arrival of the Prime Minister. On Thursday, Mr. Modi was expected to land at Coimbatore International Airport at around 3.40 p.m. and would leave by 6 p.m., the sources said. The city police had also set up a mini control room near Jenneys Residency on Avinashi Road to monitor the venue and provide instructions to the police personnel, the sources said. On Tuesday evening, National president of BJP Mahila Morcha Vanathi Srinivasan inaugurated a two-wheeler rally at Puliakulam to welcome Mr. Modi to Coimbatore. Around 60 women participated in the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-lakh-people-to-attend-pms-public-meeting/article33918783.ece
24 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries welcome interim Budget announcement||Industries here have welcomed the announcement on metro rail project for Coimbatore, in the State Interim Budget, on Tuesday . According to K. Maniraj, president of the Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers’ Association, allocation of funds for the metro rail is a welcome move as the project will ease the traffic problems in the city. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, sought extension of the metro rail to Tiruppur. Allocation of Rs. 6,683 crore for the project is a huge benefit to Coimbatore, said Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu. A detailed feasibility study should be done to know whether the current alignment for the metro rail will work. This is a move in the right direction. If it is not feasible, the project should look at a different alignment for Coimbatore to get full benefits, said K. Kathirmathiyon.  MSMEs to benefit Allocation of funds for different sectors will indirectly benefit the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs), added Mr. Ramesh Babu. According to C. Balasubramanian, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, waiver of agriculture loans and allocation of funds in the budget for it will help the farming sectors. Completion of the Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme by the end of this year will improve the ground water level across the region, he said. Mr. Shanmugham said the allocation of funds for infrastructure, especially roads, will benefit the district.  According to Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A. Sakthivel, the State Government has given priority for healthcare and infrastructure strengthening, which are the welcome moves of this budget. The Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association president C. Sivakumar said efforts to encourage private industrial estates and strengthening the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation would help the micro units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-welcome-interim-budget-announcement/article33918409.ece
24 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU V-C bags award||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar has bagged the ‘Best Vice- Chancellor Award 2020’. A release from the University said the Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University, Hyderabad, and All India Agricultural Students Association, New Delhi, conferred the award at the recently concluded sixth national youth convention. The award was in recognition of Mr. Kumar’s contribution in introducing frugal innovation and achievements in teaching agricultural sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-v-c-bags-award/article33918779.ece
24 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||FIEO gets new president||A. Sakthivel, founder of Poppys Group of Companies, has been elected president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO). Mr. Sakthivel is also the chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) and has served as a top functionary in Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, and FIEO too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fieo-gets-new-president/article33918410.ece
24 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Temple elephant still chained||The temple elephant, which was roughed up by its mahout and his assistant on Saturday at the Thekkampatti annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants, remained chained to a tree as of Tuesday. Top officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department and Forest Department confirmed to The Hindu that the chain had not been removed since Sunday, when the mahout, Vinil Kumar (46), and a caretaker, Sivaprasath (32), were arrested by the Forest Department a few hours after the video of them caning the elephant Jayamalyatha from the Andal Temple in Srivilliputhur went viral on social media. Due to this, the elephant cannot undertake the regular morning and evening walking exercises at the rejuvenation camp. With the appointment of a new mahout Subramaniam, the chain could be removed only after the new mahout feels confident in handling the 19-year-old female elephant, the officials said. The elephant also began to eat rice, ragi, fodder and nutritional supplements on Tuesday. It had not eaten properly since Sunday due to the absence of the mahout it is familiar with. “The elephant is slowly returning to normal,” a senior HR&CE Department official said on Tuesday. A committee comprising elephant experts from Forest and Animal Husbandry Departments conducted a programme for mahouts at the camp on Tuesday on how to handle insubordinate elephants without resorting to cruelty. The camp will soon be open for the public and the media after the committee examines all the elephants, according to the HR&CE Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-elephant-remains-chained-at-thekkampatti-rejuvenation-camp/article33918408.ece
24 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK condemns Corporation||The Coimbatore east urban unit of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has condemned the way the Coimbatore Corporation went about implementing the lake development project under the Smart Cities Mission. In a resolution passed at the unit executive committee meeting, the party said the Corporation was spending most of the Rs. 998 crore allotted to the project for ornamental work without prioritising the sewage treatment plant work. As a result, the lakes continued to be filled with municipal sewage. The party also condemned the delay in competing the road overbridge across railway crossings in SIHS Colony, Neelikonampalayam, Hope College-Thanneerpandal. It reiterated its demand for scrapping the agreement the Corporation had signed with Suez India for revamping water distribution in the old city area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-condemns-corporation/article33918780.ece
24 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Forest guard ends life||A forest guard at Chennampatti Forest Range died by suicide in a forest area here on Monday. Police said Prabakaran (28) from Nagamalai Pudukottai in Madurai is unmarried and was living with his mother Rajammal at Ganapathi Kattur in Anthiyur area. On Monday evening, villagers alerted the Forest Department that the body of a man was found at Kombu Thukki Mariamman Kovil forest area. Officials from Anthiyur Forest Range identified the victim as Prabakaran and Bargur police sent the body to Government Hospital at Anthiyur. postmortem was done on Tuesday and the body sent to his home town. Before his death, he released a video message on social media in which he alleged that high-handed behaviour by senior officials had hurt him. He said that he had completed his MBA, but was unable to achieve anything in the department.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-guard-ends-life/article33918405.ece
24 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 13 cases||Erode district reported 13 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,745. While 16 persons were discharged, 124 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 12 positive cases. According to health officials, six cases were indigenous and six have returned from Chennai and Erode. Five cases were reported in Namakkal, one patient has returned from Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-13-cases/article33918397.ece
24 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Since Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board is undertaking works in the Erode sub-station-Sakthi Road electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on February 24 at Sakthi Road, Krishna Street, Brindha Street, Masjid Street, Kandasamy Street, Market areas, Kuppakadu, Kamarajar Government Higher Secondary School Road, Kakkan Street, Varadappa Street, Madhava Krishnan Street, Meeran Moideen Street, K.A.S. Nagar, V.P.S. Street, Periya Mariamman Kovil Street, S.C.M. Mill Road, Marapalam Road and Indira Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33918399.ece
24 February 2021||Erode/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu–Karnataka border check posts to be strengthened||Ahead of the Assembly elections in the State, both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have decided to strengthen the check posts at the border areas. A meeting was organised by the Prohibition and Excise Department at the Erode Collectorate on Monday in which District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, Deputy Superintendent of Police of Chamrajanagar, Priyadarshini and DSPs participated. The meeting discussed issues related to monitoring the borders when the model code of conduct would be in place in Tamil Nadu for the election. It was decided to establish more check posts at the border areas and also strengthen the Prohibition and Excise Department’s check post at Hasanur, Regional Transport Department’s check posts at Bannari, forest department’s check posts at Karapallam, Germalam and Maharajapuram. Police were also asked to monitor sales at liquor outlets at the border areas. The Forest department was also asked to intensify checks to prevent liquor bottles being taken inside forest areas. It was also decided to jointly work together to prevent crime activities related to liquor during the election. In Salem, District Revenue Officer R. Divakar held discussions with excise, police and Tasmac officials to strengthen Salem-Karnataka border to check movement of illicit liquor during Assembly elections. In Salem, Kolathur is the only inter-state border with Karnataka. Mr. Divakar advised officials to set up additional check posts wherever required to prevent distribution of illicit arrack. Nagaraj, DSP, Kollegal also took part in the meeting here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadukarnataka-border-check-posts-to-be-strengthened/article33918407.ece
24 February 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Three get two life terms in murder case||The Sessions Court here on Tuesday sentenced three persons, including a woman, to undergo two life terms for premeditated murder.  Krishnan (35) of Bengaluru was found murdered in Kattinayapalli in 2017. The accused Gopika (34), married to a man in Krishnagiri, was in an extramarital relationship with Krishnan. However, she soon fell out of the relationship and met the co-accused Sethan. The two were in a relationship, which was objected to by Krishnan. On the day of the crime, Gopika had called up Krishnan and asked him to come to Krishnagiri. Gopika along with Sethan and his relative Shakthivel murdered Krishnan.  The victim’s severed head was found far off from the site of the crime. The accused were sentenced upon the prosecution proving their crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-get-two-life-terms-in-murder-case/article33918395.ece
24 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai airport gets second rank in overall passenger satisfaction||Madurai Airport has secured second ranking in overall passenger satisfaction in the facilities and services at the airport among 12 airports in the country that handle more than 10 lakh passengers a year. The second round of customer satisfaction survey had been taken between July and December 2020. “Our overall ranking has moved up from fourth to second position in the corresponding period during the previous year – 2019,” said Madurai Airport Director, S. Senthilvalavan. He attributed the improved ranking to various measures taken to comply with the COVID-19 safety protocols that ensured smooth movement of passengers. Madurai airport has secured 4.80 score rating on a scale of 1 to 5 – from poor to excellent. It has lost to Udaipur Airport that has stood first with 4.84 score rating. However, Madurai airport has improved it score ratings when compared to the previous two surveys — 4.75 in round three (January –June 2019) and 4.73 in round four (July-December 2019). The ranking has been based on 36 categories of services provided by the airport including ground transportation, parking facilities, availability of baggage carts/trolleys, waiting time in check-in queue, efficiency and courtesy of check-in staff and customs and security. While the airport has fared well in this round when compared to the two previous rounds, Mr. Senthilvalavan said that there was still scope for improvement in provision of food outlets (4.56) and reduction in congestion in security hold area. “We have, to some extent, resolved the issue of congestion in the security hold area by providing additional space in the last 15 days,” he added. Madurai Airport that had handled more than 14 lakh passengers a year in the pre-COVID-19 time, is expected to handle around 6 lakh passengers this year. The survey had been conducted among business passengers, leisure passengers on other facilities like shopping, internet facilities, walking distance inside the terminal, availability and cleanliness of washrooms, ease of making connections with other flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-airport-gets-second-rank-in-passenger-satisfaction/article33918338.ece
24 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No significant announcement in budget: Chamber||The interim State budget, which was presented on Tuesday with a revenue deficit of about Rs. 41,000 crore, did not have significant new announcements for the overall development of the State, which is disappointing, said Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI). A press release from TNCCI president N. Jegatheesan said that around Rs. 6683 crore has been allocated for the implementation of metro rail project in Coimbatore. But, the non-announcement of metro rail services for Madurai is a reflection of the State government's continued neglect of southern districts, said the release. While the announcement of Chennai- Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor project at a cost of Rs. 6,448 crore was welcomed, it is very disappointing that the Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor project announced in 2013 was not yet been completed. It is unfortunate that the State government has not taken any steps to reduce the price of petrol and diesel. States like Rajasthan, Delhi, Meghalaya and Nagaland have reduced Value Added Tax on petrol and diesel. But, the Tamil Nadu Government had not announced any steps to reduce the price of petrol and diesel, which showed that the government was not interested in the welfare of the public, added the release. Rajapalayam Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam president, N.A. Ramachandra Raja, has expressed concern over part budgetary allocation of funds towards waiver of crop loans issues by Cooperative Societies. He said while the Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, had announced crop loan waiver to the tune of Rs. 12,110 crore, Deputy Chief Minister O. Pannerselvam in his budge speech had made an allocation of mere Rs. 5,000 crore in the interim budget on Tuesday. “With a deficit of Rs. 7,000 crore, the financial health of Cooperative societies will deteriorate till the entire waived off funds is given back to the societies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-significant-announcement-in-budget-chamber/article33918348.ece
24 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Advocates stage demonstration against new farms laws||All India Lawyers Union on Tuesday staged a demonstration at Tallakulam here against the newly enacted farms laws. Advocates raised slogans in support of farmers and said that the new farm laws were against the interest of the farmers. Advocates who took out a march from the District Court to Tallakulam said agriculture was the backbone of the country. The farm laws catered to the interest of the Corporate companies, they said at the demonstration. Agriculture is under the State list. Therefore, the State government must oppose the new farm laws that were against the farmers, said All India Lawyers Union General Secretary N. Muthu Amuthanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocates-stage-demonstration-against-new-farms-laws/article33918347.ece
24 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mixed reaction||Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association welcomed the allocation of Rs. 5,000 crore for waiver of crop loans, as part of the interim State budget that was presented on Tuesday. A press release from association president S.P. Jeyaprakasam said that allocation of Rs. 1,788.81 crore for crop insurance schemes would benefit the farmers. The announcement on introducing 12,000 buses for public transport, allocation of Rs. 11,982 crore for agriculture and undertaking a study on metro rail project in Coimbatore on an outlay of Rs. 6,683 crore were welcomed by the association. While the announcement on undertaking a study for metro rail project in Coimbatore was welcomed, the study not being extended to other cities like Madurai, Tiruchi and Salem was unfortunate, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-reaction/article33918895.ece
24 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man, two kids drown in tank||Three members of a family drowned in an irrigation tank near Tirumangalam on Tuesday afternoon. The police identified the deceased as V. Alagarsamy (36) and his daughter Sangeetha (10) and son Maha Mukesh (5). The police said that Alagarsamy, a driver from Lakshmipuram, had taken his children to the Lakshmipuram tank for bathing. When he took his son into chest-deep water, he developed fits and fell down with Mukesh. The girl who tried to save the boy also drowned. The incident took place at around 2.30 p.m. The bodies were taken to Government Hospital in Tirumangalam. Tirumangalam Taluk police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-two-kids-drown-in-tank/article33918350.ece
24 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Campaign against female infanticide launched||The patriarchal mindset where women are considered to be a burden, which is one of the main reasons for the prevalence of female infanticide, needs to be addressed, said Usilampatti Revenue Divisional Officer K. V. Rajkumar at Arul Anandar College at Karumathur in the district on Tuesday. He was addressing the college students during the inauguration of a campaign against female infanticide organised by Arul Anandar Initiatives for Social Education, and Babu Integrated Rural Development, a non-governmental organisation. The campaign was inaugurated against the backdrop of a recent female infanticide case where a seven-day-old female infant - the third girl child of a couple at K. Parapatti village of Usilampatti block was murdered by the family. The RDO said that the practice of paying dowry, and the notion that public spaces were unsafe for women, discouraged parents from raising girl children. "But, women have excelled in various fields. The college students must be the change makers who must create awareness among the general public against female infanticide," he said. Mr. Rajkumar said that it was a shame that female infanticide had taken place at this period in Usilampatti. He said that the performance of village and block-level committees in disseminating and monitoring issues related to children must be strictly reviewed by the higher officials. The Childline, which operates on 1098, must be popularised, he added. L. Shanmugam, member of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said that alcohol addiction among parents, unwarranted superstitions, child born out of illicit relationships, and lower economic status of the families, were the main reasons for the incidence of female infanticide. He said that a multi-dimensional approach is essential to tackle the problem of female infanticide. Strict monitoring of pregnant women, collection of details of children in an area, creating awareness of the facilities that are available for protection of women and girl children, and creating awareness of laws for crimes against women are essential to address the female infanticide problem, he added. A. Selvakamatchi, District Maternal and Child Health Officer, said that the village health nurses (VHNs) played a major role in tracking pregnant women and infants. So, the college students must work along with the VHNs to create awareness among the villagers, she said. B. Pandiaraja, a member of CWC, said that government schemes for women and female infants have to be driven home through pamphlets. District Child Protection Officer A. Ganesan, District Social Welfare Officer (in-charge) Pushpakala and other officials from police, and revenue departments participated in the event. Arul Anandhar College Rector Rev. Fr. John Pragasam S.J., and Secretary Rev. Father Gilbert Camillus S.J., spoke. The college students, along with government officials, will create awareness against female infantcide at 18 villages from March 6 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign-against-female-infanticide-launched/article33918340.ece
24 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Outfit protests against fuel price hike||Scores of members of Social Democratic Trade Union on Tuesday staged a demonstration here protesting against the continuous increase in price of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. The protest being held as part of the party’s State-wide programme was led by its State general secretary Abdul Sikkander. The speakers at the demonstration demanded that the Centre should bring down the excise duty on fuel to spare the common man from the burden of the fuel price hike. They condemned that even when the international price of crude oil was coming down, the Centre kept increasing the taxes. The fuel price hike has come at a time when the general public were already suffering from job loss due to lockdown. The people were already suffering due to increase in price of essential commodities. Autorickshaw drivers pulled an auto with a rope to depict the sufferings of the common man. Social Democratic Party of India leaders Sikkander, Shahul Hameed, Bilaldeen, Moorthi and Yousuf took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outfit-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/article33918898.ece
24 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||File petitions before designated court||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday directed that all petitions pertaining to release of vehicles involved in illegal sand quarrying be posted before the Division Bench. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and N. Sathish Kumar observed that the court in 2018 in a series of directions held that such petitions had to be filed before the designated court for mines and minerals related cases. The court observed that despite the order of the Division Bench, day in and day out petitions were filed and orders were passed. Either, the orders of the Division Bench were not brought to the notice of the Single Bench or the government was not desirous of filing an appeal. The imposition of cost can never be a substitute when it comes to the environment and Right to Life. Water is a life source. The Supreme Court has reiterated the concept of sustainable development, the court said. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition pertaining to a case of illegal sand quarrying in Madurai. The court sought a response from the State in the case and directed the State to get instructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-petitions-before-designated-court-hc/article33918349.ece
24 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Form selection panel: PIL plea||A villupattu artiste moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday, seeking a direction to the State government to fix the criteria for presenting Kalaimamani awards by constituting an expert committee to recommend names of eminent persons for the honour. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice on the public interest litigation petition filed by D. Sermathurai of Thoothukudi district, who alleged that there were irregularities in selecting awardees and eligibility criteria were not followed. He sought a direction to the State government to fix the criteria for presenting the awards by constituting an expert committee for selection. He said he sent a representation to the government in this regard, but no action was taken on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-selection-panel-for-kalaimamani-awards-says-petitioner/article33918341.ece
24 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two murdered in separate incidents||A salesman with a private masala company, S. Yuvaraj (29), was stabbed to death near Sikkander Chavadi near Madurai in the small hours of Monday. The police said that Yuvaraj who had gone on a marketing tour with his colleagues had returned to the company late past Sunday midnight. Later, he proceeded home at Pothumbu on his two-wheeler. However, on Monday morning he was found dead with stab injuries and cut injuries. While his bike was found nearby, his mobile phone was missing. Based on his father N. Samiraj’s complaint, the Alanganallur police are investigating.  S.S. Colony station limits In another incident reported under S.S. Colony police station limits, a 36-year-old man B. Muthiah was murdered following a quarrel over drainage channel, on Monday. The police said that Muthiah, along with his father, was digging a channel to drain waste water from his house into the drainage channel. This was objected to by neighbours R. Balamurugan and his brother Senthilkumar. After the quarrel, their family members assaulted Bose and his son with lethal weapons. While they were rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital, the son was declared brought dead. The S.S. Colony arrested two accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-murdered-in-separate-incidents/article33918342.ece
24 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress to file review petition in SC on nominated MLAs||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said the Congress will file a review petition in the Supreme Court on the issue of voting rights of nominated legislators. Talking to The Hindu , the senior Congress leader said consultations were being held with the party high command and legal experts on the issue. Voting rights The Supreme Court, while dismissing a petition challenging the High Court order on the rights of the Centre to appoint three nominated legislators, had only stated about the rights of nominated MLAs to vote during a “no-confidence motion and passing of a budget,” the former Chief Minister said. “I moved a confidence motion in the Assembly on Monday and the Speaker was not able to give a clear answer as to whether the three nominated legislators have the right to vote. We want to bring to a logical conclusion the whole issue and hence decided to approach the Supreme Court as they [BJP] could use the nominated legislators for their political gains in the future also,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. The former Chief Minister said the issue was concerning the rights of a democratically-elected government in the Union Territory. “The toppling of the government was unconstitutional and illegal. A democratically elected government was made a minority using unethical means and through nominated legislators,” he said. Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam told The Hindu that Speaker V.P. Sivakolandhu had violated parliamentary procedures by declaring in the House that a government had lost majority without putting the confidence motion to vote. Mr. Vaithilingam, a former Speaker himself, said the Government Whip immediately after the Chief Minister’s address on the motion of confidence sought a clarification from Mr. Sivakolandhu on the voting rights of nominated legislators. He did not clarify and so the ruling party members had staged a walkout, Mr. Vaithilingam added. ‘Procedures violated’ “The Speaker should have listened to the Opposition and then called the ruling party members to the house. After hearing both views, he should have given a ruling and put the confidence motion to vote. The motion was never put to vote,” Mr. Vaithilingam said. Parliamentary procedures had been violated on the issue of confidence motion, he added.  A democratically elected government was made a minority using unethical means and through nominated legislators V. Narayanasamy Former Chief Minister, Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-to-file-review-petition-in-sc/article33918778.ece
24 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Left parties stage protest against Centre||The Left parties on Tuesday staged a protest against “the Centre for toppling a democratically elected governm- ent” in the Union Territory. The leaders assembled near Anna Statue and staged a protest, criticising the BJP-led government for destabilising an elected government by luring legislators from the ruling side and through the appointment of nominated members. The Left leaders also asked the Congress leaders to introspect on why their party legislators were shifitng to other camps. Meanwhile, PCC leader A. V. Subramanian, in a statement, said that the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance, comprising the Congress, the DMK, the Left parties and the VCK, would stage a protest near Anna Statue on Wednesday. Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and senior leaders from all the alliance parties would address the gathering. A series of protests would be organised in the coming days to condemn the toppling of a democratically elected government, he said.  The Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance will stage a protest near Anna Statue on Wednesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-parties-stage-protest-against-centre/article33918960.ece
24 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Prime Minister set to launch a slew of projects in U.T. tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to launch a slew of projects during his visit to Puducherry on February 25. The Prime Minster will lay the foundation stone for the four-laning of NH45-A, the 56 km Sattanathapuram–Nagapattinam package of the Villupuram to Nagapattinam project covering Karaikal. The capital cost to be incurred in this project is approximately Rs. 2,426 crore. He will lay the foundation stone for the medical college building on the Karaikal campus of JIPMER. The project cost is an estimated Rs. 491 crore, and it will be completed by August 2022. The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone for the development of a minor port at Puducherry under the Sagarmala scheme at an estimated cost of Rs. 44 crore. The project will be completed by August 2022. The letter of acceptance has been issued to M/s. KSR Marine Services Private Limited, Hyderabad. Once completed, it will provide connectivity to Chennai and facilitate cargo movement for industries in Puducherry, an official press note said. Mr. Modi is also scheduled to lay the foundation stone for a synthetic athletic track at the Indira Gandhi Sports Complex, Puducherry, to replace the existing 400 m cinder track surface, which is is an outdated running surface. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 7 crore. The Prime Minister will inaugurate a Blood Centre at JIPMER, which will function as a research laboratory and a training centre for short- term and continuous blood bank personnel in all aspects of transfusion. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 28 crore. He will inaugurate the Sports Authority of India’s 100-bedded girls hostel constructed at Lawspet, Puducherry, for athletes. The project was started in 2018 and its estimated cost is Rs. 11.85 crore. The hostel will accommodate athletes from various games, and they will be provided various facilities to nurture their talent. Mr. Modi will also inaugurate the reconstructed Mairie Building, which is a heritage landmark of the city. It was built by the French and rebuilt with the same architecture at a projected cost of Rs. 14.83 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-set-to-launch-a-slew-of-projects-in-ut-tomorrow/article33918330.ece
24 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With two more deaths, U.T. toll rises||The Union Territory recorded two more COVID-19 deaths, raising the toll to 665 on Tuesday. A 60-year-old patient died at JIPMER while a 42-year-old patient succumbed at the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital. With this, the toll in Puducherry stands at 543, followed by Karaikal (67), Yanam (45) and Mahe (10). The Union Territory also recorded 28 new cases across Mahe (12), Puducherry (10), Karaikal (three) and Yanam (one). Yanam was reporting a new case after several weeks. The test positivity rate was 1.71%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.86%. With 21 patients getting discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 179. Of this, 114 were in hospitals and 65 in home isolation. The Health Department has to date conducted an estimated 6.2 lakh tests. Meanwhile, 99 healthcare personnel and six frontline workers took their first shot of COVID vaccine in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of personnel immunised to date aggregated 9,352, including 8,908 healthcare workers. Cuddalore district reported five fresh cases on Tuesday. In Villupuram district, three persons tested positive, taking the total to 25,254. No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-two-more-deaths-ut-toll-rises/article33918961.ece
24 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cong. fell on its own: BJP||BJP State president Saminathan, MLA, on Tuesday said the fall of the government was due to disenchantment among Congress legislators over its many failures and had nothing to do with the BJP. The Congress administration, which had been in power for about five years, had paralysed businesses, closed major factories and made it impossible to supply essential commodities. Government employees could not be paid either. They could not fulfill even 1% of the election promises. As a result, the regime disintegrated as their own MLAs fought against the government and resigned, Mr. Saminathan said. However, Mr. Narayanasamy was conveniently blaming the BJP. The BJP was not even in a small way responsible for the fall of the government, he said. The Opposition, comprising the BJP, the AIADMK and the NRC would not claim the right to form a government. “We will meet the people honestly in the coming Legislative Assembly election, take up the plight of the Congress coalition government and win the election and form the government,” Mr. Saminathan said. Stating that BJP nominated legislators did not vote in the Legislative Assembly and the government lost the confidence motion because of the exit of Congress MLAs, he condemned the allegations levelled against the BJP by the outgoing Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy. BJP MLAs T. Vikraman and S. Selvaganapathy were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-fell-on-its-own-bjp/article33918964.ece
24 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||President accepts resignation||The President has formally accepted the resignation of V. Narayanasamy as Chief Minister of Puducherry, along with his Council of Ministers. A communication to this effect from the Ministry of Home Affairs was received and notified by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/president-accepts-resignation/article33918962.ece
24 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||President accepts resignation||The President has formally accepted the resignation of V. Narayanasamy as Chief Minister of Puducherry along with his Council of Ministers. A communication to this effect from the Ministry of Home Affairs was received and notified by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/president-accepts-resignation/article33918335.ece
24 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cannot win elections through ads, freebies: Narayanasamy||Former Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said in Salem that the AIADMK would not be able to win the upcoming Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu through advertisements and announcement of freebies. Mr. Narayanasamy told journalists that despite various challenges, he was able to govern the Union Territory successfully for five years. He alleged that several attempts were made by BJP through then Lt.Governor Kiran Bedi to topple the government. But, he overcame them and governed successfully for [nearly] five years. Mr.Narayanasamy alleged that the BJP toppled the government in Puducherry by threatening Ministers and legislators and said that it was shameful that AIADMK was also part of this. He said that he has no fear of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The former Chief Minister said that AIADMK has not realised that public would support only those who implement welfare schemes. Responding to a question on whether poor management has led to increased debt burden of Tamil Nadu, Mr.Narayanasamy said that through finance management the fiscal deficit of Puducherry was 1.9%, whereas for the Centre it was 9.5% and in Tamil Nadu it is 6.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cannot-win-elections-through-ads-freebies-narayanasamy/article33918394.ece
24 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Prisoner dies by suicide in Salem Central prison||An inmate of Salem Central prison died by suicide in the early hours of Tuesday. According to police, the deceased was identified as Ashok Kumar (36) from Namakkal. Sexual assault case In June 2020, he was arrested by Ammapet All Women Police Station under the POCSO Act on charges of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl. He was then remanded and lodged in the prison. Police said Ashok Kumar was found dead in his cell and the prison authorities sent the body to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for autopsy. Police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prisoner-dies-by-suicide-in-salem-central-prison/article33918401.ece
24 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Body worn cameras provided to police||Salem City Police Commissioner Santosh Kumar distributed body worn cameras to police personnel from nine police stations here on Tuesday. He also handed over portable public announcement systems to them. According to police officials, three cameras have been distributed to each of the nine police stations for use during beat patrolling. Police said that 42 cameras have been allotted to the city police and remaining devices would be provided in near future. Police Commissioner Santosh Kumar said the devices would be useful during the Assembly elections. Mr. Kumar said, “the cameras would be helpful in evidence collection and avoiding any unnecessary issues with the public during beat duties.” He said that there are chances that at times, while enquiring drunken driving and other cases could get heated and the camera footage could be used as evidence if the individual use foul language. The camera footage could also be used as evidence while going on raids. He added that footage would be helpful if false complaints are raised against police. The Commissioner said that the public announcement systems would come handy during the elections. According to police, the device could record footage continuously for one hour and has internal storage up to 32 GB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-worn-cameras-provided-to-police/article33918403.ece
24 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK cannot win polls through freebies’||Former Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said in Salem that the AIADMK would not be able to win the upcoming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu through advertisements and announcement of freebies. Mr. Narayanasamy told journalists that despite various challenges, he was able to govern the Union Territory successfully for five years. He alleged that several attempts had been made by the BJP through the then Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to topple the government. But he overcame them and governed successfully for nearly five years. Mr. Narayanasamy alleged that the BJP toppled the government in Puducherry by threatening Ministers and legislators, and said it was shameful that the AIADMK was also part of this. He said he had no fear of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said the AIADMK had not realised that the public would support only those who implement welfare schemes. To a question on whether poor management had led to the increased debt burden of Tamil Nadu, Mr. Narayanasamy said through financial management, the fiscal deficit of Puducherry was 1.9%, whereas it was 9.5% for the Centre and 6.8% for Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cannot-win-polls-through-freebies/article33918958.ece
24 February 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance on inter-State borders to be intensified||Tenkasi and Kollam district administrations have decided to deploy teams drawn from departments of police, public health, excise, forest and transport to monitor movement of vehicles and criminals before and after the Assembly elections to be held in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Collectors of Tenkasi and Kollam district of Kerala took the decision at a meeting held at Tenkasi on Tuesday, as mandated by the Election Commission of India. “We’re talking all these measures to ensure free and free poll during the Assembly elections and peaceful living of people on both sides of the border,” said G.S. Sameeran, Tenkasi Collector, after the meeting with his Kollam counterpart B. Abdul Nasar, Superintendent of Police, Kollam Rural, K.B. Ravi and other senior officials of various departments from both districts. The meeting discussed precautionary measures to be taken on both sides of the border by deploying officials drawn from various departments to curb the movement of banned articles and substances and execute the non-bailable warrants pending in both the districts against inter-State criminals by ensuring better coordination between the police of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “They will share their intelligence inputs so as to check the movements of criminals completely,” Dr. Sameeran said. Mr. Abdul Nasar said the step was being taken to ensure peaceful, free and fair poll by deploying efficient teams from both sides. “We’ll put in place all possible measures to check illegal activities of all sorts and poll code violations. This coordination and surveillance by the teams from both the districts will continue even after the elections so as to check all nefarious activities on both sides of the border,” Mr. Abdul Nasar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-on-inter-state-borders-to-be-intensified/article33918344.ece
24 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over restriction on construction activities||Public hearing on expansion of Thoothukudi airport, which is being taken up on an outlay of Rs. 381 crore for handling wide-bodied aircraft was held here on Tuesday. The airport, which has graduated into an all-weather day and night landing facility, commenced runway widening and extension work in July which is necessary for handling wide-bodied aircraft to cater to the needs of ever-growing passenger traffic.  Subsequently, excavation for widening of existing runway from 30 metre to 45 metre by constructing 7.50 m wide pavement on either side of runway edge to handle Code-4C type aircraft like Airbus 321 carrying 220 passengers with the wingspan of 34 metre and length of 45 metre began. Presently, the fifth busiest airport in the State handles only ATR 72, Q 400 and Dornier AN32 type of aircraft. For the expansion of the runway, 600.97 acres of land, free from encumbrance, was acquired and handed over to Airports Authority of India on December 31, 2018. Subsequently, runway extension work with blast pad along with other works for Rs. 96.77 crore was awarded to a Mumbai-based company on August 22, 2019. Subsequently concept and execution level safety case assessment and reporting approval for widening of runway was obtained from Director General of Civil Aviation, the regularity authority. Due to national lockdown from March 24, all construction work has been resumed after getting permission from the district administration. Extent of the new apron will be 191 m x 89 m for parking 5 aircraft. (A-321 type aircrafts). Similarly, new isolation bay will be 91 m x 76 m with 3.5 m wide shoulder suitable for handling code- C type aircraft (Boeing 737), for which link taxi provision made for a length of 244.5 m x 23 m with 3.5 m shoulder on either side to operate code-C type aircraft. In view of the commencement of this work, runway will remain closed between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. and the runway will not be available for night operations. The mandatory Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) has been issued. As the expansion work has been taken up, the public hearing was chaired by Collector K. Senthil Raj on Tuesday in which Airport Director N. Subramanian answered the queries raised by the public, who expressed their apprehension about the rainwater to be pumped out from the airport during heavy downpour. Dr. Senthil Raj said Thoothukudi airport, which would play pivotal role in development of the port town, would accelerate the district’s growth by ensuing better air connectivity. Operation of wide-bodied aircraft would increase passenger traffic for which the airport expansion was paramount. On the pumping out of rainwater from the airport during heavy downpour, he said the airport authorities should take all possible measures to ensure the safe pumping out of rainwater without affecting any residential area close to the aerodrome. When the participants raised their doubts on restrictions on construction activities to be taken up near the airport, the Collector said the norms would be displayed at the site. He said all doubts and all the concerns expressed by the public would be taken into account and conveyed to the officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-restriction-on-construction-activities/article33918354.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ITIs still scouting for candidates to fill sanctioned seats||With a number of Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), both government and private, yet to fill the sanctioned seats in the first year due to disruptions caused by the pandemic, heads of the institutions are scouting for eligible candidates in villages. Applications were invited from eligible candidates during January and again this month with promise of freebies such as uniform, books, laptop, bicycle, free bus pass, monthly assistance of Rs. 750 and promise of immediate placement in government and private sectors. There is not much awareness among parents of the scope for lateral entry admission into polytechnics for those among ITI students who would prefer to pursue further studies, say teachers of polytechnic institutions. Nevertheless, principals of Government ITIs seem to be content with the extent of admissions compared to those under private managements. “We have completed admissions to over 80% of seats in the first year. The extent of intake in government ITIs, in general, has been better when compared to polytechnics and engineering colleges,” Muthukumar, Principal of ITI, Ariyalur, said. “Changing perceptions do alter the trend in admissions. Over the last few years, there has been an apparent shift of students from engineering to arts and science programmes. Implementation of the New Education Policy 2020 would transform the very paradigm of vocational programmes. Technical institutions, in all likelihood, will be required to impart students with skill-based education covering three stages, providing exit options at each stage with qualifications of ITI, polytecnnic and engineering degree,” S. Sangapillai, former Principal, Seshasayee Institute of Technology,Tiruchi, said. The NEP 2020 envisages integration of vocational education into mainstream academic education in a phased manner. Exposure to vocational education at an early age has been advocated. Quality vocational education will be provided through middle and secondary school, and further into higher education. Academic institutions imparting vocational education will be required to collaborate with industrial training institutes, polytechnics, local businesses, industries, hospitals, farms, and NGOs. Vocational courses on new and emerging skill demands of the industry, such as artificial intelligence, robotics, and Internet of Things (IoT) will be introduced and enterprise education promoted from class 6 onwards, under the NEP 2020 framework.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/itis-still-scouting-for-candidates-to-fill-sanctioned-seats/article33918301.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement pay revision before poll code comes into effect’||Guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges have urged the government to effect a pay revision in time before the election code of conduct takes effect. The guest lecturers are being paid a measly sum of Rs. 15,000 as consolidated salary every month. Even this meagre salary is not paid during May and June, despite the University Grants Commission taking a stand that a teacher in this category is entitled to Rs. 1,500 per lecture, to a maximum of Rs. 50,000 a month. In a letter to the Registrars of all universities during 2019, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had issued instructions for increasing honorarium for Guest Faculty to that effect. The UGC had considered the increase in salary consequent upon the implementation of the recommendations of the seventh pay commission. Prior to that the honorarium advocated by the UGC was Rs. 1,000 per month subject to a maximum of Rs. 25,000 per month. The reasoning of the UGC was that the guest faculty are being appointed only against the sanctioned posts, and that the selection procedure for appointing guest faculty was the same as those appointed on time scale as Assistant Professors. "The guest lecturers fully deserve a revision in salary as their work load is, at times, even more than the teachers under time scale payment," P. David Livingston, Zonal Secretary of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers' Association, said. Most of the guest lecturers do hold the qualification of a pass in the eligibility test and doctorate degree, he said. Regularisation move Appreciating the latest move by the Department of Higher Education to regularise services of 1,000 guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges, the State president of Tamil Nadu UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers V. Thangaraj said Tamil Nadu ought to emulate other States that have complied with UGC's instruction on revision of the salary of guest lecturers. Guest lecturers deserve priority in service regularisation since their services for several years under the minimal consolidated pay have resulted in substantial monetary gain for the State Government, Mr. Thangaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/effect-pay-revision-before-poll-code/article33918295.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Hearing in blast case scheduled for March 2||The First Additional District and Sessions Judge (PCR) here on Tuesday directed the prosecution and the defence counsels to file counters to a petition filed on behalf of those affected in the major blast that occurred in a private explosive substances manufacturing factory at T. Murungapatti village in Thuraiyur taluk in the district in December 2016 which claimed the lives of 19 persons and caused injuries to 18 others. The petition filed by R. Muthukumar of T. Murungapatti on behalf of those affected was numbered on Tuesday in the Court and notices were given to the prosecution counsel representing the Crime Branch CID probing the blast case and to the defence counsel to submit their objections, if any, to the petition. Mr. Muthukumar who is the Uppiliyapuram panchayat union council member and a member of the Communist Party of India- Marxist had filed the petition on February 19 in which he sought Court’s permission to assist the prosecution through his counsel S. Muthukrishnan in the blast case to safeguard the interest of the affected people and the victims. Copies of the petition filed by Mr. Muthukumar were given to the Special Public Prosecutor A. Rajendhran representing the CB -CID and to the defence counsel when the case came up for hearing on Tuesday. The Judge posted the hearing in the case to March 2.CB-CID personnel were present in the court on the occasion. The CB-CID had named R. Vijayakannan- the managing director, licencee and occupier of the factory; the factory director Prakasam and two competent persons in the factory S.S. Anand and R. Rajagopal as the accused in the blast case. Prosecution sources said Rajagopal who has been named as accused no. 4 was present in the court on Tuesday. The prosecution had already submitted before the Court documents including electronic evidence such as Compact Discs and digital photos taken at the blast site during the course of the investigation done by the CB-CID. The blast at the Vetrivel Explosives Private Limited occurred on December 1, 2016 morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hearing-in-blast-case-on-march-2/article33918297.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||41 new positive cases in central districts||Forty-one new cases of COVID-19 were reported in central districts on Tuesday. There was no death on account of the virus. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, all eight districts in the region, except Thanjavur, recorded less than 10 cases. The maximum number of 14 cases was reported in Thanjavur district, followed by Tiruchi district with 9 cases. While Perambalur district reported no new case on Tuesday, Ariyalur added two cases. Karur and Pudukottai districts recorded three new cases each. Four persons tested positive for the virus in Nagapattinam and six in Tiruvarur A total of 52 positive patients were discharged after treatment in central districts on Tuesday. Thanjavur district saw the discharge of 19 cases from various hospitals. Eleven patients were discharged in Tiruchi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-new-positive-cases-in-central-districts/article33918303.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents’ body has slew of demands||The Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Associations has come out with a slew of demands to strengthen the city’s infrastructure. It suggested that the city be made the second capital of the state in view of its central location in the state. The infrastructure of the city should be strengthened adequately and employment opportunities should be generated, said the federation coordinators S. Subramanian, S.Sakthivel, P.Lenin and A.Natarajan, addressing a press conference on Tuesday. Some of the long delayed development initiatives such as establishment of an integrated bus stand, shifting of wholesale traders of Gandhi Market, building service lanes along the city stretch of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway and Junction Road Overbridge require immediate attention to streamline traffic in the city, the federation said. It also sought steps to build a new road over bridge on the Fort Station Road. The federation also called for expeditious completion of the phase II of the UDG system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-body-has-slew-of-demands/article33918989.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers continue stir||Several anganwadi workers and assistants continued their waiting agitation for the second day near the Collectorate here on Tuesday in support of their demands. Their demands to the government included regularisation as government employees and provision of time-bound scale of pay. Over 300 anganwadi workers participated in the stir, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-continue-stir/article33918308.ece
24 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No power supply today||Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Wednesday in the following areas owing to maintenance works at the Vazhavanthankottai sub-station: Jai Nagar, Thiruvenkata Nagar, Ganesapuram, Ganapathi Nagar, part of C-sector in BHEL Township, Chockalingapuram, Immanuel Nagar, VOC Nagar, Ezhil Nagar, Ayyampatti, Vazhavanthankottai, Vazhavanthankottai SIDCO Industrial Estate, Thirunedungulam, Thondaimanpatti, Periyar Nagar, Reddiar Thottam, Eachankadu, Burma Nagar and Mangavanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power-supply-today/article33918313.ece
24 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||C. Natarajan passes away||C. Natarajan, formerly Dean - Planning and Development, National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, died on Tuesday after a bout of illness. He was 65 and is survived by his wife and three daughters. The funeral will be conducted at Oyamari Crematorium at 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/c-natarajan-passes-away/article33918315.ece
24 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration||Members of Tamizhaga Eri Mattrum Attru Pasana Vivasayigal Sangam on Tuesday staged a demonstration in front of the Collector’s Office to press for their charter of demands, including waiver of crop loans sanctioned by banks. The association, among other things, also called for adopting a resolution in the State Assembly affirming that the three new farm laws would not be implemented in Tamil Nadu. The agitation was led by P.Viswanathan, association president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demonstration/article33918899.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||BJP starts its electioneering in Tirunelveli||While seat-sharing talks with the ruling AIADMK has not yet begun, the BJP on Tuesday started its electioneering in Tirunelveli Assembly constituency in a big way with a bike rally and opening its election office. The national party is keen on fielding its state vice-president and Tirunelveli Assembly constituency (in-charge) Nainar Nagenthran, a former AIADMK minister, who had contested from the constituency on four occasions on an AIADMK ticket and won in 2001 and 2011. When BJP state president L. Murugan met the party functionaries here recently, Mr. Nagenthran had said: “BJP’s first victory in the Assembly election should be declared in Tirunelveli which should be followed by the positive results from other constituencies later.” Tuesday’s rally from Thatchanallur Perumal Temple to Tirunelveli Junction and the grand opening of party’s election office by Mr Murugan at Hotel Nainar Complex, owned by Mr. Nagenthran, are seen as reflecting the BJP’s aspiration of fielding its candidate in the seat. “If you can identify the BJP’s winnable Assembly constituencies, Tirunelveli comes within top three seats. Mr. Nagenthran, who has sound knowledge about this Assembly segment, its voters and the election strategies, is a good choice for Tirunelveli constituency. When he lost the elections (2006 and 2016), the margins were thin while his victory margins were massive. Hence, we have started the work even before the poll notification. We do not want to be short of doing the election work,” says A. Dhaya Shankar, former Tirunelveli district president of BJP and the constituency coordinator. The ‘Lotus’ wall graffiti drawn across the constituency in saffron colour showed the BJP’s intent. He said BJP cadres would meet the beneficiaries of Union Government’s welfare schemes such as the families that had received LPG connection or grant for constructing individual household toilet and both. The BJP has planned to meet the ‘community leaders’ and women voters, apart from local ‘influencers’. Mr. Dhaya Shankar, however, acknowledges, that the party is cognisant of any last minute change in seat allotment. Simultaneously, the AIADMK also entered the fray on Tuesday by pasting posters in constituency urging people to ‘Vote for Two Leaves that gave free gold for mangalsutra’. “The BJP’s strategy is nothing but exerting pressure on the AIADMK to part with the seat. This cannot be accepted. We have strong presence here and we are keen that our candidate should be fielded. We have a better candidate,” said a senior office-bearer of the party. He cautioned that that the BJP’s approach could strain the relationship between the cadres during the electioneering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-starts-its-electioneering-in-tirunelveli/article33918346.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Murugan: BJP to decide on coalition govt. after polls||The BJP high command will decide on forming coalition government in Tamil Nadu after the Assembly polls, party’s State president L. Murugan has said. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday evening after participating in a bike rally taken out by the cadre and opening party’s election office in Tirunelveli Junction, Mr. Murugan said the BJP, which was opening its election offices in all 234 constituencies, had started the election work in all segments. Since the party was taking care of Tamil Nadu by ensuring hefty financial allocations, it was enjoying overwhelming support of the Tamils. In this line, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was scheduled to visit Coimbatore on February 25 and Home Minister Amit Shah would address an election rally in Villupuram on February 27. Hence, the party, which was eying to win Assembly segments in double digits, would have significant number of MLAs. The party high command, after the Assembly polls, would decide on forming a coalition government in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Murugan said, adding preparations were on to organise an election rally in one of the southern districts in which the Prime Minister and other national leaders would address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murugan-bjp-to-decide-on-coalition-govt-after-polls/article33918774.ece
24 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sit-in protest by anganwadi workers continues||The sit-in protest of anganwadi employees entered the second day on Tuesday as several workers and assistants prepared food and slept outside the District Collectorate here on Monday night. Members of Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Assistants Association began their protest as part of the State-wide protests demanding that the State government must make the anganwadi workers and assistants as permanent government employees, provide adequate pension after retirement and award bonus of Rs. 10 lakh for workers and Rs. 5 lakh for assistants upon retiring from service. Association’s district secretary K. Ellammal, who is an anganwadi worker from Udumalpet with an experience of 27 years, said that no authorities had approached them as of Tuesday regarding their demands. “Even those with more than 30 years of service are considered as temporary workers in anganwadis,” she alleged, adding that the sit-in protest would continue till the authorities accept their demands. Noon meal workers Meanwhile on Tuesday, the Tiruppur City Police removed over 250 members of the Tamil Nadu Nutritious Noon Meal Employees Association after they staged a road roko outside the Collectorate demanding increase in wages and pension. The police said they were detained at a private wedding hall at Veerapandi and were released in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sit-in-protest-by-anganwadi-workers-continues/article33918785.ece
24 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Workers descend on Collectorate||With three different associations laying siege to the Collectorate here on Tuesday to highlight their demands, it gave a tough time to the police in regulating movement of people. While members of Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers’ and Assistants’ Association resumed their second day of wait-in protest, hundreds of members of Tamil Nadu Noon Meals Workers Association staged a demonstration. Even as the police were trying to negotiate with them separately, members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers came to the Collectorate in huge numbers. They urged the State government to increase the monthly assistance to the differently abled persons to Rs. 3,000 as done by the Telangana and Puducherry governments. Besides, they sought monthly assistance of Rs. 5,000 to severely affected persons. They demanded 5% reservation in private jobs as per Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. They deplored that differently abled persons were facing discrimination in issue of identity cards in rural employment scheme. Angawadi workers sought regularisation of their services as per the promise given by the then Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa. They resumed the protest on Tuesday after an overnight stay on the Collectorate premises. Their demand included dearness allowance and pension. Noon-meal workers sought time-scale pay and minimum salary of Rs. 7,850 and family pension. The police arrested over 300 noon meal workers and 100 differently abled persons and their caretakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-descend-on-collectorate/article33918362.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Debt burden to cross Rs. 5 lakh cr.||“COVID-19 necessitated an additional expenditure of Rs. 12,917.85 crore on revenue account, primarily for health- and relief-related expenditure. The government incurred an expenditure of Rs. 13,352.85 crore on pandemic response,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. As a result of the sharp deterioration in revenue receipts and the increase in expenditure in the revised estimates for 2020-21, the revenue deficit in 2020-21 is now estimated to be Rs. 65,994.06 crore — a big increase from the Rs. 21,617.64 crore projected in the Budget estimates for 2020-21. Mr. Panneerselvam said that due to the sharp fall in revenue and the rise in expenditure, the government having to resort to borrowings, resulting in a higher fiscal deficit, was completely unavoidable. As per the revised Budget estimates, the fiscal deficit is expected to widen to Rs. 96,889.97 crore in 2020-21, which is 4.99% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and within the limits recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. “Tamil Nadu is expected to register a positive GSDP growth of 2.02% in 2020-21 (which is based on constant prices in 2020-21), as opposed to a 7.7% negative growth projected at the all-India level,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. A rebound is expected in revenue collections in 2021-22. Budgeting for all ongoing salary, pension, interest and scheme-related expenditure, the revenue expenditure is projected at Rs. 2,60,409.26 crore in the interim Budget estimates for 2021-22. The overall revenue deficit for 2021-22 is estimated to be Rs. 41,417.3 crore, while the fiscal deficit is estimated at Rs. 84,202.39 crore. The State is estimated to raise net debt of Rs. 84,686.75 crore to finance the fiscal deficit in 2021-22. The overall debt outstanding as of March 31, 2021 is estimated at Rs. 4,85,502 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/debt-burden-to-cross-rs-5-lakh-cr/article33918329.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers hold protest in Tiruchi demanding waiver of crop loans||Members of Tamizhaga Eri Mattrum Attru Pasana Vivasayigal Sangam on Tuesday staged a demonstration in front of the Collector’s Office to press for their charter of demands including waiver of crop loans sanctioned by banks. The association, among other things, also called for adopting a resolution in the State Assembly affirming that the three new farm laws would not be implemented in Tamil Nadu, expeditious energisation of farm pumpsets under the free farm power scheme, increase in minimum support price for sugarcane and groundnut and establishment of a cashew processing factory in Ariyalur. The agitation was led by P.Viswanathan, president of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-hold-protest-in-tiruchi-demanding-waiver-of-crop-loans/article33918300.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traders, owners hold fast against land acquisition||Traders and property owners facing displacement due to land acquisition for the proposed service lanes between Palpannai and Thuvakudi on Tiruchi-Thanjavur National Highway observed a fast at Kattur on Tuesday. The affected traders also downed shutters as part of their protest against the land acquisition. Members of Federation of Persons Affected by Widening of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway, which had demanded the construction of an elevated corridor to avert the land acquisition, participated in large numbers in the meeting. Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, which had expressed solidarity with the federation members, led the agitation. The organisation’s State President A.M.Vikrama Raja also participated in the stir in support of the traders. The federation demanded that the land acquisition proceedings be stopped and, instead, steps for construction of an elevated corridor be taken up so as to protect the livelihood of a large number of people who would be affected by the land acquisition on the 14.5-km-long stretch. They also demanded expeditious completion of the semi-ring road coming up around the city so as to reduce the traffic volume on Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway. The federation also threatened to intensify its agitation if its demand was not considered favourably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-owners-hold-fast-against-land-acquisition/article33918311.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports two deaths, 42 cases||Coimbatore district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 42 new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 55,544. A 73-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman died of the disease, taking the toll to 682. The district saw 54,460 recoveries and 402 were active cases. A total of 41 patients were discharged. Tiruppur reported 12 fresh cases, taking the tally to 18,271. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,927 patients recovered and 120 were active cases. Fifteen persons were discharged. In the Nilgiris, four persons tested positive and the district’s tally stood at 8,336. The toll was 48 and 63 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-two-deaths-42-cases/article33918787.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Dravidian parties have treated us as bonded labourers for 40 years’||Over 600 women members of Tamil Nadu Nutritious Employees Association on Tuesday were arrested in Tiruchi and Pudukottai after they staged road roko in support of their demands. They urged the State government to declare nutritious employees as full-time government staff and provide them with time-bound scale of pay. They also urged the government to provide Rs. 9,000 as minimum pension to retired employees and an increased gratuity amount of Rs. 5 lakh at the time of retirement. Filling up of vacant posts in nutritious meal centres and disbursement of monetary benefits to retiring employees on the day of their retirement were among other demands. In Tiruchi city, around 380 women members of the association, led by association's Tiruchi district president Sathyavani, were arrested after they staged road roko near the District Collectorate . Over 280 association members, including more than 250 women, were arrested after they indulged in road roko agitation in Pudukottai Town, said police sources. In Thanjvaur, the demonstration was staged near Thanjavur Railway Junction. The association members raised slogans condemningd the Dravidian parties for treating noon meal staff as bonded labourers over the past four decades . They said they were forced to come to the streets since their prime demand of regularisation of service was yet to become a reality despite an assurance from former Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa. Around a hundred demonstrators who squatted on Gandhi Salai near the railway junction were arrested and released in the evening, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dravidian-parties-have-treated-us-as-bonded-labourers-for-40-years/article33918304.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Disabled demand job quota in private sector||A group of 94 persons with disabilities affiliated to Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) were arrested after they assembled near the Collectorate to hold wait-in agitation in support of their demands. They wanted the State government to provide them Rs. 3,000 as monthly assistance and Rs. 5,000 to those with severe disabilities. They also urged the government to enact a special law providing 5% reservation for persons with disabilities in employment in the private sector. As they were not allowed to hold the agitation, they staged a demonstration near the Collectorate leading to their arrest. The demonstrators were led by TARATDAC Manikandan union secretary A. Arokiaraj. Members of Tamil Nadu All Types of Persons with Disabilities and their Attendees Rights Forum attempted to besiege government offices in Thanjavur district on Tuesday in support of their demands. The demonstrators, who assembled near the District Collectorate in Thanjavur and near the Revenue Divisional Office at Pattukottai, were prevented by police from entering the premises. Hence, they squatted at the entrance of the government offices and raised slogans in support of their demands including monthly pension and reservation in employment opportunities in the private sector. They were arrested and later released in the evening, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disabled-demand-job-quota-in-private-sector/article33918306.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One arrested for thefts at PDS outlets in Thanjavur||Thefts at different public distribution system outlets in the district were detected following the arrest of a 35-year-old man here on Tuesday. A special team from Thanjavur East Police station took up surprise vehicle checking on Monday morning at Keezhavasal area. During the exercise, they caught hold of a mini-goods carrier that tried to speed away. On interrogation, it was found that the driver, Suresh, 35, of Sathankulam, Thoothukudi district, was driving a vehicle stolen from Ammapettai a few months ago. Further interrogation revealed that he stole the goods-carrier from Ammapettai while staying with his family at a rented house there. Subsequently, he moved to Ariyalur where he set up a sweet stall which was shut due to the pandemic. Suresh started committing small thefts to sustain his family and also lifted groceries from PDS outlets on North Street, Thanjavur town, Kokkeri, Marur and other areas in the district by breaking in at night. Suresh was later remanded to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thefts-at-pds-outlets-busted-one-held/article33918296.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aerial tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aerial-tribute/article33918763.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||On the streets, for rights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-the-streets-for-rights/article33919000.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||coimbatore Miscellaneous Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan – A special lecture on ‘Bharathiyin Pulamaith Thunivu’ in Tamil by Dr. B.Sampathkumar – Tomorrow (Thursday - 25.02.2021) at 6.00 pm – All are welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinema-arts-events/article33918786.ece
24 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Mahadayi project: SC asks for inspection of worksite by panel||The Supreme Court of India has ordered the constitution of a committee to inspect the Mahadayi project worksite at Kanakumbi in Belagavi district following allegations of violations by Karnataka, said Ramesh Jarkiholi, Minister for Medium and Major Irrigation on Tuesday. The committee will have representatives from all riparian States. While hearing the special leave petitions (SLPs) filed by the riparian States of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Goa on Monday, the Supreme Court also heard the contempt petition filed by Goa alleging that Karnataka had violated the apex court’s orders on not to start work on the project till the dispute was finally settled. In a press release, Mr. Jarkiholi said the court had not issued a notice to Karnataka over this. “But it has asked the three States to form a committee with superintending engineers from the departments of irrigation from all the States to inspect the worksite, see if the allegations were true and submit a report,” he said. Goa’s charge Goa’s lawyers repeatedly argued that Karnataka had diverted water from the Mahadayi basin to other areas, in defiance of the court order. Karnataka’s lawyers, senior advocate Mohan Katarki and advocate general Prabhuling Navadgi and others, denied the allegations. They said that in order to divert water, a dam needs to be built downstream and an underground wall has to be removed. These were not done, and that the State government had not attempted to divert water. The court finally asked the States to set up a committee with its representatives, the Minister said. The SLPs will be listed for final hearing in April, before which all party States shall file their written submissions in one compilation book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahadayi-project-sc-asks-for-inspection-of-worksite-by-panel/article33918432.ece
24 February 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rescued girl handed over to parents||It was an emotional moment in the office of the Deputy Commissioner of police when the officers handed over a girl they had rescued from a prostitution racket to her parents who had come from Uttar Pradesh. Last week, a team had rescued some girls from a service apartment. The girls were sent to the government rescue centre for women in Belagavi. Surekha Patil, centre in charge, learnt that one of the girls was from Gaziabad in U.P. Vikram Amte, DCP, got in touch with the U.P. police, who traced the parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rescued-girl-handed-over-to-parents/article33918420.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fee reduction issue: Minister to call for more meetings with schools, parents||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday said that he will again call for a meeting with school managements and parents’ associations to discuss the government order on the reduction of school fees. At the protest organised by the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC), Mr. Kumar said that there was a need to adopt a middle path to resolve the problem for both teachers as well as parents. Teachers, non- teaching staff and school management members are unhappy with the government ordering private schools to collect only 70% of the tuition fee this academic year. Many private schools said they would have no option but to further reduce salaries of staff. This has not gone down well with teachers and staff members who had to take pay cuts as parents had not paid the fees for the 2020-2021 academic year. The Minister’s presence did little to allay protesters’ fears. Following a heated argument at the rally, Mr. Kumar chose to walk out of the dais in the middle of his address. The government had reduced fees after parents sought an intervention citing job loss or salary cuts. Mr. Kumar wondered how many parents would have gathered at the venue if they were organised. Parents, he said, were the ‘silent majority’ who were not organised. “If school managements and the parents had worked out an amicable settlement on the fees, the government would not have had to intervene,” he said. However, after the intervention of the organisers, Mr. Kumar said that he will hold another meeting with managements and parents’ associations. “We will try to provide some relief to teachers and non-teaching staff of private schools who are in financial distress due to the pandemic. I have made representations to the Finance Department, Karnataka Government Employees’ Association, but none of them have been fruitful,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fee-reduction-issue-minister-to-call-for-more-meetings-with-schools-parents/article33918428.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Thousands turn up to voice opposition to government order to reduce school fees||Thousands of teachers, non-teaching staff and private school management members marched from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Bengaluru railway station to Freedom Park on Tuesday to protest the Karnataka government’s recent order that schools can charge only 70% of tuition fees and not collect any other fees from parents for this academic year. The protest was called by the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC), a collective of 11 associations of teachers and school management members. Many schools affiliated with the State, central and international boards had declared Tuesday a holiday so that their staff could participate in the protest. Schools have decided to compensate for the portions by conducting classes on Saturday. Several MLCs too turned up at the protest venue to express solidarity with teachers and school managements. D. Shashi Kumar, convener of KPMTCC, said that the turnout should be an eye-opener to the State government about how teaching, non-teaching staff and the private school managements had suffered due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Minister has said that he will call all the stakeholders for a meeting,” he said. Many stakeholders expressed solidarity with the protest by flooding social media with their posts and tweets, and urged the State government to withdraw the order. However, parents’ associations have opposed the decision of teachers and school managements to fight the fee reduction. A statement by Karnataka Parents Association stated that the pandemic had affected all sections of society, including parents. They pointed out that they did not want to pay the full fees as their children were not availing of all the facilities and extra-curricular activities. They alleged that school managements had intimidated teachers into showing up for the protest. The protest drew flak from citizens as participants took to the streets without maintaining physical distance. “I was shocked to learn that my son’s teachers had gone for the protest when I saw the gathering. My son will be at a risk as the teachers have been exposed to so many people,” said Usha R., a parent of a class ten student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/thousands-turn-up-to-voice-opposition-to-government-order-to-reduce-school-fees/article33918712.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High incidence of ‘barotrauma events’ in critical COVID-19 cases||A study by a team of doctors from a dedicated tertiary care COVID centre in Bengaluru involving 410 critically ill COVID patients on respiratory support has reported a high incidence (9.3%) of barotrauma events in patients. This is both on mechanical ventilation or other forms of respiratory support. Barotrauma is tissue injury caused by a pressure-related change in body compartment gas volume, similar to tearing of the lung tissue, which leads to collection of air around the lungs. This air can also push its way and extend outside to below the skin surfaces. The study titled “Severe COVID-19 pneumonia and barotrauma: From the frying pan into the fire” has been authored by a team of doctors including Ravindra M Mehta, Senior Consultant and HOD (Pulmonology and Interventional Pulmonology) and Hariprasad Kalpakam, Consultant, Pulmonology at Apollo Speciality Hospitals, Jayanagar. The study has been posted on medRxiv, the preprint server for health sciences. “Although uncommon, barotrauma is a known complication in patients on mechanical ventilation for various reasons. An incidence of around 2.9% has been reported before the COVID pandemic,” Dr Mehta told The Hindu on Tuesday. “This is a retrospective study of COVID-Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) associated barotrauma over five months in patients on Positive Pressure Ventilator Support (PPRS) in our hospital. The type of barotrauma, intervention, related factors, such as type of respiratory support (invasive Mechanical Ventilation versus Non-invasive Ventilation), airway pressure prior to the occurrence of barotrauma, and post-barotrauma outcomes were analyzed,” he explained. “Barotrauma has been described in MERS and SARS-CoV-1 and very few reports in SARS-CoV-2. This complication can happen anytime in the course of critically ill COVID-19 patients. If not caught in time, it can be life-threatening,” he said. Stating that barotrauma is one of the reasons for high mortality, the doctor explained: “The cause is severely damaged lungs from the disease, longer duration of respiratory support required by COVID-19 patients and uniform use of corticosteroids and infection. Clinical outcomes are worse for these patients, as this manifests suddenly followed by a downhill course.” Of the 410 COVID-ARDS patients on PPRS, 38 (9.3%) developed barotrauma. Of these, 20 (52.6%) were on non-invasive ventilation and 18 (47.4%) were on invasive mechanical ventilation. “Overall, 24 of the 38 (63.2%) patients succumbed to their illness. The barotrauma happened a median of 6.5 days after admission and 15 days from symptom onset. The median duration from barotrauma to death was seven days and barotrauma to discharge (for survivors) was 12.5 days. All patients received steroids and 11 of the 38 (28.9%) received additional immunosuppression with tocilizumab, an interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor inhibitor,” according to the study. The study highlights the significance of high degree of awareness of this complication, which may help in modification of treatment protocols and ventilator management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-incidence-of-barotrauma-events-in-critical-covid-19-cases/article33918718.ece
24 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Licence for using explosives||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Tuesday announced that the government would amend the legislation concerned to ensure that only those who have permission from it use explosives in both quarryingand mining areas. The Minister told reporters in New Delhi that accidents related to explosives were occurring mainly because of their illegal usage. Hence, the government would make it mandatory to obtain licence to use explosives, he said. The government has also decided to set up a school of mining to provide training to workers on the use of explosives. The last two accidents related to explosives at quarrying sites have underscored the need for this, he said. He also said that he would initiate strict action against officials of the Mines and Geology Department if they were found to be backing illegal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/licence-for-using-explosives/article33918732.ece
24 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Opposition parties target govt. over quarrying accidents||The Opposition Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) have blamed the “failure” of the government for the recurrence of blasts at quarry sites within a month, one at Shivamogga and another at Chickballapur district. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah launched a direct attack against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, asking him whether he was trying to protect the people of the Sate or the corrupt. In a tweet, he alleged that six workers had died because of the “maladministration” of Mr. Yediyurappa who was trying to “regularise illegal mining”. He demanded an inquiry by a judge of the High Court of Karnataka and the suspension of officials responsible for not preventing such illegal activity. Alleging that there was a link between the State’s illegal miners and their counterparts in Andhra Pradesh, he wondered how the district in-charge Minister and local MLA K. Sudhakar was not aware of such illegal mining activity. Alleging that there were more than 2,000 illegal quarries in the State, he urged the Chief Minister to release their list. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar maintained that it was the Chief Minister who had to be held accountable for such an episode. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy also blamed corruption and a lack of commitment from the government for the accident. “Ministers and legislators themselves are behind several illegal mining activities in the State,” the JD(S) leader said, accusing officials and leaders of collecting money for such illegal activities on a monthly basis.  Sudhakar’s defence As some of the leaders pointed the finger at Dr. Sudhakar, he took to Twitter to clarify that he was not supporting any illegal mining or quarrying activities. He accused the Congress party of “trying to get political mileage” out of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-parties-target-govt-over-quarrying-accidents/article33918733.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Director of Pogaru apologises; ‘objectionable’ dialogues to be removed||The newly released film, Pogaru , has not gone down well with a section of the Brahmin community who have taken umbrage over the way the community has been depicted. Following this, film’s director, Nanda Kishor, who held a meeting with members of the Karnataka Brahmin Development Board and Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, apologised over hurting the sentiments of the community and agreed to delete “objectionable” dialogues. As many as 14 clips in the film are claimed to be “objectionable”. Meanwhile, Shodhan Kumar, a resident of Kanakapura Road, has filed a complaint with Talaghattapura police seeking legal action against the director and the producer. In his complaint filed on Tuesday, Mr. Kumar alleged that the film depicted the Brahmin community and priests “in bad light” and “defamed” their customs and prayers. The police said they have taken up a non-cognisable complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/director-of-pogaru-apologises-objectionable-dialogues-to-be-removed/article33918433.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic thrown out of gear||Traffic in the city was thrown out of gear on Tuesday morning causing inconvenience to officer-goers. Motorists were caught in jams as protesters marched from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Bengaluru railway station to Freedom Park. There were traffic jams and snarls in roads in and around Majestic, Seshadri Road, Race Course Road, Anand Rao Circle, K.R. Circle and K.G. Road. Protesters had blocked the entire Anand Rao Circle flyover. Traffic police personnel, who were deployed at the spot, had a tough time diverting vehicles to other roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-thrown-out-of-gear/article33918709.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on classes one to five soon: Minister||Many school managements and teachers on Tuesday urged the government to immediately reopen classes for students in grades one to five. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that he would have a meeting with the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and take a decision at the earliest. He added that while the government was keen to start lower primary classes at the earliest, there was a need for caution due to the second wave of infections in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-classes-one-to-five-soon-minister/article33918710.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In a first, cops promoted after 3 years of service||For the first time in the history of the Karnataka State Police, 11 women constables were promoted to head constables after completing three years of service. As many as 27 women were promoted after four years, while 34 were promoted after five years of service. At a ceremony on Tuesday to mark the promotions, Additional Director General of Police Alok Kumar said, “It’s a motivating factor and a move towards empowering women . It’s a proud moment for the police force.” Earlier, personnel had to wait for as long as 20 years to be promoted to head constable. “However, with the inclusion of new posts for ASI and head constables, promotions are coming sooner,” a senior police officer said. The KSRP, which has separate cadre for men and women, will be merged soon, Mr. Kumar said, adding that this is to place it on par with other armed forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-first-cops-promoted-after-3-years-of-service/article33918722.ece
24 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Wednesday between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in the areas serviced from Arehalli sub-station in view of conversion and cable works. The areas that will be affected are: 66/11 KV Arehalli, F-10 AGS Layout: Arehalli village, Kuntu Maramma temple, Brindavan Apartment Road, Arehalli and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33918716.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus hits tree||A BMTC bus en-route from Sunkadakatte to K.R. Market rammed into a tree at Vijayanagar on Tuesday morning. The bus had 20 passengers. Many sustained minor injuries and were treated at a nearby hospital as outpatients, said the police. The driver, in his statement, told the police that the bus had developed a technical snag. A crane was used to extricate the damaged bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-hits-tree/article33918720.ece
24 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dispute resolution policy to be launched on Feb. 27||The Karnataka State Dispute Resolution Policy will be unveiled by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on February 27.At the event, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai will release a coffee table book related tothe legal fraternity. Lokayukta P. Vishwanatha Shetty and Chairman of the Karnataka State Law Commission S.R. Bannurmath will be among the chief guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dispute-resolution-policy-to-be-launched-on-feb-27/article33918431.ece
24 February 2021||Hirenagavalli (Chickballapur),KARNATAKA||Aftermath of crackdown||The quarry blast in Shivamogga in January, which also had left six people dead, triggered a crackdown on illegal quarrying and handling of explosives across the State, including in Chickballapur district, which is plagued by stone quarrying and crushers. The Internal Security Division (ISD) recently raided the house of a quarry employee, Shivakumar, in Chintamani taluk and recovered a huge cache of explosives stored illegally. This led to the arrest of Gangoji Rao, a licensed explosives dealer from Manchenahalli, who had been supplying gelatin, detonators, and other explosives used in quarries illegally. Acting on a tip-off, the Chickballapur district police conducted raids on four quarries to which Rao was said to have supplied explosives, including the Shirdi Sai Aggregates Quarry and Bhramara Vasini M-Sanders on February 7. They recovered 14 gelatin sticks and 17 detonators stored illegally and shut down the crusher unit. As part of the investigation into the case, the Gudibande police seized a compressor vehicle from the premises on Monday. This seemed to have triggered fear among the owners and employees of the firm. “It has now emerged that they had another cache of explosives hidden, probably at another location near to the crusher unit, undiscovered by the police during the February 7 raid. To ensure we did not get our hands on this cache, they tried to dispose of it in the forested area after midnight. The explosives were handled unscientifically, leading to the explosion that left six killed,” said a senior police officer. An explosives expert, who inspected the site, said that they found little trace of the explosive, which indicated that it and the detonators had both combusted completely. “The detonators are very sensitive, even to a mobile phone, even a camera flash sometimes. Anything might have triggered the explosion, including friction in the gunny bag,” he said. Another officer suspected that the team of employees might have tried, and failed, to carry out a controlled explosion to dispose of the material.  It has now emerged that they had another cache of explosives hidden, undiscovered by the police during the February 7 raid. To ensure we did not get our hands on this cache, they tried to dispose of it after midnight... a senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aftermath-of-crackdown/article33918727.ece
24 February 2021||Hirenagavalli (Chickballapur),KARNATAKA||‘If my nephew hadn’t studied, he would have been alive still’||A man sat on a hill crying as the police tried trace what remained of the body of his nephew, 35-year-old Gangadhar Babu, an MBA graduate from Gorantla in the neighbouring State of Andhra Pradesh. He worked as the manager of the quarry at Hirenagavalli and was one of the six men killed in the explosion that took place in the early hours of Tuesday. The scene of the explosion — atop a small hillock in a forested area — had charred remains of the victims strewn within a 1 km radius. The families of the deceased at the site were horrified — many cried inconsolably, while some were shocked into silence. The police had a difficult time combing the site. “My nephew had worked here for eight years, away from his family. Our lives matter so little. If we had jobs back home, why would he have come to make a living amidst these hills and in danger? If he had not studied, he might have been tending to cows, but he would have been alive,” said Chandrashekhar, weeping as we watched the police undertake the grim task. Anjamma, mother of Ramu, 27, who worked as a computer operator and who was also killed in the explosion, had a tough time coming to terms with the tragedy. His family had cut off all relations with him after he married his classmate, a Dalit girl. The couple lived in Hirenagavalli, the woman’s village, and had a four-year-old son while as Ramu worked at the quarry. “The TV flashed his photo as one of those killed and I came here. The last time he spoke to me was in January last year, when he boasted that he had settled well in life. I have come only to see him dead now,” shesaid. His wife and in-laws camping nearby were inconsolable. “The six of them notonly worked together, but were also great friends and always hung out together. Now all of them died together as well,” his father-in-law Venkataramanappasaid. Mr. Ramu’s son was playing with other children, unaware of what he had lost. One of the youngest of the six deceased was Abhilash Nayak, all of 23 years of age. He had a baby just two months ago. “His wife and child are still at her parent’s house and now he is gone,” his uncle Narasimhappa said, before breaking down. As the sun started to set, villagers were still processing the tragedy. Even households more than a kilometre away had felt the tremors. “I thought the roof of my house would fall on me and I ran out,” said Venkataramanappa, a farmer. Venugopal Reddy, a geologist by training and a resident of the village, assumed it was an earthquake and also ran out of his house. MP’s promise B.N. Bache Gowda, MP from Chickballapur, visited the spot on Tuesday and said he would speak to the Chief Minister to ensure the families of the victims were given compensation as well as a government job to a family member on grounds of compassion, wherever possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/if-my-nephew-hadnt-studied-he-would-have-been-alive-still/article33918734.ece
24 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Staff of pvt. schools take out protest march||Hundreds of teaching and non-teaching staff and representatives of school management boards took out a protest march in Dharwad on Tuesday seeking fulfilment of various demands including withdrawal of the recent government order on reducing school fees by 30%. In the protest held under the aegis of ‘Dharwad Anudanarahita Khasagi Shala Abhivruddhi Samsthe’ and ‘Dharwad Zilla Anudanarahita Khasagi Shalegala Adalita Mandali Sangha’, the agitators marched from Kalabhavana to the office of the Deputy commissioner of Dharwad. They raised slogans against the alleged harassment by officials of the Department of Public Instruction. They urged the government to withdraw its order. The staff held placards with an appeal to not be unjust to employees of private institutions. The management board members took exception to the rule to renew permits every year, and demanded that the permit duration be increased to three years. Shankar Halagatti said that it was impossible for the unaided private schools to provide the basic pay fixed by the government and the same had been questioned in the court of law.Those from 80 schools of twin cities took part in the agitation. Separate memoranda addressed to Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction, chairman of DERA and Deputy Commissioner and Chief Minister were submitted. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil assured the protesters that steps would be taken to sort out the contentious issues. He also asked the officials of the Education Department to take remedial measures immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/staff-of-pvt-schools-take-out-protest-march/article33918419.ece
24 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||E-marketing of Khadi products planned||Chief Executive Officer of Karnataka State Khadi and Village Industries Board Jayavibhava Swamy has said the board was chalking out a plan to start e-marketing of khadi products on the lines of e-commerce websites like Amazon and Flipkart. Addressing a joint press conference with chairman of the board Krishnappa Gowda here on Tuesday, Mr. Swamy said that the plan would be to get the khadi products produced by local khadi workers based on the orders placed through the e-marketing platform. The products would be supplied within seven days of placing the order, he said. Elaborating on the plans to provide marketing space for khadi products, Mr. Swamy said that a national level ‘Khadi Utsav’ would be organised in Bengaluru for a month after following COVID-19 protocol. He said that earlier under Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Project (PMEGP), it was planned to extend financial assistance to 888 khadi production and service units. But post the lockdown, the Centre had increased the number of beneficiary units to be covered under the scheme to 1,000, he said. An assistance of Rs. 10 lakh would be extended for setting up khadi display and sales shops in urban areas and an assistance of Rs. 25 lakhsin bigger cities, he said. He aid that the board was yet to receive grants to the tune of Rs. 105 crore from the government. Out of it the Finance Department had permitted release of Rs. 51.49 crore towards the payment of incentives for the period of 2014 to 2019. Due to the impact of lockdown and COVID-19 restrictions, khadi products worth Rs. 280 crore had remained unsold leading to distress in khadi units. “There are 207 registered khad production units in Karnataka where nearly 10,000 workers were working. Of them, 85% are women and employees over the age of 60 years are more”, he said. Mr. Swamy said that considering the fact that the number young weavers and artisans was dwindling, the board had planned to set up training centre for youths where stipend would be provided along with training.  Khadi plazas Board chairman Krishnappa Gowda said that to promote khadi products, it had been planned to set up ‘Khadi Urban Plazas’ in Benglauru, Mysuru and Ballari. This apart, district offices would be opened and the CM would be requested to release money towards pending grants to the board in the forthcoming budget, he said. Mr. Gowda also said that the State government would be requested to increase the incentive to Rs. 7 per metre and district-level khadi exhibitions would be organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-marketing-of-khadi-products-planned/article33918423.ece
24 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Three men killed in collision in Dharwad||Three people were killed and another injured seriously in a head-on collision between two motorcycles near Kundagol-Sherewad Toll Gate in Dharwad district on Monday night. The deceased have been identified as Imran alias Ismail Basheersab, 20, from Hubballi, and Kwaja Moinu Bashasab Mishrikoti, 19, of Kundagol town, and Shankarappa Basalingappa Angadi, 27, of Noolvi village in Dharwad district. All the three were killed on the spot and Suresh Chalamannavar, also a resident of Noolvi, suffered serious injuries in the accident. He is being treated at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. The Hubballi Rural police have registered a complaint. Over-speeding is said to be the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-men-killed-in-collision-in-dharwad/article33918429.ece
24 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||I’m ready to give Ballari charge to Sriramulu, says Anand Singh||Responding to Ballari MLA G. Somashekhar Reddy, who had recently demanded Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to replace Infrastructure Development & Wakf Minister B.S. Anand Singh with Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu as incharge of Ballari district, Mr. Singh expressed his readiness to quit his post for Mr. Sriramulu. “If Mr. Reddy wants to replace me with Mr. Sriramulu as Ballari in-charge Minister, I am ready. I would wholeheartedly welcome Mr. Sriramulu’s appointment as Ballari in-charge Minister. I am very particular that either Mr. Sriramulu or I be the in-charge Minister. I won’t accept a third person for the job. If somebody from outside who doesn’t know about Ballari is appointed, development would be hampered. If anybody attempts to replace me other than Mr. Sriramulu, I will meet the Chief Minister and request him to let me continue in the post,” Mr. Singh told media representatives in Ballari on Tuesday. When asked whether he would accept Mr. Reddy for the post, Mr. Singh said that only Ministers were eligible for the post and Mr. Reddy was not a Minister. “If the Chief Minister inducts Mr. Reddy into the Council of Ministers and then hands over the Ballari in charge, I don’t have any problem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/im-ready-to-give-ballari-charge-to-sriramulu-says-anand-singh/article33918418.ece
24 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two die in accident||Two persons were killed and over 13 injured when a tum-tum rickshaw and a two-wheeler collided near Mandewal village in Jewargi taluk of Kalaburagi district on Monday night. Revansiddappa Nanagowda Patil, 35, on a bike, and Lakshmi Bai Naikodi Sangapur, 18, in the rickshaw, were killed in the incident. Of the thirteen injured, six were getting treatment at Jewargi taluk hospital and the others were rushed to Kalaburagi district hospital. A case has been registered with the Nelogi police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-die-in-accident/article33918422.ece
24 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fisheries’ college to modernise its aquaculture farm using AI||The College of Fisheries here is all set to modernise its aquaculture farm at Yekkur at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.9 crore under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY). A unique feature of the modernisation will be the application of artificial intelligence (AI) while developing the ultra modern aquaculture units. Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara performed the ‘bhoomi puja’ (ground breaking ceremony) for constructing the units on the premises of the college on Tuesday. Professor and Dean A. Senthil Vel said the college will tie-up with the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NITK) at Surathkal for introducing AI technology in aquaculture. The private sector has applied AI technology in aquaculture in a small way. But it has been rarely tried out in the government sector. “It will be a first-of-its-kind collaboration in the country where a premier engineering institute will have a tie-up with the fisheries sector,” he said. The use of AI technology will help reduce manpower to manage the aquaculture farm. “We will have quality check at every stage,” he said and added that the use of AI will be like an automation in managing the farm. Prof. Vel said that all types of fresh water fish, crabs, molluscs, ornamental fish, aqua phonics and plants will be developed and conserved in the demonstration plots in the farm. Endangered species will be developed, conserved and handed over to the forest wildlife section. The college will also build a ‘Matsyapriyadarshini’ canteen at the entrance. It has also placed two model fishing boats at the entrance. Those are used old boats repaired and painted. Prof. Vel said that many unused and abandoned fishing boats thus can be re-used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fisheries-college-to-modernise-its-aquaculture-farm-using-ai/article33918908.ece
24 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pejawar Seer visits Kota Srinivas Poojary’s residence||Udupi Pejawar Mutt Seer Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami on Monday visited the residence of Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary at Kota in Udupi district on his invitation and received the Guruvandana from Minister’s family. The swami, a trustee of Sri Ram Janm Bhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust, offered pooja at the residence. Mr. Poojary recalled the visit of Sri Vishwa Prasanna’s Guru, Late Sri Vishwesha Tirtha Swami to his residence seven years ago and complimented the former for his relentless tour of the country for the cause of the Ram Mandir. On the occasion, the swami and others released the invitation for Holapu Sports Meet scheduled to be held on March 13 for zilla panchayat members of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts. Mr. Poojary’s nonagenarian mother Lachchi Poojarti offered the family’s contribution to Ram Temple to the seer, who felicitated her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pejawar-seer-visits-kota-srinivas-poojarys-residence/article33918905.ece
24 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MRPL bags furnace efficiency award||Mangalore Refinry and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) has bagged the first place for ‘Furnace Efficiency’ among all Hydrocarbon Refineries in India. The award was announced by CHT (Centre for high technology) of the MoPNG (Ministry for Petroleum and Natural Gas) as part of SAKSHAM 2020 awards. SAKSHAM or Sanrakshan Kshamata Mahotsav is a campaign to encourage conservation of energy and reduce fuel consumption. Petroleum Conservation Research Association steers this drive to reduce fuel consumption and promote self-sufficiency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mrpl-bags-furnace-efficiency-award/article33918906.ece
24 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to Lady Hill, Chilimbi, Adarsha Nagar, Shivagiri Nagar, Vaidyanatha temple and nearby areas on February 25 from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. It is for maintenance works.        Some areas in Udupi will have no power supply on February 24 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Hayagreeva Nagara, Railway Station, V. P. Nagara, Uchila and Kalattur.     India Meteorological Department said that thunderstorms with lightning arelikely to occur at isolated places over Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Wednesday. The alert is valid till 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33918907.ece
24 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||JD(S) to play kingmaker in mayoral polls today||The JD(S) will play the role of kingmaker in the election to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) scheduled for Wednesday. The hung 65-member MCC has 22 members from the BJP, 19 from the Congress and 18 from the JD(S), besides one BSP member and five Independents. BJP MP Pratap Simha and MLAs S.A. Ramdas and L. Nagendra, JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda and MLCs Srikante Gowda and Marithibbe Gowda, besides Congress’ Tanveer Sait and R. Dharmasena have voting rights in the mayoral polls. The post of Mayor has been reserved for a woman from the general category while the post of Deputy Mayor has been set aside for general category. Though the Congress and the JD(S) had entered into a partnership after the MCC polls in 2018, the alliance had come under a strain. Meanwhile, the BJP has begun wooing the JD(S) in the hope of having the saffron party’s first Mayor of Mysuru. Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy, who was in Mysuru on Tuesday, regretted that former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was speaking lightly about their party and referred to the Congress leader’s recent statement that he did not consider the JD(S) a political party at all. Mr. Kumaraswamy said no State-level Congress leader had approached him for an alliance with the JD(S). But, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had spoken to him over phone and sought an alliance in the MCC. Though Mr. Yediyurappa had sought the post of Mayor for the BJP, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the party had not given its response to the saffron party yet. Meanwhile, JD(S) leader Abdullah, who was the party’s candidate for Narasimharaja Assembly constituency in the last elections, said the five corporators of the JD(S) belonging to minority community were not in favour of the party aligning with the BJP in the mayoral polls. Though he was thankful for the party to have made its corporator Shafi Ahmed as Deputy Mayor in the first term and Tasneem as the Mayor in the second term, he said the party feared that an alliance with the BJP will hit the party’s electoral prospects in minority-dominated areas. However, Mr. Abdullah said the corporators will abide by the decision Mr. Kumaraswamy takes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-to-play-kingmaker-in-mayoral-polls-today/article33918535.ece
24 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Drill tests floods, landslip preparedness in Kodagu||A drill was staged at Gajagiri hills in Talacauvery in Kodagu on Tuesday to demonstrate the steps taken for rescue during landslips and floods. The demonstration displayed the preparedness of the forces in case of emergencies. An effort of the Kodagu district administration and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the drill was conducted in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal, Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra and other senior officers. The personnel of the NDRF, the Fire Department, Home Guards, the police and other agencies aiding rescue operations jointly carried out the exercise on how rescue efforts have to be carried by the teams amidst the calamities. Various types of rescue operations were demonstrated mocking a situation of landslips at the hills. The demonstration was carried out at the same site where a major landslip had occurred at Talacauvery last year. Ms. Somal said the district administration was preparing itself for handling emergencies in the wake of three successive floods and landslips since 2018. The rescue teams were staging the drills at vulnerable sites, demonstrating the preparedness. Ms. Mishra said the police would extend all support to the NDRF, SDRF and other rescue teams and coordinate with them on handling emergencies. Importantly, the district administration has prepared the District Disaster Management Plan for bringing into effect preventive and mitigation measures whenever necessary, and chalked out an action plan for the reconstruction and rebuilding of Kodagu. The ‘template’ of handling disasters and lessons learnt from the experience came in handy for also handling the pandemic in the district, with the district administration working and coordinating with the police, and other key departments during floods for reaching out rescue and relief to the affected. The coordination that was displayed in handling the crisis last year was notable with the elected representatives, elected bodies and the officials working together as teams to manage the disasters. The administration, in 2019, had estimated Rs. 1,700-crore for rebuilding Kodagu after the calamities. The loss suffered by the coffee industry was over Rs. 53-crore while the black pepper industry’s losses had been pegged at Rs. 83 crore. Minister in-charge of Kodagu district V. Somanna had said last year that a loss of Rs. 415 crore had been estimated based on the damage caused to roads, bridges, and other infrastructure facilities across Kodagu during floods and landslides in 2020. As many as 91 villages bore the brunt of floods and nearly 28 villages witnessed landslides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drill-tests-floods-landslip-preparedness-in-kodagu/article33918426.ece
24 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Movement for reservation losing direction: HDK||Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said the movements launched by different communities seeking reservation appeared to have lost their direction. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, he called upon people in power to understand the limitations in law and previous experiences. Politicians who had started the campaigns had now brought religious leaders to the forefront, he said. “Even 75 years after Independence, several microscopic communities without a voice have not been able to get reservation. Like the big fish eating small fish, bigger communities have swallowed smaller communities,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. With regard to his stand on the demand for reservation for Vokkaligas, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the matter had not been discussed with him. However, a Minister in the BJP government along with community leaders had met their religious head and submitted a memorandum to the government seeking an increase in the quota. At the meeting of leaders of Vokkaligas, who are now in 3A category that has 4% reservation, a demand had been made for increasing the quota to 10%. “We will have to wait and see how the government reacts,” he said. He said the Kuruba community, which is part of 2A category that has 15%, had sought to be included in ST, which has only 3%reservation. “We will have to wait and see if the increase to 10% as sought by Vokkaligas will happen in the same category or in another category,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movement-for-reservation-losing-direction-hdk/article33918424.ece
24 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kabini dam in H.D. Kote may get botanical garden||Brindavan Gardens-type botanical garden at the Kabini dam site in H.D. Kote taluk, which was being talked about since many years, is expected to get a momentum as the project is being proposed for allocation of funds in the ensuing budget. The garden has been proposed to be developed at a cost of Rs. 48 crore. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar said in H.D. Kote on Tuesday that the work had been discussed with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Mr. Somashekar, who inaugurated the Mysuru district Kannada Sahitya Sammelana at H.D. Kote, said the project of constructing a bridge in Kabini dam’s downstream had been approved since he was aware that surplus release of water from the dam in monsoon would submerge the road disrupting movement of vehicles. In his inaugural address, the Minister promised to make efforts to get land for the construction of sahitya parishat office buildings in all 11 Assembly constituencies in the district. He said the parishat has submitted a memorandum seeking own buildings for establishing offices in all Assembly constituencies. “In H.D. Kote too, land had been sought for the building. I will talk to the government on this,” he promised. “Our government is committed to the development of Kannada. Many initiatives will be taken up for Kannada development,” Mr. Somashekar said. Talking about sammelana president N.S. Taranath, the Minister said Prof. Taranath is one of the greatest Kannada scholars and key persons who demanded classical language status for Kannada. He was one of the members of the committee set up by the State government that prepared a report highlighting the significance of Kannada as a language and why it deserved the classical language status tag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kabini-dam-in-hd-kote-may-get-botanical-garden/article33918532.ece
24 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||HDK blasts govt. over illegal quarrying||Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday lashed out at the BJP government in the State for its failure to act firmly against illegal quarrying. Expressing concern over the loss of six lives in a gelatine explosion in Chickballapur early on Tuesday barely a month after a similar blast in Shivamogga, which also claimed six lives, Mr. Kumaraswamy said death of poor labourers will continue if the government does not take firm measures against illegal quarrying, which had witnessed a spurt ever since shortage of river sand arose for construction activities. ‘A nexus’ He alleged that people’s representatives were also playing a large role in illegal quarrying and alleged that a nexus existed between elected representatives and officials, who were promoting these illegal activities for the sake of amassing wealth. Even officials bring pressure on the politicians and seek plum postings in the mining department for the sake of making money, Mr. Kumaraswamy alleged. Though several small mishaps due to illegal quarrying keep taking place, it is hushed up by the local officials. “Only when deaths take place, the government comes forward, announces compensation to the deceased and promises to take strict action,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-blasts-govt-over-illegal-quarrying/article33918533.ece
24 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Entrepreneurship programme launched||Local commerce platform, eSamudaay has launched a unique women entrepreneurship programme to enable young women to set up and run independent e-commerce marketplaces in small towns of India. A release said the women entrepreneurs will be offered be offered four months of incubation, business mentorship, credit facilities, and free access to software worth Rs. 1 lakh to enable them to establish horizontal e-commerce marketplaces in their home towns. Details on https://esamudaay.com/kk10/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entrepreneurship-programme-launched/article33918536.ece
24 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 testing in Yadgir||In view of the rise in COVID-19 cases being reported in Maharashtra, the Yadgir district administration has decided to test those arriving from the State. The administration has deployed medical officers at central bus terminus in Yadgir, Shahapur, Shorapur, and Yadgir railway station. “Everyone should compulsorily undergo testing on arrival,” DC R. Ragapriya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-testing-in-yadgir/article33918421.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KSPCB to hold public hearing on PRR||The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) told the High Court that it will conduct one more round of public hearing in physical form on the draft Environment Impact Assessment/Environment Management Plan for the eight-lane Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project. A submission in this regard has been made before a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum during the hearing of a PIL petition. KSPCB advocate Gururaj Joshi told the bench that the board is ready to conduct one more session of public hearing in physical form by following the COVID-19 guidelines after issuing a public notice notifying the date for hearing. He clarified to the bench that a physical hearing was conducted in August last year followed by a virtual hearing in September 2020 to enable those who could not participate in the physical hearing due to COVID-19 restrictions. On recording the statement made on behalf of the KSPCB, the bench disposed of the petition. Anushka Gupta and two others had questioned the correctness of the decision of the KSPBC to conducting a public hearing on September 23, 2020 through a video platform. They sought court’s direction to the authorities to conduct a physical hearing. In September last year, the High Court of Karnataka had declined to stay the virtual hearing, but directed the State Level Expert Appraisal Committee not to undertake appraisal process on the EIA based the outcome of the virtual public hearing until further order from the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kspcb-to-hold-public-hearing-on-prr/article33918707.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||10 more residents test positive||Another 10 residents of SJR Watermark Apartment in Ambalipura, coming under Bellandur ward, have tested positive for COVID-19. With this, the total number of positive cases in the apartment complex has increased to 20. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), there are 504 flats in nine towers in the apartment complex, of which around 470 were occupied. The BBMP has collected 1,055 samples from households, including from helpers, security personnel and drivers. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said 511 samples were collected on Monday, of which 10 tested positive. On Tuesday, 544 were collected, the results of which are expected on Wednesday. “All the 20, who have tested positive, are asymptomatic and are under home quarantine,” said Rajendra Cholan, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), adding that the entire residential complex has been sealed. “Though residents are asymptomatic and under home quarantine, we will conduct health check-ups periodically. In case any resident develops symptoms, they will be shifted to the nearest medical facility,” he said. The BBMP, he added, had ascertained the source of the infection. A senior citizen, who was the first resident to have tested positive, may have contracted it during his visit to a local hospital for physiotherapy treatment. “After him, four persons tested positive on February 17 and another six on February 18 and 19. We believe that it could have spread among those using the common areas. Another possibility is that the residents may have failed to wear masks and ensure social distancing,” Mr. Cholan said. This is the third cluster to have been detected over the past 15 days. With the spike in cases in neighbouring States, the government and BBMP have stepped up vigil, besides reiterating that there is no room for complacency over COVID-19 safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-more-residents-test-positive/article33918713.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘No point deploying marshals in wedding halls’||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) marshals are unhappy with the Karnataka government’s decision to deploy them at wedding halls and other gatherings to ensure that guests are adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Many said it was neither feasible nor economical. Speaking to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, a marshal said that deploying them at wedding halls and events was not practical for operational efficiency. COVID-19 protocols of frequently sanitising and washing hands and wearing masks are being enforced in events and weddings held in five-star hotels and resorts. “However, we find that maintaining social distance is largely ignored by most citizens during these gatherings,” he said. He added that instead of deputing marshals at wedding halls, it would be better if mobile squads are created, at least one in each zone in the BBMP. “We already have a list of prominent places, including wedding halls, in each ward. These mobile squads could conduct surprise checks, issue warnings and collect fines from violators,” he said. This, he maintained, would cause lesser financial burden on the BBMP, as it would require deployment of fewer personnel. A deterrent Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad said the deployment of marshals would act as a deterrent. “Marshals deployed at the entrance can verify if the wedding hall owner or event organiser is doing his/her due diligence, failing which they can levy a fine of Rs. 10,000, as prescribed by the State government,” he said. BBMP sources said the civic body had a total of 238 marshals, including ward marshals and those deployed in Indira Canteens. That apart, there are 54 special teams, each with four marshals, working in two shifts in the 28 Assembly segments in the city. After deductions, including Employee State Insurance (ESI) and Provident Fund (PF), each marshal gets around Rs. 17,000. The civic body’s spend on marshals is around Rs. 1.5 crore a month, which is mostly recovered by way of fines levied on violators, sources said. Meanwhile, the term of the 54 special teams is limited to March 31. These 216 marshals cannot be retained after this date. “However, their deployment may be extended depending on the number of COVID-19 positive cases being reported in the city,” according to a source.  These mobile squads could conduct surprise checks, issue warnings and collect fines from violators A marshal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-point-deploying-marshals-in-wedding-halls/article33918723.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||2 booked for damaging gas pipeline||An assistant executive engineer with the Marathahalli sub-division of BBMP and a private contractor have been booked for allegedly damaging a Gail gas pipeline and endangering the safety of residents. Acting on a complaint filed by a Gail Gas deputy manager, the Bellandur police, on Friday, registered an FIR against Assistant Executive Engineer Muralidhar A.E. and private contractor Mantesh charging them under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act. “We have summoned the accused for questioning,” said a police officer. The Gail official, in his complaint, said Mantesh was using a JCB to construct a drainage culvert near an apartment on 1st main 1st cross Haraluru where the gas pipe has been laid. “There are standard guidelines to be followed. However, it was not followed,” said the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-booked-for-damaging-gas-pipeline/article33918708.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||1.54 lakh healthcare workers get second dose||As many as 1,54,831 healthcare workers have taken the second dose in Karnataka so far. While the highest coverage was recorded in Belagavi (12,463) district, the lowest was in Chamarajnagar (1,231). Overall, 27,260 of the 58,741 targeted healthcare and frontline workers for the day were vaccinated on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 60% of the targeted 7,28,349 healthcare workers and 47% of the targeted 2,91,037 frontline workers have been vaccinated so far. Cumulatively, the State has achieved 71% coverage in terms of vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers. 383 new cases, 4 deaths Meanwhile, the State on Tuesday reported 383 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,48,849. While seven districts in Karnataka recorded zero cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 240 cases. With four deaths, the toll rose to 12,303. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 378 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 9,30,465. Of the remaining 6,062 active patients, 122 are being monitored in ICUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/154-lakh-healthcare-workers-get-second-dose/article33918719.ece
24 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Green energy to propel houseboats now||Houseboat cruise is one of the mainstays of Kerala Tourism. But the slow-chugging vessels are also blamed for damaging the Vembanad lake ecosystem for waste dumping and carbon emissions. Things are about to change now. Houseboats are gradually beginning to embrace solar power, thus bringing about a cleaner environment. A project was launched recently to install solar panels on houseboats. Being implemented jointly by the Energy Management Centre (EMC) and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) under the aegis of the National Mission on Power Electronics Technology, it aims to replace diesel/petrol generators with solar panels to power various devices, from lighting to air-conditioners, in vessels in the initial phase. “At present, both propulsion and hotel loads of houseboats are powered by fossil fuel internal combustion engines. As part of the Central government-funded Low Voltage Direct Current Powered Energy Efficient Houseboats project, we have installed flexible solar panels with a combined capacity of 6 kW in a boat here. A few more operators have shown interest in installing solar panels,” said a C-DAC official. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology is sponsoring the installation of solar panels in the first few boats. “We hope this will encourage other operators to follow the suit. The cost of installing solar panels and allied equipment can be recovered in two years. A proposal submitted to the Union Ministry of Power for providing subsidy is under its consideration,” the official said. Second phase According to officials, the second phase would see solar energy replacing diesel for propulsion. “The diesel-powered engines will be replaced with corresponding electric motors. We are working with CUSAT in this regard,” the C-DAC official said. A study conducted as part of the project had revealed that on average a houseboat releases 8.3 kg of carbon dioxide per hour from the propulsion system. Carbon dioxide emissions from hotel load diesel generator is 5 kg per hour. “There are more than 1,000 such houseboats in Alappuzha, Kumarakom, Kollam, Kozhikode and other parts of the State,” said an official. Ripeesh P. Pillai, who installed solar panels on his houseboat, said all devices, including air-conditioners, are now operated with solar energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-energy-to-propel-houseboats-now/article33918527.ece
24 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Curbs in Alappuzha to be strengthened||Amidst a surge in COVID-19 cases in Alappuzha, the district administration has decided to strengthen pandemic-related restrictions and preventive measures. Recently, the Union Health Ministry expressed concern over the COVID-19 situation in the district after the weekly test positivity rate (TPR) touched 10.7%. District Collector A. Alexander who chaired a meeting on Tuesday to review the situation directed the police and Health Department to strictly implement surveillance and containment measures. Mr. Alexander said that the number of RT-PCR tests would be increased. “At present, the district conducts 4,500-5,000 tests daily. This will be increased to 6,000. Of these, 75% will be RT-PCR tests and the rest 25% will be antigen tests,” the Collector said. He said that boards with awareness messages would be placed on the beaches. “More sectoral magistrates will be deployed to ensure that COVID-19 rules and protocols are followed. Children below the age of 10 years, those above 60 years and pregnant women should avoid visiting the beaches,” Mr. Alexander said. Houseboat operators have been asked to provide masks and sanitiser to tourists. Employees of shops in tourist centres would be subjected to COVID-19 test, he said. The police on Tuesday registered 23 cases and arrested 31 people for violating COVID-19 curbs. Action was also taken against 240 people for not wearing facemasks and 176 for not maintaining physical distance. The district logged 3,227 COVID-19 cases in 10 days. 275 cases The district logged 275 cases on Tuesday. The fresh cases include 270 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. Meanwhile, 381 people recovered on the day. The active caseload in the district stands at 4,199.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-in-alappuzha-to-be-strengthened/article33918508.ece
24 February 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Youth found dead||A 23-year-old youth, a suspect in the murder of a Plus Two student here, was found hanging from a tree on Tuesday, the police said. The body of Arun was found just a few metres away from the spot where the girl’s body was found at Pallivasal here on Friday night. Some local people noticed the body hanging from a tree and alerted the police. Arun, a relative of the girl, had been missing since the day she was found murdered.    (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-found-dead/article33918507.ece
24 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Traders down shutters against Labour Officer’s stance||Shops and business establishments, including restaurants and some hotels, remained closed on Tuesday as members of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) staged a protest in the district against the alleged anti-trader stance of the Kerala Head Load Workers’ Welfare Board (KHLWFB). Speaking after inaugurating a march to the office of the KHLWFB here on Tuesday, KVVES State vice president K.K. Vasudevan said that the samithi had submitted a letter six months ago to the District Labour Officer, who is in-charge chairman of the board, demanding retention of the current loading charges for the next two years in the wake of the floods in the district in the past two years and spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the official was yet to consider it. Now, the official was trying to humiliate the traders, though the board was functioning with a 27% levy being paid by traders, Mr. Vasudevan said. ‘Poor representation’ Moreover, KVVES members were not given deserving representation while reconstituting the board recently, he said. If the chairman continued to adopt anti-trader policies, the organisation would take stringent steps like boycotting the board, he warned. The protesters also raised slogans against the recent hike in traders’ licence fee in local administrative bodies and closure of the Thamarassery ghat road on the Kozhikode-Kollegal National Highway for maintenance work without arranging any alternative facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-down-shutters-against-labour-officers-stance/article33918444.ece
24 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man, woman die of burn injuries in Kannur||A man and a woman, who reportedly self-immolated themselves in Payyannur, have died at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital. V.K. Sivaprasad, 28, who lived in a rented house near the Payyanur old bus stand and M.D. Arya, 21, a college student, died at the hospital. According to the police, while Arya died on Monday night, Sivaprasad succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday morning. Both are suspected to have committed suicide. The incident took place around 4 p.m. on Friday. The young man, who was an employee of a company in Payyanur in Kannur district, had been on leave for the past few days. Statement The police said the woman’s marriage to another man had been fixed. The police reached the hospital and tried to record the statement of the two but could not as they were in a critical condition.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000 and Direct Intervention System for Health Awareness (DISH)- 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-woman-die-of-burn-injuries-in-kannur/article33918442.ece
24 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||No land has been allotted to EMCC, says Jayarajan||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said here on Tuesday that no land had been handed over to EMCC in the Cherthala food park. Responding to an allegation raised by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala that no action had been taken to reclaim the four acres of land given to EMCC at Pallipuram, the Minister told the media that the problem of cancellation would arise only if land was given. Mr. Jayarajan said whoever came and asked for land in the food park would be given it, but with conditions. The terms here had been communicated to EMCC. However, the company had neither paid anything nor had it been given land, he said. The Minister said the government’s aim was to encourage investors. EMCC representatives came to him and discussed the project. They said they had come after meeting the Leader of the Opposition. Slams Muraleedharan To the claims of Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan that the Centre had informed the State government of the response from the U.S. Consulate that EMCC International was not a trustworthy entity, he said, “The consulate might have informed Mr. Muraleedharan that the company was fake. However, he has not informed us,” Mr. Jayarajan said He dismissed the allegation of Mr. Muraleedharan that the State government had signed a memorandum of understanding with the firm four months after being informed that the company was fake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-land-has-been-allotted-to-emcc-says-jayarajan/article33918515.ece
24 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||North Malabar’s first IFFK under way in Kannur||The first International Film Festival of Kerala in North Malabar, which opened in Thalassery on Tuesday, attracted huge crowds of young and old people alike. There was palpable excitement in the air as movie buffs from parts of Kannur district and even neighbouring districts flooded Liberty theatre to witness the historic moment unfold. Inaugurating the festival, Culture Minister A.K. Balan said the Thalassery edition of the film festival was a historic event. It was the government’s policy to construct cultural centres in all districts. The working women’s hostel, named after P.K. Rosy, an actress in the first Malayalam film “Vigathakumaran”, and the monuments to many of the actors, including Sathyan and Nazir, were the result of the will of this government. A.N. Shamseer, MLA, and chairman of the organising committee, said people of Thalassery had taken the film festival to their heart. Kerala State Chalachithra Academy chairman Kamal said that the active participation of people in the fest validated the decision to hold the fest at four venues in the State. 20 films screened On day one, the theatre was packed by viewers to watch “Quo Vadis, Aida”, the inaugural film of the festival, that captures the story of Bosnia’s atrocities. Twenty films in different languages were screened in six theatres. Besides the Chinese film “Striding into the Wind” and French film “Summer of 85”, Malayalam films “Paapam Cheyyathavar Kalleriyatte,” by Shambhu Purushothaman, Senna Hegde's “Thinkalazhca Nishchayam” and Prithvi Konanur’s “Pinki Elli?” (Where is Pinky) were screened in the Indian cinema category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/north-malabars-first-iffk-under-way-in-kannur/article33918443.ece
24 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corporation budget passed with additional allocations||The Kochi Corporation council approved the budget for the 2021-22 financial year on Tuesday. If the District Planning Committee (DPC) directs the corporation to revise the budget after including approved People’s Plan projects, the council will consider the matter then, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. The Opposition had written to the DPC demanding a revision of the budget since projects under the People’s Plan for the next financial year had been included in the budget without the DPC’s and council’s prior approval. A response from the DPC is awaited. A few additions were made to the budget yielding to demands made by the Opposition. After councillors in the Opposition demanded on Monday that additional funds be made available for each division, Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya announced at the council meeting held on Tuesday that Rs. 1 crore will be made available for work in each division. These projects for individual divisions will be vetted by the Works Standing Committee before the tendering process is initiated. Kokers Theatre The Opposition had also lamented the exclusion of any project for Kokers Theatre in the budget. Prime land in Fort Kochi had been lost to the wilderness since no efforts were made to use the Kokers Theatre property, the Opposition had said. Ms. Ansiya announced that Rs. 50 lakh would be set aside for work on the Kokers Theatre building and premises with assistance from the State government. An amount of Rs. 1 crore has been allocated for work around the Fort Kochi beach, including maintenance of the beach, and the preparation of a specific project to deal with the issues of area including waste management, and setting up toilets. The budget presentation had mentioned the beach but left a conspicuous blank while announcing the allocation. Financial situation Explaining the corporation’s financial situation, Mayor M. Anilkumar said that the Plan Fund allocation had fallen this year since the corporation was required to pay for land that was acquired at Brahmapuram when the dumping yard was constituted there. The State government had paid to acquire the land. But the property was registered with the corporation and the civic agency was required to return the amount to the government. This amount was being deducted from the Plan Fund. Around Rs. 69 crore was received as the grant of the 14th Finance Commission last year, but an allotment is yet to be made this year, he said. After councillors appeared sceptical over promises in the budget suggesting housing for more people, Mr. Anilkumar said that the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) had agreed to hand over around 2 acres in its possession to the corporation for housing projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-budget-passed-with-additional-allocations/article33918891.ece
24 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Incentive for dairy farmers||The Ernakulam Region Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union (ERCMPU) has decided to pay farmers an additional Rs. 3 a litre for milk being collected by the union from March 1, 2021. The cooperative has been paying an additional Rs. 1.50 per litre to its farmers since February 1 this year. Chairman of the Ernakulam region John Theruvath said that the the additional payment would be an incentive for farmers. The decision to hike the payment to farmers was taken at the 34th annual meeting of the regional milk union here earlier this month. He said that the Ernakulam regional cooperative union, comprising Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam and Idukki districts, had been able to procure milk from all the farmers under the cooperative during the COVID-19 lockdown despite a slowdown in business even as dairy farmers across the country had suffered a setback because of the lockdown. The decision to provide an incentive to farmers comes even as the region is preparing to export milk products, including clarified butter, to the Middle East. Meanwhile, the milk producers’ union has appealed to government agencies to consider dairy farmers as well as workers involved in procurement and distribution of milk in the priority category for COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-incentive-for-dairy-farmers/article33918886.ece
24 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KUWJ demands action against officer||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has demanded exemplary action against Prashant Nair, managing director of Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), for responding with a sticker with sexual overtones when a woman journalist of a Malayalam daily sought to speak with him for a news story. The KUWJ protested the officer’s ‘unseemly’ behaviour towards the journalist who was trying to get his response to a controversy involving the company headed by him and also took exception to the social media post made by the officer’s wife “which denigrated the entire media fraternity”. The union petitioned Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta seeking action against the officer. The KUWJ district committee also sought action against the official. The Moolampilly Coordination Committee, while condemning the officer’s behaviour, sought to know from the government if the way the officer behaved was in line with its policy. ‘Issue over emoji’ In an evasive response, Prasanth Nair maintained that he consistently refused to speak to the media about the controversy involving KSINC. “I continue to hold that position despite any provocation, including the latest issue over an ‘emoji’ on WhatsApp. I have been getting threatening calls ever since my phone number was published in the media, and am planning to take this up with the police,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuwj-demands-action-against-officer/article33918889.ece
24 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police launch probe into toll plaza assault||The Panangad police have launched a probe into a case in which a motorist was allegedly assaulted at the Kumbalam toll plaza on Sunday afternoon. The police have registered a case against a migrant worker employed at the toll plaza based on a complaint by Vipin Vijayakumar of Kakkanad. According to the complainant, he was assaulted by the employees at the toll plaza with the card swiping machine. The police said that CCTV footage were being examined. “The accused alleges that the petitioner tried to forcefully wrest the card swiping machine and assaulted him while the petitioner alleges that he was the one who was assaulted. We are still probing the issue,” said a senior police officer. The police have registered a case invoking among other IPC Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causes hurt by means of any instrument for shooting, stabbing or cutting, or any instrument which, used as a weapon of offence, is likely to cause death).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-launch-probe-into-toll-plaza-assault/article33918887.ece
24 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||484 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||The district recorded 484 new COVID-19 cases and 746 recoveries on Tuesday. The source of infection could not be traced in 26 cases. Twenty people tested positive in Thripunithura, 19 in Kalamassery, 15 in Nayarambalam, and 13 each in Kaloor and Vazhakulam on the day. One police official and a health workers were infected. A total of 26,217 people remain in quarantine and the district’s active case load stands at 9,307.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/484-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article33918883.ece
24 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Jacobite synod meet held||The synod of the Jacobite Syrian Orthodox Church met at the Patriarchal Centre at Puthenkurisu, near here, on Tuesday and discussed the problems facing the Church. A statement issued by the Church authorities said 52 parish churches belonging to the Jacobite faction had been taken over after the Supreme Court verdict of July 3, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jacobite-synod-meet-held/article33918890.ece
24 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Withdraw all steps taken on deep sea fishing: KCBC||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) has asked the State government to withdraw all steps it had taken on deep sea fishing off the coast of Kerala. In a statement issued here on Tuesday against the backdrop of a controversy over building deep sea trawlers, the bishops’ council said that the decision to enter into an agreement with a foreign company on deep sea fishing was not acceptable. However, the the fact that the government had decided to retract its decision was of great relief to the coastal community. The bishops’ council said that the presence of a large number of fishing trawlers would destabilise the conditions of the deep sea and also affect fishing operations. The State government-owned Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation had said it had entered into an MoU with a US-based company for building trawlers. The agreement was worth Rs. 2,950 crore. Fishers’ unions had protested against the agreement and called for a coastal bandh on February 27 if the government did not go back on the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/withdraw-all-steps-taken-on-deep-sea-fishing-kcbc/article33918885.ece
24 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Zone curbs will not affect memorial plan: Mayor||The plot of land where the Kochi Corporation plans on constructing a memorial to poet G. Sankara Kurup falls within the eco-sensitive zone around Mangalavanam, but this is unlikely to impede construction, according to Mayor M. Anilkumar. The notification says that forest, horticulture areas, parks, and recreational spaces in the eco-sensitive zone cannot be converted for commercial, residential or industrial purposes, the Mayor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zone-curbs-will-not-affect-memorial-plan-mayor/article33918882.ece
24 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Two arrested with brown sugar||The excise sleuths on Tuesday arrested two migrants with ten grams of brown sugar worth around Rs. 10 lakh. The arrested were identified as Hitler Sheikh, 34, and Jalal Rasheed Mullah, 37, of Murshidabad in West Bengal. They allegedly bought the brown sugar for cheap price from West Bengal and sold it to youngsters, including school and college students, centred around Aluva market. The arrest was following a tip-off received by Ernakulam deputy excise commissioner T. A. Ashokkumar. A team led by Aluva excise circle inspector Krishnakumar and comprising preventive officers C.B. Ranju and P.K. Gopi, civil excise officers M.M. Arun Kumar, P.S. Basanth Kumar, P.G. Anoop, and Sajo Varghese made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-brown-sugar/article33918884.ece
24 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fresh case against Unitac MD||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a fresh case against Unitac Builders managing director Santhosh Eapen for alleged money laundering in the Wadakkancherry LIFE Mission project. According to ED sources, the money laundering angle kicked in as commission to the tune of nearly Rs. 4.50 crore was allegedly given to persons at the UAE Consulate for award of the work of the Wadakkancherry project. The commission was allegedly converted into dollar and smuggled out to other countries, for which Mr. Eapen allegedly arranged foreign currencies. He is likely to be interrogated in the coming days. The UAE Red Crescent had funded an apartment complex and mini-hospital for the homeless at Wadakkancherry. The State government had provided land for the project worth Rs. 20 crore. The CBI is also probing the corruption and violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act in the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-case-against-unitac-md/article33918528.ece
24 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court to record complaint against Chandy Oommen||The Ernakulam Chief Judicial Magistrate Court will record the statement of the complainant in a case pertaining to the alleged statements of Chandy Oommen, son of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, which the complainant said had outraged the religious feelings of Christians. The alleged statements were made by Mr. Oommen at ‘Insight’, a programme organised by the Muslim Youth League in Kozhikode on January 21. Following this, Martin Menachery of Thopumpady approached the court seeking a probe into the incident. Mr. Martin alleged that while referring to Hagia Sofia in Turkey, a church which was converted into a mosque, Mr. Oommen stated that thousands of churches were changing into bars in the West, mainly in the U.K. and Spain, and that none was bothered about that. He claimed in the petition that he came to know about Mr. Oommen's statement through social media while in Ernakulam. The statement was deliberate and malicious, intended to outrage the religious feelings of Christians and amounted to insulting Christianity and the religious feelings of Christians. The statement was also prejudicial to maintenance of harmony in society. The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council had condemned the statement. “The Ernakulam Central police did not act on my complaint and hence I approached the court, seeking an investigation on the incident,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-to-record-complaint-against-chandy-oommen/article33918888.ece
24 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||State favours fishers: CM||The Kerala government has a clear stand on deep-sea fishing favouring fishers and that will not be changed, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Inaugurating a mechanical workshop, store and mobile crane shelter at the Kollam port through videoconferencing on Tuesday, he said the facilities would be beneficial to the overall development of the fisheries sector in the district. The Rs. 3.90- crore projects were completed by the Kerala Maritime Board. “Instead of going after baseless allegations, the government had been focusing on development,” he said. Training hall The Chief Minister also inaugurated the permanent electronic data interface system and land acquisition in Beypore, a maritime training hall in Alappuzha and the crew change terminal at Vizhinjam. Ports Minister Kadannappally Ramachandran, who presided, said the port development would be advantageous to the cashew sector in Kollam. The Minister also inaugurated the official website of the Kerala Maritime Board and unveiled the plaque of the new building. ‘‘Development works of Rs. 30 crore have been implemented in the Kollam port in five years and the government has been trying to explore all possibilities of the port,” said Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said. Emigration clearance She added that the State would pressurise the Centre to establish a system for emigration clearance to utilise the full potential of the port. “Steps will be taken to solve the disputes in opening the maritime institute,” she said. She released the official tagline of the Kerala Maritime Board — Sadhyathakalude Munambu (Cape of opportunities) — created by Neendakara port conservator Binulal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-favours-fishers-cm/article33918510.ece
24 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Former MLA passes away||Former Neduvathur MLA and CPI(M) State committee member B. Raghavan, 69, passed away at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, on Tuesday. He was undergoing treatment after testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Mr. Raghavan and his family were shifted to Government MCH, Parippally, when they contracted the virus. He was later moved to Thiruvananthapuram MCH after he developed pneumonia. Though he tested negative later, his condition remained serious due to renal failure and he passed away around 4.45 a.m. on Tuesday. One of the senior-most CPI(M) leaders from the district, Mr. Raghavan was elected from Neduvathur to the Assembly in 1987, 1991 and 2006. He had also served as the State treasurer of Kerala State Karshaka Thozhilali Union and was the chairman of Kerala State Development Corporation for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Ltd. His body was cremated as per COVID-19 protocol at his residence in Thamarakkudi. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Ministers, politicians and prominent persons from all fields condoled his death. Mr. Raghavan is survived by his wife Renuka and children Rakesh Raghavan and Rakhi Raghavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-mla-passes-away/article33918504.ece
24 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Weaving a story of hope and resilience||Make hay while the sun shines, so goes the popular adage. In a year that follows the COVID-19-induced fall in sales, the Kerala Khadi and Village Industries Board has taken it upon itself to go by this traditional piece of wisdom and make most of the upcoming Assembly election in the State. Taking into account the ban on the use of plastic materials in poll campaign, the organisation has now entered into the business of election merchandise with hand-woven garlands made of Khadi yarns. To begin with, the board has rolled out one lakh pieces of the product and will be churning out more based on requirement. The garlands, available in different set of colours to match various party flags, are priced between Rs. 100 and Rs. 250 per piece, based on thickness. “They come in different colour patterns: red for the Left parties, tricolour for the Congress, red and white for the Kerala Congress, green for the Indian Union Muslim League, and saffron for the Bharatiaya Janata Party,” said T.V. Baby, member, KKVIB.  According to K.N. Unnikrishnan Nair, project Officer, KKVIB, job creation for workers under the board had emerged as one of the biggest issues in the post-pandemic period. “Product diversification is crucial in reviving the business and ensuring regular income to the workers, who are mostly women. Tapping the election campaigns constitutes a crucial part of this revival plan,” the official said. At present, the board’s weaving units at Udayanapuram and Pambady in Kottayam are engaged in the production of eco-friendly garlands. At a brief function held in Kottayam on Tuesday, KKVIB vice chairperson Sobhana George carried out the product’s official launch by handing over the first set of garlands to the CPI(M) Kottayam district committee. The set comprising 250 pieces were churned out by a group of women workers at the weaving unit in Udayanapuram, near Vaikom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weaving-a-story-of-hope-and-resilience/article33918506.ece
24 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders plan State-wide protest against illegal street vending||The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) plans to launch a State-wide protest if the issue of unauthorised street vending is not addressed at the earliest. At a protest against large-scale unauthorised street vending at West Hill here on Tuesday, KVVES district secretary K. Sethumadhavan said the vendors were monopolising streets in all parts of the State without trade licence or complying with the COVID-19 protocol while licensed vendors were bound to follow rules. Collector intervenes The protest and the subsequent march from West Hill to Pavangad led to a minor tiff between the merchants and the police, which was brought under control after District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao intervened. “The authorities assured us that efforts would be made for an amicable solution to the issue through a meeting in which the representatives of street vendors will also take part,” said Mr. Sethumadhavan. He said West Hill was a “street supermarket” where vending carts occupied both sides of the road. Besides being a threat to licensed vendors, they also caused major traffic congestion on the stretch. Unauthorised street vending mushroomed in all parts of the State after the lockdown. It turned out to be a means of survival for many who were rendered jobless due to the COVID-19-related restrictions. The authorities too turned a blind eye towards them on humanitarian grounds. However, the trend continued even months after most of the restrictions were lifted. He said the Samithi’s State-level meeting on Sunday would decide on future actions and the merchants under the Samithi would take to the streets if the issue was not solved at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-plan-state-wide-protest-against-illegal-street-vending/article33918449.ece
24 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K secures 100% placement||Despite the sluggishness in the global economy, the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode, (IIM-K), has witnessed 100% placement this season and a 4.6% increase in the number of recruiters from last year’s. However, the mean and median salaries have slightly dropped from last year’s. The mean salary stands at Rs. 22.5 lakh per annum and the median salary at Rs. 20 lakh per annum. Previously, it had been Rs. 23.08 lakh per annum and Rs. 20.8 lakh per annum respectively. As many as 459 students have secured placements with offers being rolled out by 137 recruiters. The top 50% of the students have bagged an average CTC (cost to company) of Rs. 28.9 lakh per annum, an 8.1% increase from last year’s. Last year, the placements were rolled out by 131 recruiters to 413 students. Then, the top 50% of the students bagged an average CTC of Rs. 26.69 lakh per annum. Announcing the success of the virtual placement drive, Debashish Chatterjee, Director, IIM-K, said that placement was a testimony to the resilience and competence of our students, alumni, faculty and administration. Consulting cluster He said 2020-21 would go down as a year of true achievement in the 25-year-history of the IIM-K. The competitive nature of the students and dynamic curriculum designed by the foremost thought leaders of the country give a cutting edge to our overall efforts to impart quality education and stay relevant with changing times, Prof. Chatterjee said. A press release said 32.7% of the offers have been rolled out by the consulting cluster this season, which is a 12.5% increase from last year’s. Some of the long-term collaborative recruiters in this domain that participated this time are Accenture Strategy, Bain & Co., BCG, Blue Yonder, Cognizant Business Consulting, Deloitte, EY, Infosys Consulting, IQVIA Consulting, Optum, PwC, Thoucentric, and ZS Associates. The banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) cluster has witnessed impressive growth in opportunities offered at the IIM-K. This year, 21.5% of the offers are made in the financial sector, with the majority being secured from reputed institutions including Axis Bank, Bank of America, BlackRock, Citi Bank, Deutsche Bank, Equirus Capital, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, ICICI Bank, IDFC First Bank, J.P.Morgan Chase & Co., State Street, and Yes Bank. The IIM-K has maintained its legacy of offering the most sought-after sales and marketing opportunities with around 15.25% of offers made by this cluster. The Information Technology and Analytics cluster contributed to offers from marquee recruiters such as American Express, Enphase Energy, Google, Fractal Analytics, Microsoft, Mphasis and Walmart Labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-secures-100-placement/article33918441.ece
24 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Women’s panel northern region office opens||“The Kerala Women’s Commission, like any organisation working for the emancipation of women, had to always face a lot of opposition and criticism. However, it has overcome many such challenges to achieve great heights,” said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Tuesday. He opened the northern regional office of the commission at the civil station in Kozhikode and launched the silver jubilee celebrations of the commission. The Chief Minister said the opening of the regional office to cater to the needs of women in the northern districts was the best way to begin the silver jubilee celebrations. He said the central regional office of the commission at Ernakulam was in the pipeline. A ‘world women’s conference’ would be held as part of the celebrations, he added. Releasing several publications of the commission, Mr. Vijayan said the ‘Women’s Directory’ that included all necessary contact numbers for women in distress was the first-of-its-kind in the country. A booklet on crimes against women and children and punishment for each offence, and another booklet on laws for the protection of women were also released on the occasion. Minister for Social Justice and Woman and Child Development K.K. Shylaja, in her presidential address, applauded the commission for its exemplary work and called upon the members to step up their work in various spheres. Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine said the panel had several limitations, yet it had played a major role in imparting a sense of safety among women in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-northern-region-office-opens/article33918451.ece
24 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daily TPR drops below 7% in Kozhikode||Daily test positivity rate in Kozhikode district dropped to 6.16% on Tuesday when 357 of the 5,788 samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Any rate of daily TPR below 5% is an indicator of low disease transmission, according to experts. There were 345 locally acquired infections. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 99 cases of local transmission, Panangad 24, and Chathamangalam 17. As many as 521 people recovered from the infection. The active caseload is 5,290.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-drops-below-7-in-kozhikode/article33918447.ece
24 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||One dead, three injured in fire at Kayalott house||Four in a family were found with serious burn injuries in a house at Kayalott in Chekyad panchayat in the early hours of Tuesday and were rushed to hospital. One of them, Thazhe Kiriyaparambath Raju, 48, died later in the day while his wife, Reena, and sons Stalish, 17, and Stefin, 14, are in a critical state. The four were discovered with burns by their neighbours who heard noises and checked on them around 2.30 a.m. on Tuesday to find the house on fire. The fire was doused with the help of fire service personnel and the four victims were rushed to a private hospital in Panoor, Kannur. They were later shifted to the Government Medical College and a private hospital in Kozhikode, considering their serious condition. The Valayam police, who are handling the investigation, said one of the rooms in the house was completely burnt and household equipment was damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-dead-three-injured-in-fire-at-kayalott-house/article33918452.ece
24 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Level crossing to be closed||To take up urgent maintenance work, the level crossing gate at the Varakkal temple at West Hill Yard would be closed from 8 a.m. on February 26 to 6 p.m. on February 27, a press release said here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/level-crossing-to-be-closed/article33918445.ece
24 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||RI for mother, stepfather in abuse case||The Kozhikode Fast Track Special Court here on Tuesday sentenced eight persons, including the stepfather and mother of a 13-year-old girl, to rigorous imprisonment in the case of sexually exploiting her at Mukkom 14 years ago. Writing the judgment on Tuesday, Judge S.R. Syamlal awarded seven years’ imprisonment to the mother, who was named the first accused, and 10 years to each of the others. The mother was also fined Rs. 10,000 and others Rs. 35,000 each. The compensation will be paid to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ri-for-mother-stepfather-in-abuse-case/article33918446.ece
24 February 2021||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||430 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 430 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 415 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 26 was yet to be identified. Among the local bodies,  The disease claimed four more lives in the district and the victims were identified as a 64-year-old Aranmula native, a 91-year-old from Ranni Angadi, a 73-year-old Adoor native and a 55-year-old Kalanjoor native. With 688 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,852 active cases. 389 in Kottayam As many as 389 persons tested positive in Kottayam. Of the fresh cases, 383 persons contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 47 children and 65 persons aged above 60. With 50 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Vakathanam with 31 cases. With 377 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,173 active cases.  (With input from Kottayam bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/430-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article33918509.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pongala: COVID rules to be strictly followed||COVID-19 protocols will be enforced strictly during the Attukal Pongala, said District Collector Navjot Khosa here on Tuesday. She appealed to the public to cooperate with the arrangements put in place by the district administration in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Ms. Khosa said. The Collector was reviewing the COVID-19 prevention measures at the temple and its surroundings. The Pongala is on Saturday. In the wake of the pandemic situation, people should avoid offering Pongala by roadsides and in public places. The temple administration should also ensure this, the Collector said. The Pongala will be offered only at the main hearth (‘pandara aduppu’) on the temple premises. Only minimum number of people should take part in the ritual by observing physical distancing and other COVID-appropriate behaviour, she said.  Physical distancing Those offering Pongala at their houses should also maintain physical distancing. They should also avoid visiting the temple in groups after offering Pongala at home, Ms. Khosa said. The Collector directed the temple administration to make sure that those visiting the temple for daily rituals and other events did not crowd together. Body temperature checks and use of sanitisers at the entry points to the temple should continue till the last day of the annual festival. Those coming to offer prayers should not stand together in groups. Children below the age of 10 should not be brought to the temple to the extent possible. Six sectoral magistrates had been posted on special duty in the temple surroundings to ensure compliance with COVID-19 guidelines. Police personnel too had been deployed for regulating crowds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pongala-covid-rules-to-be-strictly-followed/article33918985.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rahul mounts pre-poll attack on LDF||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi came down heavily on the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government for “wrecking the livelihoods of the fishing community and the career prospects of the youth in the State”. The CPI(M)-led government’s term is also marked by unabashed nepotism that saw jobs being appropriated for the coalition loyalists, he has said. People’s manifesto Addressing a huge gathering on the Shanghumughom beach on Tuesday evening as part of the valedictory of the Aishwarya Kerala Yatra led by Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, the former Congress president made an impassioned pitch to bring the United Democratic Front (UDF) back to power by promising welfare schemes as part of a ‘people’s manifesto’ that included the NYAY (Nyuntam Aay Yojana) minimum income guarantee scheme and cashless treatment and insurance for all. Mr. Gandhi blamed the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government for the agitation by job aspirants. “Despite being part of a dynamic State, Kerala’s youngsters find themselves struggling to find jobs. However, if you are one of their (LDF’s) people, every job is available for you. If you carry their flag, any amount of gold can be smuggled in. But, if you are a young Keralite, then you will have to protest and shout to earn your right,” he said. Referring to the row over the government’s deep-sea fishing contract, Mr. Gandhi accused the LDF of working to destroy the livelihood of the fisherfolk instead of helping them. Raising allegations of collusion between the LDF and the BJP, he wondered why the Central agencies refrained from “attacking the State government” in cases that even had a person who worked in the Chief Minister’s office getting arraigned. Mr. Chennithala, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, State Congress chief Mullappally Ramachandran, All India Congress Committee general secretaries K.C. Venugopal and Tariq Anwar, Shashi Tharoor, MP, UDF convener M.M. Hassan, Indian Union Muslim League general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, and Kerala Congress leader P.J. Joseph, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-mounts-pre-poll-attack-on-ldf/article33918522.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Insurance firm not to pay 463 Karunya claims||Reliance General Insurance Corporation Ltd. (RGICL) has won a favourable order from the National Grievances Redressal Committee (NGRC) that it is under no obligation to honour those medical reimbursement claims under the State government’s Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati (KASP) - Ayushman Bharat which are raised well beyond the timeline for claims adjudication. As many as 463 pending KASP claims of 2019 of empanelled public and private hospitals, amounting to Rs. 46,37,886, will not be honoured by the insurance company any more. In all these years of running health insurance schemes, this is the first time that the State has lost a case with the NGRC, it is pointed out. The State Grievances Redressal Committee (SGRC) had earlier directed the RGICL to pay up the reimbursement claims, raised by 12 empanelled hospitals in various districts. Software glitches had prevented them from submitting the claims on time was the argument raised by the hospitals. Of the 463 claims, 407 claims were rejected citing delay in submission. Of these, 137 claims amounting to Rs. 8,85,325 are of public sector hospitals and 270 claims amounting to Rs. 33,32,561 were submitted by private hospitals. Another 56 claims worth Rs. 4,20,000 had been submitted by Ahalia Foundation Eye Hospital, which the RGICL had rejected citing document manipulation. Violation of contract The RGICL submitted before the NGRC that the delay in claims submission and pre-authorisation by hospitals and the alleged manipulation of documents were violations of the contract executed between the insurance company and the State Health Agency (SHA) and the guidelines of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (ABPMJAY). According to the agreement executed between the SHA and the RGICL, the turnaround time laid down for submission of claims by hospitals to insurance companies is 24 hours, while pre-authorisations had to be submitted within five days of the patient’s admission. Following the request of the SHA, public hospitals were given relaxation in the turnaround time for claim submission by 15 days, yet they failed to raise claims on time. The SHA representative’s argument that software issues had resulted in the delay in raising claims was not accepted by the NGRC, which pointed out that during the same period, the hospitals had submitted other claims using the same software This favourable verdict won by the insurance company from the NGRC will set a precedent because there are thousands of old pending claims with public hospitals, all of which may suffer a similar fate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/insurance-firm-not-to-pay-463-karunya-claims/article33918529.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree goods in Supplyco||Kudumbashree products have reached shelves of 77 Supplyco retail outlets in the State. In a convergence programme with Supplyco, food products manufactured by Kudumbashree entrepreneurs are being sold through Supplyco super markets, hyper markets, and people’s bazars across the State. Following an agreement between the Kudumbashree and Supplyco, Kudumbashree members have identified 400 Supplyco super markets, hyper markets, and people’s bazars, visited 395 of them in recent days, and received nod for shelf space for Kudumbashree products in 315 of them. Shelf space provided initially at Supplyco’s two hypermarkets at Vazhuthacaud and Sreekaryam in the city has now been extended to 77 stores across Kerala within two weeks. The Supplyco stores are expected to be a huge support to the Kudumbashree’s marketing mechanism. Kottayam So far, Kottayam has the maximum Supplyco outlets where Kudumbashree products are being provided shelf space – 19. Ernakulam with 12 outlets and Idukki with 10 are close behind. The Kudumbashree targets sale of its products through 500 Supplyco outlets in the first phase. Employment for 4,000 women is expected to be generated through this. There are more than 1,600 Supplyco outlets across the State. Each outlet is supplied products by nearly five Kudumbashree units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-goods-in-supplyco/article33918981.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF at sea over foreign trawler issue||The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation’s (KSINC) controversial agreement with the U.S.-based EMCC International to build a fishing fleet to trawl the deep-seas off the coast of Kerala appears to have landed the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in political dire straits ahead of the Assembly elections. On Tuesday, the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC) slammed the accord as surreptitious, arbitrary, and signed without any thought for the fishing community’s welfare. Fr. Eugine H. Pereira of the Latin Archdiocese of Thiruvananthapuram said the Church saw a deep plot to deprive fishers of their livelihood. Their wrath would reflect in the Assembly polls, he said. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition has seized the dispute to attack the government. It also looked to cement its wavering support among fisherfolk. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will interact with fishers at a venue the near Thangassery bus terminal in Kollam at 8 a.m. on Wednesday, said District Congress Committee president Bindu Krishna. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded a judicial inquiry into the “deceitful” initiative. He announced a coastal campaign to spotlight the government's “betrayal”. Revolutionary Socialist Party leader Shibu Baby John and Congress MP T.N. Pratapan would spearhead the initiative. Hartal The United Democratic Front would observe a fisheries hartal on February 27. Mr. Chennithala accused the government of conspiring with EMMC to sidestep the ban on foreign trawlers on the pretext of modernising the State’s ageing fishing fleet. It did so by nudging the KSINC to contract EMCC to build 400 deep-sea trawlers and seven motherships in the country’s shipyards instead of importing the equipment from abroad. The government had configured the scheme to help the foreign firm false flag its prospective deep-sea operations as a domestic fleet to dodge the embargo, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-at-sea-over-foreign-trawler-issue/article33918519.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Government committed to fishers’ welfare: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday reiterated his government’s commitment to the fisher community. Inaugurating online projects for Rs. 34.17 crore at the Vizhinjam, Kollam, Alappuzha, Beypore, and Azheekal ports, the Chief Minister said there had been no change in the government stance of standing with fishermen. The government, he said, had a clear position on deep-sea fishing. The government was improving ports and fishing areas. Its focus was not on allegations, but implementing development initiatives, he said . With an alternative approach to globalisation, the government’s development agenda was founded on social justice and included all people. Land acquisition and a permanent electronic data interchange (EDI) were inaugurated by Mr. Vijayan at Beypore. Land acquired Land to the extent of 3.85 acres was acquired at a cost of Rs. 28 crore. The permanent EDI, set up at a cost of Rs. 32 lakh, will facilitate smooth cargo movement by foreign vessels. At the Tangassery harbour in Kollam, a mechanical engineering workshop was constructed at a cost Rs. 3.9 crore for taking up maintenance of water transport vehicles. A maritime training centre built at Alappuzha at a cost of Rs. 1.21 crore will provide training for acquiring licences for tourist boats and for fishermen. At Vizhinjam, Mr. Vijayan inaugurated a crew changing facilitation centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/government-committed-to-fishers-welfare-cm/article33918984.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Surgical gastro dept. celebrates 10th anniversary of rare surgery||The Surgical Gastroenterology (SGE) Department at the Government Medical College Hospital here is celebrating the 10th year of the first surgery it performed for Carcinoid syndrome with Carcinoid heart disease, which also turned out to be the first such surgery in the country. The 39-year-old housewife had come to the hospital with flushing attacks and swelling of the feet and face where she was diagnosed as having Carcinoid syndrome with Carcinoid valvular heart disease producing cardiac failure. Slow cancer Carcinoid tumours are a type of slow-growing cancer that can arise in several places throughout the body. “In the case of this patient, the condition was more complicated as she had developed carcinoid heart disease – the hormones secreted by the tumours in the liver damaged the tricuspid or right valve of the heart, requiring prior Tricuspid valve replacement surgery. Without replacing the tricuspid valve, we could not proceed to remove the tumour in the liver, ” said the doctors in the treating team. The patient underwent two major surgeries, the rare Tricuspid valve replacement making way for the safe conduct of the liver and intestinal surgeries to remove the tumours located there six months later. The patient recovered smoothly after surgery and the convalescent period was uneventful. Ten years later, the patient remains symptom-free and is leading a normal life. “She is a living example of the dedication and professional competence of the late Dr. Rajashekharan, the cardiac surgeon who took up the challenge of carrying out the rare valve replacement,” said one of the doctors in the team. The case was presented in the Asia Pacific NET conference with accolades aplenty and published in the Journal of Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology. Last mile The department along with its sister specialities is now in the last mile preparations for relaunching its liver transplant programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surgical-gastro-dept-celebrates-10th-anniversary-of-rare-surgery/article33918983.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||93% RTC schedules hit by token stir||As much as 93% of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s schedules did not ply during the 24-hour strike since Monday midnight by the Indian National Trade Union Congress-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) and the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh-affiliated Kerala State Transport Employees Sangh (KSTES), two recognised unions of the public utility. Of the 5,829 schedules operated daily, the transport undertaking could operate only 413 schedules (7%) on Tuesday. In the south zone based in Thiruvananthapuram, only 152 schedules were operated. The Central zone based in Ernakulam ran 131 schedules and Kozhikode-based north zone ran 130 schedules. In 45 depots across the State (out of 94), the KSRTC could not operate even one service. The KSRTC operated only 3,800 schedules on Monday. Office-goers and students, especially from rural areas, were the worst hit. Private stage carriers came in handy for the commuters in three major cities. The KSRTC operated non-stop Buses on Demand (BonD) services much to the relief of the office-goers. The unions are demanding withdrawal of the move to float KSRTC-SWIFT, an independent company to operate long-distance buses using contract staff, immediate revision of salary, disbursal of nine instalments of Dearness Allowance, takeover of pension, revival of the dying-in-harness scheme, and an end to punitive transfers. Although the CITU-affiliated Kerala State Road Transport Employees Association, the AITUC-backed union, and other unions did not support the strike, the TDF and the KSTES claimed that the token strike was a big success’. No untoward incident was reported. The employees took out marches in the depots and in the State capital. KSRTC officials said the services would be restored by Wednesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/93-rtc-schedules-hit-by-token-stir/article33918518.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State will seek more vaccine stocks: CM||The State government will exert more pressure on the Centre to allocate additional vaccine stocks for Kerala, where a chunk of the population still remains susceptible to SARS-CoV-2, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday. Vaccination can be expedited only as and when the Centre releases vaccine stocks to States. Kerala has already taken up the issue with the Union Health Ministry and will try harder to secure more vaccines for the State early, he said. Mr. Vijayan was interacting with doctors and other public health experts as part of the programme ‘Navakeralam CM Consult’ here on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Kerala’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 cases rose to 10,40,903 cases with the State reporting 4,034 new cases on Tuesday when 69,604 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate dipped to 5.80% on the day. With 4,823 persons recovering, the active case pool dropped to 54,665 cases. The total recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began thus rose to 9,81,835 cases. The addition of 14 new deaths that took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities in the State on Saturday has taken the State’s cumulative COVID toll till date to 4,119 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-will-seek-more-vaccine-stocks-cm/article33918525.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||255 COVID cases in capital||The district’s active COVID-19 caseload continued to nosedive as it reached 3,591 on Tuesday. As many as 367 people recovered from the disease, even as 255 fresh cases were reported during the last 24 hours. The death toll stood at 815. While almost all cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection, four health workers are among them. The district administration placed 1,477 people under quarantine, while 2,110 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated self-isolation period without exhibiting any symptom. There were currently 23,731 people who were quarantined in their houses and 54 in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/255-covid-cases-in-capital/article33918986.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KFC loan assets cross Rs. 5,000 crore||The Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) has surpassed the milestone of Rs. 5,000 crore in loan assets. KFC’s loan assets reached Rs. 5,022 crore on December 31, registering a 176% increase from the previous year’s Rs. 2,838 crore. “The KFC has achieved the highest growth among State financial corporations in the country. The achievement is facilitated by fresh loan sanctions of Rs. 3,385 crore so far in the current fiscal,” KFC Chairman and Managing D Tomin J. Thachankari said on Tuesday. The total loan disbursals of Rs. 798 crore during the previous year has gone up to Rs. 2,935 crore during the current year. The loan repayments also show an upward trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfc-loan-assets-cross-rs-5000-crore/article33918954.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Involve private sector in vaccination: CII||A multipronged public private model wherein private hospitals could administer vaccines so as to cover maximum population in the shortest possible span has been mooted by the Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) Kerala chapter. The speed of administering the vaccine can be greatly enhanced if the private sector is also given the permission to vaccinate the masses. The CII has requested the Kerala government to recommend this to the Central government, Thomas John Muthoot, Chairman, CII Kerala State Council, said on Tuesday.  The entry of private hospitals will help ramp up the vaccination drive, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/involve-private-sector-in-vaccination-cii/article33918953.ece
24 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrested||The City police have apprehended a double-murder convict who had jumped parole while undergoing imprisonment. The police arrested Hashim, 46, of Valiyathura, who was involved in peddling ganja, from near Valiyasala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested/article33918982.ece
24 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination drive for polling officers begins||The COVID-19 vaccination drive for polling officials on duty for the forthcoming Assembly elections began here on Tuesday. Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena received the first jab. He said all polling officials would be vaccinated before the elections. District Collectors had been instructed to prepare a database of polling officials and post it on the COVID portal, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-for-polling-officers-begins/article33918523.ece
24 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Pinarayi launches K-DISC’s Mazhavillu project||Mazhavillu, a project envisaged by the State government for inculcating an aptitude in science in students through innovative experiments, was inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday. The project is implemented by K-DISC (Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council) with the support of local self- government institutions. “The Mazhavillu project will develop curiosity, critical mind and social responsibility in children,” the Chief Minister said. The idea of Mazhavillu was evolved following the success of Manchadi, a programme for improving the aptitude of children in mathematics. It was meant for inculcating an analytical and innovative mind in children. In the first phase, one centre each in five districta have been selected for the programme. Government Arts College, Thiruvananthapuram (Thiruvananthapuram Corporation); Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam (Cochin Corporation); Kerala Forest Research Institute, Peechi (Pananchery panchayat); Integrated Rural Technology Centre, Mundur (Puthuppathiyaram panchayat) and Brennen College, Kannur (Dharmadam panchayat) are the local partners of the project. Training  Under the project, students will get training in scientific ideas, experiments and innovations. They can choose subjects like environment, agriculture and astronomy for their studies. In Thrissur, students will get a chance to pursue studies, mainly in environment and agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-launches-k-discs-mazhavillu-project/article33918952.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Enthusiastic crowd||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enthusiastic-crowd/article33918988.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ettumanur arat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ettumanur-arat/article33918513.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Riding on tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/riding-on-tradition/article33918957.ece
24 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Money power influencing elections, says J.C. Diwakar Reddy||“There is no democracy left in the country, elections at all levels are now influenced by distribution of money for each vote,” said former Anantapur MP and Telugu Desam Party leader J.C. Diwakar Reddy. During his 78th birthday celebrations at his house here on Tuesday, he told mediapersons that none was looking at development. “It is no more relevant if Y.S. Jagan has done something or N. Chandrababu Naidu has done anything. People are bothered only about getting money for the vote they cast,” alleged Mr. Diwakar Reddy. Giving the reason for the TDP losing in Kuppam during the recent panchayat elections, he said Mr. Chandrababu Naidu had developed Kuppam in the best possible way, but the voters were lured by the money spent by the ruling party, hence it was the victory of money power, Mr. Diwakar Reddy opined. He also alleged that people’s perception of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was that he was earning Rs. 300 crore a day and that none could match his party in influencing the voters. “I am not sure if it is true that Mr. Jagan earns so much, but none can withstand such money power in elections,” he added. ‘No exceptions’ Explaining his experience during elections, the former MP said even friends and close people were no exception to the influence of money. “They would tell me that the opposition was ready to pay this much, ‘you are paying my neighbour, why not me?’ ” People were not bothered about what a party had done for the development of their city. “They only ask, ‘you have given a job to my brother, what have you done by which I personally benefit?’ ” Mr. Reddy said. During the recent panchayat elections, caste did not play a role, it was only money and the alleged police excesses that helped the YSRCP win, he opined and predicted that things would not be different in the municipal or MPTC and ZPTC elections. About the murder of an advocate couple in Peddapalli, he called for instant justice instead of dragging the case for years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/money-power-influencing-elections-says-jc-diwakar-reddy/article33918947.ece
24 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, son electrocuted in Anantapur district||A woman and here son died of electrocution when they came in contact with an overhead 11-kV electric wire that snapped at Varadaipalli, on Tuesday. According to APSPDCL Superintendent Engineer S. Varakumar, mother-son duo Venkatalakshmi, 60, and Venkataswamy, 30, accidentally stepped on the wire and dragged it for some distance. Both of them were engulfed in flames, and though the villagers rushed to their rescue and doused the fire, it was too late. According to the police, APSPDCL officers informed them about the incident. sWhile the police began an investigation on the spot, the APSPDCL sent a team to inquire into the incident and officials said action would be taken against those responsible. The transmission line is usually checked every month for maintenance. The deceased, hailing from Varadaipalli in Peddapappur mandal, were on their way to collect cow dung for a religious ceremony in a village temple. The residents alleged that they had telephoned the SPDCL helpline and complained about the wire, but did not get a proper response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-son-electrocuted/article33918926.ece
24 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People will teach TDP a lesson’||People will teach the Telugu Desam Party and the J.C. Diwakar Reddy’s family a befitting lesson for making unpalatable comments against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, said Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana. At a press conference in Amaravati on Tuesday, Mr. Sankaranarayana, reacting to the comments made by the former Anantapur MP on Mr. Jagan’s daily income, said, “People are aware of how much you have amassed and how did you cheat the exchequer in various ways and they will teach a lesson to you and your party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-will-teach-tdp-a-lesson/article33918945.ece
24 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disciplinary proceedings against Preeti Sudan begin||The State government has initiated disciplinary proceedings against 1983 batch Andhra Pradesh cadre IAS officer Preeti Sudan who is facing charges of violating the provisions of All India Service (AIS) Rules, 1968 in conversion of her extra ordinary leave (EOL) period into earned leave (EL)/ half pay leave (HPL). She allegedly influenced her sub-ordinates without the concurrence of the State government and the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) of the Centre. Reply sought Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, in G.O. RT No. 337, has instructed Ms. Sudan to submit her version within two weeks. “Further action will be taken on the basis of available material, if reply is not furnished,” the G.O. said. Ms. Sudan, while working as the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation, was granted EOL from March 1, 2005 to February 28, 2006 for joining her family in the U.S.A. In a letter dated June 25, 2005, she sought permission to utilise her stay in the U.S.A. to pursue a study with the Development Research Unit of the World Bank. The DoPT conveyed ‘no objection’ for extending the EOL from March 1, 2006 to May 31, 2006 on the ground of ‘personal reasons’ in continuation of her assignment with the World Bank and also accorded ex-post facto sanction to the EOL from March 1, 2005 to February 28, 2006, excluding the period of assignment with the World Bank. Ms. Sudan further requested the period of EOL be regularised as eligible earned leave/half pay leave as per the AIS rules. The pension contribution was calculated and she was remitted Rs. 37,164. The DoPT has informed the State government that the officer was requested to remit the pension contribution for six months (from October 1, 2005 - March 31, 2006) while on EOL from March 1 , 2005 to May 31 , 2006 by treating her World Bank stint as a long-term assignment. She was also requested to convert the EOL from March 1, 2005 to Mayt 31, 2006 as EL/HPL, excluding the period of her assignment with the World Bank. In a letter dated February 25, 2020, Ms. Sudan , who is now Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, said that regularisation of leave period other than the period of foreign assignment was an administrative matter, and it should not be calculated as per her service book. Accordingly, the EOL was converted into EL/HPL which was due and admissible. The copy was enclosed to Chief Secretary, she said. The office memorandum no. 19011/1/2017, dated February 12, 2020, used by the Under Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, is without competency and it was issued under the influence of MoS who was the Secretary to Government of India. It is the State government, with the concurrence of the Centre, can convert the leaves already sanctioned, said the Chief Secretary. Provisions violated: CS “Under the Sub-rule (2B) of Rule 3 of AIS (Conduct) Rules, 1968, every member of the service shall not misuse his position as civil servant and not take decisions to derive financial or material benefits to self, family or friends. Therefore, Ms. Sudan has violated the provisions in converting EOL into EL/HPL through office memorandum by influencing her sub-ordinates without competency and without the concurrence of the cadre controlling authority,” explained the Chief Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disciplinary-proceedings-against-preeti-sudan-begin/article33918931.ece
24 February 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC polls: residents of Zone III pour out woes to politicians||Despite being in the heart of the city and having basic amenities, a number of civic issues plague the localities in Zone III (Asilmetta Zone), of the GVMC. The zone with 14 wards (from Ward number No. 14 to 27), has approximately 2.60 lakh voters. With municipal polls just two weeks to go, members from various political parties who have been campaigning in the zone are being urged to resolve long-pending issues Locals from Vasuvanipalem, Peda Jalaripeta, Appughar and those living near the beach such as Lawsons Bay Colony have been demanding that the politicians take up beach cleaning activities. The Peda Jalaripeta Beach is always littered with waste and debris. The locals claim that despite repeated requests, the wastes are being drained into the sea and major part of the waste comprise plastic, they alleged. “Most of the children from our colonies play at the beach. But the area is surrounded by wastes and emanates bad odour. We cannot even enter the water for swimming. We have been urging politicians to ensure that the waste water is treated before being released into the sea,” said V. Kalyani, a resident of Peda Jalaripeta. There are more than 20 drain release points from Fishing Harbour to Tenneti Park, out of which most of the sewage is not treated, she said. The fishermen community also said that there is need of additional community toilets in the locality. They also brought the issue of ring nets before the political parties during their campaigning. Hawkers zone A large number of street vendors reside in the MVP Colony and run their business on footpaths in MVP, Waltair, Lawsons Bay, Double Road, Venkojipalem and a few other areas. S. Raju, who sells coconuts, said that a dedicated hawkers zone is required for their living, as only a certain number of vendors are allowed at MVP Circle. A huge number of students reside in MVP Colony and many street vendors are dependant on various businesses, he said.  Underground drainage A resident of JR Nagar and vice-president of Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS), K.S.R. Murthy, said that though there is no dearth of basic infrastructure, the officials should improve the functioning of UGD (underground drainage) and drainage clearances should be done regularly. He said that the park development project in their locality has been much delayed.  Water woes With the growing population, the ever-widening gap between supply and demand of drinking water is being pointed out by many citizens from localities such as Shivajipalem, Waltair, H.B. Colony and a few other areas. Residents also complain about rain battered roads, which are filled with potholes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-polls-residents-of-zone-iii-pour-out-woes-to-politicians/article33919012.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two businessmen from State die in car accident near Ramagundam||Two Andhra Pradesh-based gold ornaments traders died in a car accident which occurred on the outskirts of Malaypalli village, Ramagundam, on Tuesday early morning. The driver of the vehicle and another person in the car suffered injuries. The two victims were identified as Kotha Srinivas (23) and Kotha Rambabu (45). The two brothers from Narsaraopet, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, make gold ornaments based on orders and hand it over to clients. On Monday night too, they started from their native place at around 10.30 p.m. to deliver the ornaments at various places in Telangana. Ramagundam Circle Inspector T Karunakar Rao said that the driver of the vehicle fell asleep while driving, leading to the accident. While Srinivas and Rambabu died, their relative G Santosh and the driver T Santosh escaped with injuries. The police said that condition of the two injured was not serious. A case was registered against the driver. Gold ornaments weighing about a kg were recovered from the scene of the accident. The made-to-order ornaments were to be supplied to the local jewellers, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-ap-traders-die-in-car-accident/article33918870.ece
24 February 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Truck goes up in flames||A truck carrying a consignment of tiles went up in flames near Guvvalacheruvu check post in Ramapuram mandal of the district on Tuesday. Police attributed the accident to over-heating of the engine. The vehicle was coming from Gujarat and was proceeding to Puducherry when it was suddenly caught fire. Noticing smoke emanating from the engine, the driver and cleaner parked it on the roadside and jumped out of the vehicle. Fire tenders rushed to the spot to douse the fire, but not before the entire consignment was gutted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/truck-goes-up-in-flames/article33918971.ece
24 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ten hostels to be opened for children of migrant families||The Education Department has decided to open ten seasonal hostels, providing care, accommodation and education to children whose parents migrate to East Godavari district in search of livelihood during the summer. Till date, as many as 523 children (aged below 15) have been found in the stretch of five mandals during the survey. In summer, the families leave their villages in search of livelihood in the fields of fishing, agriculture, road works and brick kilns, and leave their children under the care of the elders. “The seasonal hostels should be opened in February itself, providing care, accommodation and education for the children belonging to migrant families,” East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told officials from DRDA, Sarva Siksha Abhiyan and Department of Labour. In the first phase, as many ten seasonal hostels, each accommodating 50 children, would be opened in Kakinada Urban (two hostels), Routhulapudi area (three hostels) and each in Tuni, Uppada-Kothapalem and Jaggampeta. District Education Officer S. Abraham told The Hindu , “The survey to identify the children in need of care and accommodation will be intensified with the support of the Village Volunteers in the summer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ten-hostels-to-be-opened-for-children-of-migrant-families/article33918250.ece
24 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavams at Srisailam from March 4 to 14||Municipal elections on March 10 and Mahasivaratri on March 11 will likely put pressure on various departments in ensuring the smooth conduct of both events at Srisailam. This was discussed at length at a review meeting here on Tuesday. District Collector G. Veerapandian and Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Devasthanam Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao along with other officials chalked out a plan for taking up the works needed for the large number of devotees expected to converge on Srisailam hill shrine from March 4. The Collector asked the EO to invite tenders immediately so that works could be completed latest by March 6 in all respects, when the numbers are likely to rise exponentially. Conducting the bhramotsavams conforming to COVID-19 protocols was stressed at the meeting and a team of 200 health personnel will be located at 32 places and five ambulances kept ready for the purpose. Parking lots also have been asked to be identified to cater to at least 30,000 vehicles coming from five States to the temple during this time. About 30 lakh laddus would also be prepared for distribution/sale as prasadam during this period. Arjitha sevas suspended Mr. Rama Rao said no ‘arjitha seva’ would be conducted during the bhrahmotsavam, but other rituals would be gone through and all arrangements would be made for barricading, formation of queue lines and providing food and shelter for the staff posted here. While the TTD would present silk robes to the presiding deities on March 7, the State government would present ‘pattu vastrams’ on March 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavams-at-srisailam-from-march-4-to-14/article33918830.ece
24 February 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to take jab from today||Police personnel, who could not take the vaccine during the second phase of the vaccination programme because they were preoccupied with providing security for gram panchayat elections, are set to take the jab from Wednesday. “Now that the polls are over, police personnel will be given top priority in the administration of vaccine,” Nellore District Medical and Health Officer S.Rajyalakshmi said. Six session sites have been set up in Nellore and one each in the five revenue division headquarters for covering the personnel. Dr. Rajyalakshmi said 76% of the 29,000 health workers had been given the vaccine in the first phase and 55.14% of the 29,880 staff members from the departments of Revenue, Municipal Administration and Panchayatraj have been covered so far in the second phase. The officer expects the drive to pick up pace as the elections are now over. The health administration planned to cover over 4,000 police personnel during the special vaccination drive in the district. In Prakasam district, 57.52% of the 24,918 health workers were given the first dose of vaccine. As many as 9,417 of the targeted 26,377 revenue staff members and 2,414 of the targeted 7,927 Municipal Administration have been covered so far. Meanwhile, active cases came down to 104 in the two coastal districts as only eight new cases were registered in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-to-take-jab-from-today/article33918927.ece
24 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada-bound bus tips over; passengers safe||Passengers of a Vijayawada-bound private bus had a narrow escape after it hit a culvert and fell on its side in the lower Nallamalla forests near Giddalur in Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam district in the early hours of Tuesday. Twenty-six persons were travelling by the bus from Kurnool when the accident occurred. Fourteen injured Fourteen persons were injured. A police party rushed to the spot and shifted the injured to the Government General Hospital at Giddalur. After first aid, the injured were later shifted to a private hospital in Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narrow-escape-for-bus-passengers-in-ap/article33918181.ece
24 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal youth fatally attacked in Prakasam||A 20-year-old tribal youth was fatally attacked at a remote hamlet, Thumalabailu Chenchugudem, near Dornala, in Prakasam district on Tuesday. The youth, Dasari Mogenna, with bleeding injuries was rushed to the Government Hospital at Dornala after being hit with an arrow. He succumbed to his injuries while he was being shifted to the Government Hospital at Markapur later for better treatment. Police are on the lookout for one Venkanna, also a tribal, in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-youth-fatally-attacked-in-prakasam/article33918965.ece
24 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||26 injured as TDP, YSRCP activists clash in Srikakulam||Twenty-six persons were injured and many vehicles were damaged when leaders and activist of the YSRCP and Telugu Desam Party clashed at Budagatlapalem village of Etcherla mandal in Srikakulam district on Tuesday. Some of the TDP leaders reportedly teased YSRCP activists after TDP-backed candidate Allupalli Rambabu won the election, which allegedly led to the violence. Many vehicles, houses, utensils were damaged in the violence. The police deployed special forces to bring the situation under control. Addressing a media conference, Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar urged people to maintain restraint since defeat and victory were part of elections. He said the situation in Chillapeta Rajam village and other panchayats was under control. He alleged that miscreants attacked even special police forces in Chillapeta Rajam village. Mr. Bardar said that nearly 20 trouble-makers were identified so far and special teams had been formed to nab them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/26-injured-as-tdp-ysrcp-activists-clash-in-srikakulam/article33918183.ece
24 February 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||A do-or-die battle for TDP||With the conclusion of the gram panchayat and ward member elections, the stage is now set for the much-awaited elections to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). The corporation will be going to polls after 14 years, with the last election being held in February 2007. With the YSR Congress Party going to corporation polls for the first time, things are hotting up in the city. With the YSRCP outsmarting arch rival TDP in the gram panchayat elections, it is a do-or-die battle for the TDP in the GVMC polls. In 2007, the TDP was edged out by the Congress with a margin of about four seats. This time, the TDP will be fighting the YSRCP, which is currently riding the waves. The advantage that the TDP got is that in the last Assembly elections in 2019, the party won four of seven constituencies, and the all four are in GVMC limits. But the question is whether its elected MLAs would be able to capitalise on it. Already Visakhapatnam (South) TDP MLA Vasupalli Ganesh has expressed his affinity towards the YSRCP and is campaigning for the party, and Visakhapatnam (North) TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao had recently forwarded his resignation letter to the Speaker. The other two party MLAs are Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu from Visakhapatnam East and P.G.V.R. Naidu (Gana Babu) from Visakhapatnam (West).  The civic body election is quite different to other elections. Here, the corporators are directly in touch with the people of the respective wards on a daily basis. Time gap But the time gap of 14 years has distanced many of them from the voters, and there has been a communication gap. In ward elections, the reputation of the corporator and his past service record work well. But due to the time gap and the council being dissolved 14 years ago, there is a void between the elected representative and the electorate, which has to be re-established again, said a former TDP corporator. The YSRCP on the other hand not only enjoys the advantage of being the ruling party, but has also been among people with its numerous welfare schemes. With the impact of the Congress, the BJP-JSP combine and Left parties being doubtful, it is an all-out battle between YSRCP and the TDP. The number of wards have gone up to 98 from 72, after delimitation and this has shrunk the electorate in a number of wards, and poll analysts say that it might give the YSRCP an edge. As per the revised delimitation, 90 wards have been carved out for 15 lakh population and eight wards have been earmarked for remaining four lakh people with 50,000 per ward. The total electorate as per the March 2020 list is 17.52 lakh, including 8.73 lakh women and 126 people belonging to the third gender. The total number of nominations filed are 1,361, ballot boxes assigned are 2,200 and polling stations are 1,712. Of the 98 wards, 27 are unreserved, 29 are for women (general), 17 are BC (general), 16 BC (women), 4 SC (general), 4 SC (women) and 1 ST (general).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-elections-a-do-or-die-battle-for-telugu-desam-party/article33918263.ece
24 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD not to entertain refund requests from donors||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to freeze the consent offer provided to the donors of ‘Ananda Nilayam - Anantha Swarnamayam’ scheme. The decision comes in the wake of isolated requests still pouring in for taking back the donated gold even after the lapse of 10 years since disbanding of the project. The scheme was conceived in 2008 to facilitate gold-coating of the sanctum sanctorum of the Lord Venkateswara temple here. The first phase was planned to cover the outer walls (from Ghata mani mandapam to Hundi) and in the second phase the walls inside the Vaikunta Dwaram. The cost of the project, pegged at Rs. 100 crore, was to be raised through donations in the form of gold and cash. The then TTD Chairman Adikesavulu Naidu mobilised about 94.809 kilograms of gold and around Rs. 12.87 crore cash for the project. Guidelines framed However, the High Court, while dealing with a batch of writ petitions against the TTD in 2010, had set aside the gold coating decision and directed it to not proceed further. Subsequently in 2011, the TTD Specified Authority decided to return the gold and cash to the donors by framing certain guidelines. It was decided to withdraw all the privileges to those taking back donations by obtaining consent letters from them; to deposit the donated gold/cash in the TTD coffers or use them in the making of ornaments for the temples under its fold with regard to those averse to the idea of taking back their donations; and transfer the cash deposits to other trusts and schemes as desired by them – all by way of accepting consent letters. While 2.999 kg of gold was returned to the donors on request, 26.984 kg was diverted to the TTD treasury in accordance with the consent letters given by 26 other donors. Similarly, Rs. 1 crore was returned to the donors, while Rs. 7.255 cr. was transferred to other trusts as per the wish of three other donors. At present, the TTD has 60.288 kg of gold and Rs. 4.612 crore donated under the scheme left with it. Meanwhile, after a lapse of over 10 years, four of the gold donors of whom three are already enjoying the benefits extended to them in the capacity of donors have requested the TTD to return their donated gold. The TTD board, after discussing the issue, felt that the ‘consent offer’ cannot be open-ended and resolved to return the gold/cash donations only to the donors who have not availed themselves of any privileges till date and not to entertain any claims hereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-not-to-entertain-refund-requests-from-donors/article33918948.ece
24 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR General Manager inspects projects in Guntakal division||South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager Gajanan Mallya inspected the various ongoing projects in the Gudur-Renigunta and Tirupati-Katpadi sections of Guntakal division and expressed satisfaction at the pace and quality of the work. As part of the annual inspection of the section undertaken on Tuesday along with Divisional Railway Manager (Guntakal division) Alok Tiwari, he inspected the safety aspects at the level crossing gate between Kondagunta and Vendodu stations. Later, he reviewed the passenger amenities, inspected the Station Manager’s office, booking office, circulating area in Venkatagiri station and interacted with track maintenance staff. Mr. Mallya declared open the natural water cooler facility facility brought out for the benefit of passengers. At the level crossing gate between Yathalur and Venkatagiri stations, the General Manager conducted a speed test of 110 kmph to examine the sectional speed capacity to run trains with enhanced speed in this crucial section. He also inspected the operational facilities at the new crossing station being developed at Tiruchanur and the minor and major bridge on Krishnapuram river at Rallayeru. With Rachagunneri, Vendodu and Chandragiri declared Net Zero Energy Stations, Mr. Mallya inaugurated 5 Kwp, 10KWp and 15 Kwp solar plants respectively at the stations. He also planted saplings at Pakala station, as part of the larger plan to usher in green environment. Mr. Mallya inspected the Road Over Bridge (ROB) in Tirupati - Katpadi section and the new crossing station at Bommasamudram. Principal Chief Electrical Engineer Somesh Kumar was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-gm-inspects-projects-in-guntakal-division/article33918929.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Education a top priority of YSRCP govt.’||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday said infrastructure development works were initiated in 15,700 schools across the State in the first phase of ‘Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu’ programme, and so far works worth Rs. 2,570 crore had been completed. At a press conference, the Minister said the first phase would end in March. A sum of Rs. 245 crore was saved in the purchase of fans, furniture, green boards and other material by opting for reverse tendering. The second phase of the programme would be launched on April 1. The idea of the programme is to develop infrastructure facilities in 45,000 State-run schools in three phases, focussing on 10 main components, he said. The first phase, launched in June last year, would cover 15,700 schools with allocated funds of Rs. 3,669 crore. Works related to sanitation and ceiling fans had been fully completed, while cupboards had been purchased for 66% of the schools, 89% of the required green boards had been bought, 46% of the painting works had been done, 39% of the works related to drinking water supply were completed and 50% of the required smart TV sets put in place, he added. ‘Complete transparency’ For the first time, the government chose to do away with the role of contractors and instead, opted for a novel ‘social contract’ system by engaging members of the parents’ committee in making payments for the purchase of fans, furniture and green boards. Maintaining complete transparency, the material was purchased keeping in view the fact this was public money being spent, he said. The Minister said an action plan had been drawn up to complete the second phase of the programme by November this year. Quality in the material being bought and the works being implemented was key. The Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted the charm of the new-look schools to remain intact for at least 10-15 years. Tiles and granite was being used for flooring of the classrooms, he said, adding that the education sector was one of the top priorities of the YSR Congress government. Mr. Suresh said detailed information of the works implemented under Nadu-Nedu was available in the public domain. The scheme was one of its kind in the country and it had also attracted the attention of the Delhi Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia who had expressed his desire to visit A.P. to study the educational model here, the Minister added. Speaking about admissions in Degree colleges, the Minister said there was a 40% rise in admissions this year in the 1,336 government, private and aided colleges in the State. The admissions, done online this year, had enrolled 2.60 lakh students this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/education-a-top-priority-of-ysrcp-govt/article33918255.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. announces calendar for 23 welfare schemes||The State cabinet on Tuesday gave its approval to the ‘EBC Nestam’ scheme as part of which women in the age group of 45-60 years belonging to Economically Backward Classes category would be given a financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 per annum. The government would spend Rs. 670 crore on the scheme. The Cabinet has approved the calendar for the implementation of the ‘Navaratnalu’ schemes for the 2021–22 financial year and announced the schedule for the implementation of 23 welfare schemes and programmes. “The Cabinet also decided to implement the Jagananna Vasathi Deevena in April, benefiting more than 15.56 lakh students in the State. The Jagananna Vidya Deevena (total fee reimbursement) will be implemented in April, July, and December this year and in February 2022. Also, 42.34 lakh students will be benefited from the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka whioch will be implemented in June,” Information and Public Relations (I&PR) Minister Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani) said after the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. The Minister said interest free loans would be disbursed to DWCRA groups members in April and it would benefit 90.37 lakh women. Crop insurance, Matsyakara Bharosa, Rythu Bharosa, Kapu Nestam, Netanna Nestam, industrial incentives, payments to AgriGold victims, Jagananna Thodu, Amma vodi, will also be implemented, benifiting 5,08,08,220 people. “This apart, 5,69,81,184 beneficiaries would receive monthly social welfare pensions. YSR Law Nestam, Jagananna Goru Mudda, YSR Sampoorna Poshana, financial assistance to imams and mouzams, distribution of house sites, ration at the door steps will also be implemented,” he said. House site scheme The government would register the house sites in the name of identified beneficiaries after payment of just one rupee. The government would repay Rs. 50,000 of the total housing loan of Rs. 1.50 lakh availed by each beneficiary, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-announces-calendar-for-23-welfare-schemes/article33918939.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||25% of last week’s COVID cases came from Chittoor||The State reported one more death and 70 new COVID-19 cases in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The toll went up to 7,168, with the lone death being reported from Visakhapatnam district. The total caseload increased to 8,89,409, and the number of recoveries slightly came down to 8,81,666 as 84 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate stands at 99.13% and there were 575 active cases as of Monday morning. The number of tests conducted in the past day was 28,268 and 0.25% of them turned positive. The overall positivity rate of the 1.377 crore samples stands at 6.46%. Chittoor district has again reported the highest single-day tally of 18 cases. In the past week, it reported 115 new infections and was the only district to see more than 50 new cases in a week. It was followed by Krishna (48), East Godavari (48), Visakhapatnam (43) and Nellore (41) which saw close to 50 cases in the past week. The State reported 450 new infections in the past week and more than one-fourth of them were from Chittoor. Meanwhile, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam reported nine new cases in the past week while Krishna reported seven and Nellroe reported six. Guntur reported five new cases, Srikakulam and West Godavari reported four each, Vizianagaram reported three, Anantapur and Prakasam reported two each and Kadapa reported one new case. Kurnool reported no new infections. The total district-wise caseload is as follows: East Godavari (1,24,413), West Godavari (94,314),Chittoor (87,344), Guntur (75,670), Anantapur (67,724), Nellore (62,446), Prakasam (62,200), Kurnool (60,860), Visakhapatnam (59,981), Kadapa (55,343), Krishna (48,880), Srikakulam (46,184) and Vizianagaram (41,155).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-of-last-weeks-covid-cases-came-from-chittoor/article33918260.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. gives guarantee for Rs. 3000-cr. loan to AMRDA||In an attempt to give impetus to the works undertaken in the capital region of Amaravati, the State Cabinet has cleared a proposal, giving a guarantee to the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA) to avail a loan of Rs. 3,000 crore from banks. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday discussed in detail the incomplete projects in the Amaravati region. The government constituted the AMRDA replacing the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) in August last year. However, there is a slow progress of the works being undertaken in Amaravati in the recent past, after the government decided to shift the capital to Visakhapatnam. “The AMRDA will undertake the trunk infrastructure works and Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) related works in the Amaravati region,” said Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani). TIDCO houses The TIDCO houses (300 sft) worth Rs. 2.65 lakh would be allotted for one rupee. The houses (430 sft) worth Rs. 4.65 lakh would be allotted for Rs. 4.15 lakh. The 365 sft houses priced at Rs. 3.65 lakh earlier would be allotted at Rs. 3.40 lakh, the Minister said, adding, the government would shoulder a burden of Rs. 5,579 crore on this front. The other major decisions of the State Cabinet include amendment to Andhra Pradesh Land Development Layout and Sub Division-2017 Act, clearance to a proposal to distribute house sites to the employees of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-gives-guarantee-for-rs-3000-cr-loan-to-amrda/article33918941.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT completes admissions||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) has completed the admission counselling process for the academic year 2020-21. University Chancellor K.C. Reddy said the first phase of counselling was conducting from January 4 to 11 along with an additional 10% supernumerary seats (400 seats) under the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota as per GO 39 on ‘Guidelines for Implementation of Reservation for EWS Admissions to Higher Education Institutions’. Counselling for special category seats (CAP, NCC, PH and Sports) was held on February 7 while Phase-II counselling was conducted on February 20 for all vacant seats. A total of 4,400 seats (1000 plus 100 EWS for each campus) and seven NRI seats (five in Nuzvid campus and two in R.K. Valley campus) have been filled for the academic year 2020-21. Of the candidates admitted, 1,823 (41.4 %) are from government schools, 2,584 (58.6) are from private schools and seven are NRIs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-completes-admissions/article33918256.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LAWCET schedule out||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has released APLAWCET-2020 admission schedule for the second phase. In a statement on Tuesday, Council Vice-Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao said the payment of registration fee should be made on February 25 and 26, certification verification would also be done on February 25 and 26 and web options could be exercised on February 26, allotment of seats would be made on February 28 and candidates should report at colleges from March 1 to 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawcet-schedule-out/article33918253.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reduce fuel prices, Mudragada urges Modi||Former Minister Mudragada Padmanabham, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, urged him to take steps to ensure that the commoner got relief from the steep rise in prices of petroleum products. He said the prices of petrol, diesel, and LPG had increased steeply. As a result, the prices of essential commodities rose phenomenally, impacting the middle class and poor. People have voted for the BJP for the second time in a row expecting that their problems would be addressed. But, the Centre was pointing fingers at the previous government for the sharp rise in prices, he said. What was the use of FasTags except benefiting the multi-nationals. The Centre should think of common man rather than big businessmen, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reduce-fuel-prices-mudragada-urges-modi/article33918930.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic poll campaign begins||Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao asserted that the ruling YSRCP will bag the mayor post in the coming municipal elections. Mr. Rao was campaigning for 37th division YSRCP corporator candidate M. Chatterjee. Mr. Rao said that people were aware of the welfare schemes and projects of the government, but that the TDP was unable to stomach the development. Meanwhile, MP Kesineni Srinivas campaigned for TDP-CPI candidate in 50th division K. Gangadhar. Mr. Srinivas posted a video of women lamenting about YSRCP’s schemes and asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to pay attention to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-poll-campaign-begins/article33918258.ece
24 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa steel plant to be set up as a joint venture||The State Cabinet on Tuesday decided to set up the steel plant proposed in Kadapa district as a joint venture and selected the partners as per the SBI Cap recommendations. The Liberty Steel India was selected as the JV partner. The Cabinet has permitted YSR Steels Corporation Managing Director to issue a letter of acceptance (LOA) for the joint venture. The first phase of the works would incur an expenditure of Rs. 10,082 crore, while Rs. 6,000 crore will be spent in the second phase. The production capacity of the plant would be around three million tonnes of steel in the first phase, which would be augmented by another three million tonnes in the second phase, said Minister Minister Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani). The Cabinet has also approved proposals for creating farmgate infrastructural facilities, multi-purpose centres under Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs), Janata Bazaars and etc. Farmgate infra A sum of Rs. 2719.11 crore would be spent on creating farmgate infrastructure. In all, about Rs. 12,000 crore would be spent on these activities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-steel-plant-to-be-set-up-as-a-joint-venture/article33918942.ece
24 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Distribution of ration through mobile units brisk, says JC||Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha has said that the door-to-door ration delivery through mobile delivery units (MDUs) launched was going on effectively in the district. During a review meeting by the Civil Supplies Department Commissioner K. Sasidhar on Monday, Ms. Latha said that 262 mobile delivery units in urban and 555 mobile delivery units in rural areas were functioning currently in the district. Apart from minor issues, the distribution was going on effectively, she said. She said the mobile units were supposed to function from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and the operators were permitted to start early in view of forthcoming summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/distribution-of-ration-through-mobile-units-brisk-says-jc/article33918261.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4-member gang held for ‘picking pockets’ in YSRCP padayatra||The city police arrested six persons for allegedly being involved in three crimes at various places here on Tuesday. In one case, the police arrested a four-member gang, which allegedly involved in picking pockets. During the recent padayatra organised by the YSR Congress party on February 20, in protest against the proposed privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, the gang members allegedly picked pockets to the tune of Rs. 3.03 lakh from various people at different locations between the GVMC office and Kurmannapalem. The arrested were identified as P. Durga Prasad (30) of Eluru, I. Balaji (26) of Tadepalli, Guntur, K. Ravi Kumar (42) of Allipuram and K. Srinivas (39) from Nandigama in the Krishna district. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that the four accused teamed up as a gang and targeting public meetings, rallies and crowd gathering places. Targeting the YSRCP rally, the four committed five offences at Airport Police Station limits, two at Kancharapalem PS limits and one at IV Town PS limits. Based on the complaints received, a special team was formed and arrested the accused near Kakani Nagar bus stop. The police recovered Rs. 2.80 lakh from them. Machinery theft Mr. Suresh Babu said that among the accused, Durga Prasad and Balaji have 14 and three theft cases against them respectively. Similarly, Srinivas has 19 theft cases against him and Ravi Kumar was involved in three theft cases at various places. In another case, the police arrested 32-year-old Y. Appalaraju, a resident of Gangavaram village, who allegedly stolen machinery, including welding machine, cutting machine and grinding machine, worth Rs. 1.45 lakh from a storeroom of Gangavaram Port. Stealing of autorickshaw In the third case, the police arrested L. Tirupathi (30) of Dabagardens area who had allegedly committed theft of an auto-rickshaw on February 19. The vehicle was recovered from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-member-gang-held-for-picking-pockets-in-ysrcp-padayatra/article33919002.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tarun Sobti takes command of Eastern Fleet||Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti took over the Command of the Eastern Fleet, the Sword Arm of the Eastern Naval Command, from Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, here on Tuesday. The change of guard took place at a ceremony held at the Naval Base here. Mr. Tarun Sobti was commissioned into the Indian Navy on July 1, 1988 and is a specialist in Navigation and Direction. The Flag Officer is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Collège Interarmées de Défense, Paris, France and College of Naval Warfare, Mumbai. During his career spanning 32 years, he served as the Navigating Officer of INS Kirpan, commissioning Navigating Officer of INS Mysore, Direction Officer on INS Viraat and Executive Officer of missile destroyer INS Delhi. His sea commands include those of missile vessel INS Nishank, missile corvette INS Kora and missile destroyer INS Kolkata of which he was the commissioning Commanding Officer. His other operational appointments include those as Joint Director of Staff Requirements and Joint Director of Personnel at Naval Headquarters and Captain Work Up at Local Work Up Team (East). He also served as the Naval Attaché at Embassy of India, Moscow. Prior to assuming command of the Eastern Fleet, he was the Deputy Commandant and Chief Instructor of Indian Navy’s premier officer training establishment Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala. Many missions undertaken Over the past 12 months, the Eastern Fleet under the command of Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan had undertaken various operational missions including Operation Samudra Setu towards repatriation of Indian citizens. He would be taking over as the Deputy Commandant of the tri-services institution National Defence Academy at Khadakwasla, Pune shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tarun-sobti-takes-command-of-eastern-fleet/article33918949.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||350-bed ESI hospital to be constructed in city||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) at its 184th meeting held, under the chairmanship of Minister of State for Labour and Employment (Independent Charge) Santosh Kumar Gangwar in New Delhi on February 22, decided to construct a 350-bed hospital with an additional 50-bed super speciality treatment (SST) wing in Visakhapatnam. A decision was also taken to construct 128 staff quarters at Sheelanagar in the city. The proposed hospital, after construction, will provide medical services to around 14 lakh beneficiaries, covered under ESI scheme in Viaskhapatnam and surrounding areas. Former MP Kambhampati Haribabu had made efforts for improvement of medical facilities in the city during his tenure. The then Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya had laid foundation for construction of a 300-bed ESI Hospital at Sheelanagar on April 11, 2016. Later, it was decided to construct a 500-bed hospital along with a medical college in view of the growing needs of North Andhra. Failure of the previous Telugu Desam Party government to allocate the additional land required and its reported attempts to get the project shifted to Vijayawada have caused inordinate delay in the project taking off. Subsequently, the YSR Congress Party government has also neglected it but the efforts of the BJP leaders from Visakhapatnam has resulted in a 350-bed ESI hospital getting sanctioned to the city, according to BJP Parliamentary District president M. Raveendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/350-bed-esi-hospital-to-be-constructed-in-vizag/article33919001.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for civic polls, Collector tells officials||With just two weeks to go for the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and two municipal elections at Narsipatnam and Yelamanchili, District Collector and District Election Officer V. Vinay Chand conducted a review meet to discuss about the arrangements with the officials from the GVMC here on Tuesday. Mr. Vinay Chand said that 1,712 polling centres are being set up for the polls scheduled to be held on March 10. He asked the officials to organise the elections with responsibility and coordination among themselves and make it a success. Staff should follow the guidelines and ensure a peaceful election, he said. He also asked the officials to provide basic amenities at the polling centres. “The staff should be given proper training and we should ensure COVID-19 safety protocol is followed at the polling centre,” he added. Mr. Vinay Chand said that Zonal Commissioners should arrange storeroom and distribution centre in their zones and work in coordination with the nodal officers. He also instructed the Zonal Commissioners to inspect the polling centres and check whether all the amenities are provided. “Arrangements such as transportation of ballot boxes, ballot slips, reception centres, checking whether the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) is being violated, police bandobust and training programmes for the polling staff should be taken care of,” the Collector instructed the officials. He also instructed GVMC Commissioner S. Nagalakshmi to issue staff allotment orders for the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-civic-polls-collector-tells-officials/article33919013.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Merging digital, biological worlds is next revolution’||The Fourth Industrial Revolution(Industry 4.0) is merging the digital and biological worlds, using light to sense and interface human and machines, Chennupati Jagadish, a Professor at the Australian National University School of Physics, has said. Delivering a lecture as part of National Science Week celebrations, organised by GITAM Deemed to be University Institute of Science, here, he said that semiconductors had played an important role in the development of ICT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/merging-digital-biological-worlds-is-next-revolution/article33919004.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smart meters: tenders submitted to panel||The State government has sanctioned a scheme under ‘YSR Uchita Vyavasaaya Vidyut Padhakam’ for installation of Smart Meters/ IRDA Energy Meters with modems/ bluetooth meters with modems to all agricultural services. Tenders have been prepared for supply of smart meters in the four districts of Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and West Godavari, under the purview of AP EPDCL. The tenders have been submitted to the Judicial Commission for approval as per government order (GO). Tenders are uploaded onwww.judicialpreview.ap. gov.infor general public and the same will be available from February 24 to March 3. If the contractors/bidders/general public have any objections regarding above work, they can file their objections through the above website. K.Rajabapaiah, Chairman and Managing Director (FAC)/APEPDCL has informed in a statement that the works would be carried out, based on the approval of the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smart-meters-tenders-submitted-to-panel/article33919003.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI: withdraw decision to privatise VSP||CPI general secretary D. Raja has appealed to the Centre to withdraw the decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Raja strongly condemned the decision to implement 100% strategic disinvestment of the VSP by way of privatisation. He noted that if the move was allowed, the private investor would grab 23,000 acres of land, belonging to the steel plant. The government has not made any effort to explore all possibilities to run the plant. No iron ore mine has been allocated to the VSP, while private steel plants were sanctioned mines. The CPI general secretary also noted that the State government has also appealed to the Union government to reconsider the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-withdraw-decision-to-privatise-vsp/article33919009.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘attacks’ friend with knife in drunken brawl||A man allegedly attacked his friend with a knife in a drunken brawl at Arilova here on Tuesday morning. The victim, who suffered minor injuries in the attack, was shifted to a hospital and is said to be out of danger. The accused is absconding. The Arilova police said that the incident occurred when A. Appalaraju consumed liquor with his friend Jagadish. After a few drinks they reportedly had a heated argument and in the heat of the moment Jagadish allegedly attacked Appalaraju with a sharp knife inflicting injuries in the stomach region. The police registered an attempt to murder case and efforts are on to nab the accused. The police said that Appalaraju is a rowdy-sheeter from Arilova and in the recent times he is trying to lead a normal life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-attacks-friend-with-knife-in-drunken-brawl/article33919010.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter murdered at Maddilapalem||A rowdy-sheeter was brutally murdered by unidentified miscreants at Maddilapalem area under MVP Police Station limits here on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Venkat Reddy. According to sources, the incident allegedly occurred when Venkat Reddy was chit-chatting with a couple of his friends. Three persons on motorcycles allegedly attacked Venkat Reddy by hitting him on the head and other parts of the body with iron rods and sharp-edged weapons. He succumbed to the injuries on the spot. The MVP police and senior police officers inspected the crime scene. Body was shifted to King George Hospital. More details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeter-murdered-at-maddilapalem/article33919014.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop for medical teachers begins||A three-day 15th revised basic course and workshop for training in medical education technology, for medical teachers being held in Andhra Medical College(AMC) was inaugurated by AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar here on Tuesday. Dr. B. Devi Madhavi, convener of the Medical Education Unit, Dr. Dhanya Sree, co-convener, Dr. K.V.V. Vijaya Kumar, Superintendent GHCCD, Dr. Aruna and Dr. M.V. Vijaya Sekhar participated in the inaugural programme. As many as 30 doctors from various specialities working in the AMC were selected for imparting the training. The course completion certificate will be issued by the National Medical Commission, New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-begins/article33918972.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elocution competition conducted for students||Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology (autonomous) conducted an elocution competition for students on the occasion of International Mother Language Day on Monday. As many as 50 students spoke on importance of mother tongue. Students explained the fact that United Nations Organisation had announced 21st February as International Mother Language Day as a result of sacrifice of four Bengali Youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elocution-competition-conducted-for-students/article33919005.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PMO sanctions funds for cochlear implant surgery||Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana handed over a Letter of Consent (LOC), received from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), to the parents of a little girl towards the hospital expenses for cochlear implant surgery for the girl, at his office at Lawsons Bay Colony here on Tuesday. G. Tata Rao, father of the girl, approached the MP for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pmo-sanctions-funds-for-cochlear-implant-surgery/article33919008.ece
24 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI donates mini bus to NGO||A mini bus was donated to Aasara Charitable Society, Visakhapatnam, by the Administrative Office of State Bank of India as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activity, here on Tuesday. General manager, Coastal Network of the Bank, Manikantan Nair, participated as the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-donates-mini-bus-to-ngo/article33919007.ece
24 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samantakamani is TDP’s Mayor candidate||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) senior leader Kandi Murali Naidu’s wife K. Samantakamani has been named as Mayor’s candidate for elections for Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and TDP-Vizianagaram In-charge Aditi Gajapathi Raju on Tuesday hoped that the voters would ensure victory for TDP candidates in all divisions and make Ms. Samantakamani as Mayor of the Fort City. The party decided to announce the name well in advance to avoid speculation and infighting among the leaders for the coveted post. Speaking to media here, Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju sought cooperation from people as well as TDP leaders and activists for the candidate’s victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/samantakamani-is-tdps-mayor-candidate/article33918968.ece
24 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC asks builders to ensure safety of workers||YSR Congress Party MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu on Tuesday asked contractors and builders to take special care of the safety of construction workers as many of them have become victims of accidents. He said that spine injuries and bone fractures make their lives miserable as recovery would take many months even after providing the best medical care. Financial aid Mr. Suresh Babu extended financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 to construction worker Neteti Srinivas who fell from a building while on duty. He also met his family members in Moida village of Nellimarla mandal, Vizianagaram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-asks-builders-to-ensure-safety-of-workers/article33918252.ece
24 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for hostel accommodation||The Arya Vysya Welfare Association has invited applications from degree and PG students for accommodation and food in the newly constructed hostel at Turpu Balji Veedhi. According to a press release from thje association, 40 students would be provided hostel facility in the building which was constructed recently. The association said since many students were facing troubles with the closure of hostels due to COVID-19, the facility would be a boon for them ahead of the examination season. Interested students can approach the office and submit their applications, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-hostel-accommodation/article33918966.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour marks Rathotsavam at Antarvedi||Thousands of devotees participated in the procession of the presiding deities of the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi on the newly built wooden chariot as the Rathotsavam was celebrated with fervour on Tuesday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the 40-foot-tall wooden chariot during the inaugural of the annual Kalyanotsavam on February 19. The presiding deities were taken on the new chariot in a procession in the streets of Antarvedi village. The devotees, after having a holy dip in the Godavari river, pulled the chariot that was decorated with flowers. According to the temple tradition, the wooden chariot is brought out of the temple on the inaugural day of the Kalyanotsavam. A posse of police personnel was deployed at the temple to prevent any untoward incident during the procession. The Endowment Department authorities and priests of the temple performed the wedding of the deities on Monday night. Silk robes presented B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha and other officials presented silk robes (vastrams) to the deity and took part in the Kalyanotsavam rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour-marks-rathotsavam-at-antarvedi/article33918933.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-normal/article33919018.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Going green||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/going-green/article33918265.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers to get back land||The Minister clarified that even the Divi’s factory was permitted on zero waste policy, where any sort of waste should be treated within the factory premises. He said that the previous government failed to keep up the promise of giving back the lands to the farmers. The Cabinet approved the decision to complete the investigation within 100 days on those caught red-handed in the ACB cases, from the existing two-year duration. The government decided to amend the law to allow an action to be taken against ACB officials if an inquiry was not held before that deadline.The Cabinet decided to allocate 5% of land in private layouts to the poor and serious action would be initiated for violating the rules, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-to-get-back-land/article33918936.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nest in the making||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nest-in-the-making/article33918944.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exam time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exam-time/article33918951.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||7 addresses used to obtain 72 passports in Bodhan||Only seven addresses in Bodhan, Nizamabad, in Telangana were used to fraudulently obtain 72 Indian passports for Bangaldeshi nationals. One among the addresses was used for 37 passports! At a press conference held on Tuesday, Cyberabad Police Commissioner VC Sajjanar said that Parimal Bain (31) was the master mind who obtained the passports. The accused too is a Bangladeshi who obtained the passport for him and his brother. Parimal realized that he could mint money by obtaining the important document for other illegal immigrants. The grave issue came to the notice of Cyberabad Police when an Immigration Officer lodged a complaint with them on January 25 of this year. According to the details of the complaint, when the officer and his team were on duty on January 24 at RGI Airport, Shamshabad, three Bangladeshi nationals approached departure immigration counter with intention to depart to Dubai with fraudulently obtained Indian passports. The three Bangladeshis revealed that they obtained fake Aadhaar cards with help of an agent from Shahnaj Pail from West Bengal, and further helped them to secure Indian passports. A case was registered and the Cyberabad police took up investigation. Nearly month-long investigation helped police to know the methods adopted to get Aadhaar cards, Indian passports, people involved in the case including two policemen. The Cyberabad police said that after working in Kolkata for a year, Parimal shifted to Bodhan and worked as an assistant to Rao, an ayurvedic doctor. Gradually, Parimal started his own first-aid clinic near bus stand. Based on his rental agreement, he obtained an Aadhaar card, and later, a passport. After a few months, he secured a passport for his brother Gopal Bain who is now in Gulf. Realising that he can get the passports illegal immigrants, he took help from his friend Sameer Roy and Shahnaj alias Sabuj to have Bangladeshi migrants come to Bodhan, obtain Aadhaar cards and Indian passports. For at least six months, they worked at local industries, before getting the documents on one particular address in Bodhan. The two arrested policemen confessed that they accepted cash kickbacks for issuing verification clearances for several passports to the same address. The police already asked Regional Passport Officer to cancer the 72 Indian passports, and have asked for Look Out Circulars from the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/7-addresses-used-to-obtain-72-passports-in-bodhan/article33918850.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seedcopter bags IIIT-H grant||Seedcopter, a vertical of Marut Dronetech which is engaged in UAV seeding, has bagged a grant from the International Institute of Information Technology - Hyderabad and Pernod Ricard India Foundation, the company announced. Seedcopter is involved in reforestation of tracts of land. According to the company, recently, a drone was used to disperse 15,000 seeds covering 320 hectares of land in a day. Similarly, as part of a pilot project with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, and the government of Rajasthan, Seedcopter managed to drop 10,000 seed balls of native species in a 5 hectare area. According to founder and CEO, Marut Dronetech, Prem Kumar Vislawath, the grant of Rs. 25 lakh would be used for research and development that includes collection, segregation, and quality testing of different native tree seeds natural to local ecosystems, stabilisation of seed ball preparation, and developing standard operating procedures for using drones for aerial seeding. “Apart form this, we intend to use the grant for improvisation of drone tech with suitable modifications. We will also take up skill development for rural people who are working on seed ball preparation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seedcopter-bags-iiit-h-grant/article33918876.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Solace in store for fit-to-be-discharged IMH inmates||Close to 140 inmates of the government’s Institute of Mental Health (IMH) in Erragadda, who had been declared fit to be discharged, are likely to receive some solace soon, thanks to the initiative of the Telangana State Legal Services Authority (TSLSA). These 140 inmates, including 35 women, are likely to join their families. Some of them are to be provided shelter by Sayodhya Home while others would be taken care of by Khammam-based voluntary organisation Anna Foundation. All this is happening with the patient ground work and coordination by the City Civil Court’s Legal Services Authority (CCC-LSA) wing with the inmates’ families, courts which sent them to the institute and the police concerned. The Discharge Committee of the Institute of Mental Health approved the release of the 140 persons as they have completely recovered. But procedural wrangles and ‘reluctance’ from members of the inmates’ families to take them back became stumbling blocks in their path of freedom. Some of them had no one to go back to or depend on. The case of a young woman from a village of Khammam was a classic example. She had become ‘normal’ and the doctors wanted to release her. But she had nowhere and no one to go. “We contacted the sarpanch of her village and with his help, decided to provide her accommodation at Annam Foundation,” CCC-LSA secretary K. Murali Mohan said. These inmates are initially presented before the magistrates concerned by the police in different incidents. They are brought to Erragadda based on the reception orders issued by the magistrates for treatment. Once the hospital authorities decide the persons were fit for release, they had to be presented before the magistrates based on whose reception orders they were admitted in the institute. The hospital authorities had no mechanism or wherewithal to send the ‘fit persons’ back to the courts which are located in different parts of the State. From their end, they had written letters to the courts and the police concerned. TSLSA, led by member secretary Anupama Chakravarthy, took stock of the situation and directed the district LSAs to ensure such persons were set free. CCC Chief Judge and LSA chairperson C. Sumalatha and secretary K. Murali Mohan reviewed details of the 140 persons ‘fit to be discharged’. Mr. Mohan visited the institute, started talking to each person, coordinated with the magistrates and police officials concerned. On Tuesday, six women and six men were set free. “If the inmates have no one to depend on, we are assigning their responsibility to voluntary organisations like Annam Foundation or Sayodhya Home,” Mr. Mohan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/solace-in-store-for-fit-to-be-discharged-imh-inmates/article33918835.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Going virtual widened the reach of BioAsia 2021||Biotechnology and Life Sciences Forum BioAsia 2021, which was the 18th edition in the annual series and held virtually for the first time, saw record attendance. “It saw the participation of around 31,450 delegates from 72 countries. We never had this kind of attendance. The virtual platform really helped us to reach different countries and stakeholder groups. By and large, the feedback has been very positive,” Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said during the closing session of the two-day event organised by Telangana government. Barring the inaugural session on Monday, all the sessions were conducted virtually. Hoping for the event to be held in-person next year, the senior official said the record attendance came about even as the camaraderie that is evident when such events are conducted in-person and the opportunity for the participants to network were missing. The organisers had decided against restricting the conference to Life Sciences professionals, and allowed free access to others too, given the theme of the event ‘Moving The Needle’ was contextual in the scenario prevailing amid the pandemic. The sessions deliberated on the current situation of vaccines, the impact of COVID-19, healthcare services and the way forward. On Tuesday, the Special Award of the Federation of Asian Biotech Associations (FABA) was presented to Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research and Secretary to Centre’s Department of Health Research for his contributions to medicine and healthcare. CEO of BioAsia and Director Life Sciences of Telangana government Shakthi Nagappan said, “Despite the pandemic, we strived to ensure that the 17 years long legacy of BioAsia continues. The first virtual BioAsia was well received by the global community due to our strong focus on the pandemic and the stellar speaker line-up.” It has been decided to make the deliberations of BioAsia available for public viewing on BioAsia YouTube channel, the release said.  The virtual platform really helped us to reach different countries and stakeholder groups. By and large, the feedback has been very positive. Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary, IT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/going-virtual-widened-reach-of-bioasia-this-year/article33918838.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘NABARD glad to be part of Telangana’s growth’||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) is glad to be part of the growth of Telangana State and its transformation into a ‘golden state’, said its Telangana region office Chief General Manager Y. Krishna Rao. Quoting the success formula of Telangana State with the launch of white, blue, pink and green revolutions, the NABARD CGM said, “We are happy to be part of all the four revolutions and committed to the growth of the newly-formed State. We assure to continue the support to Telangana government in future also.” Mr. Krishna Rao was in Karimnagar town on Tuesday to participate in the Karimnagar District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB) board meeting, which was attended by TSCAB and DCCB chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao and CEO N. Satyanarayana Rao and others. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the NABARD had extended financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 10,000 crore for the revolutionary scheme of providing protected drinking water to people of the State under Mission Bhagiratha scheme. Terming the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project (KLIP) as an engineering marvel, he said that they had extended financial assistance of Rs. 5,600 crore including Rs. 4,600 crore for Komuravelli Mallannasagar project. He said that they had sanctioned Rs. 800 crore to Markfed for the procurement of maize. NABARD had decided to extend another financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 1,100 crore under RIDF programme for the construction of 500 to 600 check dams to tap each and every drop of water and recharge the ground water table. Stating that the Karimnagar DCCB was the best in the country in terms of all parameters, he said that people’s money was safe in the bank because of its accelerated performance and better services than any commercial bank. He hoped that the Karimnagar DCCB, which was doing around Rs. 5,000 crore business, would cross Rs. 10,000 crore business in the coming three years period. He said that the Karimnagar DCCB had also emerged as the only cooperative bank in the country to secure cyber security operations centre (C-SOC). Telangana is ahead in the country with the formation of 330 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) and the Indervelli FPO in Adilabad district with tribal farmers had emerged as a role model for the country with the setting up of a ginning mill at a cost of Rs. 6 crore with the loan from TSCAB and DCCB, he stated. Claiming that total computerisation of all the 800 Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) in Telangana had ensured transparency and reinforced faith among customers, he said that TSCAB was also doing well on all parameters. Presently, they are on a mission mode to convert PACS into MACS (multi-service providers) with the support of NABARD and lower interest rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nabard-glad-to-be-part-of-ts-growth/article33918871.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health dept. to issue weekly COVID bulletins henceforth||Telangana Health department has stopped issuing daily media bulletins on COVID-19 cases starting from Tuesday and will instead issue it once a week. Apart from daily cases, the bulletins carry information on number of people who died of COVID-19, tests conducted in a day, admissions in government and private hospitals, cases according to each district, and other details. This helped people understand the prevalence of the novel coronavirus. Citing the need for human resources which are dedicated for generating data daily, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said it might be a good idea to involve them in COVID-19 vaccination drive instead. From March 2020, when COVID-19 cases started to be detected in the State, number of cases and deaths were communicated to the public through daily media bulletins. Dr Srinivasa Rao said they have noticed no major spikes in COVID-19 cases in Telangana but in case of any significant development, the media will be informed. From single digit cases in a day in March 2020, as many as 2,000-2,900 cases a day were reported in August and September. Then the incidence started to decrease over the months. Currently, in February, 100-190 people are detected with coronavirus on a daily average. With decrease in caseload, officials in the Health department have started to breathe easy. However, the surge in cases in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra, which borders Adilabad, made them take precautionary steps, again, to avoid a similar spike in cases. Orders were issued to isolate everyone coming from the neighbouring State for seven days and conduct tests on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-dept-to-issue-weekly-covid-bulletins-henceforth/article33918832.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Multi-purpose inflatable hangar introduced at RGIA||GMR Aero Technic (GAT), the maintenance, repair and overhaul division of GMR Air Cargo and Aerospace Engineering Ltd., has introduced an innovative multi-urpose inflatable hangar for maintenance, engine or landing gear replacement on Tuesday. The one-bay, narrow body inflatable hangar can take one B737 or A320 series aircraft and this will add to the existing seven bay capacity, enabling GAT to handle 15 to 20 smaller base maintenance checks or four-five end of lease checks per year. The hangar is cost-effective, and saves time and money when compared to building a conventional hangar with a life of up to 15 years. Made to order It is available in various sizes and made to order. It can be built in 3-4 months and takes just 1-2 months to disassemble and assemble at another location. It is formed by low pressure tubes aligned parallel to each other forming a ‘rib-cage’ structure. This woven polyester base cloth with PVC coating hangar is both fire-retardant and water-proof. An automatic control system will be installed in the hangar, to continuously monitor and control operative parameters. Wind, temperature The hangar is designed to withstand wind speeds up to 158.4 km/hr and can handle extreme temperatures, from -30 degree Celsius to 70 degree Celsius. “It will help our MRO division get additional business, support our customers commitments of aircraft operations and redeliveries. Such hangars are already in use in Europe and the Gulf for many years now. We are also looking at adding a couple of more hangars aimed at upgrading to include wide body aircraft,” said GMR Aero Technic CEO Ashok Gopinath. GMR Aero Technic has completed 570 plus major checks till date and other ad-hoc maintenance work for all domestic airliners and is able to to take up over 100 maintenance checks a year. It is also coming up with a the DGCA and EASA (European Aviation Safety Agency) approved, Aircraft Maintenance Engineering School for by the year end and has tied up with Airbus to collaborate in MRO, cargo and airports, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/multi-purpose-inflatable-hangar-introduced-at-rgia/article33918840.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cyclists scoff as Hyderabad is chosen for Cycles 4 Change||Hyderabad is among the 25 cities selected as Stage-1 finalist for the ‘India Cycles 4 Change’ challenge. While the list of finalists was to be released on February 19, the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) announced it on February 17. The announcement has been greeted with surprise as the urban infrastructure for cycling is scattered and barely visible in the city. The recent marking of a cycling lane around the 5-km peripheral road of Kasu Brahmananda Reddy Park is one bright spot. When Principal Secretary of Municipal Administration and Urban Development Arvind Kumar tweeted about Hyderabad making it as a finalist in the challenge, a Twitter user asked: “Where are the cycle tracks in Hyderabad?” Another cyclist listed the state of cycling infrastructure in the city. “I’m a cyclist. Biodiversity to Mindspace, ISB Road: used to be there..but destroyed now. Secunderabad Cantt, DC Lake: Don’t know. Shilparamam, G. Stadium: Doesn’t exist. Botanical Garden: Planned for but now got encroached upon. Necklace Rd, KBR park: Just a lane mark (sic),” responded another social media user. “How does one reach the KBR Park cycling lane? Traffic in the rest of the city is difficult to navigate on a cycle,” said another citizen. The cycling challenge by Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is about “working with citizens and experts to implement low-cost interventions like pop-up lanes, traffic-calmed streets, community cycle rental schemes, and cycle-training programs. In the longer term, the Smart Cities Mission encourages cities to convert temporary interventions into permanent”. Hyderabad has had a love-hate relationship with cycling. Two years ago, the then Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan, Minister K.T. Rama and other top officials cycled from Khairatabad to Raj Bhavan after flagging off the Metro for Ameerpet to L.B. Nagar stretch. But infrastructure for cycling has not improved. The one short dedicated cycling lane near Biodiversity Park has been dug up for pipeline work and has not been restored. While the green cycling lane markings are in evidence near KBR Park, the lane is transformed into a single-lane car parking space for walkers. Hyderabad will have time till May 31 for submission of Stage-II implementation report about the India Cycles 4 Change challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyclists-scoff-as-city-is-chosen-for-cycles-4-change/article33918847.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Observers appointed||The ECI has appointed two senior IAS officers as general observers to the two seats of the Legislative Council under Graduates’ constituency. Dr. MCR HRD Institute additional director general Harpreet Singh has been appointed as the observer of the Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates constituency and Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture (Youth Services) department principal secretary Sabyasachi Ghosh has been appointed as observer for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduates constituency, according to the office of the Chief Electoral Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/observers-appointed/article33918862.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration and Stamps department’s revenue shows good growth||The State is continuing to register an impressive growth in terms of revenue from the Registration and Stamps department, which reported transactions worth around Rs. 600 crore during the current month with still four days to go. Senior officials are hopeful that there would be further rise in revenue during March, the month which normally witnesses spurt in activity. “The month marks the end of the financial year. There will be other factors like capital gains that will have a positive impact on the revenues of the department,” a senior official told The Hindu . Revenue from the Registrations are on the rise since the government allowed registration of agricultural land through Dharani and non-agricultural properties in the normal mode. The government had earned Rs. 456 crore revenue — Rs. 375.99 crore through sale deeds and registration of open plots and another Rs. 80.99 crore through other charges — since December after the restrictions on registrations were relaxed. The total revenue through the registration and stamps during the current financial year so far, according to senior officials, is in excess of Rs. 4,100 crore. This was way short of expectations of achieving Rs. 10,000 crore revenue projected in the budgetary estimates. Officials, however, point out several factors other than the impact of COVID pandemic behind the shortfall. While the pandemic slowed down registration processes, the government’s decision to halt registration owing to enactment of new revenue laws brought the process to a grinding halt. “Initially the increase in the market value of land was factored in while finalising the budget estimates which did not materialise,” the official said. Officials said that normalcy was returning in the registration processes as several relaxations had been announced and more features were being added to the Dharani portal on a regular basis. The department is hopeful of netting close to Rs. 5,500 crore by the end of the current financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registration-and-stamps-departments-revenue-shows-good-growth/article33918863.ece
24 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth discouraged from higher education: Uttam||Youngsters have to gear themselves up to fight against the TRS government policy of diluting universities and ignoring recruitments, and at the same time counter the communal environment being created to divert their attention from the Central government’s policies, said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. Inaugurating the two-day training camp of Telangana Youth Congress in TRR Medical College complex in Patancheru on Tuesday, he alleged that youth were being discouraged from taking up higher education by the government which was scrapping or downsizing the scholarships and other relevant schemes. The training programme was held in the name of Congress Yuva Kranthi and those recruited through social media were being trained at this programme. He said the previous Congress government had implemented a fee reimbursement scheme, along with scholarships and the present government was depriving the same to lakhs of students. He pointed out that even after seven years of Telangana formation, the universities in Telangana have no permanent vice-chancellors and most of the universities do not even have 50% of staff. Similarly, the Central government drastically cut down the budget for education. He pointed out that PM Narendra Modi promised two crore jobs every year but in the last seven years, nearly 30 crore people lost their livelihood due to his faulty policies. The TPCC chief asked Youth Congress activists to organise interactive programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-discouraged-from-higher-education-uttam/article33918864.ece
24 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Online learning to go on||After deciding to throw open schools for students of classes VI to VIII, the government has issued guidelines stating that the present mode of online learning would continue, including digital lessons on the TSAT platform. The guidelines issued by the Director of School Education state that it is not mandatory for students to attend physical classes but those who wish to attend, have to get a consent form from their parents. Mid-day meals would be served and principals have been asked to ensure that lunch is served in staggered timings to avoid contact. The last working day would be the last day of SSC exams. Hostels will also be opened and all measures have to be taken to ensure distance between beds and also the number of students reduced in each room or dormitory. Sanitisation measures in schools and hostels have to be taken twice a day. Since there is detention till class VIII as per the RTE Act, there is no force on students to maintain the requisite attendance for exams. Meanwhile, teachers unions are divided on the reopening. Balala Hakkula Samskshema Sangham (BHSS) welcomed re-opening but said the government has to ensure safety of students and not just please private school managements and teachers in view of the MLC polls. The Telangana State Primary Teachers’ Association (TSPTA) has opposed the idea when there was a rise in COVID cases and other state governments were preparing for lockdowns. TSPTA president Syed Shoukat Ali questioned the need for re-opening schools when the academic year was coming to an end in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-learning-to-go-on/article33918865.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second vaccine jab: 24% target met on Tuesday||Telangana Health department could administer second dose of COVID-19 vaccine to just 24% of the 1,720 targeted healthcare workers (HCWs) on Tuesday. Only 420 turned up to take the follow-up jab. After the second dose started to be administered from February 13, this is the lowest target to have been met in a day. However, the number of those who did not take the second dose was higher on other days since the target was higher too. Along with the second dose, Health staff gave first dose to 902 frontline workers (FLWs). The second dose will be administered on Wednesday too. Mop-up sessions for the first dose for all HCWs and FLWs will be held on February 26 and 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-vaccine-jab-24-target-met-on-tuesday/article33918833.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Nepali couple killed in road accident||Two pedestrians died when a tipper driven by a 60-year-old man crashed on them at Alwal on Monday. The pedestrians were a couple from Nepal who were returning from work. The accused driver, Kolluru Narsimha, was found with BAC of 165mg/ml. The driver was sent to jail for culpable homicide. Owner of the vehicle who knew that the driver was a habitual alcohol consumer, too was arrested. The accident occurred at around 0.15 AM of Monday when Narasimha drove the tipper carrying waste material recklessly at a curve. The vehicle toppled on left side and crashed on Numlal Bhandari and Meena Devi Bhandari. The couple died on the spot. Cyberabad Traffic Police said it was established that the driver drove the vehicle at high speed in drunken state. Citing confessional statement, the police said the accused driver used to consume alcohol regularly which was known to owner of the vehicle. “But the owner of the truck did not bother and allowed him to drive. Hence, he is named as accused number 2, and he is being arrested,”the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nepali-couple-killed-in-road-accident/article33918848.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘End low representation of women in Parliament’||The Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday called for ending low representation of women in Parliament and legislatures and called upon all political parties to reach a consensus on providing reservation to them. Releasing a postal stamp brought out in memory of late Smt. Eashwari Bai, educationist, social reformer and a former MLA, the Vice-President paid rich tributes to her. Eashwari Bai’s contributions to the political and social spheres are truly laudable and left a deep imprint on the public mind, he added. Naidu said that although the 17th Lok Sabha has the highest number of 78 women members, they account only for 14% of the total number.Pointing out that reservations for women in the local bodies have politically empowered lakhs of women in the country, he said introducing reservation for women in Parliament and legislatures needs urgent attention and consensus of all political parties. Expressing his anguish over the increasing disruptions instead of meaningful discussions and debates in legislatures and Parliament, Mr Naidu called upon all parliamentarians and other public representatives to raise the standards of debate in every forum. Naidu emphasised that it is the responsibility of both the ruling and opposition parties to ensure the effective functioning of our legislatures. Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Home Minister Md. Mahood Ali, Chairperson, Easwhari Bai Memorial Trust, former Minister and daughter of the late leader J. Geeta Reddy, Chief Postmaster General, S. Rajendra Kumar, Prof. Shanta Sinha, Chairperson, NCPCR and former minister K Jana Reddy and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/end-low-representation-of-women-in-parliament/article33918873.ece
24 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MLA asks Sanjay to check his language against KCR||Ridiculing BJP Telangana unit president Bandi Sanjay’s ‘threats’ of CBI inquiry into alleged irregularities in Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), Government Whip Balka Suman has asked him to find a bigger agency than the CBI. At a press conference here, he said TRS government will not be cowed down by such threats and asked Mr. Sanjay to prove BJP’s contribution to the SCCL. He reminded that the Assembly had passed a resolution in June 2014 seeking Income Tax exemption for Singareni workers but the BJP government at the Centre has not responded so far. Mr. Sanjay should focus on securing such benefits using his influence at the Centre rather than make wild allegations against the government, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-asks-sanjay-to-check-his-language-against-kcr/article33918874.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR bats for more tax breaks to pharma industry||The Biopharma Hub proposed by the Telangana government at Genome Valley, near here, will help further consolidate Hyderabad’s position as a premier life sciences destination, Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao said on Tuesday. The B-Hub will facilitate research and development, scale up manufacturing and provide services as a turnkey incubator/lab space module, he said. Addressing CEO Conclave of BioAsia 2021, which had industry leaders and NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant as other speakers, Mr. Rao said this while underscoring the need for the Centre to enhance tax incentives on research and development spend of the pharma companies. He said the government’s move reducing weighted tax deduction was counter productive when seen in the context of its emphasis on self reliance. Besides incentives, the life sciences industry should be supported through policy measures aimed at further protecting IPs, the Minister said. Misuse of scheme Mr.Kant said the decision on tax incentives came in the backdrop of studies that revealed the scheme was being misused by some. Hehighlightedhow government’s Production Linked Incentive scheme was bound to help pharma industry. Also, the government was expected to soon announce the rates, applicable to the industry, under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products scheme. Discussions were under way between the Commerce and Revenue Ministry in this regard. Executive chairperson of Biocon Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Piramal Group vice-chairperson Swati Piramal and Lupin Managing Director Nilesh Gupta underscored the significance of innovation for the industry. Ms.Shaw said it was important for the industry to move from volume play to value game through more emphasis on research and innovation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-bats-for-more-tax-breaks-to-pharma-industry/article33918845.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genomics firm offers COVID test reports with QR code||Genomics company Mapmygenome has announced that their COVID test reports include a QR code enabling access to the original test report with details of the date and time of sample collection and sample reporting. This is in light of the Dubai Health Authority’s new guidelines on Tuesday. The firm has two COVID testing labs – one at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport and another at their corporate headquarters. All samples collected are accessioned to their in-house Laboratory Information Management System, Biotracker™. By scanning the QR code on the printed report, authorities can access original report. “Dubai Health Authority’s new QR code guidelines are an assured way to ensure honesty in COVID test result reporting and we are happy to comply. All passengers travelling via Hyderabad can take this test at the international airport and receive QR-coded reports. Our automated workflow enabled us to implement this change with zero downtime,” said Mapmygenome CEO Anu Acharya. The firm offers personalised health solutions based on genetic tests that help people understand their genetic selves through health profiles, health history and genetic counselling for early detection of disease, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/genomics-firm-offers-covid-test-reports-with-qr-code/article33918839.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||On use of IT in mining industry||Efficient use of information technology (IT) would bring phenomenal changes in the mining industry including helping increase in production and safety and SCCL is the best example, Director (Operations and Personnel) of the company S. Chandrasekhar said on Tuesday. Speaking at a webinar on “Use of IT in mining industry” organised by the alumni of mining engineers of Osmania and Kakatiya Universities and OU Mining Engineering Department, he said Singareni was using IT-enabled LiDAR for supervising the dumps of open cast mines to prevent them from collapse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-use-of-it-in-mining-industry/article33918980.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Baby feeding kiosk set up at Secunderabad station||A baby feeding (lactation) kiosk to facilitate nursing mothers set up by the Rotary Club of Hyderabad East, Rotary International District 3150, in coordination with South Central Railway was inaugurated at platform 10 of Secunderabad station by DRM Abhay Kumar Gupta in presence of Rotary District Governor 3150 N.V. Hanumanth Reddy and president, Secunderabad division, SCR Women’s Welfare Organisation Chhavi Gupta on Tuesday. The kiosk with cubicles set around will provide privacy to nursing mothers for baby feeding while undertaking journey. A handloom stall has also been set up by Pochampally weavers on platform No.1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/baby-feeding-kiosk-set-up-at-secunderabad-railway-station/article33918841.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BCs seek 50% quota in law making bodies||Backward Classes associations in the State organised protest meets (deeksha) on Tuesday demanding 50% reservation for BCs in law making bodies and creating a separate ministry for them at the Centre. Leaders of several political parties and BC associations participated in the deeksha here. In Hyderabad, National Backward Classes Welfare Association organised the protest meet that was attended by Minister for BC Welfare Gangula Kamalakar, State TDP president L. Ramana, senior Congress leader V. Hanumantha Rao, BC Association’s leader R. Krishnaiah, G. Krishna, and G. Satyam. Mr. Kamalakar extended support to the demand for 50% reservation and creation of separate ministry for BCs at the Centre. All other demands of the BC communities would see the light of the day if the two major demands were fulfilled. He requested the Centre to create separate ministry for BC communities and allocate Rs. 1 lakh crore budget. Stating that there were 72 departments in the Central government including separate ministries for SC, ST, minorities and women, Mr. Kamalakar sought to know how not having the separate ministry for communities comprising 56% of the population was justified even 74 years after Independence. Former MP and Congress leader V. Hanumantha Rao said that injustice was being done to BCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bcs-seek-50-quota-in-law-making-bodies/article33918858.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Should grads vote to make petrol Rs. 100 a litre?’||With rampant job cuts and wage cuts, the unprecedented rise in petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices are imposing enormous burden even on the middle class. The Union Budget offered no relief to the honest tax payer, the salaried middle class. The graduates of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Mahabubnagar should give a befitting reply to the authors of these ‘anti-people’ policies, said Prof. K. Nageshwar, who is contesting as an Independent candidate from this constituency. Participating in an interactive session with voters at ME Reddy Gardens, Vanasthalipuram, on Tuesday, the two term MLC said that the Central excise duties on petrol increased by 350% and on diesel by whopping 894% since 2014, after the BJP government assumed office. The Central excise duty on petrol increased from Rs. 9.48 in 2014 to Rs. 32.98 in February, while the corresponding increase on diesel was Rs. 3.56 to Rs. 31.83. The Central share in the total taxes on petroleum products increased from 14% in 2014 to 38%, Prof. Nageshwar explained. Referring to the political economy of fuel prices, he said that the BJP-led Central government collected Rs. 2,40,000 crore through tax on fuels from ordinary Indians in the 2019-20 fiscal and handed over tax sops to corporates to the tune of Rs. 1.45 crore in September 2019. Should graduates vote to make petrol Rs. 100 a litre, Nageshwar lamented? The State government too is adding to the tax burden. The MLC elections’ verdict should reflect the anger and anguish of the civil society, he exhorted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/should-grads-vote-to-make-petrol-rs-100-a-litre/article33918860.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC official in ACB net||An office superintendent in GHMC was caught by Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Tuesday, when he accepted bribe to sanction funeral charges of a man’s mother. Vadthya Phool Singh works as a superintendent in GHMC Circle-10, Phoolbagh, Falaknuma. “He was caught red handed by ACB when he accepted Rs. 5000 from complainant for processing the file for funeral charges of mother of complainant and give him the cheque for Rs. 20000,” ACB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-official-in-acb-net/article33918852.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 Book released||Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar released a book titled ‘ Neeli Swapnalu ’ written by Sathvika Dyagali, a student of Telangana Social Welfare Residential Degree College for Women, Nizamabad. Sathvika Dyagali has written 100 poems in Telugu on different themes like nature, agriculture and human relationships and she painted a series of 100 paintings directly related to the poetic themes and included the paintings in her book. “I used to take part in poetic competitions since my childhood,” said Dyagali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-book-released/article33918854.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PAGE 3 - BRIEF Spot Admissions||Spot admissions will be held for about 70 vacant seats including 50 in SC category in five-year integrated B.A. LLB courses in Telangana Social Welfare Residential Law College for Women, Ghatkesar for the academic year 2020-2021 on Feb.25. from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.. Candidates who have qualified in TS LAWCET-2020 are eligible for spot admission and admissions will be made as per the merit secured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spot-admission-for-llb-courses/article33918855.ece
24 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State Page - brief New CGM for BSNL||D.S. Narendra of ITS took charge as the Chief General Manager of BSNL, Telangana Telecom Circle. He belongs to the 1984 batch of ITS. Previously, he worked as the Principal General Manager, Hyderabad Telecom District.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-brief-new-cgm-for-bsnl/article33918859.ece
24 February 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||DRI recovers Rs 90 lakhs gold from domestic air passenger||Directorate of Revenue Intelligence officials recovered 1.867 kg of gold valued at Rs. 90.41 lakh from a domestic passenger at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Monday. One person was arrested and investigation was under process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dri-recovers-rs-90-lakhs-gold-from-domestic-air-passenger/article33918851.ece
24 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Forest fringe areas being monitored to prevent fires||As part of fire prevention measures ahead of the ensuing summer season, the Forest Department has stepped up monitoring in forest fringe areas by utilising satellite imagery and sensitising the stakeholders on preventing forest blazes. To effectively implement the fire prevention strategy, the department has formed special teams division-wise to implement public awareness programmes as well as to prevent and control fires besides attending to any exigency. The department has equipped the field staff with fire blowers, fire beaters, specially made goggles and shoes to carry out their assigned tasks effectively. Sources said that two minor fire incidents occurred in the periphery of the Velugumatla urban park near here in the recent past. One incident took place due to an accidental blast of the electricity transformer on the fringes of the Velugumatla park located in the huge reserve forest block spread across around 220.95 hectares. However, sources in the forest department refuse to acknowledge the two incidents as forest fires. Comprehensive fire prevention measures including a giant watch tower are in place in the Velugumatla reserve forest block, said a forest official. The entire stretch of the urban park, well-protected by a compound wall, is under the constant vigil of the forest watchers, she said, noting that the reserve forest block is surrounded by agricultural fields under the Puttakota, Rudramkota and Kodumuru villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/forest-fringe-areas-being-monitored-to-prevent-fires/article33918878.ece
24 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||A medico was killed and another injured in a car accident at Velugumatla urban park on the outskirts of the town on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as M. Ramakrishna Reddy, 26, a native of Tiruvuru in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district. Another occupant of the car, a final year student of MBBS, suffered multiple injuries, police said. The incident occurred on Wyra road, when the car they were travelling in collided with a van, near the urban park at Velugumatla, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33918868.ece
24 February 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Man ends life||A man committed suicide by hanging at Muslapur village in Alladurg mandal alleging that he was outcast in the village for the past several years. It was also stated that his wife ran away from the house. According to sources, Ippa Shankar (35) was an accused in a murder case. Recently, Shankar got married and within 15 days his wife ran away. Before taking the extreme step, Shankar recorded a video and made allegations against some villagers and even sub-inspector. Alladurg Sub-Inspector Mohan Reddy registered a case. (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-ends-life/article33918974.ece
24 February 2021||medak,TELANGANA||‘Expedite works of Mission Bhagiratha’||Collector A. Harish has called upon the officials to complete pending works of Mission Bhagiratha stating that they must be ready to face any contingency during summer. In a video conference held on Tuesday with the officials concerned, Mr Harish said that the water supplied through Mission Bagiratha is on par with RO water and officials have to crate awareness in the public in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-works-of-mission-bhagiratha/article33918975.ece
24 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nomination-filing turns gala event||Leaders and supporters of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi turned Nalgonda town pink by making festival-like arrangements to mark its candidate’s nomination for the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency on Tuesday. Sitting TRS MLC for the constituency Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who retires on March 29 that necessitates the March 14 election, is seeking his re-election. On Tuesday, scores of TRS supporters from neighbouring mandals reached the town, and Ministers G. Jagadish Reddy, Satyavati Rathod, P. Ajay Kumar, Errabelli Dayakar Rao and others made their presence felt for the nomination-filing event. Along with Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy, they stood atop the campaign vehicle which rolled down the arterial Hyderabad Road and addressed supporters. Several pink banners and flags, traditional dances by women and rallies buzzed the town on the last day of nomination-filing. Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy asserted confidence about his victory and said that development remained the agenda of the TRS. Mr. Jagadish Reddy said that the turnout for the rally for nomination-filing had already declared the victory for the TRS candidate. According to Satyavathi Rathod, “Congress’ Ramulu Naik is a non-local. And Congress has already lost the election, morally.” On BJP, she said the party was obstructing the setting up of a Tribal University, and had also failed to keep its word on Bayyaram steel plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nomination-filing-turns-gala-event/article33918857.ece
24 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘TRS violated poll code’||Bharatiya Janata Party and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders on Tuesday met Returning Officer of the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency and District Collector Prashant J. Patil alleging that the ruling TRS party has violated the poll code. “Since 6 a.m. on Tuesday, TRS leaders have erected flexis, hoardings and party flags across Nalgonda town without a valid permission. We are hereby submitting photos and videos as evidence to initiate action as per the poll code,” BJP’s State executive Nukala Narsimha Reddy and its town municipal leader B. Prasad wrote. Mudireddy Sudhakar Reddy of CPI (M) also raised objections and said that several arrangements for the nomination-filing of TRS’ Palla Rajeshwar Reddy were in violation of the model code. ‘False claims’ Meanwhile, contestant for the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency from CPI and CPI (M) Jaya Saradhi Reddy said that sitting TRS MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy was falsely claiming that job vacancies were filled up. He filed his nomination on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-violated-poll-code/article33918976.ece
24 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Woman alleges illegal construction in her land||While after a long time, a solution was found for a dump yard for the district headquarters, it has been facing a hurdle from a woman who claims that it was her land and the ongoing construction was illegal. She even approached the court in this regard seeking relief. However, officials claim that it was assigned land assumed long ago and now construction of dump yard was taken up. Rudraram Lakshmi Narasamma is a resident of Fasalwadi village in Sangareddy mandal. She claimed that her 4.2 acres of land was taken by the officials in survey number 599/31 and 599/35 illegally. Her son R. Karunakar Reddy said that they had been in occupation of land since 1954. Stating that the officials were claiming that the land was resumed long ago in 2008, he wondered how a new pattadar passbook was issued in the name of his mother Lakshmi Narasamma if the land was resumed long ago as claimed by the officials. “We have approached the High Court and the Court issued interim suspension as prayed. The construction work has been taking place in the 4.2 acres of land belonging to us out of the total 48.07 acres land. We were threatened by the police for violation of court orders when we went there,” said Mr Karunakar Reddy. He has also shown the new passbook issued in the name of his mother and said that she had received Rytu Bandhu till 2019 and a certificate issued by the Grama Panchayat of Fasalwadi stating that the land belongs to Laksmi Narsamma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-alleges-illegal-construction-in-her-land/article33918973.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Season’s staple||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seasons-staple/article33918843.ece
24 February 2021||new delhi,||Delhi Police launches Jan Sampark Vahan||Delhi Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava has launched the Jan Sampark Vahan for a “dynamic connect with the people of Delhi across localities and communities”. The initiative aims to strengthen police-public relations by involving them in celebrating Police Week and make people aware of the various services provided by Delhi Police. The van was launched on Delhi Police Raising Day on February 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-launches-jan-sampark-vahan/article33918813.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||DMA accuses IMA of defaming Vardhan||The Delhi Medical Association on Tuesday condemned the Indian Medical Association for seeking an explanation from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan about his presence at the launch of Patanjali’s Coronil. “The DMA strongly condemns the IMA press release, the contents of which are baseless, illegal and defamatory against Dr. Harsh Vardhan," stated the DMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dma-accuses-ima-of-defaming-vardhan/article33918814.ece
24 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana sets up fourth Forensic Science Laboratory||The Haryana government has set up a fourth regional Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), in Hisar, to expedite crime probe in the State. Three such labs are already functional at Bhondsi in Gurugram, Sunaria in Rohtak, and Moginand in Panchkula, besides the main facility at Madhuban in Karnal. Haryana Police spokesperson said the new lab started receiving samples and exhibits related to criminal cases — for examination in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, Toxicology and Serology divisions — from February 12. He said the new laboratory would receive samples from four districts: Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and police district Hansi. The objective of establishing the regional lab is to ensure a more efficient investigation process using scientific methods. “This will ensure timely preparation of reports and disposal of cases,” he said. Faster processing Earlier, the four districts were dependent on FSL Madhuban for forensic expertise. “A lot of time and resources were being consumed as police personnel had to travel a long way to deposit a case or receive a report. Now, that the regional lab is functional, results will be available at the earliest, expediting the whole investigation process,” he added. Ajay Kumar has been posted as assistant director-cum-in-charge of the new lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-sets-up-fourth-forensic-science-laboratory/article33918492.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC dismayed at Centre’s stand on State’s proposal||The Bombay High Court recently expressed dismay at the Central government’s stand of seeking repeated justification from the Maharashtra government on its proposal to notify police officers as trafficking officers as per the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act (ITPA). A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a criminal public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the NGO, Rescue Foundation, in 2017 through advocate Chetan Mali. The PIL sought appointment of special police officers under ITPA and establishment of anti-human trafficking units. Last week, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, told the court that the State had been called on to justify its proposal by a letter, dated December 02, 2020, and a subsequent reminder with respect to the appointment of special officers. The court said, “We are surprised that such a letter seeking justification could at all have been issued, particularly when the object of the Act is noble, that appointment of trafficking police officers is required to be made to give effect to the provisions of the Act, and that there was a judicial order of this Court requiring the State to forward a proposal to the Union of India in this behalf. Dismayed at the stand of the Union of India.” On two occasions — January 27, 2021 and April 11, 2018 — the Union government had told the State to make proposal/statement for appointments. On January 27, 2021, Deepak Thakare, public prosecutor appearing for the State, had informed court that a proposal has been forwarded to the Union of India on October 26, 2020, to notify all Assistant Commissioners of Police and all Deputy Superintendents of Police as well as Assistant Superintendents of Police as “Trafficking Police Officers” as provided in Section 13 (special police officer and advisory body) of ITPA. Mr. Thakare had said the Union of India is yet to convey its decision on such a proposal to the State. However, the advocate appearing for the Centre said he needs time to apprise the court on the matter. On April 11, 2018, the Centre told the court that the State has to make a statement for appointment of the officers after a letter, dated April 4, 2018, sent to the Additional Public Prosecutor by the Deputy Secretary mentioned that certain officers have been conferred with powers under Section 13 of the ITPA by a government notification of 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-dismayed-at-centres-stand-on-states-proposal/article33918498.ece
24 February 2021||Mumbai,||Smuggled goods worth Rs. 15 cr. seized||The Mumbai Customs on Tuesday seized smuggled goods worth Rs. 15 crore. A highly placed source confirmed that the seizure was made following an operation that began on February 17. The official said, “Usually such items are found in cargo, but it is uncommon to find a parcel of this worth and so many items from Dubai. It was sent from the UAE postal service – Emirates.” From February 17 to 18, twelve consignments from Chakala MIDC Post Office were seized, and from February 19 to 23, twenty-six consignments from Foreign Post Office, Ballard Estate, and five consignments from Air Parcel Sorting Office, Vile Parle, were seized. They included 1,470 iPhones, 322 Apple watches, 64 drones, 41 air pods, 391 cigarette sleeves and 36 auto parts “The Rummaging and Intelligence Division of the Preventive Commissionerate, New Customs House, Ballard Estate, Mumbai, conducted a coordinated anti-smuggling operation. These goods were attempted to be cleared through the postal mode by mis-declaring the description of the goods,” a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/smuggled-goods-worth-rs-15-cr-seized/article33918499.ece
24 February 2021||MUMBAI,||After 9 years, Vasai homes get piped gas connections||After nine years of follow-ups, Vasai taluka received piped natural gas (PNG) supply on Tuesday. Pravina Thakur, former Mayor of Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation, inaugurated the first connection at a residential complex in Evershine Nagar. Since 2012, former Palghar MP Baliram Jadhav has been writing to the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board seeking a network of compressed natural gas and PNG in Vasai-Virar, and areas in Palghar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/after-9-years-vasai-homes-get-piped-gas-connections/article33918495.ece
24 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Crocodile rescued from pond in Navi Mumbai||After four days of search, a marsh crocodile, measuring 6.43 ft and weighing 35.4 kg, was rescued from a pond behind the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) headquarters on Tuesday. Thane Forest Range officers and Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA) officials began rescue operations on Friday after a video of the crocodile went viral on February 17 and sparked complaints from residents and the NMMC’s disaster management cell. Aditya Patil, president of WWA, said, “On 17 February, we received a request to relocate the crocodile. Over the next few days, we secured the pond’s exit points. We located the reptile on Sunday morning using a boat and set up a cage, containing meat, that night. We trapped the crocodile at 12.10 a.m. on Tuesday.” Mr. Patil said the pond was spread across two acres and the cage was partially submerged in water. The cage was equipped with a camera and WWA volunteers monitored it 24x7. “Crocodiles need to breathe once on land and can then remain in water for close to an hour. So locating them is a big challenge,” he said. Thane Forest Range officer Narendra Muthe said the around six-year-old female crocodile had been roaming the sewers and creeks of Navi Mumbai for several years and many videos of it had gone viral on social media. Mr. Patil said the crocodile was also spotted in Juinagar creek and it later inhabited an artificial pond used for fish rearing. Mr. Muthe said, “The reptile entered a pond behind the NMMC headquarters. Since it posed a threat of stepping out and attacking pedestrians and residents of nearby hutments, we decided to relocate it.” After a medical test at Sanjay Gandhi National Park to check if the reptile had swallowed any hazardous material like plastic or metal, it was shifted to a safe location beyond city limits on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/crocodile-rescued-from-pond-in-navi-mumbai/article33918497.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||35 people found with U.K. strain in Capital||Thirty-five people who returned from the U.K., and their contacts, were detected with the U.K. strain of COVID-19 in the city, a Delhi government official has told The Hindu . Also, 988 random samples from the city have been sent for genome sequencing to find if any of them have the U.K. strain. But the Delhi government has not started checking for other mutant strains of the virus, which was found in Maharashtra and other parts of the country, officials said. “A total of 216 people, who returned from the U.K., and their contacts had tested positive for the virus and 247 samples from these people were sent to find if any of them had the U.K. strain. Thirty-five of them were found to have the U.K. strain. Most of them have been discharged from hospitals after they recovered,” the official said. These samples were taken from November 25 to December 23, before flights from the U.K. were stopped temporarily. “About 15 days ago, the government also sent 988 random samples, which had been collected during the same period and had tested positive, for genome sequencing to check if the U.K. strain was circulating in the city. The results of about 25 samples have come and they are negative. The rest of the results are awaited,” the official added. Identifying mutation Most of these samples have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “Genome sequencing helps identify the mutations to a virus and the meanings of it. It tells you how the virus is moving in the population and geography, whether the vaccine will work against the mutation or not, and many other things. More density and targeted genome sequencing should be done to get more information about the virus and prepare better against it,” said N.K. Ganguly, former Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On Sunday, the Centre told States to regularly monitor for mutant strains through testing followed by genome sequencing as well as monitoring of the emerging cluster of cases. Following this, the Delhi government has reiterated all private and government labs, which are doing COVID-19 tests, to preserve samples of positive tests so that genome sequencing can be done if needed. Though Lt. Governor Anil Baijal said on Monday that directions have been given to adopt “genome sequencing strategy”, it has not yet started, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/35-people-found-with-uk-strain-in-capital/article33918488.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||NRI family alleges ‘illegal confinement’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the governments on a petition by a family of four, including two minor children, who have been sent to seven-day institutional quarantine after returning from the U.K. even after testing negative for COVID-19. Justice Prathiba M. Singh issued notice to the Ministries of Civil Aviation and External Affairs and also to the Delhi government on the plea moved by the family, which is quarantined at Hotel Vivanta in Dwarka here. The family has alleged that the action amounted to “illegal confinement” as they had tested negative for COVID-19. Their plea stated that all the members were tested for COVID-19 when they arrived here from the U.K. on February 20 and despite testing negative, they were “illegally and unlawfully” sent to institutional quarantine. Fit-to-fly certificate The plea said the action was illegal as according to the guidelines published on the Delhi airport website, institutional quarantine was not mandatory for all the passengers arriving from the U.K. and was applicable only to those who tested positive for COVID-19. The petition said that before starting from the U.K., the family had undergone a COVID-19 test and they were issued a ‘fit-to-fly’ certificate. After arriving at Delhi, they were again tested and were found negative, despite which they were sent to institutional quarantine at their cost in a 5-star hotel instead of home quarantine as sought by them. The plea has sought that the petitioners be released from their alleged “illegal confinement” and the cost of their “forced” stay be borne by the Centre and Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nri-family-alleges-illegal-confinement/article33918478.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Media functioning as wing of govt.’||Large parts of the media today are functioning as propaganda arms of the government and the “Hindu rashtra ideology”, said The Hindu Publishing Group Director N. Ram. Speaking during a panel discussion on the role of the media, organised by the media cell of St. Stephen’s College on Tuesday, Mr. Ram raised concerns over the propaganda as well as fake news seen in certain sections of the media. “It is an understatement to say the media have not being doing their job. In fact they have been doing awful things in many places,” he said. The veteran journalist raised the issue of “fake news” released by the police, including defamatory allegations and “toxic information” attributed to unnamed sources. “Large sections of the media are propaganda arms of the Central government and the Hindu rashtra ideology,” he said, citing examples of the coverage of the migrant crisis after the lockdown was imposed in March 2020, the demonisation of the Tablighi Jamaat members who were stranded, and the communal violence that broke out in North East Delhi in February 2020. However, he added that the issues pertaining to the farmers’ protest had received coverage, but had become overwhelmed by propaganda. Currently, he said there was propaganda regarding India’s COVID-19 vaccination numbers, which were less than 1% of the population compared to 26% in the United Kingdom and 18% in the United States. “It is the propaganda role that dominates,” he said, adding that this was one of the worst chapters for the media in the past 70 years. Earlier, speaking about the role of the media, the founder of The India Forum and former editor of the Economic and Political Weekly, Rammanohar Reddy, said it was the job of the media to fact-check news, particularly as fake news was prevalent. The media, he said, had not been doing its job in recent years. Seema Mustafa, the president of the Editors Guild of India and the editor of The Citizen , said there was a need to “go back to the tenets of old journalism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/media-functioning-as-wing-of-govt/article33918815.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man out on parole arrested for thefts||A rape convict who was released on parole to decongest jails during the COVID-19 pandemic has been arrested for his alleged involvement in several cases of ATM theft in the city, the police said on Tuesday. The 34-year-old accused has been identified as Shamshad alias Khutkan from Faridabad in Haryana. Shamshad was released from jail on parole on April 20 as part of an exercise to decongest jails in view of the pandemic. During his parole, he was committing ATM thefts. He was a life convict in the infamous Dhaula Kuan rape case of 2010, a senior officer said. On Monday, the police received information that Shamshad would come near Gokalpuri metro station at Wazirabad Road, following which a trap was laid, an officer said. “Shamshad was seen coming towards metro station at 3.35 p.m. On seeing the police, he whipped out his pistol and opened fire. He was later overpowered,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah. Shamshad is a member of the Mewat-based inter-State gang of robbers. 12 ATMs He was wanted in 12 cases of breaking of ATMs in Delhi and looting cash trays in a short span of two months, the DCP said. The gang members siphoned off Rs. 1.35 lakh in cash from 12 ATMs. The accused used to spray black paint at CCTV cameras after entering the ATM booths. They used to open the ATMs with the help of a gas cutter and remove the cash trays, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-out-on-parole-arrested-for-thefts/article33918494.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal says AAP has emerged as a key alternative in Gujarat||Aam Aadmi Party claimed that they have significantly improved their vote share in the municipal elections of Gujarat and citizens of different States were “accepting” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s model of development-based politics as the key alternative. The party also said that Congress was no longer relevant in Gujarat and it will be a battle between the BJP and AAP. “People of Gujarat have voted for politics of work, they were fed up by the politics of the BJP and the Congress. AAP has emerged as the key alternative for the people of Gujarat. The upcoming Assembly elections will now be only between AAP and the BJP,” said Mr. Kejriwal. Senior AAP leader Manish Sisodia said that people in all the cities of Gujarat are expressing trust in the AAP and they were at number two in Surat, which is a BJP stronghold. “People are seeking change and looking at the Aam Aadmi Party as the key alternative. We will raise public issues on the streets as well as in the House. The people of Surat have done a great job. People of Gujarat are upset with the BJP, they do not trust Congress. People are angry with the BJP, and AAP has emerged as their only hope,” he added. Massive signifance The party also said that in Gujarat, under the leadership of Gopal Italia, AAP workers worked hard and spread the message of the party from door to door and this made the difference. “I believe that this result of AAP has a massive political significance. We all know that Gujarat has been a role model of BJP’s development. The BJP is in power in entire Gujarat, including Surat. But the people who wants change are choosing the Aam Aadmi Party as the key alternative,” said AAP Chief Spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kejriwal-says-aap-has-emerged-as-a-key-alternative-in-gujarat/article33918490.ece
24 February 2021||new delhi,||MHA directs closure of two special COVID-19 centres as cases decline||The Union Home Ministry has directed phased closure of two special COVID-19 care centres in the city in view of “continuous decline” in novel coronavirus cases, officials said on Tuesday. While the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel COVID hospital located in the Delhi Cantonment area is managed by the DRDO, the Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre operational in south Delhi’s Chhattarpur area is managed by the ITBP.  The two facilities will be closed in phases. Those admitted will be discharged gradually and no new admissions will be done, a senior home ministry official said. Review meeting The decision to close the facilities, which began operations in June-July last year, was taken after a review meeting by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla. The MHA said the two centres are being closed “due to continuous decline in COVID cases in the National Capital Territory of Delhi vis-a-vis adequate availability of medical facilities”.  It was also formulated in the meeting that the medical manpower of various Central Armed Police Force working in the ITBP-run centre should now be deployed elsewhere. No critical patients The Chhattarpur centre, with over 10,000 beds, has no patients in critical care at present while about 60 patients are admitted in the ward, as per official data. This centre, established in the campus of the Radha Soami Beas, has treated over 12,000 patients till now, including some who returned from abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mha-directs-closure-of-two-special-covid-19-centres-as-cases-decline/article33918493.ece
24 February 2021||new delhi,||Hanuman temple: Mayor holds ‘all-party meeting’||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said an “all-party meeting” of senior leaders of the BJP-led north corporation was held on Tuesday to seek consensus before putting up a proposal in its House for granting “legal status to the prefabricated Hanuman temple that has come up at Chandni Chowk”. The meeting of the House of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is slated to be held later this week.  The meeting was attended by the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, civic body standing committee chairman and his deputy, Leader of the House Yogesh Verma, Leader of the Opposition and AAP member Vikas Goel and Leader of the Congress in the House Mukesh Goel. “An appeal has been made to all-party leaders to allow the proposal to be passed smoothly with consensus,” the Mayor said, adding: “Members of all three parties put up their suggestions during the meeting.” Mr. Verma said the decision to bring a proposal has been taken “keeping in view the sentiments of the people”. A day earlier, the Mayor had held a meeting with senior leaders and officials of the civic body.  The Delhi government’s Public Works Department on Saturday had lodged a complaint with the police seeking action against setting up of the prefabricated, steel structure on the median verge of the street by unknown people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hanuman-temple-mayor-holds-all-party-meeting/article33918481.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Give Rs. 1 lakh each to two custodial torture victims’||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has recommended that the Ministry of Home Affairs pay Rs. 1 lakh each to two victims of custodial torture at Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar police station in a 2019 case. In a statement on Tuesday, the NHRC said it had also asked for the report on departmental action taken against the six police officers involved, who are facing trial. “The commission was convinced that from the material on record, prima facie it is established that the complainant and his nephew were given third degree torture. They were assaulted by the police personnel, as named in the FIR, and are now facing trial before the court,” the NHRC said. Under the Protection of Human Rights Act, the NHRC recommended the payment of Rs. 1 lakh each to the victims. The NHRC had registered a case on September 5, 2019 after receiving a complaint on August 28, 2019. The complainant had alleged that the officers of the Adarsh Nagar police station had picked up his nephew in connection with an Arms Act case and detained him when he went to find out what happened. He alleged that they were both subjected to torture. His nephew was allegedly falsely implicated. “...the commission held that since the police officers failed to act as responsible public servants, therefore, departmental proceedings against them should also be initiated, and they should be punished accordingly. The State is vicariously liable for the action of public servant/police officers and hence the victims are entitled for compensation,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/give-rs-1-lakh-each-to-two-custodial-torture-victims/article33918482.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Schools told to sensitise students on cyberbullying||The Delhi government has issued a circular to all the heads of schools to educate students and their parents about the safe use of Internet and sensitise them about cyberbullying and online threats as they continue to attend classes online due to the pandemic. The Directorate of Education (DoE) said a study has been conducted by India Child Protection Fund (ICPF) regarding online exploitation of children and increase in activities related to child sexual abuse material, which indicates a sharp rise in demand for online child pornography during the lockdown. Therefore, it said that it is imperative to make children and their parents aware about the safe use of Internet. In a letter to school heads, DoE said school education has shifted from the carefree days of learning together in safe school environments to online mode. “The Internet spaces are growing and multiplying and data security, privacy and protection is inadequate to keep a check on this. It is important that everyone is aware of the risks that could be associated with being connected to Internet,” the DOE said in a circular. The DoE has asked schools to refer to guidelines on “safe online learning in times of COVID-19” which were jointly developed by the NCERT and UNESCO. Schools have been asked to share information and the guidelines with students and parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/schools-told-to-sensitise-students-on-cyberbullying/article33918484.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||7,000 electric vehicles registered in 2020: govt.||Nearly 7,000 new Electric Vehicles (EVs) have been registered in the Capital since the launch of EV policy last year, the Delhi government said here Tuesday. Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said a total subsidy of around Rs. 13.5 crore had been disbursed by the Delhi government on over 21 approved models so far. The comments were made at a webinar, the first in a series of similar virtual events, organised under the Switch Delhi campaign. Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness campaign by the Delhi government to sensitise each Delhiite about the benefits of switching to EVs as well as to make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed under Delhi’s EV policy. Aimed at increasing engagement with the public and stakeholders to accelerate EV adoption in Delhi, the webinar saw the participation of over 100 EV enthusiasts who came in to listen to two discussions — one with experts from the industry on EV adoption in Delhi and the other on how youth can drive the EV movement in Delhi. On provisions for charging and power, Abhishek Ranjan from BRPL said: “We’re working with the Delhi government to ensure proper charging infrastructure, ensuring grid optimal planning and incentivising consumer plan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/7000-electric-vehicles-registered-in-2020-govt/article33918486.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||20,466 take jab; Delhi sees 145 new cases||A total of 20,466 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Tuesday and there were three minor Adverse Events Following Immunisation, said a government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 2,703 healthcare workers received the first dose and 1,974 their second dose. Also, 15,789 front-line workers received their first dose. Delhi witnessed 145 COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 6,38,173, according to a government bulletin. Two deaths were reported and the toll touches 10,903.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/20466-take-jab-delhi-sees-145-new-cases/article33918491.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||BJP exhorts cadre to make booth management strong||BJP State organisation general secretary Siddharthan exhorted party workers to make booth management strong. At a party workers’ meeting in Naveen Shahdara, he said it is the booth management which decides the fate of a candidate. “The ground-level party workers are its backbone and on their basis, one wins. We should work hard for the corporation ward by-polls. The victory in by-polls would ensure majority for us in 2022 corporation polls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-exhorts-cadre-to-make-booth-management-strong/article33918485.ece
24 February 2021||Sydney,||Facebook to end Australia news blackout||Facebook said on Tuesday it would lift a contentious ban on Australian news and pay local media companies for content, after a last-gasp deal on pending landmark legislation. Australia’s Treasurer Josh Frydenberg announced a face-saving compromise that will see Google and Facebook plunge tens of millions of dollars into the struggling local news sector. In return the U.S. digital firms will, for now, avoid being subjected to mandatory payments that could cost them vastly more and create what they see as an alarming global precedent. Just hours after the compromise was unveiled, Facebook announced its first proposed deal with an Australian media company, Seven West, and was said to be pursuing commercial deals with other local news organisations. The company is expected to use the content to launch a dedicated news product in Australia later this year. “As a result of these changes, we can now work to further our investment in public interest journalism, and restore news on Facebook for Australians in the coming days,” said Will Easton, managing director of Facebook Australia. The social media firm sparked global outrage last week by blacking out news for its Australian users in protest against the proposed legislation, and inadvertently blocking a series of non-news Facebook pages linked to everything from cancer charities to emergency response services. Prime Minister Scott Morrison angrily accused Facebook of making a decision to “unfriend” Australia. Google has already brokered deals worth millions of dollars with local media companies, including the two largest: Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp and Nine Entertainment. ‘Resonable compromise’ Commentators described the eleventh-hour amendments — which came as parliament looks set to pass the law this week — as “a reasonable compromise”. “Everybody can walk away saying, well we got what we wanted,” University of New South Wales Business Professor Rob Nicholls said. Both companies now have an additional two months to reach further agreements that would stave off binding arbitration. The tech firms had fiercely opposed the legislation from the get-go, fearing it would threaten their business models. In particular, the companies objected to rules that made negotiations with media companies mandatory and gave an independent Australian arbiter the right to impose a monetary settlement. That process will now be avoided if companies are deemed to have made a “significant contribution” to the Australian news industry through unspecified “commercial agreements”. “We now face the strange possibility that the news media mandatory code could be passed by Parliament and it applies to precisely no one,” said Marcus Strom, head of the Media Entertainment and Arts Alliance, a union. “It will just sit in the Treasurer’s (drawer) as a threat to misbehaving digital companies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-to-end-australia-news-blackout/article33918161.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Imran pitches economic corridor to Sri Lanka||Pitching the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) as a connectivity booster, Prime Minister Imran Khan, in Colombo on a two-day visit beginning on Tuesday, said Pakistan would find “ways and means to enhance trade and connectivity” with Sri Lanka. “Pakistan is part of the One Belt and Road initiative of China, and CPEC is one of its flagship programmes. And it means connectivity,” he said hours after his arrival. The CPEC, Mr. Khan said, would help enhance Sri Lanka’s connectivity “right up to Central Asia”, while trade ties would bring Pakistan and Sri Lanka “closer together”. Mr. Khan is the first head of government to visit Sri Lanka since the pandemic struck the world. He held a one-on-one bilateral meeting with counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa on Tuesday evening, and is scheduled to meet President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Wednesday. Mr. Khan will also lead the delegation-level talks, covering “all areas of cooperation” between the two countries, including trade and investment, health and education, agriculture, science and technology, defence and security, and culture and tourism, the Pakistani mission here said. ‘Deep affinity’ “Several MoUs” in these areas were signed on Tuesday, according to a tweet from Prime Minister Rajapaksa. Mr. Rajapaksa, who received the visiting leader at the Bandaranaike International Airport — he was accorded a red-carpet welcome with a 19-gun salute — said Mr. Khan’s visit, despite the pandemic, symbolised the “deep affinity” that he and his government had for Sri Lanka. “I admire your courage and the great leadership that is evident in crucial decisions you have taken at times of crises,” PM Rajapaksa said, likening Mr. Khan’s political leadership to his time as captain of the Pakistani cricket team. “Your people-centric governance agenda goes hand in hand with my own government’s approach towards empowering the grassroots level communities and underprivileged,” Mr. Rajapaksa said, adding that bilateral ties had become an “all-weather” friendship. Batting for Buddhism In addition to trade cooperation, Mr. Khan invoked cricket and Buddhism, topics that most Sri Lankans share a deep connection with. He commended the Sri Lankan cricket team for emerging a world class team from the subcontinent, and spoke of Buddhist heritage linking the two countries, inviting Sri Lanka’s Buddhists to “one of the greatest Buddhist heritage” sites in the world. Protest held Meanwhile, members of Sri Lanka’s minority Muslim community held a demonstration on Tuesday, urging the government to reverse its mandatory cremations policy for COVID-19 victims. Carrying a mock coffin, they denounced the government’s policy enforcing cremations, in a protest near the Presidential Secretariat, aimed at drawing Mr. Khan’s attention. Weeks before his arrival, Mr. Khan had welcomed — on Twitter — an announcement made by PM Rajapaksa in Parliament that burials would be permitted. However, Colombo backtracked a day later, sparking renewed concern among Sri Lanka’s Muslims. Mr. Khan did not refer to the issue in his speech on Tuesday. The Sri Lankan government, which had earlier said Mr. Khan would address Parliament, cancelled the programme closer to his arrival, citing “scheduling issues” and safety concerns linked to the pandemic.  Pakistan is part of the One Belt and Road initiative of China, and CPEC is one of its flagship programmes. And it means connectivity Imran Khan Pakistan Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imran-pitches-economic-corridor-to-sri-lanka/article33918169.ece
24 February 2021||Yangon,||Amid foreign concerns, no let up in protests against Myanmar junta||Protesters against the military’s seizure of power in Myanmar were back on the streets of cities and towns on Tuesday, a day after a general strike shuttered shops and brought huge numbers out to demonstrate. In Mandalay, the country’s second-biggest city, a funeral was held for 37-year-old Thet Naing Win, one of two protesters shot dead by security forces on Saturday.  Numbers were down from Monday’s massive crowds, but groups of demonstrators in Yangon, the country’s biggest city, assembled again at various venues on Tuesday for peaceful protests. Protesters trained their ire on a new target on Tuesday, gathering outside the Indonesian Embassy in response to a news report that Jakarta was proposing to its regional neighbours that they offer qualified support for the junta’s plan for a new election next year. The demonstrators demand that the results of last year’s election, won in a landslide by Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party, to be honoured.  Indonesian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Teuku Faizasyah denied the report, saying on Tuesday that it “is not Indonesia’s position at all to support a new election in Myanmar.”  There is continuing international concern over Myanmar, with Foreign Ministers from the Group of Seven nations on Tuesday issuing their second statement since the coup.  “Anyone responding to peaceful protests with violence must be held to account,” they said. The group also condemned restrictions on freedom of expression, including arrests and the blocking of internet access, and called for the release of Suu Kyi and her colleagues. The U.S. and several Western governments have called for the junta to refrain from violence, release detainees and restore Suu Kyi’s government. On Monday, the U.S. said it was imposing sanctions against more junta members because of the killing of peaceful protesters by security forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-foreign-concerns-no-let-up-in-protests-against-myanmar-junta/article33918167.ece
24 February 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong to disqualify officials, politicians ‘disloyal’ to China||Hong Kong announced plans on Tuesday to ramp up the ideological vetting of politicians and officials, with anyone seen to be disloyal to China or a national security threat barred from office. The draft law will be sent next month to the city’s legislature, a body now devoid of opposition after a number of figures were disqualified because their political views were deemed a security threat. Officials have detailed a “negative list” of offenses that could see their colleagues removed from office, including acts that endanger national security, advocating for independence or refusing to accept China’s sovereignty over Hong Kong. ‘Disrespecting the party’ The city’s Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Erick Tsang confirmed that criticism of the Chinese Communist Party could also be a disqualifying factor. “You can’t say you’re patriotic but don’t love the Chinese Communist Party's leadership, or don’t respect it,” he told reporters after the new law was announced on Tuesday. “This does not make sense.” “Doing harm to the country’s fundamental system, its socialist system, or doing harm to the socialist system led by the Chinese Communist Party, shouldn’t be allowed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-to-disqualify-officials-politicians-disloyal-to-china/article33918162.ece
24 February 2021||Washington,||Biden, Trudeau to lay out road map to rebuild ties||President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will lay out a “road map” for rebuilding U.S.-Canada relations on Tuesday during their first bilateral meeting, a senior official said, although the scrapped Keystone pipeline could present a hurdle. Following the turbulence of Donald Trump’s presidency, Mr. Biden would have hoped to use his well-honed skills of personal connection while meeting face-to-face with the leader of the key ally. However, the meeting will occur virtually due to the coronavirus pandemic. This will Mr. Biden’s first bilateral event as President. “I think the biggest deliverable from the trip, or from the meeting, is going to be essentially... a roadmap to reinvigorate U.S.-Canada collaboration,” a senior U.S. administration official said on Monday.  Mr. Biden and Mr. Trudeau will address several mutual priorities, including tackling climate change, revving up the North American economy, the Arctic, and threats to democracy in Myanmar and Venezuela. “By being on the same line on several subjects, like climate change or economic revival, we can do more together,” Mr. Trudeau’s office said, offering similar broad brush strokes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-trudeau-to-lay-out-road-map-to-rebuild-ties/article33918159.ece
24 February 2021||Paris,||Paris raps Pak. over Alvi remarks on French Bill||The French Foreign Ministry has summoned Pakistan’s envoy to protest against claims by President Arif Alvi that a French Bill cracking down on radical Islam stigmatises Muslims. Addressing a conference on religion on Saturday, Mr. Alvi said: “When you see that laws are being changed in favour of a majority to isolate a minority, that is a dangerous precedent.” Specifically referring to the legislation drafted after the beheading of a French teacher by an Islamist radical over cartoons of Prophet Muhammed, Mr. Alvi said: “When you insult the Prophet, you insult all Muslims.” “I urge the political leadership of France not to entrench these attitudes into laws... You have to bring people together — not to stamp a religion in a certain manner and create disharmony among the people or create bias.”   The French Foreign Ministry said late on Monday it had called in Pakistan’s Charge d’Affaires to mark “our surprise and our disapproval (over Mr. Alvi’s remarks), given that the Bill contains no discriminatory element”. “It is guided by the basic principles of freedom of religion and conscience, makes no distinction between the different religions and applies therefore equally to all faiths,” the Ministry said. “Pakistan must understand this and adopt a constructive attitude for our bilateral relations,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/paris-raps-pak-over-alvi-remarks-on-french-bill/article33918165.ece
24 February 2021||Islamabad,||Afghanistan warring sides return to table||With violence spiking, Afghanistan’s warring sides have returned to the negotiation table, ending more than a month of delays amid hopes that the two sides can agree on a reduction of violence — and eventually, an outright ceasefire. Taliban spokesman Mohammad Naeem tweeted on Monday night that talks had resumed in Qatar, where the insurgent movement maintains a political office. There were no details other than the atmosphere was “cordial”, a commitment that negotiations should continue and an announcement that the first item of business will be setting the agenda. When talks ended abruptly in January, just days after beginning, both sides submitted their wish lists for agendas. The task now is for the two sides to sift through the respective wish lists, agree on items to negotiate and the order in which they will be tackled. The priority for the Afghan government, Washington and NATO is a serious reduction in violence leading to a cease fire. The Taliban has said it is negotiable, but until now has resisted any immediate cease fire. Washington is reviewing the February 2020 peace deal the previous Trump administration signed with the Taliban that calls for the final withdrawal of international forces by May 1. The Taliban has resisted suggestions of even a brief extension, but a consensus is mounting in Washington for a delay in the withdrawal deadline. There is even a suggestion of a smaller intelligence-based force staying behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghanistan-warring-sides-return-to-table/article33918166.ece
24 February 2021||Lumut,||Malaysia deports over 1,000 Myanmar nationals, defying court order||Malaysia on Tuesday deported more than 1,000 Myanmar detainees back to their homeland just weeks after a coup, despite a court order halting the repatriation and a storm of criticism. The migrants, whom activists say include vulnerable asylum seekers, departed on three Myanmar navy ships from a Malaysian military base.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/malaysia-deports-over-1000-myanmar-nationals-defying-court-order/article33918164.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Human rights are everyone’s business||The ongoing protests by farmers against the three hastily promulgated agriculture laws have drawn international attention, with the denial of democratic rights to them by the government’s construction of military-grade barriers and shutting down of the Internet at protest sites getting strong statements of support from numerous international celebrities. The official response of the Ministry of External Affairs was disproportionate to the provocation, but it was not merely the reaction of a thin-skinned government. The argument put forth by the government pushed a more fundamental premise: it warned the concerned global voices that these matters — democracy and human rights, left unstated — were India’s ‘internal affair’. The recent arrest of the 22-year-old environmental activist, Disha Ravi, for amplifying the farmer protests internationally, unmasked the government’s designs to criminalise those who speak for human rights. This attitude was also visible in the Home Ministry’s directions to social media companies to block accounts of those expressing a point of view contrary to that of the government. A democracy which does not ensure and secure universal rights for all is a democracy only in name. Being respected, not having their dignity violated and having a sense of security is what everyone, anywhere should get, whether it is Syrians on an Italian shore, the Rohingya in Myanmar, Hindus in Pakistan or stateless refugees on a border in Mexico. No government has immunity because it violates human rights in its jurisdiction. Prime Minister Narendra Modi could not have been more misplaced as he was, when he spoke of ‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’ in Parliament to refer to global concerns for rights of protesting farmers. The belief that what India or what any other nation does to its people is an ‘internal matter’, is as misdirected a defence as the one a wife-beating husband deploys with his neighbours — that it is not their business. Nation and the idea of rights India played a signature role in drawing the world together to oppose the apartheid government of South Africa, and it took till 1962 to override the sovereignty shield used by the government to continue oppressing the Black population. India stayed firm from the 1950s till a resolution was adopted and a United Nations Special Committee Against Apartheid was set up by the United Nations. India’s work, in consistently creating awareness and resistance against the demonisation of Nelson Mandela via the Rivonia trial in 1963, checked the Apartheid regime from awarding him the death sentence. The principle document signed in the last century, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights laid down the terms for the post-war world, it enshrined the rights and the freedoms of all people, living everywhere. It was not something that was forced down India’s throat by its colonial rulers. India was a member of the first Human Rights Commission, which was to draft the ‘international bill of rights’. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was drafted from January 1947 till December 10, 1948, when it was eventually adopted by the General Assembly. Along with the Charter of the United Nations that was signed earlier in San Francisco in 1945, Indian freedom fighters did their best to influence it and make its brief wider and more effective. Mahatma Gandhi issued a press statement in April 1945 which was directed at participants of the San Francisco conference and he extensively quoted from the All India Congress Committee resolution of August 8, 1942: “While the AICC must primarily be concerned with the independence and defence of India in this hour of danger, the Committee is of opinion that the future peace, security and ordered progress of the world demand a world federation of free nations, and on no other basis can the problems of the modern world be solved.” A line is particularly evocative – “...Thus the demand for Indian independence is in no way selfish. Its nationalism spells internationalism.” At the time of the conference, Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit who went on to become the first woman President of the UN General Assembly, was on a year-long lecture tour of the U.S., and she had a deep impact on African-Americans battling entrenched racism at the time. Pandit powerfully advocated Mahatma Gandhi and Nehru’s ideas and emphasised their universality and the indivisible nature of rights that all human beings must enjoy. She sent a note to the conference, urging them to be bolder than they were to be eventually. Scholars agree that Pandit’s alliances with Eleanor Roosevelt, Black activists and others forged at the time, subsequently helped push for a more comprehensive adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. The work of Indians like Hansa Mehta, Minoo Masani and Lakshmi Menon conveyed the message as being the same as that of the freedom movement — of freedom from oppression for all human beings (https://bit.ly/3qLAGiA).  Rights are indivisible The makers of the Indian Constitution did not invoke paranoia about respecting Indian tradition, customs or hiding perverse practices. Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan famously said while commending the Objectives Resolution, or the basic road map of the Constitution, to the Assembly, that the endeavour was “a fundamental alteration in the structure of Indian society,… to abolish every vestige of despotism, every heirloom of inorganic tradition.” The triad of ‘Liberty, Equality and Fraternity’ engraved in the Preamble, drew significantly from the slogan which had proved influential following the French Revolution. It flowed from the realisation, in Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s words, that given the vice-like grip of the “graded inequality” of the caste system, all three elements, together, were absolutely essential if Indians were to realise their full potential. To quote B.R. Ambedkar who on the eve of the adoption of the Preamble explained how Liberty, Equality and Fraternity were connected and locked into each other firmly: “Without equality, liberty would produce the supremacy of the few over the many. Equality without liberty would kill individual initiative. Without fraternity, liberty would produce the supremacy of the few over the many. Without fraternity, liberty and equality could not become a natural course of things. It would require a constable to enforce them.” New Delhi’s recent moves To cite Atmanirbhar as a counter to international concerns about freedoms, equality and the right to dissent amounts to hiding behind the flimsy excuse of sovereignty to escape the bitter truth of the slithering slope of democratic rights India appears to be going down. The case the Indian government is making is all the more specious as its own immediate concern expressed, officially by its External Affairs Minister when visiting Sri Lanka, on the Sri Lankan government needing to do more to safeguard Tamil lives belies this principle. The starkest case where India made human rights of citizens of other countries its business was in 2019 when the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, offered a home for certain persecuted citizens of three foreign countries. When it comes to universal human rights and international attention, the premier example is of the liberation of Bangladesh which India led and shepherded by invoking these principles. That India chose to and continues to host the Dalai Lama, who attracts visible support from high-profile global celebrities, is a testament to New Delhi’s commitment to human rights. That the public concern from international celebrities is tantamount to foreign ‘intervention’ carries no weight, as this is not about the Central Intelligence Agency or Vladimir Putin’s Russia meddling in Indian electoral processes. In fact, the Bharatiya Janata Party has been cavalier about amending the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, or FCRA, rules permitting itself, a political party, to whitewash foreign funds with retrospective effect, in 2016.   The issue is a reality problem The Prime Minister and his government have actively courted foreign approval. Two dozen foreign envoys were taken on a guided tour of Kashmir last week because getting a favourable opinion from foreigners matters to the government. At the height of tensions and the shutdown there, before Indian Members of Parliament were allowed, a delegation of far-right European Parliament members was bussed around deserted streets. The Prime Minister has personally appeared with celebrities in foreign lands during his numerous trips, seeking their approval. The craving for approval is natural for any publicity-seeking politician, but a democracy cannot be reduced to only demanding praise from the rest of the world and raising the bogey of ‘internal matters’ when international voices express solidarity with dissenters and raise serious concerns. Global concerns about democratic rights in India cannot be dealt with by arresting messengers, bullying ‘amplifiers’ or shutting down social media accounts. India does not have an image problem; it has a reality problem. Changing the reality and adhering to best democratic practices inside is the only durable solution if the Modi government wants its image ‘fixed’. Seema Chishti is a journalist based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/human-rights-are-everyones-business/article33918145.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The excise duty-fiscal policy contradiction||There used to be a time — and this was well before India began to globalise — when each Union Budget announced sales tax increases on tobacco products, especially cigarettes. The demand for cigarettes being somewhat inelastic, the rise in tax was expected to be a shot in the arm for the revenue-starved government of our poor country. Increase in excise duty India is less poor now, having risen to the rank of an emerging market economy. Yet, COVID-19 has ushered in a cataclysm. As opposed to a Budget estimate of 3.5% for fiscal deficit, the revised estimates show a 2.7 times larger deficit of 9.5% for FY 2020-21. Moreover, a comparison of the government’s revised Budget estimates with the original Budget estimates reveals a fall in receipts from every source of taxation except excise. The revised Budget shows a rise of Rs. 94,000 crore on account of excise duties alone. Presumably, the increase comes from the much-debated excise duty increases on petroleum and diesel. As far as the Budget documents go, the excise duty rise will hardly compensate for the huge falls in other tax revenues. It is not surprising, therefore, that despite the excise rise, the fiscal deficit continues to be higher than the Budget estimate. In fact, the larger excise duty collection is not large enough to have significantly reduced the inflated fiscal deficit figure. Given the nature of the products on which the excise duty has gone up, prices of commodities will rise in general, directly or indirectly. This is because all these commodities fall either in the category of final goods, which individuals purchase for personal consumption, or in the category of intermediate goods, which are used to produce a variety of essential services such as public transport, agricultural water supply, hotels and restaurants . With annual output shrinking by an estimated 7.7%, it is straightforward to conclude that unemployment has risen significantly. The accompanying price rise will be the unemployed persons’ worst nightmare. The result will be severe inequality. New philosophy As far as shrinkage in output is concerned, it is the unavoidable lockdown that needs to be blamed rather than the government’s mismanagement of the economy. The associated inequalities though cannot be delinked from policy and, as political opponents will argue, COVID-19-linked income inequities ought to have been addressed through higher taxation of the rich. Even though such criticism does not lack wisdom, it appears that the philosophy underlying the government’s economic policy framework has changed, a change that has not received adequate attention. In what follows, we shall address the issue from a pure economist’s point of view. In this context, it is well worth our while to pursue Volume 1 of the Economic Survey 2020-21. Chapter 2 of the document considers the basics of fiscal policy with reference to Olivier Blanchard’s 2019 presidential address to the American Economic Association. Professor Blanchard’s view may appear to run counter to our own Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, according to which the fiscal deficit must be capped under 3.5% or so. The idea underlying the prescription was that a fiscal deficit automatically transformed to government debt. Such debts along with their servicing liabilities have a tendency to magnify over the years, thereby imprisoning governments in debt traps, where present borrowings keep increasing to repay past borrowings and service charges. This leaves little room for growth enhancing expenditure and reduces a government’s credit worthiness in the eyes of lenders. Professor Blanchard, and following him the Economic Survey, propose a different viewpoint altogether. Debt-financed fiscal spending, according to them, could well be a driver of growth. It can improve the standard of living of the entire population, without necessarily removing inequality. The inequality, however, could well be benignant, for even though the rich will grow richer, the poor will escape out of poverty. A government’s fiscal expenditure, Professor Blanchard points out, has stronger multiplier effects during recessions than during booms. In an economic boom, state expenditure may crowd out private expenditure on account of a rise in the interest rate. During recessions, private expenditure is low in any case, on account of a rise in precautionary savings and the grim state of long-term expectations. The government, however, is not affected by such psychological constraints. Its fiscal expenditure produces positive growth and this in turn can generate a feel good factor for the private sector over time, raise animal spirits, and improve the state of the economy. Blanchard’s argument What, however, constitutes the government’s spendable resource? The obvious answer is debt, or the fiscal deficit itself. What will prevent the government from sinking into a debt trap? Professor Blanchard shows that the debt-to-GDP ratio can be prevented from exploding if the rate of growth of GDP happens to be higher than the sovereign rate of interest. This is the case in developed economies. In such economies, debt financed government expenditure will create a positive primary surplus (defined as the total government receipts minus expenditure net of interest payments) out of which interest payments can be made to keep the debt-GDP ratio under control. There will, of course, be a maximum value that this ratio can attain, a value that is higher the larger is the excess of the growth rate over the interest rate. According to the Economic Survey, India’s average interest rate and growth rate over the last 25 years (leaving out FY 2020-21) have been 8.8% and 12.8% respectively. Hence, Professor Blanchard’s condition is satisfied, so that debt financing of recession ought not to raise FRBM issues involving fear of future taxation to address past debts. To some at least, the argument may sound like an excuse for not resorting to higher taxation of the rich to remove economic inequality. The philosophy of the Economic Survey, on the other hand, appears to be that expenditure causes growth, rather than distributional equality. With improved growth, standards of living will rise across the population, bringing affluence of a sort to the economically deprived even as it makes the rich grow richer. This, of course, is not to support excise duty increases, for it goes against the very principle of the Blanchard argument, which emphasises maintainable debt and expenditure as the vehicle of development as opposed to increased tax burdens. Therefore, there appears to be a contradiction between the government’s announced fiscal policy stance and the fiscal regime it is actually running. But then, Professor Blanchard’s argument requires the growth rate to exceed the rate of interest, which was not the case in FY 2020-21. Dipankar Dasgupta is former Professor of Economics, Indian Statistical Institute, Delhi and Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-excise-duty-fiscal-policy-contradiction/article33918156.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Writing more of India into Tibetology||Let’s situate the study of Tibet outside the narrow silo of Sino-Indian relations and within the Himalaya. It might teach us much that we don’t know about India. As students of Tibet and the Himalaya, we welcome the Indian Army’s recent proposal for its officers to study Tibetology. A media report on January 28 said that officers would study “Tibetan history, culture, and language on both sides of the Line of Actual Control” in order to “counter Chinese influence and propaganda”. The Indian Army is right to emphasise the importance of building expertise on Tibet to understand the history and contemporary challenges in India’s relationship with China. Indeed, India-China relations cannot be approached through a strictly bilateral prism that excludes Tibet and the Himalaya. Equally, Tibetology cannot be confined within the bounds of state interests and territorial conflicts on either side of the Tibetan plateau. It encompasses the multi- and inter-disciplinary study of the broader Tibetan cultural region, and is most productively situated with and within the Himalaya. According to the Proceedings of the Tenth Seminar of the International Association for Tibetan Studies (2003), the region includes not just U-Tsang (present-day Tibet Autonomous Region), Amdo, and Kham, but large areas in the Himalaya, including parts of Nepal and Bhutan, Sikkim, Ladakh, and Tawang. We believe that approaching the region through these trans-Himalayan connections, as opposed to nation-state silos, can teach us not just about Sino-Indian relations but also about large parts of India.  Colonial provenance As with other parts of the colonised world, the production and codification of knowledge about Tibet served European imperial interests. Britain recognised the importance of Sikkim and Bhutan in securing its interests in Tibet, and its Political Officer in Sikkim cultivated close relations with aristocratic families in the region. Simultaneously, from Warren Hastings in the 1770s to Francis Younghusband in 1903-04, an army of cartographers, mountaineers, missionaries, linguists, and botanists worked to produce definitive knowledge about Tibet for British India. On the one hand, works of fiction such as James Hilton’s Lost Horizon (1933) painted a mythical image of Tibet as Shangri-la — a utopian society untouched by modernity; the repository of a putative true Buddhism. On the other, imperial realpolitik wrestled with demarcating the territorial boundaries of British India and its protectorates, most notably through the McMahon Line (1914). These approaches shaped initial academic engagements with Tibet — trends which persist to this day.  Free India, Tibetan studies Independent India recognised the economic and cultural ties that traversed the Himalayas and the role of Buddhism as the connecting tissue. This informed the institution-building efforts of the government in the 1950s. Dedicated to Tibetan and Buddhist studies, the Central Institute for Buddhist Studies and the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies were established in Leh and Sarnath, Varanasi, respectively, as was the Namgyal Institute of Tibetology in the erstwhile kingdom of Sikkim, which was inaugurated by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1958. The Institutes in Sarnath and Gangtok are on the Indian Army’s list of places where officers can study Tibetology. These efforts notwithstanding, studies on Tibet by Indian academics have largely mirrored India’s geopolitical anxieties, which were exacerbated after the Sino-Indian war in 1962. Some exceptions such as Girija Saklani and T.C. Palakshappa aside, the majority of Indian scholarship on Tibet has continued to focus on the role of Tibet in the bilateral relationship between India and China, or on Buddhism. By understanding Tibet as a buffer zone in India-China relations, the former often leads to an ahistorical narrative of India and Tibet as “natural allies”, eschewing the history of complex political engagements between successive administrations in Lhasa and India over issues ranging from frontiers to customary rights of grazing and trade. It does not account for the centrality of Tibet in India’s relationship with Bhutan and Sikkim (before 1975). Similarly, with respect to Buddhism, the guru-chela narrative of India as the birthplace of Buddhism and Tibet as the recipient of this knowledge dominates, as does the idea of Buddhism as a derivative of Hinduism. This often excludes a view of Tibetan Buddhism as a living and evolving entity that thrives in large parts of the Himalayan region. It also ends up equating Tibet with a reified Tibetan Buddhism devoid of sectarian complexity, and erasing Tibet’s non-Buddhist religions. A Himalayan home Most tragically, in defining Tibetology so narrowly, we miss an opportunity to understand contemporary India. The postcolonial Indian state was not forged in the centres of Delhi and Calcutta alone. Nor were its mountains and plains integrated into a single nation-state uniformly. The Himalaya is not just an insurmountable “natural barrier” — a sentry as we sing in sare jahaan se achcha — that separates India from its neighbours. It is home to interconnected yet diverse ecologies, societies, and polities that criss-cross many contemporary borders. What is more, there is no location more advantageous for studying Tibet and the Himalaya. Indian institutions — both national and state archives, as well as private collections in libraries — house the richest materials for this work. India hosts the Fourteenth Dalai Lama, the Central Tibetan Administration, Tibetan refugee settlements and a plethora of Tibetan institutes. Linguistic and field expertise abound, as do opportunities for learning the language for the uninitiated. Foregrounding the interconnections among Tibet and the Himalayan regions and their relationship with the Indian centre offers valuable perspectives into processes of state-making and the politics of nation-building. As recent environmental, social, and geopolitical crises show, these continue to remain live concerns. Thus, in broadening the mandate for Tibetology, we write more of India into the story. It is no longer only about countering the other beyond the mountain. Swati Chawla is a historian of the Himalaya and an assistant professor at O.P. Jindal Global University. Madhura Balasubramaniam is an independent researcher studying Tibetan rehabilitation in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/writing-more-of-india-into-tibetology/article33918148.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Being petroleum-independent||Speaking on the increase in petrol and diesel prices, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently said the middle class would not have been burdened if the previous governments had focused on reducing India’s energy import dependence. He also emphasised the need for clean sources of energy. Expanding and diversifying energy supply is good, but if India is to reduce its energy import dependence, it must look towards first managing the demand for petroleum products. It is worthwhile to reflect on measures taken by the previous governments as well as the government under Mr. Modi in this context. Steps in the right direction The UPA-2 administration under Prime Minister Manmohan Singh formulated fuel efficiency standards for passenger vehicles that are now in effect. It also constituted the National Electric Mobility Mission Plan (NEMMP). While well-intended, both these actions fell short in terms of ambition. India’s 2022 fuel efficiency standards for passenger cars are nearly 20% less stringent than the European Union’s standards. The NEMMP primarily focused on hybrid electric vehicles, and most of the incentives under the NEMMP went towards subsidising mild hybrids instead of electric vehicles. No wonder global manufacturers are rushing to deploy electric passenger cars in Europe while largely ignoring the Indian market. The government under Mr. Modi has undertaken several initiatives to increase energy security. Heavy-duty vehicles, which consume nearly 60% of the diesel used in the country, are now subject to fuel efficiency standards. The share of bioethanol in petrol has risen to nearly 8% by volume under the 2018 National Policy on Biofuels. The government has encouraged multiple fuel pathways in the transport sector including natural gas. Importantly, it has recognised the urgency for us to transition to electric vehicles. The Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME-II) scheme now focuses largely on electric vehicles. The government has also provided several additional fiscal and non-fiscal incentives to encourage a transition to electric vehicles. While these are steps in the right direction, there are many things that the government can and should do to reduce dependence on petroleum. First, the government should formulate a zero-emissions vehicle (ZEV) programme that would require vehicle manufacturers to produce a certain number of electric vehicles. Such programmes are in effect in China, certain States in the U.S., British Columbia in Canada, and South Korea. At present, the electric mobility initiative in India is driven largely by new entrants in the two- and three-wheeler space. Market leaders have adopted a wait-and-watch attitude. A ZEV programme would require all manufacturers to start producing electric vehicles across all market segments. The government should also strengthen fuel efficiency requirements for new passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Two-wheelers, which consume nearly two-third of the petrol used in India, are not subject to any fuel efficiency standards. A recent analysis by the International Council on Clean Transportation (ICCT) suggests that a standard requiring 50% reduction in fuel consumption by new two-wheelers by 2030 will not only lead to internal combustion engine (ICE) efficiency improvements, but also ensure that nearly 60% of all new two-wheelers sold in India are electric driven. Similar opportunities exist on the passenger vehicle and heavy-duty commercial vehicle fronts. Adopting stringent fuel efficiency standards and a ZEV programme by 2024 can result in India’s petroleum demand peaking by 2030, in spite of tremendous projected growth in economic and vehicular activity. Consumers will save money at the pump due to more fuel-efficient ICE vehicles. Those who switch to electric vehicles will save even more as these consume less energy and electricity is cheaper compared to petrol and diesel. Complementary policies The FAME scheme focuses on two- and three-wheelers, taxis, and buses. It should be extended not only to all passenger cars and commercial vehicles but also to agricultural tractors. Extending fiscal incentives to all kinds of vehicles and stepping up investments in charging infrastructure are essential complementary policies. By next year, the GST rates for all passenger vehicles could be made proportional to their fuel efficiency level, instead of the present system that relies on vehicle length and engine size. As the economy recovers from the pandemic, the demand for petroleum products will rise, as will prices. But the government can save money for the consumer while enhancing long-term energy security by wielding the regulatory tools at its disposal. Anup Bandivadekar is the passenger vehicle programme director at ICCT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/being-petroleum-independent/article33918152.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A proper transfer policy needed||Good governance and better administration of development is often offered as a plausible solution to conflict management. At the heart of this solution are public administrators. Civil servants, no matter how dedicated, innovative and efficient they may be, need a stability of tenure to govern well. The J&K example Consider the case of Jammu and Kashmir. If the purpose of administering the region is to ensure peace and development, then it is unlikely to succeed till there is a proper transfer policy. As it stands presently, officers are transferred too often. This denies them the opportunity to settle down into an official role. At times, a particular administrative location is used as a testing lab where officers keep arriving and leaving, with a deleterious impact on officer morale, leading to a reduction in efficiency and effectiveness. The latter effect impacts development and governance and acts as a collective punishment to the population of that place. It has been a major reason for distrust, disconnect and alienation. This disenchantment is palpable in Shopian district, which has often been the epicentre of protests and militant-related activities. Since its district status in 2007, it has seen 13 Deputy Commissioners (DCs) at its helm. In the last few years, the transfer policy in Shopian has become a theatre of the absurd. The last three DCs have had a stay of 378 days, 537 days, and 25 days, respectively. The last DC assumed charge on January 19, 2021 and was transferred to Leh on February 13, 2021. The story is similar in many other districts and government departments across J&K. Often, the frequent transfer of officials is blamed on the interference of local politicians. However, the argument cannot be valid this time since there are no elected MLAs after the dissolution of the State Legislative Assembly in late 2018. Since then, in the absence of elected representatives, the participation of local people in governance and development is through civil servants. It is this participation that has been the worst affected due to the frequent transfers. The issue of frequent transfers is not limited to J&K, of course, but is found across India. The analysis of the SUPREMO (Single User Platform Related to Employees Online) database of the Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India, shows that the average posting spell of civil servants in India is only about 15 months. This is despite an increase in the median tenure since 2014 at the national level. Ashok Khemka and Pradeep Kasni are two Haryana-based IAS officers whose cases symbolise this issue. Mr. Khemka has been transferred more than 50 times in his career and Mr. Kasni 65 times. The Union Minister of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Jitendra Singh, publicly accepted his helplessness in 2016 about the frequent transfer of officers in States.  A major shortcoming The undermining of transfer guidelines has been a major shortcoming of personnel administration in India. The Second Administrative Reforms Commission has highlighted it. The Fifth Pay Commission had recommended that no premature transfer should be allowed and that there should be fixation of a minimum tenure for each post. The Hota Committee, which argued against frequent transfers, noted that “absence of a fixed tenure of officials is one of the most important reasons for tardy implementation of government policies, for lack of accountability of officers, for waste of public money because of inadequate supervision of programmes under implementation and for large-scale corruption.” An oft-repeated argument used for transfers is that they are “in the interest of administration.” However, they essentially weaken administration. Transfers often reflect administrative favouritism and create divisions among civil servants. If they are done on a political basis, this impacts the neutrality of the civil services. The core values of the civil services — neutrality, impartiality and anonymity — cannot be maintained without an efficient transfer policy. Zubair Nazeer is an Assistant Professor at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-proper-transfer-policy-needed/article33918153.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A new peak||After a peak of nearly 98,000 fresh daily COVID-19 cases on September 16, 2020, the number of new cases reported per day in India has seen a slow but steady decline to reach below 12,000 in mid-February. But the trajectory of the curve began to reverse in the past week following a spike in cases in a few States — Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. In Kerala, the daily fresh cases have in fact been slowly declining for over a week. The recent case decline in the State stands out against the trend since early January 2021. Kerala was contributing between 45% and 50% of India’s total daily cases for many weeks. But despite the drop to about 33% in the past week, there has been an increase in the daily fresh cases nationally — from a seven-day average of 11,100 cases in the second week of February to 12,900 cases in the last week. In the last three weeks, from less than 3,000 daily cases, the numbers in Maharashtra have been increasing, particularly so in the past week to touch nearly 7,000 on February 21. As in the beginning of the pandemic, since mid-February, Maharashtra is once again contributing the most daily cases nationally. While the absolute increase in cases in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh might not be high, in percentage terms, the increase is significant and clearly marks a spike. The steady drop in cases has been recorded since mid-September last year despite the much-feared festival season, winter, large gatherings, almost absent restrictions in the free movement of people across States and national borders, and not-so-good adherence to mask wearing. Though the third countrywide sero survey conducted by the ICMR between December 17, 2020 and January 8, 2021 found that only 21.5% (around 225 million people) of India have been exposed to the virus — and hence, a large population is still vulnerable to infection — no spike was seen till a few days ago. No scientific explanation has been found to demystify this phenomenon; lack of targeted testing and/or integrity in reporting could be the only plausible reasons. But the recent spike, either due to the infection of people who are virus-naive, or reinfection, raises the possibility of the spread of any of the three variants first found in other countries or the emergence of a new variant here in India. This highlights the importance of undertaking large-scale sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 genome from infected people to trace and track the emergence and spread of any variants. While a few institutions in India have been sequencing the genome, the scale is nowhere near what is required. It is also time to speed up vaccination coverage to protect a large population of vulnerable people and increase mask wearing. There is no room for complacency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-new-peak/article33918140.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||After the coup||Three weeks after they took control of Myanmar by toppling its democratically elected government, the country’s Generals are struggling to retain their grip on power in the face of growing pro-democracy mass protests. The military, which had shared power with Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD) for five years, orchestrated the coup on February 1, hours before the country’s newly elected Parliament, in which the NLD had a huge majority, was set to convene. The military, which controlled Myanmar through direct rule for almost 50 years since independence from Britain in 1948, has now deployed the familiar repressive tactics to quell opposition to the latest coup: It has detained Ms. Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and several of the NLD’s other top leaders, suspended the Internet, blocked social networks and warned the public of repercussions if they joined protests. But protests have only grown by the day. On Saturday, two unarmed protesters were killed by security forces in Mandalay. Even police violence and the deployment of security personnel, including snipers, across the main cities did not stop millions from joining a general strike on Monday. They demand the Generals free the detained elected leaders and restore democracy. Myanmar’s military has been one of the most consistent enemies of democracy. In the past, challenges to its powers were met with brutal crackdowns. Still, the junta has continued to face popular resistance. The crackdown on the protests of August 8, 1988 did not prevent the ‘saffron revolution’ of 2007 — protests led by Buddhist monks. Than Shwe, the then leader of the country, suppressed them but had to offer a new Constitution in 2008 as a compromise. This Constitution was the basis of the partial transition to democracy in 2015 when the NLD came to power. But even that experiment would not last more than five years, thanks to the power-hungry generals of Tatmadaw. But they were wrong to expect the Myanmarese people, who experienced at least limited liberties and democracy for five years after decades of the repressive dictatorship, to allow them to consolidate power easily. The protesters have called for civil disobedience, stoppage of work, sit-ins and mass demonstrations. The strike has already paralysed the banking system at a time when the economy, hit hard by COVID-19, is struggling to stand on its feet. The military is also facing international sanctions and condemnation. There is no easy way out for Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, the commander-in-chief and the coup’s main architect, from the crisis he has put himself in. The Generals should realise that years of repression have not killed Myanmar’s aspirations for democracy. They should not repeat 1988 or 2007. They should stand down, respect the election results, release the leaders and hand power back to the elected government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/after-the-coup/article33918141.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers’ promotions invalid||The Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court to-day [New Delhi, February 23] set aside the promotions of more than 200 school teachers in Jammu and Kashmir State, holding that they were made in pursuance of the State Government’s communal policy. The promotions were challenged by Mr. Makhan Lal Waza and nine other teachers of the Jammu and Kashmir Education Department through a writ petition. They alleged that the Government’s policy of promoting teachers to higher posts and higher grades was not based on merit and seniority but purely on grounds of religion, caste and place of birth. The petitioners stated that they were qualified and senior but other teachers had been unduly promoted over them in pursuance of the communal policy. In allowing the petition, the Court held the promotions to be illegal and unconstitutional, being violative of Article 16 of the Constitution. It directed the State Government to revise and reconsider them. (Article 16 guarantees equality of opportunity in public employment). The matter was heard by the Chief Justice, Mr. S.M. Sikri, Mr. Justice G.K. Mitter, Mr. Justice K.S. Hegde, Mr. Justice A.N. Grover, and Mr. Justice Jaganmohan Reddy. Mr. Justice Grover, who delivered the judgment, said the State Government had acted in complete defiance of the law on the point laid down by the Supreme Court in the Trilokinath case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/teachers-promotions-invalid/article33918150.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Reparations||London, February 21: Telegrams from Paris state that the first estimates of the sums which Germany owes to the Allies for reparations have been forwarded to the German Government by the Reparations Commission. According to newspapers, the estimates include the following claims: Britain excluding Dominions £2,500 millions sterling for damages to property and persons, and 7,500 million francs in paper for allowance to soldiers and their families. France, 218,542 million francs in paper, Italy 33,000 million lire for damage to property, 38,000 million francs in paper for damage to persons and pensions and 128 millions sterling for shopping loses; Belgium, 34,000 million Belgian francs for damage to property and 2,500 million French francs for damages to persons and pensions; Japan, 800 million yen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-reparations/article33918149.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||RIL to hive off oil-to-chemicals into new unit with $25-bn loan||Reliance Industries has announced that it plans to carve out its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business into an independent unit with a $25-billion loan from the parent, as it looks to unlock value by selling stakes to global investors such as Saudi Aramco. The reorganisation will ‘enable the focussed pursuit of opportunities across the O2C value chain, improve efficiencies through self-sustaining capital structure and a dedicated management team, and attract dedicated pools of investor capital’, according to a company presentation filed with the stock exchanges. The O2C business holds Reliance’s oil refinery and petrochemical assets and the retail fuel business. Post spin-off, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) will house only the upstream oil and gas exploration and production business, including the KG-D6 block, and the financial services, group treasury and the legacy textile businesses, and act as a holding company of the group. The retail business is held in Reliance Retail Ventures and the telecom and digital ventures are nested in Jio Platforms. The wholly-owned O2C unit’s assets will be funded by the interest-bearing loan, which will be an “efficient mechanism to upstream cash, including any potential capital receipts,” in the unit, the firm said. The 10-year loan to the newly created arm is meant for purchase of the assets of the O2C businesses and comes at a floating rate of interest. In August 2019, RIL had agreed to upstream Rs. 1.08 lakh crore of Jio’s debt to make its telecom venture debt-free, ahead of inducting investors such as Facebook, Google and KKR. As of December 2020, RIL’s gross debt was Rs. 2.57 lakh crore. RIL began work on hiving off the O2C unit last year. It values the O2C business at $75 billion and has been in talks with Saudi Aramco for sale of 20% stake. Necessary approvals for the spin-off are expected by the second quarter of the next fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-to-hive-off-oil-to-chemicals-into-new-unit-with-25-bn-loan/article33918127.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to review anti-dumping duty on Chinese steel products||The Commerce Ministry’s investigation arm DGTR has initiated a probe to review the need for continuing imposition of anti-dumping duty on certain types of steel products imported from China following complaints from domestic industry, according to a notification. ISMT Ltd. and Jindal Saw Ltd. have filed an application before the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) for a sunset review of anti-dumping duty imposed on imports of seamless tubes, pipes and hollow profiles of iron, alloy or non-alloy steel from China. The applicants have alleged that dumping of these products from China has continued even after imposition of anti-dumping duty, and there has been a significant increase in the volume of imports.  DGTR would review the need for continued imposition of the duties in force and examine whether the expiry of existing duties is likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping and impact the domestic industry. The duty on the product was first imposed in February 2017 and is set to expire on May 16 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-to-review-anti-dumping-duty-on-chinese-steel-products/article33918133.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pharma exports to Arab nations cumbersome’||India has urged Arab countries to make it easier to export pharmaceutical products to the region and asked them to tap Indian farms to secure food supplies, as it seeks to diversify the $160 billion trade basket with the Arab bloc beyond hydrocarbons. “Indian pharma products enjoy great credibility around the world, [but] we do not have the same kind of recognition in most of the Arab world, because the process through which medicines are brought into your countries are very elaborate and cumbersome at times,” said Ambassador Sanjay Bhattacharyya, Secretary (Arab, OIA & CPV), Ministry of External Affairs. Mr. Bhattacharyya said market access to Indian pharma goods could be an ‘early harvest’ idea ahead of the India-Arab Partnership forum scheduled in the first week of December, after a gap of five years. “We should look for an early harvest here by looking at the USFDA and GMP [Good Manufacturing Practice]-approved drugs that can come in as a first step. India is a large producer of generics, but we also go beyond that,” he said at a meeting hosted by FICCI with Ambassadors of several Arab countries on economic opportunities between India and the Arab nations.  India-Arab trade accounts for 20% of India’s overall trade, but is still concentrated in hydrocarbons, the secretary said, mooting agriculture, technology and tourism as potential areas for diversification. Agriculture reforms “Food security is important for India as well as the Arab world, particularly the Gulf region. With the new agricultural reforms in India, there are huge opportunity for many companies in the Arab world to set up base in India where you could have farming and then the produce could go back home,” the secretary said. “This could be a win-win situation for both sides,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pharma-exports-to-arab-nations-cumbersome/article33918123.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Survey finds 88% of firms may offer 7.7% pay raise||About 88% companies in India intend to offer a salary raise of 7.7% on an average — the highest salary increases among the BRIC nations — to their employees in the current year, according to a survey by global professional services firm Aon Plc. “The proposed definition of wages under the new labour codes could lead to additional compensation budgeting in the form of higher provisioning for benefit plans like gratuity, leave encashment and provident fund,” Nitin Sethi, partner and CEO of Aon’s performance and rewards business in India, said. He added that he expected organisations to review their compensation budgets in the second half of the year once the exact financial impact of the labour codes is known. Mr. Sethi said it was possible that some of the salary increments may not translate into higher cash-in-hand for employees if organisations chose to pay higher provident fund contributions under the new definition of wages.  Some increments may not translate into higher cash-in-hand if firms opt to pay higher PF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/survey-finds-88-of-firms-may-offer-77-pay-raise/article33918124.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Qualcomm, Bharti tie up for 5G in India||Bharti Airtel and U.S.-based chipmaker Qualcomm Technologies on Monday announced a collaboration for accelerating 5G in India. “Through Airtel’s network vendors and device partners, Airtel will utilise the Qualcomm 5G RAN Platforms to roll out virtualised and Open RAN [radio access network]-based 5G networks,” the two companies said. Further, the two firms will collaborate to enable a wide array of use cases, including 5G Fixed Wireless Access, to deliver broadband connectivity at Gigabit speeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/qualcomm-bharti-tie-up-for-5g-in-india/article33918125.ece
24 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Adani inks JV pact to set up data centres||Adani Enterprises on Tuesday announced the setting up of a 50:50 joint venture with global data centre operator EdgeConneX to set up data centres across the country. “The JV will develop and operate data centres throughout India, leveraging the two partners’ complementary expertise and capabilities,” the companies said in a release. Work for setting up of the data centres has already begun in Chennai, Navi Mumbai, Noida, Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad markets, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-inks-jv-pact-to-set-up-data-centres/article33918128.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shipments to China rose 16.2% in 2020||India’s exports to China rose 16.2% to $20.87 billion in 2020 compared with the preceding year on account of healthy growth in shipment of ores, iron and steel and aluminum and copper, data from the Commerce Ministry showed. The trade deficit fell 19.4% to $45.91 billion as India’s imports from the neighbour shrank 10.9% to $66.8 billion. In agriculture, the main export commodities that recorded healthy growth include cane sugar, soybean oil, and vegetables fats and oils. However, exports of mangoes, fish oil, tea, and fresh grapes declined. Federation of Indian Export Organisations President S.K. Saraf said the trend reflected the rising competitiveness of domestic exporters. The import of goods — including electrical machinery and equipment, boilers, machinery and mechanical appliances, plastics and related articles, articles of iron and steel, furniture, fertilizers, vehicle parts and accessories, toys and sports equipment, inorganic chemicals and ceramic products — recorded a decline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shipments-to-china-rose-162-in-2020/article33918129.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||GDP growth in Q3 likely to be 1.3%: report||India’s GDP may turn positive at 1.3% in the third quarter of 2020-21, having witnessed contraction in the previous two quarters due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as the number of cases is falling and public spending has started rising, according to a report. Projecting that the gross domestic product (GDP) may have returned to the black in the last quarter of the calendar year 2020, DBS Bank said in the report that the full-year growth in real terms may be at a negative 6.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-growth-in-q3-likely-to-be-13-report/article33918134.ece
24 February 2021||Chennai,||TVS MOTOR COMPANY||TVS Motor Company has appointed acclaimed motorcycle designer Timothy Prentice as VP – Design, to further enhance its global design excellence. He will oversee design solutions for future mobility and boost the company’s agility in adapting to future trends, the firm said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-company/article33918131.ece
24 February 2021||BENGALURU,||Srihari, Kushagra capable, but Tokyo too early for A-mark: Sokolovas||Top Indian swimmers like Srihari Nataraj and Kushagra Rawat had the potential to achieve the elusive A-mark Olympic Qualifying Time, but the Tokyo Games may be too soon for that, felt Genadijus Sokolovas, renowned physiologist and sports science expert who has in the past worked with legends like Michael Phelps. Sokolovas, who has headed the Department of Physiology and Sport Science of USA Swimming, is in the city at the invitation of the Swimming Federation of India and is interacting with top swimmers at the National camp, currently underway at the Dravid-Padukone Centre for Sports Excellence (CSE), near here. “They have so much room to be faster,” Sokolovas said about Srihari and Kushagra, both of whom have achieved the B-mark Olympic time for Tokyo. “It’s about learning how to swim correctly. The main thing for Indian swimmers is to develop a better beginning to their strokes. “It’s important not to overuse the arm; they need to use the body to get faster.” On Tuesday, Srihari and Kushagra were put through their paces, with Sokolovas coming up with a variety of drills using dumbbells, wrist weights and pull buoys to improve their kicking technique. “Initially when he showed me the review and the analysis, I felt like, ‘do I even know how to swim’,” said Srihari. “That is how much he could find out about the changes I could make. I tried making some of them and I felt a lot smoother and also in control. Just shows how much there is for us to work on and improve.” Nihar Ameen, Dronacharya awardee and program director at the CSE, said that having access to someone like Sokolovas was a “god send”. “It’s important [to learn all these] because otherwise we are flying blind,” he added. Thus far, about two dozen swimmers have been subjected to the swim power test, which breaks down every aspect of a stroke including breathing, lactate test, which gives a good indication of fitness levels, and start and turn analyses. “Small changes in swim cycles can make a big difference,” said Sokolovas. “I would expect the top swimmers here to make the A-cut. Tokyo Olympics will be hard because there are just six months. [But] by next Olympics, there should be multiple A-cuts. These swimmers are young and they have got another 4-5 years to get to their peak performance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srihari-kushagra-capable-but-tokyo-too-early-for-a-mark-sokolovas/article33918705.ece
24 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Chandigarh posts second win||Chandigarh rode on Arslan Khan and Shivam Bhambri’s brilliant fifties to stun host Bengal by five wickets in an Elite Group-E Vijay Hazare Trophy match at the Eden Gardens on Tuesday. Asked to bat, Bengal managed 253 for nine. Chandigarh, which got promoted from Plate Group and had upset Haryana in its first match, achieved the target in 48.5 overs. Chandigarh bowlers kept it tight and three Bengal batsmen, including Shreevats Goswami (35, 51b, 5x4), perished inside 15 overs in their attempt to break the shackles. Abhimanyu Easwaran (35, 38b, 3x4) added 41 with Kaif Ahmed (20). Vital stand Shahbaz Ahmed (59, 66b, 4x4, 2x6), who pulled spectacularly in his maiden fifty, and Writtick Chatterjee (29, 40b, 1x4) gathered 77 vital runs. The two were dismissed in the 44th over. The tailenders, including Akash Deep (25 n.o., 13b, 1x4, 2x6), contributed 49 in the last five to ensure a fighting total. Spinners Gaurav Gambhir, Bipul Sharma and Gurinder Singh took two wickets each. Chandigarh replied strongly with openers Arslan (88, 95b, 9x4) and captain Manan Vohra (45, 68b, 3x4), collecting 126 runs sensibly. Left-handed Arslan drove and cut beautifully to get his maiden half-century. Following the departure of Vohra and Arslan, Bhambri (71 n.o., 74b, 7x4, 1x6) and Ankit Kaushik (35, 47b, 2x6) batted patiently to get 81. Though Chandigarh lost two wickets to Akash in the 46th over and one more in the next, Bhambri saw the team home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chandigarh-posts-second-win/article33918917.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Teja, Vignesh and Chandan hit centuries||Centuries by K. Hima Teja (130, 225b, 16x4) for BDL and Vignesh Agarwal (101, 162b, 14x4, 1x6) and Chandan Sahani (106, 93b, 9x4, 4x6) for Evergreen were some of the highlights of the A1-Division (three-day) league cricket championship. In the A2-Division (two-day) league, Debanshu Rayaguru of Osmania University (7/28 and 91), Vasista Karthikeya of International (4/75 and 109 n.o.) and Mohd. Simaal of Young Masters (5/83) were among those who excelled.  The scores:   A1-Div. (three-day): BDL 329 in 87.5 overs (K Hima Teja 130, Yashwanth 63, Mahendra 34, Raju Yadav 3/59) vs Income Tax.   SCRSA w/o Central Excise.   Evergreen 430/8 in 90 overs (Vignesh Agarwal 101, Ishan Sharma 38, Chandan Sahani 106, Rahul Buddhi 86) vs Combined Districts.   AOC 247 in 64.1 overs (Ravikanth Pandey 68, Sufiyan Alam 46, Ganga Singh 33, Sachinanda Pandey 44, K. Ramesh 3/37) vs Continental 51/0 in 25 overs (S. Vaishnav Reddy 30 batting).   Charminar w/o Gouds XI.   Sportive 241 in 85.5 overs (Mohit Soni 48, Rachnesh Dubey 46, P. Govind Kaustub Rao 3/51, Shashi Shekar 3/57) vs Sec’bad Nawabs.   Mahmood 175 in 56.1 overs (Durga Balaji 43, Abhilash Kulkarni 33, C. Harshit 3/23) vs Khalsa.   Jai Bhagwathi 191 in 65 overs (Syed Firasuddin 34, Abrar Mohiuddin 30, Shaik Md. Ghouse 55, V.K. Siddharth 3/41, Prashanth Raj 4/46) vs Rohit XI 103/0 in 14 overs (Vinay Aliga 60 batting).   Balaaji 377/7 in 90 overs (Paras Raj 83, Siddharth Naidu 75, H.K. Simha 62, S. Ganesh 41, Pabba Nilesh 46 n.o.) vs Sri Chakra.   A2-Div. (two-day): SN Group 409 in 84.3 overs bt Kishoresons 302 in 76.4 overs (Sandeep Bishnoi 124, Manav Agarwal 93, M. Uday 45 n.o., Vijay Verma 5/65, Aryaman Thakur 4/58).   Visaka 222 in 80.1 overs (G. Rithish Reddy 97, Md. Shakeer 6/30) vs Postal 53/0 in 8 overs.   New Blues 99 in 39.1 overs (G. Vishnu Vardhan 38, C. Durga Prasad 7/18) tied with Vijay Hanuman 99 in 42 overs (G. Raju 36, Nadeem Khan 4/40).   Sayi Satya 211 in 39.4 overs (Md. Afzal Ali 84, Md. Zakariya 3/ 69, K. Shreyas Goud 5/51) bt Pasha Beedies 124 in 30.4 overs (Md. Faiz Ahmed 57, Shaik Ghouse Basha 4/22).   Hyd. Wanderers 268 in 67.4 overs (Ghazi Abbas 35, Siddhanth Reddy 103, H. Karthik 31, Aarya Udupa 3/65, Aditya Malhotra 5/60) vs Balaji Colts 49/0 in 15 overs (Adiya Malhotra 32).   Medak Dist. 364/8 in 82 overs (Sandeep Raj 56, C. Sainath 134, Sridhar 73, B. Rohit Akash 4/56) vs Galaxy.   Telangana 353 in 82.2 overs (Sunil 56, Bala Ganesh Goud 98, Abhinav Challa 34, K. Vinay Kumar 67, Ranjith Kumar 3/50) vs Kosaraju nine for no loss in three overs.   Marredpally 280 in 58 overs (Vivek Singh 71, Shafi Ali 51, V. Ajay Mudiraj 5/82) vs Classic 127/3 in 28 overs (S. Harshit 67 batting, Shafi Ali 3/48).   Brothers XI 169 in 49.5 overs (T. Reddy Advaith 37, Avinash Ram 37 n.o., Debanshu Rayaguru 7/28) lost to Osmania 173/5 in 24 overs (Debanshu Rayaguru 91, J. Ashrit 49).   Deccan Blues 376 in 89.1 overs (Ajay Yadav 93, Jairam Kashyap 82, G. Sailesh 46, Shiv Srikanth Naidu 40, Avik Dixit 4/82, Ramesh Nayak 3/42) vs Hyd. Titans 35/2 in nine overs.   Oxford Blues 280 in 73.3 overs (Naman Agarwal 105, Yashaswi Yeles 40) vs Young Citizen 73/2 in 18.1 overs (Jai Mohan 35).   Saleemnagar 277 in 65.2 overs (Adnan 51, Nakul 49, Jatin Yadav 73, Tharun 4/49, Ram Prakash 3/36) vs Aggarwal Sr. 137/2 in 31 overs (Navneeth 99 batting).   Green Turf 474/6 in 90 overs (Syed Afzal 138, Md. Sitwaitullah 89, Abdul Bhagi 80, Anmol Singh Sethi 65, Y. Chay 4/82) vs Yadav Dairy.   PJL 263 in 79 overs (Raghavendra 83, Liyaqat Hussain 41, Mirza Noman 3/28) vs Nizam College seven for one in seven overs.   Mahbubnagar Dist. 276 in 77.1 overs (Srikanth Naik 64, Harshavardhan 37, David 69, Badal Bhati 4/64) vs Vijay 24/1 in eight overs.   Hyd. Patriots 400/9 decl. in 81.1 overs (A. Sai Venkata Anurag 99, J. Deepak 141, A. Balraj 77, Mohd. Simaal 5/83) vs Young Masters 37/1 in 12 overs.   Eklavya 506/9 in 90 overs (Vinmukh Raj 185, Khush Agarwal 108, Sathvik 61, Preetam Ganga 32, Varun Dhatrak 32 n.o., Venkata Harshith 3/82) vs Azad 13/2 in 3.5 overs.   RJCC 159 in 48.2 overs (Ashok Kumba 36, Vasista Karthikeya 4/75) lost to International 162/4 in 32.2 overs (Vasista Karthikeya 109 n.o., Vijay Reddy 32).   New Star 85 in 29 overs (Yash Raj 46, Mihir Dange 5/5) lost to Rushiraj 88/0 in 15 overs (Sunil Survi 47 n.o., Saketh Reddy 30 n.o.).   Tirumala 202 in 67.2 overs (M. Srivaranya 40, B. Jayant Reddy 55, Krishnag Rao 42, Mir Syed Ali 5/25) vs Sunshine 107/3 in 29 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teja-vignesh-and-chandan-hit-centuries/article33918821.ece
24 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||India, England confront their demons and the unknown in defining Test||A week-long break is a luxury in this year’s international cricket calendar following the lull of 2020. As India and England return to action in the third Test on Wednesday, they will have to overcome the fear of the unknown on multiple counts at the plush Sardar Patel Stadium. First and foremost, it will be the first international match after the stadium was refurbished to accommodate more spectators than any other cricket venue in the world. No doubt, Motera hosted the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy knockouts last month, but the fact that the ultramodern venue is yet to stage a First Class match means that how the surface plays remains anybody’s guess. From the lush-green look it wore four days ago, the strip has been converted into one that’s eerily similar to the pitch at Chepauk for the second Test. It will be interesting to see how the teams approach the game in terms of their combination. Add to that the fact that the third game of the four-Test rubber will be played with the pink ball and it changes the scenario even more. Both India and England had a forgettable outing in their last pink-ball outings. No doubt the conditions at Motera will be drastically different from Adelaide (where India was bowled out for 36 last year) and Auckland (when England was bundled out for 58 in 2018), but it will be interesting to see whether either side carries any baggage of the collapses. Despite the uncertainty prevailing with regard to these aspects, considering the match could end up being a huge factor in determining New Zealand’s opponent for the World Test Championship, both teams will have to first get their combination right. On that count, both the units have plenty to ponder. With Jasprit Bumrah set to wear India’s whites at his home-ground for the first time and Ishant Sharma on the verge of joining the elite 100-Test club, Mohammed Siraj in all likelihood will make way. India will have to decide on whether to draft in Umesh Yadav — with his stupendous record on home soil — to bolster its pace attack keeping in mind the pink ball is likely to aid pacers. If India opts to field three quicks, Umesh, having recovered from the calf strain he suffered in Australia, will come in for Kuldeep Yadav, who was under-bowled in the second Test. England, too, has to deal with multiple headaches to get a winning ensemble out on the park. Despite its pre-conceived rotation policy, it will be interesting to see if the management fields the pace trio of James Anderson, Stuart Broad and Jofra Archer for the first time in the series. In batting, with Zak Crawley having recovered from a freak injury suffered ahead of the series-opener and Jonny Bairstow being available for selection, the visiting side will hope the duo will take some load off captain Joe Root and all-rounder Ben Stokes.  The teams (from): India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, Mayank Agarwal, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane (Vice-capt.), K.L. Rahul, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant (wk), Wriddhiman Saha (wk), R. Ashwin, Kuldeep Yadav, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Ishant Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj, and Umesh Yadav.   England: Joe Root (Capt.), Rory Burns, Dom Sibley, Zak Crawley, Dan Lawrence, Jonny Bairstow, Ben Stokes, Ollie Pope, Ben Foakes (wk) Dom Bess, Jack Leach, Stuart Broad, James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Olly Stone, Chris Woakes, and Mark Wood.   On-field umpires: Nitin Menon and Anil Chaudhary; Third umpire: Shamshuddin; Fourth umpire: N. Ananthapadmanabhan; Match referee: Javagal Srinath.   Hours of play: 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., 5.10 to 7.10 p.m., 7.30 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. (play can be extended till 10 p.m.).   It is much more challenging to play the new pink ball regardless of the pitch. Especially in the evening, when you are starting your innings under lights, that one-and-a-half hours is very challenging Kohli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-england-confront-their-demons-and-the-unknown-in-defining-test/article33918234.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||NEUFC keeps hopes alive||NorthEast United FC (NEUFC) brightened its chances of making it to the playoffs by downing a 10-man SC East Bengal 2-1 in a 19th round fixture of the Indian Super League at the Fatorda Stadium on Tuesday. After a barren opening half, V.P. Suhair gave NorthEast the lead with his first ISL goal. East Bengal defender Sarthak Golui scored an own goal to double NEUFC’s lead but later scored to pull one back for his side. The opening half was a bit disappointing for NEUFC as it failed to make much of an impression in the opposition box. East Bengal, already out of the title contest, fielded a team with number of players from the bench. NEUFC was a changed side after the break and it started pressing the East Bengal defence with more purpose. Nice finish It found the lead in the 48th minute when wing-half Imran Khan played nice through pass to find Suhair inside the box. The forward produced a nice finish as he shielded his marker, took a half turn and sent an angular left-footer into the East Bengal net. With the deadlock broken, NEUFC’s lead was doubled in the 55th minute when Nim Dorjee delivered a cross on the East Bengal goalmouth to see Golui miscuing an attempted clearance into his own goal. East Bengal suffered another blow in the 71st minute when defender Raju Gaekwad was sent off for his second booking of the match. Golui redeemed his mistake in the 87th minute, nodding home a Surchandra Singh free-kick but his effort came a bit too late.  The result:   SC East Bengal 1 (Sarthak Golui 87) lost to NEUFC 2 (V.P. Suhair 48, Sarthak Golui 55-og).   Wednesday’s match: Odisha FC v Mumbai City FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neufc-keeps-playoff-hopes-alive/article33918276.ece
24 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Shorey, Rana propel Delhi||Mumbai’s batsmen succeeded in going past Maharashtra's 279 for nine in a match between two familiar rivals in a Pool D match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament here on Tuesday. Skipper Shreyas Iyer (103 not out, 99b, 9x4, 1x6) led from the front to take his side home with six wickets and 2.4 overs to spare. There were also useful contributions from openers Yashasvi Jaiswal (40, 66b), Prithvi Shaw (34, 38b) and Shivam Dubey (47, 39b). There were two centuries in the Maharashtra innings — Yash Nahar (119, 133b, 7x4, 6x6) and Azim Kazi (104, 118b, 12x4, 2x6) — but no other player reached 20. For Mumbai, seamer Dhawal Kulkarni claimed five for 44. Hundreds galore In another match, hundreds from opener Dhruv Shorey and Nitish Rana helped Delhi score a thumping 179-win over Pondicherry. Chasing a daunting 355, Pondicherry was bowled out for 175 in 39.3 overs. No. 3 batsman Suresh Kumar top-scored with 42 off 53 balls for Pondicherry. Left-arm seamer Kulwant Khejroliya took four for 47 in eight overs. Earlier, Delhi, put in to bat, was in some trouble when pacer Sagar Trivedi struck twice in the sixth over, dismissing Shikhar Dhawan and Himmat Singh, leaving the team at 25 for two.  Shorey (132, 142b, 13x4, 3x6) and Rana (137, 106b, 21x4, 1x6) added 255 for the third wicket to help Delhi reach 354 for four in its allotted 50 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shorey-rana-propel-delhi/article33918286.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Virat Kohli reopens discussion on a ‘nuclear winter of the soul’||Even today, when such things are spoken of more candidly, sportsmen find it difficult to discuss mental health issues. So when Virat Kohli, India’s most lionised sportsman does so, we realise how pervasive it can be — and how much needs to be done. Kohli spoke recently of his depression on the 2014 England tour when he struggled, making just 134 runs in ten innings over five Tests. Not the first time This is not the first time Kohli has spoken about his state of mind on that tour. He mentioned it ahead of the Test against Bangladesh about a year and a half ago. A couple of years before that he had told a website, “People have gone into depression and it’s a very dangerous situation. I have gone through those times…not many people realise how badly criticism can hit an individual.” For Kohli, it was a one-series thing; on the next tour, to Australia, he made 692 runs including four centuries. Others may not have been so lucky. England cricketers Marcus Trescothick and Graeme Fowler have written movingly about the depression that affected their careers, and thus pointed out the difference between situational depression, as described by Kohli, and clinical depression they themselves suffered from. Sometimes it is difficult to tell the difference between the two; the clinical calls for medication and therapy; the danger of a relapse is ever present. Situational often changes with altered circumstances. Pucovski’s case A couple of years ago the Australian prodigy Will Pucovski took a six-week break just as his career was blossoming. Batting on 64 overnight for Victoria against Western Australia, he told his coach before resuming, “I don’t know what’s happening, and I don’t know why it’s happening…” He scored 243 in that innings. He was just 20 then, and later made his debut against India. “Will’s decision to speak up and continue to ask for assistance in managing his ongoing mental health is extremely positive,” Cricket Australia’s doctor Richard Saw said. Pukovski’s support system and his own acceptance has had a positive effect on the treatment of a player seen as the future of Australian cricket. It is the kind of support system that Kohli is calling for. Family and close friends are essential, but he has said it is important to have a “professional to speak to who could understand what (one is) going through.” Such a person needs to be part of the squad. This is particularly important in dealing with a problem that never existed before — that of managing tours in bio-secure bubbles. Praveen Kumar, the medium pacer who played 84 internationals for India in three formats, admitted in an interview he had been so depressed at one time that he had contemplated suicide. “I was dreaming of a Test career, but suddenly it was gone,” he said, “nobody understands depression in India…” For so long have mental issues been seen as a sign of weakness that these have seemed out of place in a macho activity like competitive sport. Failure, however brief, is a part of sport but it can cause even the strong-minded to buckle occasionally. As Fowler wrote, “Cricket is a game based on failure. Bradman scored a hundred every three innings, therefore two-thirds of his career was a failure…” Impact of failure Former England captain and practising psychoanalyst Mike Brearley put it thus: “Failure is stark and public. Like a king deposed, the dismissed batsman has to leave the arena; the bowler is merely taken off…” In the same piece (in Wisden ), Brearley says, “Depression is a terrible thing. People struggle to describe it to those who aren’t subject to it: darkness, pointlessness, worthlessness, a nuclear winter of the soul…depressed people can’t concentrate, can’t think, feel lethargic, guilty, and irritable. There is inadequate understanding of what it is about, why it has taken such a hold…” A growing number of players have revealed that they have fallen prey: Andrew Flintoff, Matthew Hoggard, Jonathan Trott, Mike Yardy, Iain O’Brien, Glenn Maxwell, Shaun Tait, Sarah Taylor. It need not always be a professional in the dressing room who makes the difference. Often those who have been to the brink and come back from it are better placed to help. There must be some way cricket can formally use such resources. A player should be able to speak to someone who has been there before. Descent and recovery Derbyshire captain Luke Sutton, who has written a book about his descent and recovery, speaks of a chance encounter with Lancashire’s Glen Chapple at a tube station in London which began the process of healing. Depression may not be fully understood, but that it exists and needs to be dealt with cannot be ignored. Kohli has brought it back into focus. Awareness is the first step towards understanding the urgency of the issue and handling it with empathy and professional expertise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/virat-kohli-reopens-discussion-on-a-nuclear-winter-of-the-soul/article33918136.ece
24 February 2021||Chennai:,||Vetrivel’s eight-for in vain||Left-arm spinner I. Vetrivel's eight-wicket haul went in vain as MAS CC lost to FSCA by 14 runs in a Thiruvallur DCA first division match recently. Wicketkeeper B.R. Pranav Karthick of MAS finished with six dismissals (three catches and three stumpings).  The scores: I div.: FSCA 209 in 44.3 overs (S. Karan 58, N. Harish 55, I. Vetrivel 8/40) bt MAS CC 195 in 43.6 overs (S. Vasanth Saravanan 32, B. Vijaya Ragavan 32, Shuban Krishnan Sridhar 31, A. Deepak 30, A. Sumesh 4/75, K. Namasivayam 3/27).   III div.: WABCO Ind RC 148/9 in 30 overs (G. Rajesh Kanna 30, D.K. Akash 43, R.S. Selva Ganesan 5/28) bt Sri Vaishnavi CC 139 in 29.1 overs (V. Harshid 29, J. Daniel Raj 4/44, N. Senthil 3/42).   IV div: IEC RC 156/5 in 30 overs (N. Lokeshwaran 49 n.o., D.B. Aravindan 36, B.K. Kaushik Keifer Minh 31) bt Frankworrell CC 126/7 in 30 overs (R. Akash Bala 26, J. Dinesh Kumar 4/32) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vetrivels-eight-for-in-vain/article33918740.ece
24 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sathiyan keeps his tryst with destiny||G. Sathiyan’s wait to lay his hands on the winner’s trophy of the National table tennis championship has finally ended. Playing his fourth final in seven years, Sathiyan ended the jinx by beating nine-time winner Sharath Kamal 11-6, 11-7, 10-12, 7-11, 11-8, 11-8 in under 50 minutes at Panchkula. The two Chennai-based players, ranked in the world’s top-50 bracket, produced some exciting times in patches though the title-battle failed to reach any great heights. Two years ago, when Sharath broke Kamlesh Mehta’s record of eight titles by beating Sathiyan in the final, the champion was candid in admitting that his younger rival was clearly “unlucky” to lose while he was extremely lucky during the closing points of the decider.  Even on Tuesday, Sharath was gracious in acknowledging the new champion, “Sathiyan deserved to win this every bit. He played far better while I was lucky to win the third game. Though I did have my chances but could not take them. No excuses. I am very happy for Sathiyan.” On his part, Sathiyan was understandably more relieved than excited. “The monkey is off my back. Winning the National title means a lot to me, having come so close in the past. My coach S. Raman (a four-time National champion) always maintained that winning the National title was no big deal if we came prepared for the challenges. “All these years, we prepared for the Pro Tour and came to the Nationals and failed to make the right adjustments. This year, I must say, our preparations paid off.” Pulling it back About letting go a 9-7 lead in the third game and allowing Sharath a chance to bounce back in the match, Sathiyan admitted, “Yes. At that stage, I did start thinking too far ahead and lost my focus for a while. But I am glad I got it right in the end.” Sathiyan received Rs. 2.50 lakh and a trophy while Sharath collected Rs. 1.65 lakh and the runner-up trophy. In the morning, Sharath was tested to the limit by a fighting Manav Thakkar while Sathiyan had an easier time against unseeded S.F.R. Snehit.  The results: Final: G. Sathiyan (Pet) bt A. Sharath Kamal (Pet) 11-6, 11-7, 10-12, 7-11, 11-8, 11-8; Semifinals: Sharath bt Manav Thakkar (Pet) 11-8, 5-11, 14-12, 11-9, 9-11, 17-15; Sathiyan bt S.F.R. Snehit (TS) 13-11, 11-5, 11-9, 11-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-keeps-his-tryst-with-destiny/article33918239.ece
24 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA Apex Council to meet on Friday||The Apex Council of Hyderabad Cricket Association meeting, originally scheduled to be held on Tuesday, will now take place on February 26, according to HCA secretary R. Vijayanand. The meeting had to be put off because the president, Mohd. Azharuddin, was unavailable. “However, at the informal meeting today, attended by all the members of the Council except the president, it was decided that the agenda of the next Apex Council meeting would be to discuss the date of the Annual General Meeting, appointment of selectors, Players Association elections and also players pension issue,” Vijayanand told The Hindu . He added that it was also decided, in principle, to seek complete details from all club secretaries by Wednesday evening about the lead performers who are under-19 and playing in different on-going leagues.  “We will form 12-member teams, even if the number is about 150 of such players and conduct matches and ask the selectors to pick the best from them” “We have also decided to have a two-member grievance committee comprising senior club secretaries with proven integrity to take up any bias in selection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-apex-council-to-meet-on-friday/article33918816.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||First 20 balls are vital, Root tells his batsmen||England captain Joe Root said that while he is yet to decide on the final eleven, there was a possibility his team would field a third seamer in the day-night Test starting on Wednesday. “We are going to take our time with the limited info we have on this ground and pink ball cricket. We want to give us as much information as possible before making the decision,” said Root. “The wicket has changed drastically over the last few days. There has probably been a bit more live grass than previous wickets that we have seen out here, but it has got drier as the days have gone by,” he added. On Jofra Archer’s availability, Root said, “It would be good to get through training tonight [Tuesday] to have absolute clarity, but it's great to see him back well and bowling again. He adds to a very strong bowling group, so hopefully he is fit for selection.” The day-night Tests have seen batting collapses, with both teams experiencing it once — 58 for England vs. New Zealand (Auckland, 2018) and 36 for India vs. Australia (Adelaide, 2020). When asked about it, the 30-year-old said, “It seems to be a trend, and it is something that as a batting group you need to make sure that you stop. One thing that stands out to me is the vital first 20 balls, making sure you get used to tracking the ball, get used to the conditions and be very aware of how things can change throughout the day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-20-balls-are-vital-root-tells-his-batsmen/article33918231.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deepak in quarterfinals||Asian silver-medallist Deepak Kumar (52kg) advanced to the quarterfinals with a facile 5-0 win over Kazakhstan’s Olzhas Bainiyazov as Indian boxers got off to a mixed start at the 72nd Strandja memorial tournament in Sofia, Bulgaria. Other winners on Monday included Naveen Kumar (91kg) and Jyoti (51kg) in the women’s draw. While Naveen edged American Darius Fulghum 3-2 in his favour, Jyoti got the better of Ukraine’s Tetiana Kob 4-1. However, Shashi Chopra (60kg), Lalita (69kg) and Sakshi (57kg) lost their opening bouts.  In the men’s competition, Naveen Boora (69kg) and Ankit Khatana (75kg) have got byes into the pre-quarterfinals.   The results: Men: 52kg: Deepak Kumar bt Olzhas Bainiyazov (Kaz) 5-0; 91kg: Naveen Kumar bt Darius Fulghum (USA) 3-2.   Women: 51kg: Jyoti bt Tetiana Kob (Uzb); 57kg: Andrea Medina (USA) bt Sakshi.   60kg: Beatriz Ferreira (Bra) bt Shashi Chopra 5-0; 69kg: Navabakhor Khamidova (Uzb) bt Lalita 5-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-in-quarterfinals/article33918269.ece
24 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Panchkula to host Commonwealth TT||Panchkula will host the Commonwealth table tennis championship later this year. The announcement came from Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) president Dushyant Chautala at the closing ceremony of the National championship on Tuesday. Buoyed by the successful organisation of the National championship, Chautala, who is also the president of the Commonwealth Table Tennis Federation (CTTF), confirmed the hosting of the championship after having hinted about TTFI’s preparedness to host the event in Haryana. Meanwhile, Chautala is set to get re-elected unopposed as the TTFI president for another four-year term when the Annual General Meeting to be held at Panchkula on Wednesday. Arun Banerjee will be the new secretary while Gurpreet Singh takes over as the new treasurer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/panchkula-to-host-commonwealth-tt/article33918438.ece
24 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Our focus is the present moment, says Kohli||International cricket’s return to Ahmedabad over the next fortnight will decide whether India features in the inaugural World Test Championship (WTC) final against New Zealand in June. A loss in either of the remaining two Tests will see India’s chances go up in the air. No wonder then that captain Virat Kohli downplayed the WTC factor ahead of the third Test. “You can’t play for those kinds of reasons [the qualification scenarios]. We are not looking to win one and draw one. We are looking to win both. For us these are two games of cricket and the only thing we are focused on,” Kohli said on Tuesday. “What it does afterwards is a conversation for later. That is a reality not present right now. In the present moment we are preparing for tomorrow [Wednesday], ready for the grind for five days, wanting to win a Test match for India and then move on to the next one. “One day at a time is something we have followed for years now. There is no point running far ahead into the future where you have no idea what's going to happen. We are going to focus on what we can do as individuals in the present moment and let other people think of scenarios and what if and what if not.” The third Test will also be India’s second floodlit Test at home. Kohli explained the learnings from its maiden pink-ball affair against Bangladesh in Kolkata in 2019. “The pink ball does tend to swing a lot more than the normal red ball that we play with. We experienced that in the one match that we played in 2019 against Bangladesh,” Kohli said. “Yes, spin will come in for sure, but I don’t think the new ball and the fast bowlers can be ignored. The pink ball does bring them into the game till the ball is nice and shiny,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/our-focus-is-the-present-moment-says-kohli/article33918237.ece
24 February 2021||Chennai,||Mahindra gears up for Formula E||Mahindra Racing is hopeful of a promising season in the FIA Formula E championship that begins later this week in Diriyah, Saudi Arabia (February 26 & 27). The Indian outfit finished third in 2016-17 but could only finish ninth in the constructors’ championship last year. The driver line-up comprises Alexander Sims, last year’s Diriyah E-Prix winner, and former GP3 champion Alex Lynn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahindra-gears-up-for-formula-e/article33918741.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shotgun WC from today||It will be the first taste of competition for the Indian skeet shooters in the shotgun World Cup starting in Cairo on Wednesday. Having skipped the series of trials and focused on training for the Tokyo Olympics, Asia’s two best shooters Angad Vir Singh Bajwa and Mairaj Ahmad Khan will be fresh and eager to nail the clay birds. “It is the first competition after more than a year. Taking it like match practice before the Olympics. It is much needed to get back into rhythm,” said Angad. “The training in Cairo has been smooth. The conditions are good for shooting, but the ranges are tough. Scores may not be very high. We are excited and hoping for good results,” said Mansher Singh, chief coach, shotgun team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shotgun-wc-from-today/article33918137.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bedi undergoes surgery||Legendary spinner Bishan Singh Bedi underwent a bypass surgery at a city hospital a few days back after he complained of heart problems. He is recovering well. The 74-year-old Bedi is expected to be discharged soon, said a close confidant of the former India captain. He added that Bedi “is currently doing fine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bedi-undergoes-surgery/article33918233.ece
24 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Motera awaits grand reopening||While the England squad was slogging it out in the practice area on Tuesday afternoon, the action was even more hectic in the main stadium. With the world’s largest cricket venue set to host its first international match, the Sardar Patel Stadium wore a festive look. BCCI secretary Jay Shah was overseeing the last-minute preparations at the 1,10,000-capacity stadium that will have President Ram Nath Kovind in attendance on the first day of the pink-ball Test.   The state-of-the-art stadium has 11 pitches and will be illuminated by a ring of fire, a circular LED lights arrangement, instead of floodlight towers. The highlight of the venue, however, is the provision of four dressing rooms with amenities including gymnasiums. This is likely to come in handy when T20 double-headers become the norm in cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/motera-awaits-grand-reopening/article33918235.ece
24 February 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Westbrook, Beal help Wizards edge Lakers||Bradley Beal scored 33 points and Russell Westbrook added 32 on Monday as the visiting Washington Wizards rallied for a 127-124 overtime victory over the Los Angeles Lakers for their first five-game winning streak in three years.   Devin Booker scored 34 points on 12-of-17 shooting as Phoenix rolled to a thumping 132-100 victory over visiting Portland. Deandre Ayton added 19 points as the Suns notched their 12th win in 14 games. Dallas put eight days’ worth of stored energy into one of its best defensive performances of the season, limiting Memphis to its second-lowest season point total while winning 102-92. Zach LaVine scored 14 of his 21 points in a runaway third quarter as visiting Chicago rolled over reeling and short-handed Houston 120-100.  The results:   Oklahoma City 94 lost to Miami 108; Dallas 102 bt Memphis 92; LA Lakers 124 lost to Washington 127 (OT).   Phoenix 132 bt Portland 100; Utah 132 bt Charlotte 110; Houston 100 lost to Chicago 120.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/westbrook-beal-help-wizards-edge-lakers/article33918267.ece
24 February 2021||BENGALURU,||Bihar player tests positive||A Bihar cricketer playing in the Vijay Hazare Trophy here tested positive for COVID-19, but the tournament is likely to go ahead as per schedule. The Bihar player has been isolated, a tournament official stated. The team has played two Group ‘E’ matches in Bengaluru — against Railways and Karnataka — and is set to take on Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. All those who may have come into contact with the player, including his teammates, opposition players and ground staff, have undergone COVID-19 testing. The Karnataka team members have tested negative, an official said. A player each from Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh had tested positive for COVID-19 a few days ago. The two players were isolated and their teammates were tested. Both teams, placed in Group ‘D’ in Jaipur, were allowed to continue playing their league games. The group matches, involving 38 teams, are being held across bio-bubble venues in six cities. All players were required to clear three COVID tests before the tournament started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bihar-player-tests-positive/article33918268.ece
24 February 2021||BENGALURU,||Senior Natl. aquatics from March 24||The 2020 senior National aquatic championships, which was postponed because of the COVID-19 pandemic, is likely to be held from March 24 in Rajkot, said Monal Chokshi, Swimming Federation of India (SFI) secretary. However, the competition will not be among the Olympic qualification events. Accreditation will instead be requested for the 2021 senior Nationals, scheduled for June, to be made a qualification event. “Right now swimmers are just coming out of lockdown training. So there is no point in making this [2020] a qualification event. SFI will try and obtain accreditation from FINA (the international body) for the 2021 competition,” Chokshi said. The SFI has also decided to conduct separate water polo and diving championships from this year, instead of holding it with the National swimming meet. The move is to ensure that water polo and diving get due credit rather than being lost in the swimming jamboree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/senior-natl-aquatics-from-march-24/article33918270.ece
24 February 2021||TURIN,||Ronaldo back on top of scoring chart||Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice as Juventus strolled to a 3-0 home win over bottom side Crotone in Serie A on Monday, with the victory taking the champion up to third in the standings. Juve were a little sluggish to get going, but their ever-reliable talisman arrived to meet an Alex Sandro cross in the 38th minute to give Andrea Pirlo’s side the lead. Ronaldo looked hungry for more and another bullet header in first-half stoppage time doubled the lead, taking the Portugal forward back to the top of the league’s scoring chart on 18 goals, one ahead of Inter Milan’s Romelu Lukaku. The 36-year-old had chances to complete a hat-trick but it was Weston McKennie who added the third, hammering home his fourth Serie A goal of the season in the 66th minute. A first win in four matches in all competitions ensured Juve climbed from sixth to third in the table and onto 45 points, eight behind leader Inter with a game in hand.  Sevilla recorded its fifth LaLiga win in a row with a convincing 2-0 victory at Osasuna which saw it move above Barcelona into third. in the standings. Defender Diego Carlos put Julen Lopetegui’s side ahead in the 19th minute, climbing above two defenders to head home a corner from Joan Jordan. Luuk de Jong put the visitors further ahead early in the second half.  Christian Benteke’s stoppage-time volley earned Crystal Palace a dramatic 2-1 victory at Brighton & Hove Albion in the Premier League, despite the visitors being second best for much of the contest.  The results:   Serie A: Juventus 3 (Ronaldo 38, 45+1, Mckennie 66) bt Crotone 0.   LaLiga: Osasuna 0 lost to Sevilla 2 (Carlos 19, De Jong 49)   Premier League: Brighton 1 (Veltman 55) lost to Crystal Palace 2 (Mateta 28, Benteke 90+5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldo-back-on-top-of-scoring-chart/article33918274.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||India to play friendlies||The Indian men’s team will play two international friendlies — against Oman on March 25 and United Arab Emirates on March 29, the AIFF said on Tuesday. Both the matches will be held in Dubai.  As part of preparation for the two matches against Oman and UAE, the national team will assemble in a camp from March 15. The camp will also be held in Dubai under head coach Igor Stimac to allow the players to acclimatise to the conditions faster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-play-friendlies/article33918275.ece
24 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Rawat’s goal stuns CCFC||Gokulam Kerala FC downed Sudeva Delhi FC by a solitary goal to register its third consecutive win in the Hero I-League at the Kalyani Stadium here on Tuesday. The Kerala side climbed to the second spot with 16 points from nine matches. Ghanaian striker Philip Adjah found the target in the 68th minute to secure full points for Gokulam. In another match, substitute Suraj Rawat’s injury-time stunner helped Mohammedan Sporting beat a 10-man Chennai City FC 2-1. Sporting’s come-from-behind win helped it move to the fifth spot with 13 points. CCFC, which suffered its third defeat in a row, was ninth with nine points. CCFC took the lead when Ranjeet Pandre cashed in on a poor clearance in the 19th minute. Despite being down to 10 men after Tarif saw red (two yellow cards) in the 49th minute, CCFC fought well in the second half. Sporting equalised when Sujit Sadhu headed home Firoj Ali’s corner in the 55th. Rawat’s stunning right-footer, from about 30 yards, beat CCFC goalkeeper Kabir Toufik in the 91st minute.  The results:   Mohammedan Sporting 2 (Sujit Sadhu 55, Suraj Rawat 90+1) bt Chennai City FC 1 (Ranjeet Pandre 19).   Sudeva Delhi FC 0 lost to Gokulam Kerala FC 1 (Philip Adjah 68).   Aizawl FC 1 (Lalremsanga 26) lost to Real Kashmir FC 3 (Lukman Adefemi 34, Mason Robertson 56, 72).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rawats-goal-stuns-ccfc/article33918277.ece
24 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA:,||KCA U-19-C triumphs||KCA U-19-C won the inaugural KCA U-19 tournament, beating KCA U-19 D by 16 runs here on Tuesday.  The scores: KCA U-19 C 201 in 50.0 overs (Riya Basheer 50, Mohammed Kaif 32, T.K. Akshay 32, A. Jishnu 36 n.o., Nidheesh Kumar three for 59) bt KCA U-19 D 185 in 49.1 overs (Anaz Nazeer 44) .    Golden Threads and Aluva's Town Club played out a goalless draw in the EDFA inter-club women's football league at the Ambedkar Stadium here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-u-19-c-triumphs/article33918437.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Parikrma claws back to beat IFF||Parikrma FC came from two goals down to defeat Indian Football Factory 3-2 in the Karnataka Women's Football League for super division teams, on Tuesday.  The results: Parikrma FC 3 (Anju 58, Priya 68, Shobana Selvam 70) bt Indian Football Factory 2 (Apurna Narzary 10, 35); Kickstart FC 0 drew with Bengaluru Braves 0 .    FC Bengaluru United staged a come-from-behind 2-1 win over ASC & Center FC in the Citrus Ventures BDFA Super Division League, on Tuesday.  The results:   FC Bengaluru United 2 (Chaitan Komar Pant 75, Mohammed Asrar Rehbber 90+4) bt ASC & Center FC 1 (Thiyagarajan 11).   Bangalore Eagles FC 2 (Cletus Domnic Jacob Paul 21, K. Gopi 47) bt Young Challengers FC 1 (P. Ankith 71). On Monday: MEG & Center FC 1 (Shubam Rana 90+3) bt Kickstart FC 0; BFC 3 (Shivashakthi 6, 9, 32) bt Bangalore Independents FC 0 .    Top seeds Shourya Bhattacharya and Zynah Amber Salar entered the quarterfinals of the KSLTA U-14 Talent Series tournament on Tuesday. While Shourya defeated Aahil Ayaz 7-5, 6-4, Zynah overcame Saanivi Misra 6-1, 4-6, 7-5.   Adith Amarnath will take on Mandeep Reddy in the boys’ final at the AITA Championship series under-18 tournament being hosted by Fortune Sports Academy here. In the girls’ summit clash, Siri Patil meets Amodini Vijay Nayak.  The results (semifinals):   Boys: Adith Amarnath bt Ravi Ninaad 9-5; Mandeep Reddy bt Tarun Vetrivelan 3-1 (retd).   Girls: Siri Patil bt Disha Behera 9-6; Amodini Vijay Nayak bt Gagana Mohankumar 9-5 .    Shyam Gowda and Sushila Pillay emerged the men’s and women’s 60-plus age group champions in the State-ranking veterans’ table tennis tournament recently.  The results: Men: 60+: Shyam Gowda bt K.S. Shankar 9-11, 11-9, 11-9, 11-5; 50+: D.P. Gopinath bt K.N. Satish 11-6, 11-9, 11-6; 40+: S.V. Harish bt Bhaskar Mysore 11-8, 7-11, 11-7, 6-11, 11-6.   Women: 60+: Sushila Pillay bt K. Geetha 11-3, 11-2, 11-7; 50+: V. Nagarathna bt B. Vaishali 11-9, 11-4, 11-8; 40+: Deepthi Kambhat bt Anmona Baruwa 11-8, 11-5, 3-11, 11-6   NMVS: Pradeep Kumar bt A. Kartik 11-7, 11-9, 4-11, 11-9 .    The Karnataka Wrestling Association will conduct selection trials on March 5 at the Gadag Indoor Stadium for junior boys and girls to represent the State in the National championships to be held at Ballari from March 19 to 21. Call Sharana Gowda (96320 52765)/Ramesh (70199 09528) for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parikrma-claws-back-to-beat-iff/article33918725.ece
24 February 2021||Colombo,||Upul Tharanga announces retirement from international cricket||Veteran Sri Lanka opener Upul Tharanga on Tuesday announced his retirement from international cricket after a career spanning 15 years and during which he also enjoyed a brief stint as captain. A left-handed batsman, Tharanga, 36, enjoyed more success in the ODIs, making 6,951 runs at 33.74 in 235 matches. That included 15 centuries and 37 half-centuries. He also played 26 T20Is, scoring 407 runs with a best of 47.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/upul-tharanga-announces-retirement-from-international-cricket/article33918281.ece
24 February 2021||Sydney,||Will be back in action from next week: Warner||Australian opener David Warner reckons he will have to face “at least six to nine months” of rehab for his groin injury but will be back in action for New South Wales next week. “Just to clarify a comment I made on commentary last night, that “My Groin” will need ongoing treatment and will have an annoying pain for at least 6-9 months. I am returning to play for NSW on the 4th March 2021 #horsesmouth,” Warner tweeted on Tuesday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-be-back-in-action-from-next-week-warner/article33918283.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||How to worship Him||Uddhava asks Lord Krishna where He should be worshipped. Where can Krishna be found? What are the places He is in, asks Uddhava. Lord Krishna gives a list of places where Uddhava can offer his pranams, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. Lord Krishna says He is in Agni, and so He can be worshipped in the form of Agni. He is present in Vedic scholars and so He can be worshipped by paying respects to them. He is present in cows. He can be worshipped as the sky, the wind, as water, as the Earth. He is present inside everyone as antaryami. He is the atma in all creatures. When worship is done in temples according to Pancharatra Agama, the Lord is invoked in all these sthanas. Uddhava now has a further question. How is the Lord to be worshipped in these places? Krishna replies that if He is being worshipped as the Sun, the three Vedas should be used. If He is being worshipped as Agni, then havis is the means of worship. Vedic scholars must be respected and honoured. If He is being worshipped as the presence inside cows, then worship is simple: just offer grass to the cows. One must have towards Vishnu bhaktas, the same affection that one has for one’s family. To worship Vayu, one must do praana pratistha in temples. One can worship Him as water, by doing various rites using water. He can be worshipped as the Earth, through the recitation of various mantras and performing bhumi pooja, ankurarpanam etc. As antaryami, He can be worshipped by making offerings to His devotees. One should know that He is present in all creatures. Uddhava then asks in what form He should be worshipped. Krishna says, “Visualise me with four hands, holding the conch, discus, mace and a lotus flower. Or you can worship Me by building wells, tanks and ponds in temples.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/how-to-worship-him/article33918227.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 07:34 IST,||Sudoku — February 24, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-24-2021/article33919036.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Flutter in my backyard||Did you know that the lemon tree in your backyard can be a host for Lime butterflies? Or that the common Baron butterflies lay their eggs on mango trees? “Each butterfly depends on a specific set of plants for laying their eggs. The caterpillars feed on the leaves of these host plants to be a pupa, which later grows into an adult butterfly,” says Pavendhan A, president of The Nature and Butterfly Society. The organisation has recently come up with Butterflies of Tamil Nadu , a 24-page booklet that introduces people to the world of butterflies. It discusses the role, life cycle and migration of butterflies along with a step-by-step process of setting up a butterfly garden. “There are 325 varieties of butterflies in Tamil Nadu. The booklet contains information and photographs of 90 commonly found species. To make it more interesting to people in the State, we have included nine butterflies whose common English names start with the word, ‘Tamil’ like the Tamil yeoman (Tamil Nadu State butterfly), Tamil catseye and Tamil bushbrown.” The details are compiled by a core team comprising 10 members. “All of us are experienced naturalists who have been active butterfly watchers for around 10 years. It took us one month to put it together. This is not done for profit and the price covers the printing cost. Our aim is to create an interest in butterfly-watching among students,” he says. Pavendhan suggests that the best time for butterfly watching is from April to June and from September to November. “These are migration seasons. While the butterflies descent from Western Ghats to Eastern Ghats in the former season, they make their way from Eastern Ghats back into the Western Ghats in the latter. During the migratory season of May 2018, we witnessed a large number of lime butterflies ‘mud-puddling’ in Kallar near Mettupalayam. They come in thousands. In this process, male butterflies sit on mud to absorb salt from it. This is then transferred to the females which helps in the fertilization process,” he explains. This is the second book published by The Nature and Butterfly Society. “Earlier, we brought out a book on the birds and butterflies seen in Sathyamangalam Wildlife Sanctuary. We also publish a free newsletter on butterflies once in three months, on our website,” he says. The team has a sponsorship plan through which people can donate money for books to be distributed to children. “This will be useful especially for those from the economically weaker sections,” he explains. The members of The Nature and Butterfly Society is currently working on bringing out the Tamil version of the book. “We have started working on it. I hope that it will be out in the next three months,” he concludes.  The book is priced at Rs. 30 and the organisation provides discount for bulk orders. Contact 9677466921 or tamilnadubutterflies@gmail.com to order.   Get started on butterfly watching It does not require a huge investment and you can start in your garden or backyard Have a field guide and a notebook to jot down your findings Click photographs of the butterflies you spot with your phone camera To identify the species use the field guide or websites like butterflyvision.in Planting nectar plants such as marigold, flame of the woods, Peruvian zennia, coat buttons, Chinese hibiscus etc. will bring in more butterflies With time, one can invest in binoculars and a professional camera||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/flutter-in-my-backyard/article33918461.ece
24 February 2021||February 24 2021 00:00 IST,||So good at being bad||Wesley Snipes, who plays General Izzi in Coming 2 America , the sequel to the ginormous 1988 hit, Coming to America , starts the video chat with a ‘namaste’. “I haven’t been to India yet,” he says after experimentally rolling ‘Bangalore’ on his tongue. “Let me put it this way, I haven’t touched Indian soil, but I am very aware of the culture. I practise kalari [ payattu , the ancient martial art from Kerala], I have studied the Vedas, martial arts and the healing system. We have incorporated this into our daily lives. Getting to India is one of my goals.” In Coming to America , Prince Akeem (Eddie Murphy) of Zamunda was supposed to marry Imani from the neighbouring country of Nextdoria (well, yes that is the name). Akeem wanted to marry for love and went off to Queens to look for his queen. Izzi is Imani’s older brother and things haven’t been very good between the two countries after Akeem left Imani barking like a dog and hopping on one foot. “Izzi is the most glorious, magical and wonderful leader in the whole region of Zamunda and Nextdoria,” Wesley says with his trademark velvet chuckle. “Eddie’s character left my sister at the altar and that caused disruption. It put a curse on Zamunda. It looks like we are suffering but we are not. Zamunda has the money but we have it in our hearts and Izzi is back to claim what is rightfully his.” Talking about working with Murphy, the 58-year-old actor and martial artiste says, “This is the second time we are working together after Dolemite Is My Name (2019). That was a joy. I had wanted to work with him for many years, and we grabbed the first opportunity. I thought maybe if I do a really good job, they will come back and ask me to do something else,” he laughs again. Craig Brewer, who directed Dolemite Is My Name, has also directed Coming 2 America . Wesley jokes about his casting. “I heard many of the other actors were getting calls for Coming 2 America but I was left out. Finally, Craig asked me to join and he tells me, ‘we want you to play the bad guy.’ I didn’t want to do a Beasts of No Nation or an Idi Amin. I didn’t want to do a caricature of a despotic African leader — it has already been done. I thought let me choose thepersonalities of people that I know, the ones who come to Europe, England or America to study and return, full of airs. So that is Izzi. He studied in Scotland and America and came home. He brought his fashion sense with him from all his travels like every tyrannical African leader does,” Wesley says dissolving into peals of infectious laughter. Jack of all trades Wesley has worked in every genre from comedy ( White Men Can’t Jump ) and action ( Passenger 57 ) to horror ( Blade film trilogy), Sci Fi ( Demolition Man ) and drama ( One Night Stand) . “This genre — improvisational and ensemble acting is my sweet spot. Also, if I get a role as a dancer, I’d do it like that, (snaps his fingers). Martial Arts action is my third choice.” Wesley’s dancing skills reminds us of him in the Michael Jackson music video ‘Bad’ (1987) where he plays the antagonist. The iconic music video directed by Martin Scorsese, was one of Wesley’s first screen appearances. Wesley starts to laugh again. “What a glorious opportunity, it was amazing at that time. I knew Scorsese was a big Robert De Niro fan. They had a particular style of acting. I decided to adopt some of that during the audition. Sure enough Scorsese recognised the style and hired me. He hasn’t hired me since, so I don’t know what I have to do!” Jackson, Wesley says, was phenomenal. “He changed the way I approached my craft and my life. He was a consummate artist and an extraordinary piece of energy. His rehearsals were like other people’s performances. It set a goal for me. I thought it would be an interesting challenge to have a vision, an idea of what I wanted to perform in a scene and see if I can match that exactly. I wanted to see if I can deliver it when I only have one take, one chance to do it. That is always the goal, how I approach my characters, and my work. And I learned that from Michael Jackson.” While everyone talks of Chadwick Boseman’s Black Panther being the first black superhero, Wesley’s Blade trilogy (1998– 2004) based on Marvel Comics’ vampire hunter was way earlier. Now there is news of a reboot from MCU with Mahershala Ali playing the lead role. “I am happy for Mahershala. I hope he does a wonderful job. I think it is a heck of a role to take on. We are so appreciative of what we contributed, not only to that movie but to the industry as a whole — as young neophytes and now, maturing our skill sets in arts and technology. I am not going to do another Blade but we got something else that would be just as good. I think it is going to be better,” and another laugh erupts.  Coming 2 Americawill stream on Amazon Prime Video from March 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/so-good-at-being-bad/article33918457.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||500 riot victims file for reassessment of relief||Around 500 victims of the north-east Delhi riots have applied for reassessment of compensation provided to them by the Delhi government with the North East Delhi Riots Claims Commission (NEDRCC). Justice Sunil Gaur (retired), who is heading the commission, said they have received around 2,500 compensationclaims out of which around 500 have appliedfor reassessment as they feel that the compensation they received is not as per the losses they suffered.  Big misconception He said that many people are under the misconception that the commission was formed to recover losses from rioters. “I want to make it clear that the commission’s work is to assess losses that people suffered during the riots and prepare a report with the help of experts and submit it to the High Court, which will take the final call on it,” said Mr. Gaur. “We have received around 2,000 fresh claims from the victims as due to some reason they failed to get compensation for the losses they suffered during the riots,” he added. We have also received applications for compensation from the Fire Department, Delhi Police and the Delhi Transport Corporation regarding damage to public property, the retired Justice said, adding that no other government department has claimed compensation Due to the lockdown the day-to-day work of the commission was affected and delayed. The Delhi Home Department appointed five loss assessors recently and request for 20 more is pending. If we get more loss assessors then the inquiry will be finished by April, he added. The loss assessors are insurance claim experts. “We have accepted all applications without insisting that the victim provide documentation of damage. The assessors will probe every application before recommending compensation. The court will decide over recovery of losses, whether it will be paid by the government or recovered from the rioters,” said Mr. Gaur. The Delhi government has provided compensation of over Rs. 26 crore to more than 2,200 claimants over the last year. In February 2020, 53 people were killed when riots broke out in north-east Delhi. The police have registered 755 cases related to the communal violence.  The Delhi Home Department appointed five loss assessors recently to probe applications||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/500-riot-victims-file-for-reassessment-of-relief/article33918805.ece
24 February 2021||JAIPUR,||BJP discusses strategy for bypolls||A core group of the Bharatiya Janata Party, formed to address infighting and factionalism in the party’s Rajasthan unit, met here on Tuesday to highlight the Congress government’s “failure” on all fronts and deliberate on the strategies for the upcoming Assembly by-elections for four seats. The 16-member group includes former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje as its member. The meeting, which was held a day before the budget was scheduled to be presented in the Assembly, took the decisions for holding the sessions of the party’s working committees, celebrating the BJP’s foundation day on April 6 and undertaking a campaign against the Congress government at the tehsil level from March 6 to 14. The core group met under the shadow of a letter written by about 20 party MLAs, considered close to Ms. Raje, to party’s State president Satish Poonia complaining of being ignored in the Assembly. Significantly, the Opposition BJP has no Chief Whip in the House. Ms. Raje, who had skipped the core group’s first meeting on January 24, attended Tuesday’s meeting and gave suggestions for strengthening the party at the grassroots level by mobilising public opinion. BJP national general secretary and State in-charge Arun Singh, who attended the meeting as a special invitee, told reporters that party workers would expose the ruling Congress by highlighting its failure to fulfil the promises of complete farm loan waiver and disbursement of unemployment allowance. Mr. Singh said the benefits of the Centre’s agriculture sector laws, which would facilitate doubling of farmers’ income, would be explained to cultivators in the rural areas. “The Congress is anti-farmers. In a State like Rajasthan, the Congress government has failed to enforce crop insurance and extend the benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana,” he said. Nadda’s visit BJP president J.P. Nadda would visit Jaipur on March 2 to attend a meeting of the party’s newly formed State executive, he said. The dates for the Assembly bypolls in Rajsamand, Sujangarh, Vallabhnagar and Sahara, necessitated by the death of one BJP and three Congress MLAs, are yet to be announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-discusses-strategy-for-bypolls/article33918473.ece
24 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. to move no-confidence motion against BJP-JJP govt.||Haryana Congress legislators on Tuesday decided to move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government soon after the Governor’s address during the upcoming budget session of the State Assembly. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the decision was taken during a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party here. The budget session is slated to commence on March 5.    Private member Bill The Congress would also bring a private member Bill to amend the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act to add the provision of guarantee of MSP for crops, he added. “We discussed the issues to be raised in the budget session, which will include issues faced by the farmers, the unemployed and all other sections of society,” he said. Mr. Hooda said every section of society was under distress and had issues that needed immediate attention. The government had failed on all fronts, he added. “No work is being done in the State. Scams are the only thing that is happening. Calling attention motions will be brought by the Congress to discuss the liquor and registry scam. The Congress will also bring proposals regarding the cancellation of recruitments. We will also seek answers from the government on the issues of rising unemployment and the frequent leak of papers in recruitment exams,” he said. “The Congress will also register its opposition to the changes made in the domicile rules and sports policy, as the changes in domicile rules will open up jobs in Haryana to people from other States. Moreover, the youth from the Scheduled Castes and backward communities will find it difficult to get jobs,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-bjp-jjp-govt/article33918475.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||School rebuilds lives of kids affected in riots||A school for north-east riot victims has been running near the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border since November last year. When the communal riots broke out in the Capital, scores of people were displaced from their homes and the children could not go back to schools. Also, due to the COVID-induced lockdown, many families could not afford their education any longer.  How it began When Aasif Mujtaba, a PhD scholar from IIT-Delhi, met Class IV student Arsh, he found out that his family’s juice shop had been burnt down during the riots. Aasif, who also founded and runs an NGO called Miles2Smile Foundation, visited his family and got to know that they plan to send the boy to a stitching unit. This is when he decided to start this school where children from Nursery to Class VIII are being taught. It is just a few minutes from Shiv Vihar where violence had broken out last February. “I thought, there would definitely be hundreds of kids with the same problem. I was determined to open a school for them. Finally, we established Sunrise Public School. Currently, we have around 180 such kids enrolled in it,” he said. Arsh also goes to this school now. Sunrise Public School — where three rooms are currently functional with an assembly area in the middle and a playground, which is yet to made — opened on November 15. They currently have about 200 students enrolled out of which 25 from Class V-VIII are attending school for two hours — 10 a.m.-12 p.m.  Principal speaks School principal is a 25-year-old graduate from Jamia Millia Islamia, Kishwar Shahzad. She said she has been a witness to the December 15 violence that broke out in her college last year. “I still can’t forget the trauma I underwent. I can’t imagine what these [riot-affected] people have gone through. Many of them have lost one of their parents or relatives in the riots,” she said. One of the first experiences of Ms. Shahzad was meeting parents, who had come with photographs of their burnt houses. “I recall visiting Shiv Vihar. I had stepped on a burnt pile of books inside a house; it was heartbreaking,” she said. Many parents said there was a private school in the area where their children used to study. After the riots, the school did not give any concession to the children whose parents could not afford the fees and also ill-treated them. Next, the children stopped going to the school.  Subjects taught At the Sunrise Public School, they are teaching English, Urdu, mathematics, Hindi and science but in the new session starting in April, they are planning to add social studies, physical education, Islamiyat, computer science, arts and GK as well. “We are following an improved education system. It’s subject-wise rather than class-wise. Students have to move to different classes for different subjects rather than teachers coming to their classes,” Ms. Shahzad said.  I thought there would definitely be hundreds of kids with the same [financial] problem. I was determined to open a school for them. Finally, we established Sunrise Public School. Currently, we have around 180 such kids enrolled in it   Aasif Mujtaba PhD scholar from IIT-Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/school-rebuilds-lives-of-kids-affected-in-riots/article33918809.ece
24 February 2021||PATNA,||Bihar Opposition stages walkout||The Opposition Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) legislators in Bihar walked out of the Assembly on Tuesday after Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha rejected their notice for an adjournment motion on the farmers’ issues. The members had requested the Speaker to admit the motion as it was related to the farmers’ demand for MSP and an extension of the date for paddy procurement in the State. They walked out when the Speaker refused to allow the discussion. The Opposition has been protesting against the new farm laws since the month-long budget session was convened on February 19. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav alleged that farmers in Bihar had become vulnerable after the State government abolished the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act in 2006. He also demanded that the government extend paddy procurement date till March 31. Crime cases Later, participating in a debate on the motion of thanks on the Governor’s address, Mr. Yadav slammed the State government, alleging that incidents of crime had doubled in Bihar under the NDA regime. He also took a jibe at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying he had called BJP ‘ Badka Jhoota Party’ (party of big liars) in 2015, but now had become a “stepney” of the same party. Later, Mr. Kumar rebutted the Opposition leader’s allegation and urged him to “have patience to hear out his response, which will eventually benefit you in later days”. Mr. Kumar began by saying that when he [Mr. Kumar] was a Minister in the Central government, he [Mr. Yadav] was a kid in his lap. “Ever since the APMC was scrapped in 2006 by my government, paddy procurement has gone up through Primary Agriculture Co-operative Societies and Vyapar Mandals [business communities] and farmers do not face any problem in the State today... Farmers had been demanding two weeks more for procurement of paddy, but our government decided to extend it for 21 days,” he said. Mr. Kumar also presented government data on crime, health, electricity, road and other issues raised by Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-opposition-stages-walkout/article33918477.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man, 3 others nabbed for attacking former neighbour||A 38-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly attacking his former neighbour, the police said. Three of his accomplices have also been nabbed, they said. The accused have been identified as the main conspirator, Naseem Ahmad and his accomplices — Naveid Khan (24), Imran (22), and Amit Mehra (38). Ahmad, Khan, and Imran are from U.P.’s Amroha while Mehra is a resident of Burari, they said. The incident happened on February 15 at 7.45 a.m when the victim, Raj Kumar from Burari, was coming home after dropping his daughter at school. On the way, two bike-borne persons approached him, and the pillion rider attacked him with a surgical blade and sped off. The injured was admitted to a hospital and a case of attempt to murder was lodged. During the probe the accused were nabbed, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (north) Anto Alphonse said. During interrogation, Ahmad said he and the victim used to reside in the same building. Around six months ago, the victim had used foul language against Ahmad’s wife over some water leakage issue following which he hatched the conspiracy. He also roped in Imran and Naveid for the crime. He also arranged a motorcycle. Khan was riding the bike when Imran attacked the victim. The police said Ahmad and Mehra used to run a cheating racket. They had fake papers using which they got vehicles financed and later sold them on online platforms. They were also carrying the stamp of some financial companies, which they were using for issuing fake non-objectionable certificates (NOC), they said. One bike, scooter, two mobile phones surgical blade, passbooks, voter ID cards, and other items recovered from their possession, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-3-others-nabbed-for-attacking-former-neighbour/article33918806.ece
24 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two more arrested in Red Fort violence case||Two more persons, including the president of the Kashmir United Front Organisation, have been arrested in connection with the Red Fort violence case, the police said on Tuesday. Mohinder Singh (45) and Mandeep Singh (23) were nabbed with the support of Jammu and Kashmir Police, they said. “Mohinder heads the Kashmir United Front and is a key conspirator in the case,” said Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal. Meanwhile, a Delhi court on Tuesday sent actor-activist Deep Sidhu to judicial custody for 14 days in connection with the case. Protesting farmers had clashed with the police on January 26 during a tractor parade, and some entered the Red Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-more-arrested-in-red-fort-violence-case/article33918810.ece
24 February 2021||New Delhi,||Reply to plea on quashing independent reports: HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response from the government on a plea to quash various independent reports on the north-east Delhi riots, including the report of the fact-finding committee formed by the Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC). The petition by advocate Dharmesh Sharma, a victim of the north-east Delhi riots, has sought to declare reports by any statutory authorities or private organisations or any extra-judicial private tribunal without any authority of law as void. The plea said such reports ought not be relied upon by any judicial forum, including the courts where matters in respect of north-east Delhi riot cases are pending. Apart from the DMC’s fact-finding committee report, the petition filed through advocate Ashish Dixit, has challenged the report by Human Rights Watch ‘Shoot the Traitors – Discrimination against Muslims under India’s New Citizenship Policy’; report by Citizens and Lawyers Initiative titled ‘Delhi Riots of February 2020- Causes, Fallout and Aftermath’; and a report by Amnesty International India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reply-to-plea-on-quashing-independent-reports-hc/article33918803.ece
24 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha ex-MLA arrested for robbing tourist||A former MLA in Odisha was arrested and sent to jail for stopping a tourist and robbing him of Rs. 30,000 in Kandhamal district on Tuesday. The former MLA, identified as Debendra Kanhar, and his acquaintance Srinivas Kanhar, a havildar in the India Reserve Battalion, were accused of attacking a tourist on the Urumagarh road and snatching money from him on February 9. The tourist, Kamakhi Behera of Dhenkanal district, had lodged a police complaint on February 11. The accused were produced before the Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Phulbani, who remanded them in 14 days’ judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-ex-mla-arrested-for-robbing-tourist/article33918476.ece
