28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 upsurge: Cabinet Secretary reviews situation||With Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana and Jammu & Kashmir reporting a high active COVID-19 caseload and an increasing trend in new cases last week, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Saturday reviewed the situation with their Chief Secretaries. The States have been advised not to lower their guard, enforce pandemic-appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations. They are also required to follow effective surveillance and tracking strategies in respect of potential super spreader events. The Health Ministry said Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat had also shown a surge in new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the active caseload to 1,59,590. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333, followed by Kerala with 3,671 while Punjab reported 622 new cases, it said. India reported 16,488 new cases in the last 24 hours. “Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. In the last two weeks, Kerala has shown the maximum decline in the number of active cases, from 63,847 on February 14 to 51,679, while Maharashtra has shown the highest rise, from 34,449 to 68,810,” said the Ministry. Six States/UTs account for 82.3% of the 113 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra saw the highest number of casualties (48). Punjab reported 15 daily deaths and Kerala 14 while 17 States and UTs have not reported any deaths. A presentation was made at the meeting chaired by Mr. Gauba with a focus on districts reporting increasing numbers of cases and trend in positivity. This was followed by a comprehensive review with all the States/UTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-upsurge-cabinet-secretary-reviews-situation/article33952609.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Confusion reigns over vaccination mandate||Confusion reigns as far as the registration and vaccination of senior citizens for receiving COVID-19 vaccination is concerned as the State is yet to receive the guidelines from the Centre regarding this. Though the Centre has announced that vaccination of the elderly will start on March 1, it appears that the registration for the same will also be opening up on the same day. Health Department officials said they were flooded with calls from all quarters seeking clarity on how citizens can register for vaccination. Many citizens have been trying to download the app CoWIN 2.0, but the portal is currently closed and will be opened only on Monday. State health officials said they expected more clarity in matters by Sunday afternoon. While nothing has been finalised yet, it is probably those in the 60-plus age group, including those who will turn 60 years by January 2022, who would be asked to register first. The Centre has to finalise the list of comorbidities so that those in the 45-60 years with comorbidities can also register. Registration in app Individuals can register on their own in the app and choose their vaccination site from the list of sites in both public and private sector hospitals. It is also likely that spot registration or walk-in registration will be allowed, so one can walk in to a vaccination site with their Aadhaar card and receive the vaccination. Health officials are aware that this is likely to create some confusion and overcrowding at vaccination sites. The quantum of vaccines that the State would require in this phase of the vaccination was something that would come to light as citizens register. The number of elderly as well as those with comorbidities in Kerala was likely to be over 50 lakhs, officials said. Of the 3.3 lakh poll officials who are receiving the vaccine, the State has now covered about 20%, health officials said. The process is being expedited by conducting mass vaccinations in selected sites in all districts. Meanwhile, the Health Department clarified that private sector hospitals would indeed be a part of the vaccination drive for senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities. Over 300 private hospitals, with cold chain facilities and physical infrastructure, have already been identified as vaccination sites. The details of the empanelled hospitals are available in the link, http://sha.kerala.gov.in/list-of-empanelled-hospitals/, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/confusion-reigns-over-vaccination-mandate/article33952793.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Ready to look into demand of schools’||While the State government has asked private school managements to accept 70% of the fees, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Saturday said the government was still open to reconsidering the schools’ demand if they keep in mind the plight of parents too. During an interaction with teachers and headmasters, organised by the district administration here, Mr. Kumar said the State hovernment was not taking this as a prestige issue. “We are still open to hear private school managements. If they propose a formula by considering problems of parents we are ready to accept it,” he said. The Minister was reacting to the question by Jayamala, a teacher from a private school, who said the fee reduction proposed by the government has hit her school hard as it was taking Rs. 6,500 as annual fee. The teachers were being paid only 50% salary, she said. The Minister said the government was in a piquant situation on the issue where there was trust deficit between the schools and parents. The government did not want to interfere and had asked the private school managements to come with fee reduction formula. As the managements asked the government to decide, orders were passed to permit private schools to accept only 70 % of tuition fees. The issue was now in the High Court and the government has to wait what orders will be passed, he said. On another question seeking launch of mid-day meals for students from classes VI to X, the Minister said letter has been written to the Centre seeking its clearance. “The day we receive the green signal, we will start mid-day meals in our schools,” he said. On the issue of considering performance of students in sports and other extra curricular activities while giving marks in class X examination, he said it will be taken up during his discussion with officials from Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board. While stating that the government will not tolerate erratic valuation, the Minister said it will consider having two evaluation centres in Dakshina Kannada. The final timetable of the class X examination will be released in a couple of days, he said. Earlier, representatives from various private schools in the district met the Minister at a temple in Shakti Nagar and asked him to reconsider the decision about fee reduction. A delegation of government school teachers also met the Minister and submitted a memorandum about pending promotion and other service related issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-look-into-demand-of-schools/article33953394.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,||State govt. keen on developing coastal tourism circuit, says Yogeshwar||Minister for Tourism, Environment and Ecology C.P. Yogeshwar on Saturday spelt out several initiatives to boost tourism in Dakshina Kannada in particular and coastal tourism in general, including the overall development of seven beaches in the district. Speaking at a meet the press programme, organised by the Dakshina Kannada District Working Journalists’ Association and the Mangaluru Press Club here, Mr. Yogeshwar said Talapady, Someshwara, Ullal, Tannirbhavi, Panambur, Chitrapura, and Surathkal will be developed on the lines of the Padubidri and the Kasarkod beaches that have obtained a ‘Blue Flag’ tag. Adequate connecting roads, toilets, high mastlamps, and other facilities will be provided at these places. The Sasihithlu beach, the Minister said, will be made a permanent venue for surfing event and regular international surfing activities will be organised. The government has sanctioned Rs. 10 crore grant to build a surfing school and a clubhouse and the work would commence once the CRZ clearance was obtained. He has collected information about proposals before the district tourism development committee and asked the Deputy Commissioner to dispose of them immediately. The department has taken up 27 development projects in the district, of which about 10 projects were cleared. The balance would be cleared soon and all would be completed in a time bound manner. Mr. Yogeshwar said the department would facilitate extension of stay of cruise tourists arriving at New Mangalore Port up to three days as against the present one day. This would help introducing the district to international tourists. Heli-tourism would be promoted through the port that would widen the reach of tourism initiatives, including tour to Lakshadweep. Adequate tourist facilities will be created at Jain Kashi Moodbidri and it will be developed as an international tourism destination. A 20-km backwater tourism will be developed on the Phalguni (Gurupura) river front. The Minister said the department would soon prepare an action plan to develop the entire coastal belt as a tourism circuit and attract tourists. Speaking about stone quarrying, the Minister said those involved in quarrying should get permission from the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and those functioning without consent would be closed down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-keen-on-developing-coastal-tourism-circuit-says-yogeshwar/article33953391.ece
28 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Dreams fade for kids of migrants||Unlike his three siblings, Arjun Naik, 11, had never stayed in a dingy room near a brick kiln along with his parents. All these years, he was a student at a residential school run by the Odisha government. His classmate, Somu Naik, was put up in such accommodation for months. It was not a pleasant experience. Almost a year after the onset of COVID-19, schoolgoing children of migrating parents, including Arjun and Somu, are either on the verge of discontinuing their studies or preparing to labour as adolescent workers. “My elder daughter, who is 14 years old, has already started helping me in brick making. As we keep moving from one place to another, my eldest son’s studies have been hampered. We wanted Arjun to be devoted to his studies but COVID-19 shattered our hopes. The hostel has remained closed for a year. We cannot leave our son anywhere else,” said Basila Naik, Arjun’s father, who works at a brick kiln in Bingharpur on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. In a nearby brick kiln, little Nandita, 11, is happy that she can join a residential school from the next academic session at Kukudakhandi in Ganjam district. However, as uncertainty prevails over the opening of residential schools due to the pandemic, her stay at the brick kiln has been prolonged. Instead of studying, she looks after her younger siblings while her mother works at the kiln. According to a survey conducted by Sankalp, a voluntary organisation, in five villages of the Belpada block of Balangir district, education became the lowest priority among children of brick workers during the pandemic. Of a total of 1,427 children enrolled in different schools in Kharkhara, Anlabhata, Sarmuhan, Bharuapali and Bhalukhai villages, 319 have already migrated with their parents. Twenty children who had not accompanied their parents last year and had continued their studies, living in seasonal hostels at the Anlabhata and Bharuapali villages, migrated to brick kilns with their parents this year. “We find that parents who migrated for work had no alternative arrangement but to leave behind their children. Schoolgoing children used to stay in seasonal hostels in their areas. This year, no seasonal hostel is functioning,” said Sadanana Meher, head of Sankalp. Last year, about 8,000 children had stayed back in seasonal hostels in four western Odisha districts and continued their studies. Odisha Labour Minister Sushant Singh told the State Assembly that 10.07 lakh labourers had returned from other States to Odisha since October 2020. The government provided work to 7.73 lakh under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. In the southern and western Odisha districts, entire families undertake migration in search of a livelihood for six months, and then return to work in agricultural fields near their homes. Thousands of schoolchildren accompany their parents. “The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the loss of two [academic] years for scores of children of migrating labourers from Odisha. Schoolgoing children had migrated with their parents in October-November of 2019,” said Umi Daniel, an expert on migration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/children-of-migrant-parents-in-odisha-face-uncertain-future/article33952605.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. rift widens with ‘G-23’ Jammu meet||The internal differences in the Congress spilled out into the open on Saturday, with the dissenting group, or the ‘G-23’, in a show of strength holding a rally in Jammu ostensibly to felicitate Ghulam Nabi Azad on his retirement from the Rajya Sabha but clearly challenging the party leadership. The party leadership reacted cautiously and did not comment about the possibility of disciplinary action against the participants. The meeting was attended by senior Congress leaders, sucha as Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Raj Babbar and Vivek Tankha, in addition to Mr. Azad. First public appearance This is the first collective, public appearance of the group that, in August last year, had written to interim president Sonia Gandhi urging her to ensure “full time” and “visible” leadership. The Congress leadership has remained mum about renominating Mr. Azad and the G-23 members find themselves sidelined within the party. Mr. Azad, speaking at the rally, said that he may have retired from the Rajya Sabha but not from politics. One of the sharpest speeches came from Mr. Sharma, who said, “A party can give a designation and rank but not every person occupying the designation necessarily becomes a people’s leader.” Mr Sharma said all the leaders at the meeting had come a long distance starting from their days in the Youth Congress. “I have not given anyone the right to tell me if we are Congress members or not. We built this party and we will strengthen it. We believe in the unity of Congress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-rift-widens-with-caustic-g-23-meet-in-jammu/article33952669.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Cauvery dispute: ‘No inter-basin transfer without consensus’||In the latest round of dispute involving the Cauvery riparian States, Karnataka has opposed Tamil Nadu’s unilateral decision to lay foundation for a link scheme proposing to utilise and transfer surplus water in the Cauvery basin to the southern parts of that State. While the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal has allocated water share to each of the States, the surplus water is yet to allocated. Karnataka’s stand is on the premise that unless the surplus water is allocated, the States should not be allowed to have projects utilising it. Water resources experts estimate that about 40 tmcft is expected to be used once the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar link scheme is completed. However, officials said that the Detailed Project Report was yet to be given and the quantum of water transfer could be measured only based on that. “We are asking the riparian State to comply with the rules,” an official said. Sources in the Water Resources Department said that Tamil Nadu has linked the new scheme to an earlier peninsular link scheme that involves the linking of Godavari-Krishna-Palar-Pennar-Cauvery-Vaigai, for which national project status is being sought. “Tamil Nadu wants the new scheme to be part of the peninsular link scheme... The State is funding the project. Even the peninsular link scheme has not been approved yet,” a source said. However, sources pointed out that since 2010, Karnataka has taken a stand that any inter-basin transfer should have consensus between the riparian States or be decided through adjudication. Sources pointed out that when the undivided Andhra Pradesh wanted to transfer 80 tmcft of water from the Krishna basin, Maharashtra was allocated 25 tmcft and Karnataka received 14 tmcft. Officials said that the Krishna tribunal award was very clear about inter-basin transfers. “Under the order, no State is barred from claiming its right if a river basin is augmented by another river basin,” said an official. Sources further pointed out that even the Centre could not unilaterally take up such a project or help any State in executing it. The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, in its final order in 2007, had allocated 419 tmcft of water to Tamil Nadu, 270 tmcft to Karnataka, and 30 tmcft to Kerala, and 7 tmcft to Puducherry. However, a Supreme Court order in 2018 reduced Tamil Nadu’s share to 404 tmcft and increased Karnataka’s share to 284 tmcft. Karnataka has been directed to release 177 tmcft at the Biligundlu point on the State borders. However, no orders have been made on the utilisation of surplus water.  Referred to CWMA  Tamil Nadu’s new scheme has been referred to the Central Water Management Authority, which in turn has sought the opinion of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cauvery-dispute-no-inter-basin-transfer-without-consensus/article33952779.ece
28 February 2021||mumbai,||8,623 new cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported more than 8,000 new COVID-19 cases on the fourth straight day on Saturday taking the case load to 21,46,777, a health official said. As many as 8,623 new cases and 51 deaths were reported. With this the death toll in the State reached 52,092, the official added. Lockdown in eastern Maharashtra’s Amravati city was extended by one week. Weekend lockdown is also in place in Nagpur, Buldhana and Yavatmal in the region. “The virus has now spread to most of the cities and districts. For instance, in Akola division which reported 1,364 cases, all its parts including Akola district, Akola city, Amravati district and city, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim have reported coronavirus infections in three digits,” he said. Mumbai city reported 987 cases and four deaths, taking its case tally to 3,24,866, and death toll to 11,470. The Mumbai division overall reported 1,823 new cases, taking its case load to 7,23,995 while eight deaths in the region pushed the fatality count to 19,816. As many as 3,648 patients were discharged from hospitals on Saturday, taking the tally of recoveries to 20,20,951. The number of active cases is 72,530. Of the 51 deaths reported during the day, 27 were in the last 48 hours and 19 in the last one week. Pune division’s COVID-19 tally increased to 5,24,760 with 1,765 new cases, while six fatalities took the death toll to 11,742. In Vidarbha, Akola division has reported 94,800 cases and 1,751 deaths so far, while Nagpur division has recorded 2,26,051 cases and 4,818 deaths to date. As many as 3,084 persons are in institutional quarantine in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8623-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article33953421.ece
28 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||RJD set to join grand alliance, contest election in Assam||The Rashtriya Janata Dal is likely to contest the upcoming Assembly election in Assam as a constituent of the Congress-led grand alliance. Party leader Tejashwi Yadav, on a two-day visit to Assam, said he met State Congress president Ripun Bora and All India United Democratic Front chief Maulana Badruddin Ajmal. The Congress and AIUDF are the two major constituents of the grand alliance that also has three Left Front parties and the regional Anchalik Gana Morcha. “My meeting with the Congress and AIUDF leaders was fruitful,” Mr. Yadav told journalists in Guwahati on Saturday. He said his party would be targeting about 5% Hindi-speaking people who have been living in Assam after migrating from other States. “Hindi speakers are a significant number in 11 constituencies. We will contest seats where the chances are high,” he said. “Our effort in Assam will be to prevent the communal forces from forming the government. We will go to places where campaigning is required. We will also go to West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. We will place issues, which are in the interests of the country, in front of the people and let them decide,” Mr. Yadav said. He was critical of the Election Commission for scheduling an eight-phase election in West Bengal and a three-phase one in Assam. “Assam usually had two-phase polls. Do the three phases this time mean the atmosphere is not good? If so, isn’t the BJP-led government responsible?” he said. Mr. Yadav panned the BJP for taking the tea plantation workers for a ride. He also said BJPhas robbed the country’s constitutional bodies of their independence. “They brought the Citizenship (Amendment) Act by toying with the Constitution.. We have come to Assam because it was the first State to oppose the CAA and the NRC (National Register of Citizens).” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rjd-set-to-join-grand-alliance-contest-election-in-assam/article33952819.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Widespread rapid tests helped contain COVID: CS||Chief Secretary to the State Government Somesh Kumar has informed the Centre that COVID-19 is under control in Telangana and the positivity rate was only 0.43% with less than 200 positive cases being reported every day. Participating in a video conference conduced by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba from New Delhi with Chief Secretaries of States on Saturday, Mr. Somesh Kumar stated that conduct of rapid antigen tests at 1,100 locations across the State had been the game changer as it had helped detect positive cases even in rural areas early. It had also helped controlling the spread of the infectious disease as those tested positive in rapid tests were being isolated immediately and given medicine kits to prevent the spread of the disease. Vaccination drive On the COVID-19 vaccination drive in the State, the Chief Secretary brought to the Cabinet Secretary’s notice that about 75% of the healthcare and front line workers were already given the first dose and administering the second dose was in progress. The State government was also all prepared to take up the third-phase of vaccination for COVID from March 1, he noted. In his opening comments, the Cabinet Secretary emphasised the need to act decisively in terms of containment, surveillance and large scale vaccination stating that only such measure would help in arresting the rising trend of the cases in some parts of the country. State government officials – Principal Secretary (Health) S.A.M. Rizvi, Director of Public Health G. Srinivas Rao, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and others attended the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/widespread-rapid-tests-helped-contain-covid-cs/article33953308.ece
28 February 2021||Tirumala,||Devotees can attend arjitha sevas from Ugadi||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board of trustees has resolved to allow devotees to take part in various arjitha sevas performed inside the temple from Ugadi, the Telugu New Year day. Briefing the media along with Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Saturday said the decision was strictly subject to the restoration of normal conditions in the country in the wake of encouraging signs of recovery from the pandemic. “Even though there is a fear of a second wave and a couple of States already registering an increase in the cases, let us wish the pandemic subsides at the earliest by the grace of Lord,” Mr. Subba Reddy said. Primarily it was felt to allow devotees in a limited number in strict adherence to COVID protocols, he said. It was on March 20 last year that the devotees were last allowed to take part in the sevas inside the temple. The board also unanimously passed a resolution requesting the Union government to declare cow as a national animal. It also resolved to request the government of Uttar Pradesh for allotment of land at Ayodhya for the construction of a temple of Lord Venkateswara or a pilgrim amenities complex as the case may be subject to the conditions of allotment. It was decided to fix an early muhurtham for laying of foundation stone for the construction of temples of Lord Venkateswara at Jammu and Kashmir as well as in Mumbai, introduce Annadanam on the Srinivasa Mangapuram foot path, fix energy meters at all the cottages and guest houses at Tirumala and espouse the usage of green power and spike the ever growing carbon bill. The board also resolved to request the government to attach priority to its employees working at Tirumala in the ongoing vaccination drive.  The board also gave its nod for the introduction of ‘Tulabharam’ (an age old practice of weighing oneself with provisions like rice, wheat, jaggery, sugar, currency coins etc and donating it to the presiding deity) at the temple of goddess Padmavati in Tiruchanoor on the similar lines of Tirumala temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ttd-to-allow-devotees-to-take-part-in-arjitha-sevas-from-ugadi/article33952544.ece
28 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Nine-year-old girl from Anantapur district scales Mount Kilimanjaro||A nine-year-old girl, Kadapala Rithvika, hailing from M. Agraharam village in Tadimarri Mandal of the district, scaled Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest peak in Africa, on Friday. Daughter of a cricket coach for special Olympics, Kadapala Sankar, she is one of the youngest from the State to scale the mountain. A coach at Rural Development Trust Stadium in Anantapur, Kadapala Sankar had scaled Mount Kilimanjaro, the peak in Tanzania, on January 24 last year. This year, he took his daughter along with him. Collector Gandham Chandrudu helped her by releasing Rs. 2,98,835 from the S.C. Corporation for her expedition on February 1. The girl felt proud to be the youngest Indian on the peak and held the national flag high to express her gratitude to the nation. She thanked the District Collector for helping her financially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anantapur-girl-scales-kilimanjaro/article33952628.ece
28 February 2021||GUNTUR,||Smooth-coated otters spotted in Uppalapadu||Conservationists are elated as a rare species of Smooth-coated otter has been sighted at the Upplapadu Bird Sanctuary, near Guntur. The sight of otters peering their head above the water, and swimming has caught the attention of forest department watchers, who say that the water tank is able to hold more species and helps in the conservation efforts. Known by its binomial name Lutrogale perspicillate , the mammal is listed as vulnerable on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List since the year 1996. “We are delighted to see otters in Uppalapadu and its sighting is a testimony to the conservation efforts at the sanctuary for over 30 years. Otters feed on juvenile birds, reptiles like snakes, etc., and help in preserving the balance in ecosystem,” said District Forest Officer, Guntur, M. Siva Prasad. The Upplapadu Bird Sanctuary, located at about 20 km from Guntur, has evolved over the years and is often touted as a shining example of human coexistence with the migratory birds, is home to about 12,000 birds — mostly, spot-billed pelicans and painted storks, which have made the water tank spread over four acres their home after arriving during the nesting season beginning in September-October. There are others too, spot billed duck, darter, black headed ibis and open billed storks, all of them local migratory birds. Now, the sighting of otters is keeping the forest department excited. Mainly seen in groups, smooth-coated otters feed on juvenile fish, reptiles, amphibians and are known to follow a distinct pattern of hunting trying to induce panic in their prey. Mr. Prasad said the unique characteristics of otters, a short and sleek fur, rounded head, hairless nose and webbed feet makes it an excellent hunting mammal in water. Otters vary in size, with the larger of them measuring up to 59 to 64 cm in length, weighing in between 7 and 11 kg. They occur usually in larger water bodies and where freshwater is available. They are known to breed throughout the year and some species breed between October and February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/smooth-coated-otters-mark-their-presence-in-uppalapadu/article33952624.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Arkavathy Layout extension to come up on 450 acres||The State government has given the green signal for extension of Arkavathy Layout in north Bengaluru. A Government Order dated February 24 states that the Arkavathy Extension Layout will come up on 450 acres 15.5 guntas in Kattigenahalli, Kogilu, Mittaganahalli, Srinivasapura, Baiyappanahalli, Bellahalli, and Sathanuru. According to the order, 45% of land per acre will be reserved for civic amenities, and 55% for residential sites. Farmers will get 9,583 sq.ft. of developed site for every acre acquired for the layout. The order also specifies that the BDA will develop the extended layout with its own funds. The extension comes in the wake of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) Commissioner writing to the government about a shortage of land for sites to allottees. BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev toldThe Hinduthat the extension would primarily benefit allottees who lost out on sites owing to denotification as well as land-losers. The long saga of the layout had earlier resulted in the BDA leaving out 285 acres of land from the acquisition process for the formation of the Arkavathy Layout in 2013 to comply with a May 5, 2010 order of the Supreme Court. The apex court ordered the denotification of the land after finding out that it had been erroneously notified by including horticultural land, developed residential areas, factories as well as educational and charitable institutions. In 2014, the BDA published a re-modified scheme, leaving out more than 500 acres. The BDA first notified 4,000 acres for the layout, announced in March 2004, to cater to 20,000 allottees. Plagued by controversies since, the extent of land saw a rapid reduction owing to a series of alleged illegal de-notifications. Allottees are keeping their fingers crossed. “We only pray it doesn’t go the way of Arkavathy-1. Corruption and court cases have complicated the allotment process beyond repair. We only hope there will be some closure now,” said Shiva Prakash G. from Arkavathy Layout Allottees’ Association, which was formed in 2012. He added that as of 2006, there were 8,813 allottees. “Many have been given alternative sites at Kempegowda Layout. Even in Arkavathy Layout, developments are not there. Many allotments are for namesake because farmers are not allowing people to step on the land,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arkavathy-layout-extension-to-come-up-on-450-acres/article33953212.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress rift widens with ‘G-23’ meet||The internal differences in the Congress spilled out into the open on Saturday, with the dissenting group, or the ‘G-23’, in a show of strength held a rally in Jammu ostensibly to felicitate Ghulam Nabi Azad on his retirement from Rajya Sabha but clearly challenging the party leadership. The party leadership has reacted cautiously and not commented about the possibility of disciplinary action against the participants . The meeting was attended by senior Congress leaders including former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Raj Babbar and Vivek Tankha in addition to Mr. Azad. This is the first collective, public appearance of the group that in August last year, had written to the interim president Sonia Gandhi urging her to ensure “full time” and “visible” leadership. Congress leadership has remained mum about renominating Mr. Azad and the G-23 members find themselves sidelined within the party. Mr Azad said he may have retired from Rajya Sabha but he has not retired from politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-rift-widens-with-g-23-meet/article33952615.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,||AIADMK clinches pact with PMK, allots 23 seats||The ruling AIADMK got a head start in the negotiations with allies for the April 6 Assembly election on Saturday by sealing a pact with the PMK, giving it 23 seats. The constituencies will be allotted later. The party also commenced talks with the BJP and finally reached out to actor Vijayakant of the DMDK late in the evening. AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam announced the deal with the PMK in the presence of co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The deal went off smoothly against the backdrop of the government on Friday adopting a Bill in the Assembly providing 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars. PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss , who received the agreement from Mr. Panneerselvam, said: “Our alliance will score a big victory. As far as this election is concerned, our intention was to ensure reservation for the Vanniyars. We demanded it and the State government agreed to it. Therefore, we agreed to a lower number of seats.” Thus, after a gap of 20 years, the PMK will face the Assembly election , as an ally of the AIADMK. In the 2001 election, the PMK won 20 seats out of the 27 it had contested in the company of the AIADMK. In 2009 and 2019, the two parties faced the Lok Sabha election together. Mr. Anbumani said repeatedly that the party agreed to a lesser number of seats because the government met its demand for reservation. “In this election, we wanted to ensure that the 40-year-old demand of [PMK founder] Dr. Ramadoss — separate reservation for Vanniyar — has been agreed to. So, we have agreed to a lower number of seats.” In the night, Ministers P. Thangamani and S.P. Velumani, along with AIADMK deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy, called on Mr. Vijayakant at his residence. A DMDK source said that only discussions took place and the details would be announced on Sunday. Over the past month, the DMDK had repeatedly urged the AIADMK to hold talks with it and even warned that it was capable of fielding candidates in all 234 constituencies. Earlier in the day, a delegation of BJP leaders, including Union Ministers V.K. Singh and G. Kishan Reddy, national general secretary C.T. Ravi and State president L. Murugan called on Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam. Sources said the ruling party was inclined to set apart 20 to 22 seats for the BJP, whereas the latter was said to be pitching for a higher number of seats. A clear picture may emerge in a day or two. Besides, if around 15 seats are distributed among other prospective allies such as the DMDK and the TMC, the AIADMK will have to contest in 180 seats, the sources said. With Union Home Minister Amit Shah arriving in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, the seat-sharing exercise is expected to gather momentum. “As far as this election is concerned, our intention was to ensure reservation for the Vanniyars. We demanded it and the State government agreed to it. Therefore, we agreed to a lower number of seats.” Thus, after a gap of 20 years, the PMK will face the Assembly election , as an ally of the AIADMK. In the 2001 election, the PMK won 20 seats out of the 27 it had contested in the company of the AIADMK. In 2009 and 2019, the two parties faced the Lok Sabha election together. Mr. Anbumani said repeatedly that the party agreed to a lesser number of seats because the government met its demand for reservation. “In this election, we wanted to ensure that the 40-year-old demand of [PMK founder] Dr. Ramadoss — separate reservation for Vanniyar — has been agreed to. So, we have agreed to a lower number of seats.” At night, Ministers P. Thangamani and S.P. Velumani, along with AIADMK deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy, called on Mr. Vijayakant at his residence. A DMDK source said that only discussions took place and the details would be announced on Sunday. Over the past month, the DMDK had repeatedly urged the AIADMK to hold talks with it and even warned that it was capable of fielding candidates in all 234 constituencies. Earlier in the day, a delegation of BJP leaders, including Union Ministers V.K. Singh and G. Kishan Reddy, national general secretary C.T. Ravi and State president L. Murugan called on Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam. Sources said the ruling party was inclined to set apart 20 to 22 seats for the BJP, whereas the latter was said to be pitching for a higher number of seats. A clear picture may emerge in a day or two. Besides, if around 15 seats are distributed among other prospective allies such as the DMDK and the TMC(M), the AIADMK will have to contest in about 180 seats, the sources indicated. With Union Home Minister Amit Shah having political engagements in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Sunday, the seat-sharing exercise is expected to gather further momentum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-clinches-pact-with-pmk-allots-23-seats/article33952672.ece
28 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Three held in Hapur gang-rape case||Investigating the alleged gang rape of a 30-year-old woman in Hapur, the Uttar Pradesh police arrested three persons on Saturday morning after a brief encounter. The accused have been identified as Ankit alias Chhotu, Aqil, and Akash of Galand village of Pilakhwa town in Hapur. The woman was raped on Wednesday night when she was returning from work in Ghaziabad. Hapur SP Neeraj Jadaun said they received information that some suspects had gathered in an autorickshaw near Hindalpur village in the district. “When the police reached the spot, the accused fired at the team. The police returned fire and arrested the three men.” He said the three accused suffered bullet injuries in the lower limbs. Two policemen were also injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-held-in-hapur-gang-rape-case/article33953292.ece
28 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan bypolls: Gehlot, Pilot put up united front||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan on Saturday launched its campaign for bypolls to four Assembly seats with farmers’ rallies in two districts, where the party leadership tried to put up a united face. Both Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot, who was sacked as the Deputy CM last year, addressed the large gatherings of farmers. Shared helicopter ride Mr. Gehlot and his former deputy shared a helicopter ride from Jaipur to the two villages in Bikaner and Chittorgarh districts for the first time in more than a year. Mr. Pilot, who had staged a rebellion in July last year, has been addressing huge ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ along with the MLAs of his camp in the eastern Rajasthan region. The two leaders came together apparently at the instance of the party’s top leadership, besides the political necessity in which Mr. Pilot could not be sidelined any more in the run-up to the bypolls. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, Ajay Maken, who flew along with Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot, shared their picture on social media platforms. The by-elections are to be held in Sujangarh (Churu), Sahara (Bhilwara), Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) and Rajsamand, where the sitting MLAs died in the last four months. Three of these seats were with the Congress, while the Rajsamand constituency was represented by BJP leader Kiran Maheshwari. The dates for the bypolls are yet to be announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bypolls-gehlot-pilot-put-up-united-front/article33952925.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Police Commissioner, DCP stop illegal sand transport||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar prevented an alleged illegal transportation of sand that was in connivance with personnel from the toll plaza in Talapady early on Saturday. Having watched the movement of a couple of vehicles at the Talapady checkpost for a few days, Mr. Kumar and Mr. Shankar went in civilian clothes to the place. The two came on a two-wheeler from the city and crossed the free lane to stop on the other side of the toll gate. Around 4 a.m. the two officials saw a lorry filled with sand coming to the toll plaza. As the lorry crossed the toll plaza, the two officials blocked the way and apprehended three persons who were in it. The sand was being brought from a dump yard in Ullal and was going towards Kerala. Six persons in two cars were seen standing a few metres away from the place the two officials were standing. They were watching the lorry and were waiting to escort it towards Kerala. The two officials tipped off the police on night rounds who rushed to the spot to catch them. The six persons pushed the police officials aside and escaped, the police said. On the complaint by Mr. Shankar, the Ullal police registered a case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code against the three accused persons in the lorry. The unknown toll plaza personnel have been booked under Section 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. Another FIR was registered against six persons under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant) of IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-commissioner-dcp-stop-illegal-sand-transport/article33953392.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Powering through||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/powering-through/article33952617.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Pongala sans usual fanfare||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pongala-sans-usual-fanfare/article33953504.ece
28 February 2021||THANJAVUR/PUDUKOTTAI,||26 injured in two jallikattu events||Twenty-six persons were injured in jallikattu at Nanijkottai in Thanjavur district and Mangalapuram near Alangudi in Pudukottai district on Saturday. Sixteen persons were injured in Nanjikottai. According to official sources, 740 bulls and 297 tamers took part in the event. Sixteen persons – nine tamers, five bull owners and two volunteers – suffered injuries and were treated at the medical camp site set up there. While 12 out of 16 injured persons were treated as outpatients, others were admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. At Mangalapuram, 3,500 spectators witnessed the jallikattu which witnessed the participation of 510 bulls and 280 tamers. Few ‘108’ ambulances were also on standby to treat injuries sustained by the tamers and spectators. The event was held without any announcements or gifts to the winners as the model code of conduct was enforced after the elections were announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/26-injured-in-two-jallikattu-events/article33952682.ece
28 February 2021||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||EC transfers Bengal ADG Law and order||In the first administrative reshuffle after the model code of conduct came into force for the West Bengal Assembly polls, the Election Commission of India transferred the Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Jawed Shamim. He has been replaced by Director General of West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services Jag Mohan. Mr. Shamim, who was appointed ADG ( Law and Order) only a few weeks ago, swaps places with Mr. Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ec-transfers-bengal-adg-law-and-order/article33952814.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five municipal wards go to polls today||The stage is set for bypolls in five municipal wards in Delhi on Sunday with all three contenders — the Aam Aadmi Party, BJP and the Congress — exuding confidence about emerging victorious. The bypolls are being seen as the semi-final ahead of the civic body elections for 272 wards of three municipal corporations in early 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-municipal-wards-go-to-polls-today/article33953293.ece
28 February 2021||Pune,||Classes X, XII board exams from April 23||The written examinations for Class XII and Class X students in Maharashtra will be held between April 23 and May 21, an official said on Saturday. While the Class XII examinations will be conducted between April 23 and May 21, Class X exams will be held between April 29 and May 20, Ashok Bhosale, secretary of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said. These examinations are usually held in February and March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/classes-x-xii-board-exams-from-april-23/article33953420.ece
28 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,||ASHA worker dies after taking COVID vaccine||An ASHA worker, Chandrakala, 50, of Kothacheruvu mandal headquarters in the district died in the early hours of Saturday. Her relatives alleged that she died after taking the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. In another case, an anganwadi worker, Shakuntala, hailing from Raninagar in the city complained of some health problem and was being kept under watch in the Government General Hospital here. When contacted, District Medical and Health Officer said: Chandrakalawas a known asthma patient for the last six years. The death cannot be related to the vaccine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/asha-worker-dies-after-taking-covid-vaccine/article33952610.ece
28 February 2021||SIDDIPET,||Eight held for cow slaughter in Telangana||Tension prevailed in Siddipet district of Telangana on Friday following reports of the slaughter of 16 cows, with members of BJP, ABVP, RSS and other right wing organisations protesting against the incident. Earlier, acting on information that cows were being slaughtered on the outskirts of the town, a police team rushed to the spot and arrested eight persons. A case was registered under Sections 429, 153 and 153-A of the IPC against those involved, according to D. Joel Davis, Commissioner of Police, Siddipet. Police said 68 cows had been brought from villages in Karimnagar district. The remaining 52 cows were shifted to a goshala. After post-mortem, carcasses of the slaughtered animals were buried at the same place to avoid any untoward incidents. The police worked all the night, forming multiple teams to arrest the accused within hours. The arrested persons were identified as Mohd. Jaber, Mohd. Kahaja, Mohd. Saddam, Mohd Arafat, Mohd. Rahim, Mohd. Arshad, Mohd. Ashraf and Mohd. Javed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-held-for-cow-slaughter-in-telangana/article33952614.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Hospitals can charge up to Rs. 250 per dose||Private hospitals functioning as COVID-19 Vaccination Centres may recover a charge subject to a ceiling of Rs. 250 per person per dose, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. It released a list of 20 co-morbidities that allow those between 45-59 years to get vaccinated.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospitals-can-charge-up-to-rs-250-per-dose/article33952618.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Wait for ‘mini-Lalbagh’ makes residents restless||Whitefield residents have urged the government to expedite the ‘mini-Lalbagh’ project at Kannamangala to make up for the lack of green spaces in the tech hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wait-for-mini-lalbagh-makes-residents-restless/article33953214.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘One district, one product’ initiative to get thrust||In the 2021-22 Budget, the State government plans to give a push to the ‘one district, one product’ policy for exploiting the potential of unorganised micro-food processing by offering credit, avenues for marketing, and technical know-how.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-district-one-product-initiative-to-get-thrust/article33953215.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,||CB-CID to probe charges against Rajesh Das||The Crime Branch-CID of the Tamil Nadu police will investigate the allegations of harassment levelled by a woman IPS officer against the former Special Director-General of Police, Rajesh Das, sources said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cb-cid-to-probe-charges-against-rajesh-das/article33953232.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,||‘AIADMK will return to power with full majority’||The AIADMK will return to power with a full majority after the Assembly elections and the party’s allies will win all their seats, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in the Assembly on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-will-return-to-power-with-full-majority/article33952674.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,||Vaccination to open to public from March 1||The Health Department has made elaborate arrangements to administer COVID-19 vaccines to the general public from March 1. The vaccine will be available for all persons aged over 60 years and to those aged between 45 and 59 with health conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-to-open-to-public-from-march-1/article33952675.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘One district, one product’ policy likely to get thrust||In the 2021-22 Budget, the State government plans to give a big push to the ‘one district, one product’ policy for exploiting the potential of unorganised micro-food processing by offering credit, avenues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-district-one-product-policy-likely-to-get-thrust/article33953395.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Water discharge threaten marine life: Fisherfolk||Residents and fishermen in and around Yermal near Padubidri in Udupi district have said the Udupi Power Corporation Ltd., (UPCL) of Adani Group has been letting out hot water used in the plant directly into the beach, thereby affecting marine life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-discharge-threaten-marine-life-fisherfolk/article33953396.ece
28 February 2021||Kolkata,||Single-phase poll in Bengal if BJP voted to power: Dilip Ghosh||Slamming West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjeefor raising questions over eight-phase assembly elections, State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said it was required because of the “political violence unleashed by the ruling TMC”, and asserted that his party will ensure a single-phase poll if voted to power. He also vowed to make the State free from violence and terror if the BJP comes to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/single-phase-poll-in-bengal-if-bjp-voted-to-power-dilip-ghosh/article33952816.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five municipal wards in Delhi go to polls today||The stage is set for bypolls in five municipal wards in Delhi on Sunday with all three contenders — the Aam Aadmi Party, BJP and the Congress — exuding confidence of emerging victorious. The bypolls are being seen as the semifinal ahead of the civic body elections for 272 wards of three municipal corporations in early 2022. Voting will be held from 7.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-municipal-wards-in-delhi-go-to-polls-today/article33952924.ece
28 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||BPF joins Congress-led grand alliance in Assam||The Bodoland People’s Front has severed its ties with the ruling BJP in Assam and joined the Congress-led grand alliance. The announcement came less than a month before the three-phase Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bpf-joins-congress-led-grand-alliance-in-assam/article33953295.ece
28 February 2021||Mumbai,||Hrithik gives statement in fake emails case||Actor Hrithik Roshan on Saturday recorded his statement with the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch in connection with his 2016 complaint about fake emails being sent in his name to actor Kangana Ranaut. Mr. Roshan reached the office of the Mumbai Police Commissioner in south Mumbai around 11.45 a.m. He left after more than two-and-a-half hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hrithik-gives-statement-in-fake-emails-case/article33953422.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa unveils dispute resolution policy||The State government, being party to lakhs of litigations in the High Court and subordinate courts in the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa unveiled the Karnataka State Dispute Resolution Policy – 2021, for speedy disposal of cases, including adopting alternative dispute resolution (ADR). This policy is applicable to all disputes involving the departments of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yediyurappa-unveils-dispute-resolution-policy/article33952756.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘imperfect’ fight against proliferation||The move by the Joe Biden administration of the U.S. to revive the Iran nuclear deal has once again turned the spotlight on the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which played a key role in enforcing the original nuclear deal from which Donald Trump withdrew the U.S. in 2018. The 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or the Iran nuclear deal, proved that the IAEA can emerge beyond its mandate of being a monitoring and inspection agency and, in fact, play a key role in finding solutions to tense international crises. Last week, the IAEA and Iranian diplomats struck a “temporary” deal to continue inspection of Iran’s nuclear plants for three more months, which keeps at least the diplomatic path to revive the deal open. As the preeminent nuclear watchdog under the UN, the IAEA is entrusted with the task of upholding the principles of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty of 1970. Established as an autonomous organisation on July 29, 1957, at the height of the Cold War between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, the IAEA claims that it “works with its member states and multiple partners worldwide to promote the safe, secure and peaceful use of nuclear technologies”. Though established independently of the UN through its own international treaty, the agency reports to both the UN General Assembly and the Security Council. However, there have always been questions about the Agency’s ability to work independently, without being drawn into big power rivalries. What the IAEA missed in terms of real authority over sovereign states, it compensated for that by cultivating some tall leadership whose actions kept the issue of non-proliferation on the multilateral table. Both Mohamed El Baradei (1997-2009) and Yukiya Amano (2009-19) were vocal at difficult moments. Under pressure from the George W. Bush administration to back the American claim that the Saddam Hussein regime of Iraq was pursuing nuclear weapons, Mr. El Baradei maintained that he would not rush into a judgment on this matter without incontrovertible evidence that could prove that Hussein had committed a gross violation of non-proliferation. History proved that his cautious approach was right as the invasion of Iraq failed to yield the necessary proof of Hussein’s pursuit of nuclear weapons. While the agency played a key role in providing the platform for holding frank discussion about civil nuclear requirement for several countries, it proved to be ineffective to prevent power politics from influencing nuclear negotiations. This was particularly visible when Pakistan pursued a nuclear weapons programme in the 1980s and despite overwhelming evidence in possession of the American authorities, they did not pursue the case effectively through the IAEA because of the cooperation between the U.S. and Pakistan on the Afghan front. Defenders of the Agency would say the lack of executive authority has not been a real issue as the IAEA was originally set up as a monitoring organ. Richard Barlow, who was in charge of the CIA’s non-proliferation programme that tracked Pakistan’s nuclear programme, says that having the IAEA is an “imperfect system but it’s better than nothing”. Civil nuclear solution Apart from dealing with the sovereign states and their pursuit of civil and military nuclear programmes, the IAEA is also active in championing civil nuclear solution to a number of areas like health, which is one of the main areas of peaceful application of nuclear know how. That apart, in recent years, the IAEA is also active in dealing with climate change, pandemic containment and in prevention of Zoonotic diseases. The IAEA’s lack of enforcement capability was hinted by El Baradei who had observed that IAEA had “uneven authority” as it does not have any power to override the sovereign rights of any member nation of the UN. The uneven authority produced results when in the case of Iran when the Agency’s efforts were backed by big powers. The same, however cannot be said about North Korea. The IAEA was the first to announce that the North Korean nuclear programme was not peaceful. North Korea finally expelled IAEA observers and as a result, there are no on-the-ground international inspectors in North Korea. The world is reliant on ground sensors and satellite imageries to observe North Korea’s nuclear actions. In comparison, Yukiya Amano was able to conduct some tough negotiation with Iran and managed to convince Iran to allow inspection of some of the top nuclear sites of the country by scientists and observers. His negotiation coincided with the back channel negotiation between the Barack Obama administration and Iran, which ultimately led to the JCPOA. As a partner to some of the complex and high stakes diplomacy, the IAEA has an air of secrecy around its functions and is accused of not being transparent about its actions . The IAEA-certified the nuclear power plant at Rawatbhata in Rajasthan in 2012, which drew criticism as the power plant had two incidents of leakage of nuclear material earlier that year. The second incident affected at least four workers who worked in the nuclear power plant and had caused concern among the scientific community. One major criticism of the IAEA is that it never challenges the nuclear dominance of the five permanent members of the UNSC, who themselves hold some of the biggest nuclear arsenals of the world. That apart, there were controversies in the case of inspection of Iranian nuclear installations when Iran’s then Intelligence Minister Heydar Moslehi had accused the IAEA of sending intelligence operatives who engaged in espionage against the interest of the Islamic Republic. The 2010 allegation also hinted that IAEA inspectors and observers had shared information with the U.S. government. Iran challenge The coming weeks will, however, test the 63-year old organisation as Iran remains suspicious of the exact intentions of the U.S. under the Biden administration. The current episode, which involves regional political concerns like Saudi-Iran and Iran-Israel rivalries as well as the American interests in the region, will certainly test the leadership of Rafael Mariano Grossi, the current Director General of the IAEA. It will also test the ability of the IAEA to deal with powerful states from its position of “uneven authority”. After this week’s visit to Tehran, Mr. Grossi had posted on Twitter, “A temporary technical understanding has been reached” with Iran. However, the main negotiation on this front is dependent on Tehran’s demand of lifting of American sanctions. Iran has said its compliance will depend on lifting of sanctions. The issues involved between Iran and the U.S. indicate that they are not part of the mandate of the IAEA. Iran also requires assurance that once activated, the deal will not be abandoned in future by an American President in the way that President Trump had done in 2018. Tying all the loose ends of this difficult negotiation will be the biggest challenge for all parties.  In Focus  IAEA was set up as an autonomous organisation on July 29, 1957, at the height of the Cold War  Describing its mission, IAEA claims that it “works with its member states and multiple partners worldwide to promote the safe, secure and peaceful use of nuclear technologies”  Though established independently of the UN through its own international treaty, the Agency reports to both the UN General Assembly and the Security Council   As a nuclear watchdog under the UN family, the IAEA is entrusted with the task of upholding the principles of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty of 1970||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-imperfect-fight-against-proliferation/article33952585.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Polling cut by 1 hour in parts of Kerala||The Election Commission has identified 298 Left-wing extremism-affected locations in five northern Kerala districts ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls. The polling booths in these locations will have one hour less for polling, said Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena here on Saturday. In addition to the 298 extremism-affected locations, election officials have identified 549 critical locations, and 433 vulnerable locations in the State. The extremism-hit locations are in Wayanad, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur districts. Polling timing While the polling time has been fixed as 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the State, in the extremism-affected locations it will be from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., Mr. Meena said. Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) units, and not the Kerala Police, will have the primary role in providing security cover in the 1,280 locations. Each ‘location’ may contain multiple polling booths. Kerala has asked for 150 companies of Central forces for the polls. Of these, 30 companies were deployed in different districts this week. The deployment of the Central forces is finalised by a panel headed by Mr. Meena and consisting of the State police nodal officer, Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham, and CAPF coordinator Sandeep Kumar. As part of tackling vote fraud and bogus voting, 50% booths in the State will have live webcast. Only 10% of the booths had the facility on the last occasion, Mr. Meena said. The commission will provide protection during and after the elections to election officers for carrying out their duty impartially. “They should not sit silently. Stern action would be taken against officials who aid and abet bogus voting. Suspension will be followed by prosecution,” he said. With the number of polling booths increasing to 40,771, the State would require around 3.5 lakh polling officials. COVID-19 vaccination for the officials was kickeEoff recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-forces-to-be-sent-for-kerala-poll/article33952547.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||Roll back ‘Modi tax’ on fuel quickly: Congress||Terming the additional excise burden on fuel as “Modi Tax”, the Congress on Saturday renewed its campaign against the government, demanding an immediate rollback that would bring down the price of petrol to nearly Rs. 67 per litre and of diesel to Rs. 53 per litre, as per the party’s estimate. At a press conference, party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi lambasted the Modi government for confusing customers by attempting to shift the blame on the State governments. “We demand the immediate withdrawal of “Modi Tax” of Rs. 23.87 and Rs. 28.37 per litre on petrol and diesel, which was increased by the Modi government since May 2014. I will like to emphasise that this has got nothing to do with VAT or State taxes, which the BJP tries to confuse the people. I repeat, this is not a favour, the people deserve relief in these hard pandemic times,” Mr. Singhvi said. Mr. Singhvi said the Modi government has been the most “Mehengi Sarkaar” (expensive government).  Crude oil prices Referring to international prices, Mr. Singhvi said in May 2014, the international crude oil price was $108 per barrel and petrol was selling at Rs. 71.51 per litre in Delhi while diesel was selling at Rs. 57.28 per litre in Delhi. However, the international crude oil prices as on today, February 25, 2021 is $65.70 per barrel, but the price of petrol has increased to Rs. 91.17 per litre in Delhi whereas diesel is selling at Rs. 81.47 per litre in Delhi. The price of a domestic gas cylinder has increased by Rs. 200 in the last three months. “Over the last six years, the additional excise burden — “Modi Tax” on the common consumer has been increased by whopping Rs. 23.78 per litre on petrol and by Rs. 28.37 per litre on diesel which is 820% on diesel and 258% on petrol. This government earned over Rs. 21.5 lakh crore by imposing additional excise duties on petrol and diesel, but it has done away all the subsidies or under recoveries on petrol, diesel and LPG,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/roll-back-modi-tax-on-fuel-quickly-congress/article33952563.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cost of vaccine dose capped at Rs. 250 in private hospitals||Private hospitals functioning as COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs) may recover a charge subject to a ceiling of Rs. 250 per person per dose, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. The Ministry released a list of 20 co-morbidities that enhance the risk of mortality from COVID-19, and now allow beneficiaries in the 45-59 years age bracket to avail of the vaccine. India is all set to start the second phase of COVID-19 vaccination on March 1, which will cover those above 60 years and people who are 45+ years with specified co-morbid conditions. Government CVCs will offer free vaccination for all and the Central government will bear the full cost of vaccination conducted by them. “To ramp up the COVID vaccination capacity around 10,000 private hospitals can be used under Ayushman Bharat PMJAY and more than 600 hospitals under Central Government Health Scheme. Other private hospitals empanelled under State Govts. Health Insurance Schemes can also participate as COVID Vaccination Centers (CVCs),’’ said the Health Ministry on Saturday. It added that the Health Departments of State Governments had already initiated a dialogue with these private hospitals so that they can be encouraged to participate in the drive as CVCs. A list of all these private hospitals has been uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the National Health Authority. All the private health facilities that will serve as government CVCs are required to follow strict norms of due process, quality and safety, including integration with the national Co-Win platform. The Ministry has specified that all private health facilities must have adequate space, adequate cold chain arrangements, adequate number of vaccinators and support staff, and adequate arrangements for addressing Adverse Event Following Immunisation. “User names and passwords will be provided to the private facilities to facilitate effective use of CoWIN 2.0. The government will also do mapping of private facilities with the nearest cold chain points to ensure seamless flow of vaccines,” the Ministry release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cost-of-vaccine-dose-capped-at-rs-250-in-private-hospitals/article33952571.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Always at the forefront||For Nodeep Kaur, a poor Dalit woman from a Punjab village, activism has never been a choice, but a necessity. In fact, a way of life. “We have faced it (the discrimination) since childhood. And the choice always was either to keep mum or speak out,” said Ms. Nodeep’s elder sister Rajveer Kaur, a PhD student in Delhi University’s Punjabi Department, in a recent conversation with The Hindu . And coming from a family of fiercely politically active women, Nodeep, who was granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday, had been at the forefront of workers and farmers’ agitations for months till she was arrested by the Haryana police last month. Her mother has been a Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union activist for more than a decade and Ms. Rajveer heads the Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch in Delhi University. The third sister, Harveer Kaur, is part of a student union in Punjab. Ms. Nodeep, 24, was arrested on January 12 from Sonipat’s Kundli Industrial Area — near the site of a farmers’ sit-in agitation at the Delhi border against the Centre’s farm laws. She was slapped with charges of attempt to murder, rioting, criminal intimidation and extortion under the Indian Penal Code, among others, in two separate cases registered in connection with a single incident. She earlier faced similar charges in an FIR registered on December 28, 2020. Ms. Rajveer, helped by a few of her friends and activists, fought for her sister’s release. She highlighted the alleged high-handedness of the police and, in a press conference, alleged sexual violence and torture against Ms. Nodeep in the police custody. The matter caught the media’s attention in a big way after the U.S.-based lawyer Meena Harris, a relative of U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris, put out a tweet seeking her release. “#ReleaseNodeepKaur,” read Ms. Harris’s tweet on February 6. Call for release And soon, everybody seemed interested in the story of this young activist. She was all over the social and mainstream media, with hashtags seeking her release trending on Twitter. The issue gained the centre stage with the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi and the media drawing parallels between the two young women activists. Support also poured in from the farmers’ unions. “When I met Nodeep a day after her arrest, she was bleeding from her legs. She told me that the male police personnel tortured her in custody causing injuries on her private parts and the back. She was not molested or raped, as reported in a section of media, but can’t a woman complain of sexual violence till the time she is subjected to its highest form?,” Ms. Rajveer told The Hindu . The Haryana Police have denied the allegations as “arbitrary” and “baseless”. Before the High Court order in the third case paved the way for her release, Ms. Nodeep was granted bail by the Judicial Magistrate First Class in the two other cases. Born in Sir Muktsar Sahib’s Gandhar village, Ms. Nodeep had come to Delhi to pursue graduation last year, but the circumstances — her father had to shut down his workshop in Telangana due to the COVID-induced lockdown — forced her to give up her dreams. She took up a job at a company manufacturing automotive lighting in Sonipat six months back, but was gradually drawn to the workers’ struggle. She later joined Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan (MAS), a local workers rights’ group in the Kundli Industrial Area. The group would take up the issue of non-payment of dues to the workers. It led to complaints by the local industrialists to the police, alleging extortion by the group. After the farmers agitation reached the Delhi borders in November, Ms. Nodeep, along with other MAS activists, gave the slogan for the unity of farmers and the workers. They would distribute pamphlets in the industrial area to tell workers as to how the farm laws would impact them. She also lost her job because of her participation in the farmers’ stir. She may now be out of jail, but the fight continues for her. Stepping out of the Karnal Jail, Ms. Nodeep said she would soon join the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s Singhu border. Meena Harris was among those who welcomed the release of Ms. Nodeep and Disha Ravi: “Please stay loud — this fight is far from over,” Ms. Harris tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/always-at-the-forefront/article33952587.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The fugitive merchant||Riding high on the fame that his exquisite collection of precious gem jewellery had generated in the glamour world within such a short span, a third-generation diamantaire made it to the elite Indian billionaires’ club in 2013. However, Nirav Modi’s success story lasted for just about a decade. Wanted by Indian agencies for bank fraud and money laundering, he now awaits his fate currently confined in London’s Wandsworth prison. With the Westminster Magistrates’ Court allowing the extradition request against him on Thursday, Mr. Modi’s first attempt to escape trial in India has failed. His wife Ami (U.S. citizen); father Deepak Modi; younger brothers, Nehal and Neeshal; sister Purvi and her husband Maiank; and uncle Mehul Choksi are also facing probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate. While Mr. Modi is an Indian citizen, his parents and younger siblings are Belgian nationals. His grandfather was a diamond trader from Gujarat’s Surat, from where he shifted to Singapore. His father then migrated to Belgium in the 1960s. At the age of 19, the aspiring diamond merchant dropped out of the Wharton School to learn the tricks of the diamond trade from his uncle, Mr. Choksi, who has fled to Antigua and is now facing extradition proceedings there. Back in 2017, when the agencies did not have the slightest inkling of the alleged crimes being committed by him, the businessman made it to the list of Indian billionaires for the fifth consecutive year. He often talked about business expansion in other parts of the world, in Hong Kong, Dubai, New York, Macau, Singapore, Beijing and London. The top celebrities engaged by him to endorse his collections played a key role in establishing his brand. Nothing seemed unusual when Mr. Modi and other members of the family flew abroad in the first week of January 2018. However, all hell broke loose as reports of a scam emerged. As it turned out, the CBI received a complaint from Punjab National Bank (PNB) on January 29, 2018, days after the family had left the country, alleging that Mr. Modi’s companies were involved in the fraudulent use of eight Letters of Undertaking (LoUs), which is a form of bank guarantee to facilitate overseas transactions by getting credit from foreign banks. The perpetrators, in conspiracy with certain officials of the PNB’s Brady House branch in Mumbai, had exploited the flaws in the system of keeping LoU records. About a month later, the bank again wrote to the CBI, this time informing that there were 150 fraudulent LoUs worth Rs. 6,498.20 crore, issued to companies that were part of Mr. Modi’s Firestar Group. Money laundering probe Based on the CBI case, the ED launched a money laundering probe into the financial scam. The agencies found that Mr. Choksi was also part of the racket. Further enquiries revealed that he had already taken Antiguan citizenship. The diverted funds were used to acquire prime properties in different countries, for which Trusts were also set up. Dummy directors and partners, who were mostly the employees of Mr. Modi, were roped in. The ED discovered that the businessman had floated a number of overseas companies in Hong Kong and Dubai, which received the proceeds of the fraud, noted the U.K. court’s order. These companies were used for the circular trade of diamonds, pearls, gold and jewellery at highly inflated values to give the impression that the firms in receipt of the LoUs issued via the PNB were engaged in legitimate trade. The agencies alleged that in a bid to escape the law, Mr. Modi also got the dummy directors of Dubai-based firms shifted to Cairo, where they were kept in confinement. Their mobile phones were disposed of and a server in Dubai, in which all the data related to his companies was stored, was also destroyed. On the strength of two sets of criminal proceedings pursued by the CBI and the ED, India requested for Mr. Modi’s extradition from the U.K. in July-August 2018. Another request was made in February last year on the allegation that he had destroyed evidence and threatened witnesses. Mr. Modi was arrested in London on March 19, 2019, and since then, he has been in judicial custody there. His wife and three children are said to be in the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-fugitive-merchant/article33952589.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Another virus cluster in Bengaluru||Close on the heels of nine students from the Sambhram Academy of Management Studies testing positive for COVID-19, another cluster has been detected at a paying guest accommodation managed by the educational institution in Yelahanka zone. This takes the number of such clusters in Bengaluru to seven. On Saturday, eight of the 51 students residing in Inspire Livesuit PG were found to have contracted the virus. According to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, all of them have been admitted to K.C. General Hospital, while the PG has been declared as a containment zone. There now are four clusters in the Yelahanka zone alone with 33 positive cases. Mr. Prasad said one more student of the Academy had tested positive on Friday. Ten students, who have mild symptoms, had self-quarantined, while one student had gone to his parents’ house in Kolar. Mr. Prasad said more cases were being detected as a result of increased testing, especially in educational institutions with high numbers of students from States particularly Kerala and Maharashtra. ‘Spread contained’ “The cases in the clusters have been isolated and quarantined. The infection spread has been contained and there are no more cases reported,” he said. He has directed officials to ensure that all food handlers undergo the RT-PCR tests once every 15 days. This, he said, was in line with the State government’s directions. The State on Saturday reported 523 cases taking the total to 9,50,730. Of these 329 are from Bengaluru. Five of the six deaths reported in Karnataka are also from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-virus-cluster-in-bengaluru/article33952555.ece
28 February 2021||Islamabad,||Onus on India for progress in relations, says Pak. PM||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Saturday welcomed the ceasefire agreement with India, but said the onus of creating an “enabling environment” for further progress in bilateral relations rests with New Delhi. In his first comments since the militaries of India and Pakistan jointly announced on Thursday that they had agreed to strictly observe all agreements on the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) and other sectors, Mr. Khan said Pakistan was ready to move forward to resolve “all outstanding issues” with India through dialogue. “I welcome restoration of the ceasefire along the LoC. The onus of creating an enabling environment for further progress rests with India. India must take necessary steps to meet the long-standing demand & right of the Kashmiri people to self determination according to UNSC resolutions,” Mr. Khan tweeted. “We have always stood for peace & remain ready to move forward to resolve all outstanding issues through dialogue,” he added in a series of tweets. ‘Stop terror attacks’ India has told Pakistan that “talks and terror” cannot go together and asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India. On Thursday, India said it desired normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan and was committed to resolving all issues bilaterally in a peaceful manner. “On relations with Pakistan, as we have said earlier, India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan. We have always maintained that we are committed to addressing issues, if any, in a peaceful and bilateral manner,” Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in New Delhi.  India and Pakistan signed a ceasefire agreement in 2003, but it has hardly been followed in letter and spirit over the past several years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/onus-on-india-for-progress-in-relations-says-pak-pm/article33952559.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-Pak. ceasefire had high-level nod: experts||The decision of the Directors-General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan was unlikely to have been purely local, say experts, pointing to the language of the joint statement while declaring an observance of the 2003 ceasefire from the midnight of February 24/25, which had a high-level “imprimatur” on it, though there is little clarity on the nature of the back-channel operating between the two countries two days after the announcement. “I would imagine a decision like this in both countries would have involved considerable amount of inter-agency discussion and consensus. So, whether [Indian officials] were speaking both to the Pakistani military chief or to the Prime Minister’s [office], the two certainly would have been in touch on this,” said T.C.A. Raghavan, former High Commissioner to Pakistan and the Director-General of the MEA-run think tank Indian Council of World Affairs. He added that the rising violence at the Line of Control was the most obvious reason for the “tactical” decision to stop firing. The DGMOs had announced a similar decision to observe the ceasefire line in December 2013 and May 2018 after similar hotline conversations. Ceasefire violations (CFVs) have been increasing year-on-year for the past decade, with a sudden spike after 2018, according to data from the Army, which is matched by the Pakistani side. From just four CFVs in 2004, the number reported in 2014 was 583, which grew nearly tenfold by 2020 to 5,133. “I don’t think this kind of a joint statement, specifying a date for the ceasefire could be a result purely of the DGMO conversations, this had to have some high-level imprimatur,” said Happymon Jacob, JNU Professor and author of books on the Line of Control. He added that given the “vitiated bilateral situation” it was unlikely that one side could propose a ceasefire without some “back-channel conversations and parleys”. While Pakistan Prime Minister’s Special Assistant on National Security Affairs denied a specific report that he was conducting the talks with the National Security Adviser that are believed to have led to the LoC announcement, neither New Delhi nor Islamabad has denied a series of reports that suggested that there have been secret talks for the past few months. On Thursday, the MEA spokesperson declined to answer a specific question from The Hindu on the reports as well. Speculation over the timing of the announcement has also grown, as it came amid the India-China disengagement talks, and just hours before a conversation between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, where they agreed to establish a hotline between them. However, Mr. Jacob said he doubted that the DGMO talks were the result of a “package deal” to stabilise relations with China on the eastern front and with Pakistan on the northern and western front. “The government of India perhaps decided to make sure that at least one front is defused, that is, Pakistan. And then negotiations with China happened,” he said, as a more likely scenario. Mr. Raghavan dismissed criticism of the DGMO agreement as a “climbdown” from the government’s earlier policy of not talking to Pakistan until terrorism ends, while the Imran Khan government had said there would be no talks until India restores Jammu and Kashmir’s autonomous status. Asked what was likely to be the next step, if in fact the DGMO agreement indicates a deeper dialogue, Mr. Raghavan felt that the first step could be the restoration of High Commissioners to the missions in Delhi and Islamabad, who were pulled in the aftermath of the government’s decision to amend Article 370 in J&K in August 2019. He also felt that cooperation on COVID-19 and healthcare was another area the two sides could make immediate progress.  (The entire conversation can be accessed at The Hindu In Focus Podcast   https://www.thehindu. com/podcast/what-does-the-ceasefire-agreement-mean-for-the-future-of-india-pakistan-relations-the-hindu-in-focus-podcast/article33943563.ece)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-pak-ceasefire-had-high-level-nod-experts/article33952565.ece
28 February 2021||Kolkata,||EC shunts out top police official in West Bengal||In the first administrative shuffle after the model code of conduct for the Assembly polls came into force in West Bengal, the Election Commission transferred Jawed Shamim, Additional Director General ( Law and Order) of West Bengal Police. Jag Mohan, who was serving as Director General of West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services, will be the new ADG ( Law and Order) and Mr. Shamim will take over as DG, Fire and Emergency Services. Mr. Shamim was appointed ADG (Law and Order) only a few weeks ago by the State government. About 10 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) have arrived in the State from Patna. The forces have been deployed in Basirhat, Bongaon and Barasat areas of North 24 Parganas and parts of Kolkata. Eight additional companies of CAPF are likely to arrive from Assam for north Bengal. More than 20 companies of CAPF have already been deployed . A day after the Assembly election schedule for West Bengal was announced, campaigning in the State gathered momentum. Trinamool Congress leaders organised a road show at Ghatal at Paschim Mednipur. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari also held a number of public meetings in neighbouring Purba Medinipur, including participating in a kirtan programme at an Iskcon Temple in Mecheda. Mr Adhikari urged the people to defeat the Trinamool Congress. Meanwhile, several leaders of Left parties, including Left Front chairperson Biman Bose and Communist Party of India ( Marxist) leader Sujan Chakraborty went to Brigade Parade Grounds to oversee the preparations for the mega rally on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poll-bound-west-bengal-sees-administrative-shuffle/article33952574.ece
28 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Footfall in the flurry: tracking the elusive snow leopard in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh’s high-altitude hilly terrains could be harbouring as many as 73 snow leopards ( Panthera uncia ), says a recent study based on a scientific enumeration of the elusive animal. Snow leopards are one of the most endangered wildlife species. The study observed that local communities are the strongest allies in conservation. The first-ever such study on snow leopards, a top predator of the Indian Himalaya, was completed in January by the Himachal Pradesh Wildlife Department and the Mysore-based Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF). “We are the pioneers in getting snow leopards count done in a scientific manner in the country. Till now, it was only a guess work surrounding the population of snow leopards. But now we have numbers which are reliable. We detected 44 individual snow leopards at 187 occasions in this study. From this dataset of 44 individuals, we estimated that the snow leopard population size is likely to be 51 individuals and this population can be reliably estimated to be up to 73 individuals, excluding cubs. This is an encouraging count,” Archana Sharma, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (wildlife), told The Hindu . In Himachal Pradesh, the snow leopard’s habitat covers a greater part of the districts of Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur. Its potential habitat also extends into the upper regions of the districts of Shimla, Kullu, Chamba and Kangra. The wildlife wing of the Himachal Pradesh Forest Department commenced the snow leopard enumeration project in 2018, with techniques aligned to the protocols prescribed by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change under the Snow Leopard Population Assessment in India (SPAI). “This project is the first systematic effort at a large regional scale that utilised a stratified sampling design to estimate the snow leopard population over an area of 26,112 sq. km. The entire snow leopard habitat of the State [of Himachal Pradesh] was first stratified into three categories — high, low or unknown snow leopard occurrence, based on questionnaire surveys of local communities residing in these areas. Camera trap surveys were then carried out in areas under each of the categories,” Ajay Bijoor, assistant programme director of NCF’s high altitude programme told The Hindu . The population of the primary wild ungulate prey of snow leopards — blue sheep and ibex — for the entire snow leopard habitat was assessed by using the double observer survey technique. “We found that the snow leopard density was positively correlated with the wild prey density, indicating that higher wild prey densities corresponded to higher snow leopard densities. Spiti and Tabo recorded the highest densities of both snow leopards and their prey, while Chandra and Bharmour recorded the lowest densities of both snow leopards and their prey,” he said. Local support The entire camera trapping exercise was led by a team of eight local youth of Kibber village in Spiti, who have been working on such surveys across the upper Spiti landscape since 2010. 45-year-old Tanzin Thinley, who hails from Kibber village and has been associated with the NCF, firmly believes that conservation of the snow leopard would be easy with the participation of local communities. “Snow leopards at times attack the livestock of villagers. Over the past few years, NCF has tried to convince villagers to get their livestock insured. This has helped in a way that in case anyone has lost livestock to snow leopards, the sense of anguish against the animal is not there, eventually helping in its conservation,” Mr. Thinley said. The results reiterate, the study said, that local communities are the strongest allies in conservation, if their concerns can be factored into conservation planning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/footfalls-in-the-flurry-tracking-the-elusive-snow-leopard-in-himachal/article33952577.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Provision to block content under IT rules not new’||The Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Saturday clarified that no “new provision” had been added to the existing law, after the uproar over a provision of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, under which the Secretary of the Ministry can block public access to any information in case of emergency. “Certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of the rules, which mention that in a case of emergency nature, interim blocking directions may be issued by the Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It is to inform that this provision is exactly the same as being exercised by the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), since the past 11 years under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009,” the I&B Ministry said in a statement here. The Secretary, MeitY, has been replaced by the Secretary, I&B Ministry, as the rules have been amended to suitably to bring over-the-top (OTT) platforms and the digital media within the ambit of the I&B Ministry. The government has drawn severe criticism for bringing in rules to govern the digital media without any consultations with the news portals. Flak from forum Digipub News India Foundation, the largest collection of digital news publishers in India, has called the new rules unfair, the process of their formulation undemocratic and the method of their implementation an infringement upon the freedom of expression. In a letter, jointly addressed to IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar, Digipub said, “These Rules in some places appear to go against the fundamental principle of news and its role in a democracy. While rules and laws already exist to hold news media accountable, the aforesaid rules enable the executive government to even remove content published as current affairs or news (Rule 14) among other things.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/provision-to-block-content-under-it-rules-not-new/article33952575.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Proxy fight in BJP to the fore||The perceived proxy fight in the BJP between two prominent leaders in the State appeared to come to the fore again on Saturday. BJP State president K. Surendran seemed at extreme odds with general secretary Sobha Surendran’s take on the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). In an interview with a prominent Malayalam daily, Ms. Surendran had welcomed the IUML to the NDA fold. However, the rider to her invite was that the party should embrace nationalism and ‘integral humanism’ as propounded by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya. (The stream of political thought promotes subservience to the nation above all, welfarism, self-rule and self-reliance.) However, Mr. Surendran seemed to disagree. He portrayed the IUML as a communal party that paved the way for the creation of Pakistan before Independence. He purportedly compared the IUML to a leopard that cannot change its spots at a public meeting in Thrissur. At the same time, BJP veteran and former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan appeared to back Ms. Surendran. He said the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance welcomed any party which accepted its political programme. The intra-party dispute over the IUML question appeared to reflect an ideological rift in the State unit. At least some leaders believed that the NDA had to find allies in the sizeable Muslim community if it aspired to present itself as a plausible alternative to the Left Democratic Front and United Democratic Front. Currently, the BJP had attempted to build bridges with the Christian community. It required to do the same with the Muslim population. However, the BJP had stridently campaigned for a law against ‘love jihad’ and equated the IUML with Islamist parties. They pointed out that the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 1999 had incorporated Farooq Abdullah’s Jammu and Kashmir National Conference as a key ally. Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP had found partners in former separatist parties in the North East. Ms. Surendran had broken out of her political hibernation recently. She had led a ‘solitary’ struggle for striking Public Service Commission rank holders and arranged for their leaders to meet Governor Arif Mohammed Khan. In the process, Ms. Surendran had come under criticism from within the party for ‘self-promotion’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/proxy-fight-in-bjp-to-the-fore/article33952849.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Surge in COVID-19 restricts Attukal Pongala to homes||The milling multitudes and the burning brick hearths that annually line city streets on Attukal Pongala day were missing on Saturday. For all intents and purposes, the day was like any other in the State capital as women devotees made the annual Pongala offering to Attukal Bhagavathy, the presiding deity of one of the capital city’s landmark temples, from the safety of their homes, given the worrisome COVID-19 scenario. Every year, tens of thousands of women converge on the city to make the offering; a sweet pudding of rice, jaggery, grated coconut, ghee, and banana prepared in earthen pots. This time, in view of the pandemic, the temple trust had requested them to confine the festivities to their homes. The pongala offering at the temple itself was limited to the Pandara Aduppu —the main hearth—that was lit at 10.50 a.m. Temple tantri Thekkedath Kuzhikkattillathu Parameswaran Vasudevan Bhattathiripad handed over the flame from the sanctum sanctorum to melsanthi or chief priest P. Easwaran Namboothiri. After lighting the Pongala hearths at the thidapally and the Valiya thidapally of the temple, the Pandara Aduppu was lit. Never before in recent memory had the city appeared so deserted on the Pongala day, city residents said. Only family members set the hearths this time at residences that were accustomed to hosting small crowds every year. Regulars were dismayed they could not make the offering at their usual spots. “I offer the Pongala on the SMV School campus every year. This time, I was planning to do it at home, but a friend invited me over and we made the offering at her residence at Parottukonam,” said Priya Kolassery, a home chef. Actor Chippy, a familiar face at the annual event, offered the Pongala at her Kowdiar residence with her mother but expressed hope things would be back to normal next year. “I’ve been offering the Pongala for more than 20 years near the temple. This time, the special vibe was missing. The city looked so different for a Pongala day,” she said. Attukal Pongala was offered in homes outside the district also. Latha Thulasidharan Nair, a regular at the festival, set the hearth at her home at Ithithanam in Kottayam. “Although I am disappointed I could not go, I feel that I was also able to perform the ritual in a more serene atmosphere,” she said. The main hearth was sanctified at 3.40 p.m. This year, the temple had not deputed priests to sanctify the hearths in the city. Other rituals The Kuthiyottam ritual, normally attended by hundreds of boys, was limited to the Pandara Ottam by a single boy this year. The Purathezhunellippu was held at 8 p.m. This year’s festivities will conclude with the Kappazhippu ritual at 9.15 p.m. on Sunday and the Kuruthitharpanam by 1 a.m. on Monday. The community kitchens at city junctions also were absent. The city Corporation’s health wing and sanitation workers, who are usually on their toes during the Pongala, could breathe easy this time. Drinking water supply in tankers was limited to the temple this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surge-in-covid-19-restricts-attukal-pongala-to-homes/article33952549.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||RSS-affiliate BMS plans protest against disinvestment of PSUs||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), which is affiliated to the RSS, has announced a six-phase agitation from March to November against the proposed disinvestment programme of public sector undertakings (PSUs) by the Centre. The decision was taken at a two-day meeting of the PSUs Coordination Committee of the BMS in Hyderabad that ended on Friday. The meeting came 10 days after the deliberations of the BMS National Executive in Chennai on Budget 2021 “in the context of the onslaught of the government” against the central PSUs. In the meeting in Hyderabad, attended by BMS president H.J. Pandya, general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha and organising secretary B. Surendran, a consensus emerged that the BMS should strongly oppose the policies of the Centre on disinvestment, privatisation and monetisation. The Swadeshi Jagaran Manch has also criticised the disinvestment programme. The agitation programmes in the first phase will include industry-wise seminars from March 15 to April 14 followed by unit-level workshops in May and a mass awareness campaign in June. The fourth phase will see unit-level mass demonstrations on July 15 followed by State-level conventions in September. The sixth phase will be on November 23, when the BMS will hold demonstrations at the corporate offices of all the PSUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-affiliate-bms-plans-protest-against-disinvestment-of-psus/article33952561.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||India, Bangladesh agree to speed up border fencing||The Home Secretaries of India and Bangladesh met virtually on Saturday and both sides and discussed early completion of pending fencing along the Indo-Bangladesh border as agreed to by the Prime Ministers of the two countries, a statement by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said. The 19th Home Secretary level talks between India and Bangladesh was held in the backdrop of ‘Mujib Barsho’and 50 years since the Bangladesh Liberation War. The Indian delegation was led by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and Bangladesh was led by Senior Secretary, Public Security Division Mostafa Kamal Uddin. “India and Bangladesh attach highest importance to their bilateral relations. Both Secretaries reiterated their commitment to further expand and strengthen mutual cooperation in the security and border related issues. Both sides reaffirmed not to allow the territory of either country to be used for any activity inimical to each other’s interests,” an MHA statement said. Fight against terror It added that both sides appreciated the cooperation between the two countries and the action taken to address the menace of terrorism and extremism. On February 10, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai had informed Rajya Sabha that the total length of the Bangladesh border was 2,126 kilometre of which 319 km cannot be fenced due to topographical constraints. “The effective functioning of the Coordinated Border Management Plan (CBMP) to control the illegal cross border activities was appreciated by both sides. The holding of the inaugural Police Chiefs’ Dialogue in January, 2021, implementing the decision taken at the Home Minister Level Talks (HMLT) held in August, 2019, was noted with appreciation by both sides. Both sides agreed to further enhance the level of cooperation to prevent the smuggling of Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) and contraband,” the statement said.  Both sides agreed to enhance the level of cooperation to prevent smuggling of fake Indian currency notes and contraband Ministry of Home Affairs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-bangladesh-agree-to-speed-up-border-fencing/article33952578.ece
28 February 2021||BELAGAVI,||NHAI workers set road work record, win pat||Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister of Road Transport, has congratulated workers and officers of the National Highways Authority of India for building the nearly 26-kilometre stretch of the Vijayapura- Solapur national highway in 18 hours. The first 13 km was done in 10 hours and the rest 12.54 km was done in eight hours, officers said. The road passes through Dhulkhed, Horti, Tidagundi, and Nandani villages. According to a press release from Govind Karjol, Deputy Chief Minister and PWD Minister, this work has won a place in the Limca Book of Records. . “The workers completed one lane of the four-lane 110 km road that is being built under the Atmanirbhar Bharat road project,” the release said. But officials said that they were yet to apply for the work to be included in the Limca Book of Records. Mr. Gadkari had indicated that it would be included in the record book. Representatives of the Limca Book of Records were present during the work. Officers say around 500 labourers and other workers executed the work. They hope to complete the entire 110-km stretch by October. IGM company is the agency executing the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhai-workers-set-road-work-record-win-pat/article33952536.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Schools devise digital detox routine||The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has not only upended the way we socialise or interact with each other, but has also altered the learning patterns of lakhs of students with online classes becoming the norm. For the last nine months, students in private schools have been glued to their screens for hours on end where otherwise they would have been in a physical classroom interacting with their peers and teachers. The fallout is digital fatigue and eye strain. School managements are now devising ways to help students cope with digital fatigue from reorganising holiday schedules and limiting screen time to holding wellness sessions and asking parents to restrict their children’s personal screen time. School principals have acknowledged the problem, with many saying students as well as teachers have been complaining of headache, burning eyes and sleeplessness. “Earlier, there was a lot of enthusiasm about online classes,” said Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School. Nooraine Fazal, founder-director of Inventure Academy, said they will shorten the summer holidays to about a month and instead give students a week’s holiday after every six to eight weeks of online classes. The school is currently following a hybrid learning model where both online and offline classes are held simultaneously. However, offline classes are not mandatory given that the presence of new COVID-19 clusters in the city. “Our school counsellors conduct sessions called ‘Wellness Wednesdays’ where students learn about the downside of being online continuously and are taught how to detox digitally. We also regularly conduct eye exercises, get students to meditate and take part in physical activities,” she said. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said the school had introduced a ‘quiet time’ after every class. Students are asked to do simple breathing exercises and give their eyes a rest by staying away from the screen for a short while. “Our teachers also conduct games where they ask students to fetch items from their surroundings. We do not want them to lead a sedentary lifestyle and remain glued to their screens,” he said. Other schools are limiting the number of hours of online classes. “We have also sent a circular to parents asking them to monitor the screen time of their students. We have asked them to restrict the use of gadgets for their personal work. We also conducted workshops for teachers and students to combat digital fatigue,” said Manila Carvalho, Principal, Delhi Public School, Bengaluru East. Ms. Kanna said they have decided to give students three days off every month. “Even teachers have been told not to login online,” she said. Mullahalli Suri, president of the parents’ association here, said there have been an increasing number of complaints from students about vision problems and lack of concentration. “Initially there was a lot of enthusiasm for online classes, but now students are burnt out. I’m worried that it may lead to many children experiencing psychological problems.” Manoj Kumar Sharma, additional professor, Service for Healthy use of Technology (SHUT) clinic at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) said schools should encourage students to use apps to track their screen time. “Parents and teachers, rather than urging kids to restrict screen time should encourage students to take part in physical activity and spend time with family and friends. Parents should also set an example and restrict their own screen time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-online-classes-schools-devise-digital-detox-routine/article33952607.ece
28 February 2021||Udhampur,||Anti-terror operations will continue: Army||The Army’s Northern Commander Lt. Gen. Y.K. Joshi on Saturday said the agreement between India and Pakistan to strictly adhere to the ceasefire pact along the Line of Control would have no bearing on the counter-terrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir. He said the Northern Command, which looks after the security of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, remained on the highest alert and made possible what was believed impossible by the bravery, grit and determination of its personnel in the face of challenging situations along the border. “Recently, the Directors-General of Military Operations of India and Pakistan announced an agreement to uphold ceasefire along the LoC. I want to assure that this ceasefire will have no bearing on the counter-terrorist operations and we will maintain our alertness,” Lt. Gen. Joshi said at the Northern Command investiture ceremony here. ‘Like a shield’ “The Northern Command has always stood like a shield against the attempts by our neighbouring countries to spread disturbance and it will continue to remain so in the future. Whenever anyone raises an evil eye on our country, Indian Army has replied strongly,” Lt. Gen. Joshi said. Without naming China and Pakistan, he said the Indian Army had maintained its domination on its borders with the neighbouring countries and helped in maintaining peace in the hinterland. Referring to the Ladakh stand-off with the Chinese Army, he said the Indian Army stood up to the challenge on the snow-capped mountains of the Line of Actual Control during the challenging situation in 2020 and maintained the highest alert. “The success of the operation (in Ladakh) is the glaring example of the bravery of Indian Army,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-terror-operations-will-continue-army/article33952557.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||ED attaches Rs. 84 cr. assets in Rs. 650 cr. fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday provisionally attached over Rs. 84 crore assets belonging to N. Nanjundaiah, the director of the Kanva Group of Companies, and other accused, as part of its investigation into an alleged Rs. 650 crore fraud. In a statement, the ED said it had initiated investigation on the basis of a complaint received from the office of the Registrar Cooperative Societies and FIRs alleging that the accused had collected Rs. 650 crore deposits from the public after promising them a high rate of interest, but without maintaining the required liquidity. Violations   That company sanctioned advanced loans out of deposits, working capitals, shares reserves etc. without getting any security and not following existing rules and regulations. It has not maintained any proper accounts, said the ED. The properties, which are in the name of Nanjundaiah, his family members and also Harish S., founder-director and president of Sree Kanva Souharda Cooperative Credit Ltd., were attached under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The assets include agricultural and non-agricultural land, buildings, residential flat and factories in Nelamangala, Koratagere, Chickballapur, Srirangapatna, and Bengaluru in Karnataka and at Madakasira in Andhra Pradesh, said the ED in a release. Nanjundaiah was arrested on August 2020 and is presently in judicial custody. Earlier, the ED had provisionally attached assets worth Rs. 255.17 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-84-cr-assets-in-rs-650-cr-fraud-case/article33953217.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||17-year-old stabbed for speaking up for sister||A 17-year-old boy was stabbed by a few youths after he objected to them passing lewd remarks against his sister on Friday, the police said on Saturday. A case has been registered. A senior police officer said that they received a call around 1 p.m. regarding the stabbing of a boy near Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Kalkaji and that he was being taken to AIIMS. The police said that the eyewitness, his 18-year-old sister and a Class 12 student, told them that they were both walking back home after school. “She said that three boys followed her and passed lewd remarks. When the brother objected to it, they all started beating him and one of them stabbed him on the left side of the abdomen and fled the spot,” the officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 354D (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 509 (intend to insult modesty of a woman), and 34 (common intention) has been registered at Kalkaji police station. The police said that the complainant told them that the boys had been troubling her for the last two days. Panel seeks report Taking suo motu cognisance of the incident, the Delhi Commission for Women on Saturday issued notice to the Delhi Police seeking a detailed action report on the matter. The women’s panel also sought a copy of the complaint made by the woman pertaining to stalking and eve-teasing. The Delhi Police was asked to respond to the queries by March 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/17-year-old-stabbed-for-speaking-up-for-sister/article33952926.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Dreams fade for children of migrants||Instead of studying, she looks after her younger siblings while her mother works at the kiln. According to a survey conducted by Sankalp, a voluntary organisation, in five villages of the Belpada block of Balangir district, education became the lowest priority among children of brick workers . Out of 1,427 children enrolled in different schools in Kharkhara, Anlabhata, Sarmuhan, Bharuapali and Bhalukhai villages, 319 have already migrated with their parents.  No seasonal hostels “We find that parents who migrated for work had no alternative arrangement but to leave behind their children. Schoolgoing children used to stay in seasonal hostels. This year, no seasonal hostel is functioning,” said Sadanana Meher, head of Sankalp. Last year, about 8,000 children had stayed back in seasonal hostels in four western Odisha districts and continued their studies. Odisha Labour Minister Sushant Singh told the State Assembly that 10.07 lakh labourers had returned from other States to Odisha since October 2020. The government provided work to 7.73 lakh under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. In the southern and western Odisha districts, entire families undertake migration in search of a livelihood for six months, and then return to work in agricultural fields near their homes. Thousands of schoolchildren accompany their parents. “The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the loss of two [academic] years for scores of children of migrating labourers from Odisha. Schoolgoing children had migrated with their parents in October-November of 2019,” said Umi Daniel, an expert on migration. “They would have resumed their studies after returning in June 2020. But schools remained closed due to the pandemic. This year, child migration has again taken place,” Mr. Daniel added. “The government has to come up with a special drive to prevent mass drop-outs in schools as children are more susceptible than before due to longer absences from classrooms,” he said. In Odisha’s tribal-dominated areas, children in higher secondary classes who lacked access to online classes, were lured with mobile phones and new clothes to work as labourers. Several students from the Bonda tribe, who were staying in residential schools run by the State government in Malkangiri district, were found to have escaped to Visakhapatnam soon after lockdown restrictions were lifted in 2020. Surendra Khara, a meritorious Kondh tribal student, the first from his village to study in the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Malkangiri, was about to migrate as a daily wager to earn enough to buy a smartphone for his online classes last year. He was, however, rescued from such a fate as a local tahasildar provided him with a smartphone. Not many in Odisha’s hinterland are as lucky as Surendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/children-of-migrants-face-an-uncertain-future/article33952533.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. rift widens G-23’s Jammu meet||One of the sharpest speeches came from Mr. Sharma, who said, “A party can give a designation and rank but not every person occupying the designation necessarily becomes a people’s leader.” Mr. Sharma said all the leaders at the meeting had come a long distance starting from their days in the Youth Congress. “I have not given anyone the right to tell me if we are Congress members or not. We built this party and we will strengthen it. We believe in the unity of Congress,” he said. Mr. Sibal, opening another flank, said, “The truth is that the Congress party is getting weak. That is why we have gathered here. We had gathered together earlier too and we have to strengthen the party together.” Mr. Sibal, in a metaphor, said to fly an aircraft one needs an experienced pilot, but for the aircraft to function well, it needs an engineer for its upkeep, adding that Mr. Azad can play both the roles with ease. Stating that Mr. Azad was a leader who knows the ground reality of the Congress in every district of every State, Mr Sibal said, “We were saddened when we realised that he is being freed from Parliament. We didn't want to let him go from Parliament...I can't understand why is Congress not utilising his experience.” In Delhi, the party reacted cautiously, with spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi saying that all the participants of the Jammu rally were part of the “Congress family”. “All of the persons who are in Jammu and have spoken, are senior, highly respected, and well regarded members of our party. We are proud of having them in the party and I believe they are equally proud to be members of the Congress. They are part of the Congress family,” he said. However, he countered Mr. Sibal’s comments about the party not “utilising” Mr. Azad’s experience. “We are proud and he (Azad) is proud that he has held the Congress flag afloat for more than seven terms — two LS and four in RS for nearly 40 years in Parliament. We are proud and he is proud that party president Sonia Gandhi nominated him as Jammu and Kashmir CM. From Indira Gandhi’s time onwards, he has been a respected central minister for over 30 decades,” Mr Singhvi said. He said, it would be amiss if he doesn’t recall Mr. Azad’s role in the party over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-rift-widens-with-caustic-g-23-meet/article33952534.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to focus on ‘one district, one product’||In the 2021-22 Karnataka Budget, the State government plans to give a big push to the ‘one district, one product’ policy for exploiting the potential of unorganised micro-food processing by offering credit, avenues for marketing of products, and technical know-how. Under this scheme, the State has identified and approved 20 districts for horticultural products, six for agricultural products, two for marine products, one for poultry, and one for bakery products. The products in each district were chosen on the basis of their availability, status of current processing, and scope of marketing.  Credit-linked subsidy Under the policy, one product in each district is identified and entrepreneurs involved with these products are eligible to avail credit-linked capital subsidy at 35% of the project cost, with a maximum ceiling of Rs. 10 lakh per unit. The maximum credit will be Rs. 30 lakhper project. Food processing organisations and self-help groups/producer cooperatives are also eligible to get subsidy, according to Manoj Rajan, Special Secretary, Food Processing, who is the overall in-charge of the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PM-FME) scheme. A total of 132 applications had been received under the scheme as on February 25, 2021. The expenditure will be shared 60:40 between the Union and State governments. The State is expected to allocate nearly Rs. 500 crore for five years from 2020-21 to 2024-25. The 2021-22 Budget is expected to set aside more than Rs. 100 crore for it, sources said. A State-level committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary and the Development Commissioner and district-level committees headed by Deputy Commissioners are monitoring the implementation of the PM-FME scheme, Mr. Rajan said. Besides the Agriculture Department, Karnataka StateAgricultural Produce Processing and Export Corporation Ltd. is the project nodal agency, while the Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysuru, has been roped in for providing technical expertise and support. In unorganised sector It is estimated that in the country, unorganized enterprises contribute to 74% of employment (a third of which goes to women), 12% of the output, and 27% of the value addition in the food processing sector. Nearly 66% of these units are located in rural areas, while about 80% of them are family-based micro-enterprises. The unorganised food processing industry has been facing many challenges weakening its performance and limiting its development, including lack of productivity and innovation because of limited skill and access to modern technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-to-focus-on-one-district-one-product/article33952539.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Eight held for cow slaughter in Telangana||The remaining 52 cows were shifted to a goshala. After post-mortem, carcasses of the slaughtered animals were buried at the same place to avoid any untoward incidents. Police had worked all the night, forming multiple teams to arrest the accuse within hours. The arrested persons were identified as Mohd. Jaber, Mohd. Kahaja, Mohd. Saddam, Mohd Arafat, Mohd. Rahim, Mohd. Arshad, Mohd. Ashraf and Mohd. Javed. To prevent any further untoward incidents, members of right wing groups were arrested and but released later. As a precautionary measure, police picketing was enforced and an undeclared Section 144 was in force. BJP MLA M. Raghunandan Rao also had visited the spot. The Commissioner said they conducted a raid after they got credible information that cows were slaughtered in a shed. All the accused were presented before the First Class Judicial Magistrate on Saturday, who imposed 14 days’ judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-held-for-cow-slaughter-in-telangana/article33952541.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Postal ballot for essential service workers too||Postal ballots will be issued to personnel in notified essential services, including health officials, police, and journalists, for the Assembly elections, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena said on Saturday. The earlier decision was to issue postal ballots to voters in the ‘absentee voter’ category which included 80-plus voters, the differently abled, the COVID-19-positive and the service voters. Notified services Notified essential services include health, police and prison officials, fire and rescue service, excise, Milma, water and power supply, forest, KSRTC, treasury services and Central government institutions such as All India Radio, Doordarshan, BSNL, Railways, and Post and Telegraph. Ambulance staff and mediapersons authorised by the Election Commission to cover the polls also will be issued the ballots. The postal ballots are optional. The distribution of the 12-D consent form to the special category voters will begin soon. The commission has identified 6,21,401 80-plus voters, 1.3 lakh voters in the People with Disabilities (PwD) category, and 56,759 service voters. Three days after the nominations are finalised, four-member teams consisting of two polling officials, one security personnel, and a videographer, will start distributing postal ballots. The electors and the candidates will be informed ahead of the team’s visit of the team. The vote has to be cast and the ballots returned on the spot. COVID-19 patients COVID-19 patients can visit polling booths to cast their votes in the final hour of polling. Every voter will be thermally screened at the entry points. People whose body temperature exceeds the prescribed limit will be asked to wait. They will be screened after an hour. If the temperature is still high, they will be asked to vote in the final hour. Voters will be required to lower their face masks for identification. PwD category voters will be provided transportation. They will also be issued special passes for travel by public transportation. Braille slips Braille slips will be issued to visually challenged voters. All polling booths will also have a dummy ballot in braille on the table of the presiding officer. Visually challenged voters will have an opportunity to run a trial on them. In all, 45,000 dummy braille slips will be printed. As for electronic voting machines (EVMs), 52,782 ballot units, 49,475 control units, and 53,183 voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines have been arranged, Mr. Meena said. A committee headed by the Chief Secretary will screen government files that require clearance under the model code of conduct, which came into force on Friday evening. Important files will be sent to the Chief Electoral Officer for clearance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/postal-ballot-for-essential-service-workers-too/article33952550.ece
28 February 2021||MYSURU,||PM calls for e-marketing of Channapatna toys||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called upon Channapatna toymakers to explore the possibility of e-marketing their traditional wares across the country and the world. Interacting with a group of artisans from Channapatna while virtually inaugurating the India Toy Fair 2021 in New Delhi on Saturday, Mr. Modi suggested that artisans make use of the advanced technology to popularise their toys across the world and use the Information Technology (IT) workforce available in Bengaluru for the purpose. He hoped the Government of Karnataka held a workshop bringing together IT professionals and start-ups from Bengaluru and artisans to come up with a new project to popularise Channapatna toys not only across India, but across the globe. Mr. Modi also stressed on the need for innovation in the toys. During the interaction with the artisans, he asked those from Channapatna if they held any competitions on innovation in their industry. When an artisan replied in the affirmative and said a Hanuman toy made by an artisan had bagged a prize in the competition on innovation, Mr. Modi did not appear impressed. “Hanuman is not new,” Mr. Modi remarked and told the artisans that innovation and novelty was crucial for the toy industry from Channapatna to reach different parts of the world. He also asked them if they made efforts to find out from parents the kind of toys their children would like. Earlier, the artisans from Channapatna displayed a set of toys, including an abacus and a plane, to which Mr. Modi said he was being reminded of his childhood. The artisans said there were about 2,000 of them engaged in the Channapatna toy industry, which had a history of over 200 years old. The artisans pointed out that they used only vegetable dyes that were free from chemicals in the manufacture of the toys. It may be recalled here that Mr. Modi, in his Mann Ki Baat programme in August last year, had called for popularising the indigenous toys, including Channapatna toys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-calls-for-e-marketing-of-channapatna-toys/article33952553.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||A-G refuses consent for contempt proceedings against former CJI Gogoi||Attorney-General K.K.Venugopal has refused to give consent to an activist to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi for his comments about the Supreme Court. Activist Saket Gokhale said Justice Gogoi’s remarks, during a widely publicised interview given during the India Today conclave in February, had scandalised the court and lowered its dignity in the eyes of the public. It was reported that Justice Gogoi, now a Rajya Sabha member, had used terms such as “ramshackled” judiciary and so on. Mr. Venugopal, in a letter to Mr. Gokhale, agreed that Justice Gogoi’s statements were indeed “very strong”, but it was said for the “good of the institution” and would not “in any manner scandalise the court or lower its authority in the eyes of the public”. “The statements apparently reflect his deep frustration with the ills that undoubtedly beset the justice delivery system,” Mr. Venugopal explained to Mr. Gokhale. “I accordingly decline consent to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971...” Mr. Venugopal concluded in his letter dated February 26. The consent of the Attorney-General is necessary to initiate contempt proceedings in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-g-refuses-consent-for-contempt-proceedings-against-former-cji-gogoi/article33952567.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||17-year-old stabbed for speaking up for sister||A 17-year-old boy was stabbed by a group of boys after he objected to the passing of lewd remarks against his sister on Friday, the police said on Saturday. A case has been registered. A senior police officer said that they received a call around 1 p.m. regarding the stabbing of a boy near Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Kalkaji and that he was being taken to AIIMS. The police said that the eyewitness, his 18-year-old sister and a Class 12 student, told them that they were walking back home after school. A police officer, stated, “She said that three boys followed her and passed lewd remarks. When the brother objected to it, they all started beating him and one of them stabbed him on the left side of the abdomen and fled the spot.” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 354D (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 509 (intent to insult modesty of a woman), and 34 (common intention) has been registered at Kalkaji police station. The police said that the complainant told them that the boys had been troubling her for the last two days. Panel seeks report Taking suo motu cognisance of the incident, the Delhi Commission for Women on Saturday issued notice to the Delhi Police seeking a detailed action report on the matter. The women’s panel also sought a copy of the complaint made by the woman pertaining to stalking and eve-teasing. The Delhi Police was asked to respond to the queries by March 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/17-year-old-stabbed-for-speaking-up-for-sister/article33952583.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Cabinet Secretary reviews COVID-19 situation||“Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. In the last two weeks, Kerala has shown the maximum decline in the number of active cases, from 63,847 on February 14 to 51,679, while Maharashtra has shown the highest rise, from 34,449 to 68,810,’’ said the Ministry. Six States/UTs account for 82.3% of the 113 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra saw the highest number of casualties (48). Punjab reported 15 daily deaths and Kerala 14 while 17 States/UTs have not reported any deaths. A presentation was made at the meeting chaired by Mr. Gauba with a focus on districts reporting increasing numbers of cases and trend in positivity. This was followed by a comprehensive review with all the States/UTs. Stressing on effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts, the States have also been told to increase RT-PCR tests. The Cabinet Secretary said States must maintain rigorous vigil and not squander away the gains of the collective hard work of the last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-secretary-reviews-covid-19-situation/article33952556.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Rare coin fetches Rs. 56L in auction||A rare 10.9 gram gold coin of Kam Bakhsh, the fifth son of Mughal emperor Aurangazeb, went under the hammer here, fetching Rs. 56 lakh. Marudhar Arts, a numismatic auction house here, held the auction at a price ranging between Rs. 45 lakh and Rs. 50 lakh, but it was sold for Rs. 56 lakh. Rajendra Maru, CEO of Marudhar Arts, told PTI the gold “mohur” of Bijapur Dar-uz-Zafar mint has a Persian legend. “The coin is almost uncirculated. So it’s unique,” he said. He did not disclose the name of the buyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rare-coin-fetches-rs-56l-in-auction/article33953216.ece
28 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha issues stricter COVID protocol||The Odisha government has made home isolation for seven days mandatory for people coming from five States and set up a strict screening mechanism at airports and railway stations. All Collectors and civic body heads have been asked to keep a close tab on people coming from Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh where there has been a surge in COVID-19 cases. Even as the government is returning to stricter surveillance, 25 students of Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT), Burla, have tested positive for COVID-19 during the past 48 hours. P. K. Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) said any laxity could lead to a surge in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-issues-stricter-covid-protocol/article33952569.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Banner hub||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/banner-hub/article33953269.ece
28 February 2021||Tirumala,||TTD to spend Rs. 11,400 per couple for Kalyanamastu||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) would be spending around Rs. 11,400 on each new couple tying the nuptial knot under its Kalyanamastu (mass weddings) programme all set to be relaunched on May 28. The main intention of the programme is to create awareness amongst younger generations, particularly those belonging to downtrodden and weaker communities, regarding Hindu culture and marriage tradition. Under the scheme, the TTD will provide a gold ‘mangalasutram’ of one gram and a pair of silver ‘mettelu’ (toe rings) to each new couple besides silk clothes and luncheon for 20 members from both sides. This apart, it will also bear the honorarium to be paid to the priest and his assistant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ttd-to-spend-rs-11400-per-couple-under-kalyanamastu/article33953312.ece
28 February 2021||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,||Energy consumption reaches new high in TS||As expected, the consumption of energy in the State is on a steady increase along with the rising mercury level and it has clocked a record 260.98 million units (MU) on Friday with the agriculture and domestic sectors pulling up the demand. The day also witnessed the highest ever peak load of power on the transmission system in the State when it touched 13,452 megawatt at 8.31 a.m. on Friday, surpassing the previous peak load of 13,252 MW recorded on January 30. The previous highest energy consumption was recorded on March 18 last year, when it clocked at 256.18 MU. On February 25 (Thursday) the consumption came close to the previous record but remained at 256.04 MU. According to officials of the Transmission Corporation of Telangana Ltd (TSTransco), both the peak load of power on the system and energy consumption are expected to go up further during March, when the demand for energy from the agriculture sector including lifting of water for irrigation is expected to peak. “Coupled with the increase in the domestic sector demand, the peak load is likely to cross 14,000 during the summer season and we are prepared to meet such a demand,” a senior executive of the power utility said. Cultivation of agriculture and horticulture (non-plantation) has been taken up in a record-breaking 68 lakh acres this Rabi season and the energy demand from the sector is estimated to cross all previous records, although there is no mechanism to quantify the consumption exactly, as water-intensive paddy has been cultivated in about 50.6 lakh acres, followed by irrigated dry crops maize in 4.29 lakh acres and groundnut in 2.62 lakh acres, in addition to all horticulture crops. The Transco officials have explained that both the peak load of power and the energy consumption have been on a steady rise this month. It is reflected in the fact that against the peak load crossing the 13,000 MW mark only thrice (all in February 2020) in 2019-20, it has gone beyond the mark on 11 occasions so far in 2020-21 including on seven days this February, they stated. Of the total daily consumption of energy, about 15% is being met from the renewable energy sources and it is likely to go up little further with the increasing sunshine, the Transco officials explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/energy-consumption-reaches-new-high/article33953306.ece
28 February 2021||Kalaburagi,||Karnataka teen’s body found in bag||The body of a 14-year-old boy stuffed in a gunny bag was recovered from the Bhima river near Naribol village in Jewargi taluk of Kalaburagi district on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Mahesh Mallikarjun. According to police sources, the teenager’s relationship with a girl from a different community is the reason behind the crime. They suspect that the girl’s family may have killed him, put the body in a bag and threw it into the river to destroy evidence. The Jewargi police have arrested three persons in this connection. Mahesh went missing three days ago. His parents lodged a complaint at the Jewargi police station. The police recovered the body from an under-construction bridge across the Bhima. The Jewargi police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-of-teenager-recovered/article33952775.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Man held in Hyderabad for online posts||Th Hyderabad Cyber Crime Police on Saturday arrested a 50-year-old man for posting objectionable content on social media against a community. The accused, Abu Fasal, was detained at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, on his arrival from Dubai. Cyber Crime Police said that the accused, a resident of Chandrayangutta here in Telangana, made several videos abusing a particular community during lockdown. Since then he has been taking shelter in Dubai. Several cases were booked against him in Hyderabad, Cyberabad and other parts of the country. A look-out circular was also issued against him. On a tip-off that he was coming to India to visit his family, teams were sent to apprehend him at the airport. He will be remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-held-in-hyderabad-for-online-posts/article33952540.ece
28 February 2021||Patna,||Law Minister flags ‘disturbing new trend’||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday expressed strong disapproval of legal activists making objectionable comments about judges who do not pass favourable orders on their petitions, calling it a “disturbing new trend”. “We can surely criticise the reasoning of a judgement. But, I foresee a new trend which I need to flag today,” Mr. Prasad said referring to “grossly unfair” comments on social media against judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/law-minister-flags-disturbing-new-trend/article33952560.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police search for journalist in rape case||A team of Delhi Police has reached Mumbai to arrest a TV anchor who is accused in a rape case reported in New Delhi last week, a police officer said on Sunday. On February 23, a 22-year-old woman alleged she was raped by the man in a hotel room in Chanakyapuri area. The victim is known to the accused for the past three years. He is alleged to have taken her to his hotel room. The woman managed to come out of the room, and reported the incident at the Chanakyapuri station. A police officer said a case had been registered. The accused has been identified as Varun Hiremath, 28, in the FIR. The team has been in Mumbai for the past three days but unable to trace the accused, a television journalist. His phones have been switched off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-search-for-journalist-in-rape-case/article33953204.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Banner hub||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/banner-hub/article33952580.ece
28 February 2021||Lucknow,||Priyanka visits birthplace of Sant Ravidas||Congress general Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday paid her respects at the birthplace of Sant Ravidas in Varanasi on the poet-saint’s birth anniversary. Ms. Vadra tweeted that she had the good fortune to bow at the feet of Guru Ravidas, who inspired people to build an ideal society through the “gurumantra” of equality, service and goodwill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-visits-birthplace-of-sant-ravidas/article33952568.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||ED attached assets worth Rs. 84 crore in cheating case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 84 crore in connection with the cheating case involving Sree Kanva Souhardha Co-operative Credit Limited (SKSCCL). Funds to the tune of Rs. 650 crore were collected from over 13,000 investors on the promise of phenomenal returns. The assets are located in various parts of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, ED officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attached-assets-worth-rs-84-crore-in-cheating-case/article33952573.ece
28 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya to reimburse 95% income tax to AIS officers||The Meghalaya Cabinet has approved a proposal to reimburse 95% of income tax of non-tribal All India Service officers serving in the State. The Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma also approved a proposal to reimburse 25% of income tax paid by tribal people of Meghalaya in government service outside the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-to-reimburse-95-income-tax-to-ais-officers/article33952821.ece
28 February 2021||Kalaburagi,||Advocate killed on court premises in Hosapete||In a gruesome incident, an advocate who was associated with the Congress, was murdered on the Civil and JMFC court premises at Hosapete in Vijayanagara district on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Tarihalli Venkatesh, 48. According to the police, he was killed by his relative, Manoj. According to sources in the court, the advocate was busy with some work when Manoj attacked him with a sword. Venkatesh, who was grievously injured in the assault, died on the spot owing to heavy bleeding. The incident created panic among the people on the premises for a while. The police took the accused into their custody and sent the body for post-mortem. District Superintendent of Police Saidul Adavat visited the spot. Later speaking to presspersons, he said that a property dispute was suspected to be the reason behind the attack. The accused entered the court premises allegedly carrying a bag containing a petrol bottle and also the sword.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/advocate-killed-on-court-premises-in-hosapete/article33952537.ece
28 February 2021||Tirumala,||All set for PSLV-C51 launch today||PSLV-C51, carrying Amazonia and 18 other satellites, will be launched at 10.24 a.m. on Sunday from the Satish Dhavan Space Centre at Sriharikota, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K. Sivan said on Saturday. Speaking to the media here, he termed it the first dedicated commercial mission and the first launch this year by the ISRO. Earlier, he took a prototype rocket to the Lord Venkateswara temple and prayed for its successful launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-set-for-pslv-c51-launch-today/article33952542.ece
28 February 2021||Guwahati,||BPF joins Congress-led alliance in Assam||The Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) has severed ties with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in Assam and joined the Congress-led grand alliance for the upcoming State poll. The announcement from BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary came less than a month before the three-phase election to the 126-member Assembly is to be held. “We shall no longer maintain friendship or alliance with the BJP,” Mr. Mohilary stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bpf-joins-congress-led-alliance-in-assam/article33953205.ece
28 February 2021||Ahmedabad,||Ex-PMO official takes charge of Department of Revenue||The Centre has preferred not to extend the tenure of Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, who is superannuating on February 28. It has handed over the charge of the Department of Revenue to Tarun Bajaj, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs. Mr. Bajaj was previously in the Prime Minister’s Office as Additional Secretary. The 1988 batch IAS officer had served the Ministry of Finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-pmo-official-takes-charge-of-department-of-revenue/article33953206.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||Death toll in Chamoli disaster touches 72||The death toll in the disaster in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district has increased to 72. The identities of 40 bodies have been established so far. In all, 30 human body parts have been found at different places. The DNA samples of 110 family members of the missing persons and 86 bodies/body parts have been sent to the forensic science laboratory in Dehradun for matching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-toll-in-chamoli-disaster-touches-72/article33952572.ece
28 February 2021||Mumbai,||Fake emails case: Hrithik Roshan records statement with police||Actor Hrithik Roshan on Saturday recorded his statement with the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch in connection with his 2016 complaint about fake emails being sent in his name to actor Kangana Ranaut. Mr. Roshan, wearing a face mask and a black cap with a T-shirt and blue jeans, reached the office of the Mumbai Police Commissioner in south Mumbai around 11.45 a.m. He left after more than two-and-a-half hours, an official said. The office of the CIU is located in the main building of the Police Commissioner's office in Crawford market. A large contingent of reporters and camerapersons was present outside the office. Mr. Roshan’s statement was recorded by a team of CIU officials headed by an Assistant Police Inspector, the official said. The Bollywood actor was summoned by the CIU to record his statement in a complaint filed by him in 2016 alleging that someone impersonating him was emailing Ms. Ranaut from a bogus email id.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fake-emails-case-hrithik-roshan-records-statement-with-police/article33952582.ece
28 February 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||3,300 pressure cookers seized||In the first major seizure after the model code of conduct came into force in the State, election officials on Saturday seized about 3,300 pressure cookers, the symbol of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), being transported in two lorries in the district. Pictures of V.K. Sasikala, aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, and T.T.V. Dhinakaran, general secretary, AMMK, were pasted on the sides of the boxes containing the cookers. A sticker bearing an image of Velu Karthikeyan, secretary of the AMMK legal wing, too, was pasted on the boxes. According to sources, a flying squad intercepted a lorry bound for Thanjavur from Gummidipoondi at Samathuvapuram, near Varanavasi. The crew told the officials they were carrying empty boxes to Thanjavur. The officials allowed the lorry to proceed. Minutes later, the officials stopped another lorry bound for Thanjavur from Gummidipoondi at the same spot and checked the load. There were 1,600 pressure cookers. Interrogation of the crew revealed that the previous lorry that proceeded to Thanjavur was transporting pressure cookers. Following this, the officials alerted other flying squads and static surveillance teams to intercept the lorry. It was subsequently intercepted at the Thirumanur check-post. There were 1,700 pressure cookers in the lorry. District Collector D. Rathna told The Hindu that 3,300 cookers, estimated to be worth Rs. 12 lakh, and the two lorries were confiscated and handed over to the District Treasury Office. Since the model code of conduct was in force since Friday, transporting materials of an election symbol of a party amounted to violation of the code. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain whether the cookers were meant to be distributed among voters. An appellate team, led by the Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, has been formed to inquire into the seizure. Based on the reports, action would be taken against the guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3300-pressure-cookers-seized/article33952698.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK will get a majority: CM||The AIADMK will return to power with a full majority after the Assembly election and the party’s allies will win all their seats, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in the State Assembly on Saturday. In his final speech in the 15th Assembly on the floor of the House, Mr. Palaniswami criticised the Opposition for having claimed initially that his government would not last even a month. “They kept making false claims that we will not survive even for a month, three months, six months. We have overcome all the hurdles and completed four years and have stepped into the fifth year, fulfilling the dreams of the late MGR, and Amma [Jayalalithaa] and have gained respect among the people,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister said the government had worked so successfully that even those in the Opposition were praising its work. The Chief Minister thanked all government officials for working to implement the government’s schemes and for their help in running the administration smoothly. He recalled some of the key schemes implemented by the government. Estimates for 2020-21 Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, presenting the final supplementary estimates for the year 2020-21, mocked DMK president M.K. Stalin, who claimed that the petitions collected by him during his campaign would be addressed in the first 100 days if he was voted to power. “Our government is already addressing issues on an everyday basis. People air their grievances and present petitions to the District Collectors every day and these are addressed on an immediate basis. Mr. Stalin is saying he will do this after 100 days. The Opposition parties, especially Mr. Stalin, are going to each place and making these types of false claims,” he said. On the State’s finances, Mr. Panneerselvam devoted a major part of his speech to fuel prices. He said last year, the State government had reworked the way it was taxing fuel and hence the prices in the State had been under control. The pandemic, he said, had wreaked havoc in international markets and led to a volatile situation with regard to fuel prices. “The Central government must come forward to reduce the taxes on fuel as the State’s financial sources are miniscule,” he said. The 15th Assembly concluded on Saturday after the interim budget was passed to draw from the Consolidated Fund of the State to meet the estimated expenditure for a part of the financial year, commencing on April 1, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-will-get-a-majority-cm/article33952703.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance teams, flying squads deployed ahead of polls||Chennai District Election Officer G. Prakash on Saturday flagged off static surveillance teams, flying squads and video surveillance teams ahead of the Assembly election. As many as 48 teams will carry out surveillance at various locations of the 16 Assembly constituencies in the district. A total of 48 flying squads and 16 video surveillance teams will monitor violations pertaining to the model code of conduct in the city ahead of the election. Election will be held on April 6, and counting will be done on May 2. Residents can call the toll free helpline 1950 to report issues pertaining to the election. The Chennai District Election Office has posted 17 employees at the control room in Ripon Buildings to facilitate quick intervention by the surveillance teams. Senior officials, at a meeting in the Ripon Buildings on Saturday, stressed on the need for initiatives to start the distribution of forms for persons with disabilities, senior citizens above 80 years and COVID-19 patients to facilitate postal voting. “We will start distribution of forms for postal ballot at the doorsteps of persons with disabilities and senior citizens above 80 years in a few days,” an official said. The Chennai District Election Office has finalised 5,911 polling stations in the 16 constituencies. More polling stations With the setting up of 2,157 additional polling stations, the city has registered a 45% increase in the number of polling stations when compared to the 2019 Parliamentary election. As many as 40,000 employees, including 29,000 booth-level employees, will be trained for conducting the Assembly election in the city. Corporation officials said the work on existing civic projects would continue in the city. Work on removal of defacements is under way. Chennai District Election Officials have asked political parties to conduct public meetings only in designated locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-teams-flying-squads-deployed-ahead-of-polls/article33953236.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No new cases in Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi||As many as 486 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in Tamil Nadu to 8,51,063. A total of 4,036 persons are undergoing treatment. Among the fresh cases was that of a passenger returning from the UAE who tested positive at the international airport. A passenger each returning from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal by road tested positive. At the same time, 491 persons were discharged in the past 24 hours. With this, 8,34,534 persons have been discharged after treatment. Five more deaths pushed the toll to 12,493, health officials said. 187 cases in Chennai In Chennai district, 187 fresh cases were detected and 191 persons were discharged. The district recorded two deaths. As on date, 1,774 persons are undergoing treatment, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. While Coimbatore recorded 40 fresh infections, 36 more cases were detected in Chengalpattu. In Tiruvallur, 35 more persons tested positive. The district also reported one death. Kancheepuram reported 21 fresh cases. Thanjavur reported 28 fresh cases and one death. Dharmapuri and Kallakurichi districts recorded no fresh case. Ariyalur, Perambalur, Theni, Tirupattur, Tiruvannamalai and Thoothukudi recorded one case each. So far, 31,144 children aged below 12 and 7,04,717 persons in the age group of 13-60 have been infected. A total of 1,15,202 persons, aged over 60, had contracted the infection, the bulletin said. According to health officials, all the five persons who died in the last 24 hours had pre-existing co-morbidities. Three deaths occurred at government hospitals and two persons died at private hospitals. A 54-year-old man from Chennai, with systemic hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on February 24. He tested positive the same day. He died on Saturday morning owing to COVID-19 pneumonia/respiratory failure, hospital authorities said. So far, 1,74,28,757 RT-PCR tests have been done and 1,71,13,015 persons have been tested. Vaccine update On Saturday, a total of 12,709 persons were vaccinated in the ongoing drive to inoculate frontline and healthcare workers. As many as 8,794 healthcare and 1,826 frontline workers received their doses. Among them, were 1,515 police personnel and 24 Railway Police Force personnel. As many as 550 election staff were also vaccinated in a day. Health officials said 7,355 beneficiaries received their first dose and 5,354 received their second dose. Till date, of the 4,57,951 persons who were vaccinated, 3,55,829 are healthcare workers and 60,043 are frontline workers. A total of 40,274 police personnel and 386 RPF personnel, besides 1,419 election staff, have been vaccinated so far. Among them, the first dose was given to 3,96,720 persons and 61,231 received their second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-new-cases-in-dharmapuri-kallakurichi/article33952713.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quota Bill based on the 1989 formula||The formula that was adopted in 1989 for fixing 20% reservation for the Most Backward Classes (MBC) and De-notified Communities (DNC) has been followed in determining the quota for three groups under the MBC-DNC category, as reflected in the internal reservation Bill for Vanniyars, according to a senior official. In March 1989, when the quota of 20% was carved out of the overall reservation of 50% for the Backward Classes, the figure was arrived at after taking into account the share of the MBCs and DNCs in the State’s population which was estimated at 24.6%. The government had then relied on the findings of the caste-wise census undertaken by the Second Backward Classes Commission (which was headed by former civil servant J A Ambasankar) between December 1982 and February 1985. Using the proportion as done in 1989, the reservation Bill, adopted by the Assembly on Friday, stipulated the quota of 10.5%, 7% and 2.5% for Vanniakula Kshatriya, MBCs-DNCs and MBCs respectively. For example, the Vanniakula Kshatriya community has been given 10.5% as its share in the State’s population was estimated to be 13% by the Commission. As for clubbing a portion of the MBCs with the DNCs, the official said this had been carried out on the basis of two parameters. Those found in the lists of the two communities having similar names and similar backwardness had been brought under one group. Take the case of Ambalakarar and Vettuva Gounder. While the two are generally constituents of the MBCs, their members living in the central region of the State come under the DNCs. Such communities have been clubbed. ‘Equitable distribution’ Asked whether the changes will not affect those sections of the MBCs and DNCs which had been reaping the benefits of reservation more than others, the official replied that the idea behind the Bill is to ensure “equitable distribution” of the benefits. The official clarified that the Bill was formulated after getting the opinion from Chairman of the present Backward Classes Commission M. Thanikachalam “a few days ago.” However, sources in the Commission said many members of the panel came to know of the development regarding the internal reservation only through media reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quota-bill-based-on-the-1989-formula/article33952705.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP has humiliated SCs, says Madras High Court||The Madras High Court has observed that Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) organising secretary andMember of Parliament R.S. Bharathi prima facie “humiliated and insulted” people belonging to the Scheduled Castes by claiming that their rise to higher positions in the judiciary was nothing but “alms” provided by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. Justice N. Sathish Kumar said so while dismissing a petition filed by the MP to quash a criminal case booked against him at the Teynampet police station, Chennai, for a speech made by him at a closed-door meeting organised by Kalaignar Reading Circle on February 15, 2020. The judge directed the trial court to expedite the proceedings and conduct hearing on a day-to-day basis. Serious in nature The judge agreed with advocate V. Raghavachari, representing complainant Kalyanasundaram, that the allegations levelled against the MP were serious in nature since the speech delivered by him was clearly an insult to the people belonging to the oppressed class and therefore the case should not be quashed at the threshold without directing the accused to face trial. “When the allegations against the accused are carefully perused, the speech made by the accused prima facie shows that he has remarked that the people, except in Tamil Nadu, are idiots. He has stated that till now, no one from the Schedule Caste became a judge of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh. Only his leader Karunanidhi made Mr. Varadharajan, who belongs to a Scheduled Caste, a judge of High Court of Madras.” “Similarly, seven or eight judges from the Scheduled Caste were also appointed at the alms rendered by the Dravidian Progressive Federation (sic)… The statements are not in good taste. Intellectual debates have been forgotten by the so-called leaders. On the other hand, under the guise of freedom guaranteed under the Constitution, people claiming to be public leaders are spitting venom against opponents,” the order read. Also recording State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan’s submission that the police had so far examined 30 witnesses and collected several documents too in connection with the case, the judge said whether the speech would attract the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989 could be determined only after appreciation of evidence by a special court for hearing cases booked against legislators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mp-has-humiliated-scs-says-madras-high-court/article33952715.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four differently abled achievers honoured||Four differently abled achievers were honoured at the 19th CavinKare Ability Awards (CKAA) held virtually on Saturday. The CKAA for Eminence was conferred upon C. Govindakrishnan, alias Gopi, founder of Nethrodaya, for providing free, accessible, residential, and quality higher education for visually impaired students, mostly from rural areas, and launching them into great careers over the last two decades. Self-employment schemes, a medical helpline and the Death with Dignity Scheme for the visually impaired were initiated by Mr. Govindakrishnan, a person with visual impairment. The CKA Mastery Awards were given to three persons, including G.J. Siddharth from Bengaluru. He developed cerebral palsy after a jaundice attack when he was just a few days old, which significantly impacted his body movement and speech clarity. However, this did not deter him from becoming an achiever. He dons many roles, including a banker with several formidable banking certifications under his belt, a public speaker (TedX speaker), author and life coach. He is the first Indian and second in the world with cerebral palsy to complete the very tough trade finance course. He is a Certified Documentary Credit Specialist (CDCS) from the Institute of Financial Services, U.K. Another awardee, Nandita Venkatesan from Mumbai is an accomplished Bharatanatyam dancer, patients’ and disability rights advocate, and a public speaker. She battled tuberculosis in the intestine as a teenager and later lost 90% of hearing from a rare side effect of medication. She is currently pursuing a fully-funded Master’s degree in Public Policy at Oxford University. Vikram Agnihotri, from Indore, the country’s first bilateral amputee to be granted a permanent car driving licence, is the other recipient. He drives using his feet as he lost both his hands in an electrical accident when he was seven. His efforts went a long way in bringing about the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act. Mr. Vikram runs NGO Vital Spark Welfare Society and under the banner WiL – Winners in Life, he conducts motivational training programmes. Music composer A. R. Rahman, the chief guest, who has been associated with Ability Foundation for several years, said “It is hard to pick four people from the many who are worthy.” C. K. Ranganathan, CMD, CavinKare Pvt Ltd., said, “To witness their (awardees) journey and the strength with which they have overcome hurdles is encouraging and motivating.” Jayshree Raveendran, founder, Ability Foundation, said India had a huge population of differently abled persons. However their strength, potential, talents and capabilities tend to be overlooked or side-lined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-differently-abled-achievers-honoured/article33953246.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Deaths in railway accidents down 57% in 2020’||The Government Railway Police (GRP) has said there was a 57% drop in railway accidents and associated deaths in the State in 2020. According to statistics provided by the GRP, 2,517 deaths were reported in 2018, and of these, 2,173 were men and 344 were women. In 2019, the number of casualties was 2,619, including 2,292 men and 327 women. However, in 2020, 1,137 deaths were reported — 957 men and 180 women. “Due to the efforts of our officers from the GRP, the railway accident deaths reduced by 57% in 2020,” said C. Sylendra Babu, DGP, Railways.  The GRP conducted 14,845 awareness programmes on railway station platforms, level-crossings, adjacent villages, colleges and accident-prone areas. Four short films on safety were released on social media platforms, senior GRP officers said. “We have identified 116 accident zones across the State. The highest number is in Chennai and suburban areas, followed by Coimbatore, Madurai and Jolarpet,” Mr. Babu said. He said the COVID-19 lockdown may have been one of the reasons for the reduction in deaths, but that alone could not account for the 57% drop in deaths. “Goods, workmen, medicine and trial run trains were plying even during the lockdown period. Hence, the reduction was due to the enforcement efforts of GRP and the awareness programmes,” Mr. Babu said. Preventive work He said utmost importance and priority was accorded to the prevention of accidents due to trespassing on railway tracks. “This preventive work, which paid rich dividends, will continue in the coming months,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deaths-in-railway-accidents-down-57-in-2020/article33953252.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t act on inquiry report against Anna varsity V-C till April 5, says HC||The Madras High Court on Saturday directed the State government to not take any decision till April 5 on an inquiry report, if any, filed by a Commission of Inquiry (CoI) constituted against Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa. The objective of the CoI is to probe into charges of bribery, corruption, malpractices, financial irregularities, irregular appointments and so on. Justice S. Vaidyanathan passed the interim order after Advocate General Vijay Narayan sought time till March 15 to file a detailed counter affidavit to a writ petition filed by Mr. Surappa, challenging a November 2020 Government Order for constitution of the CoI under retired High Court judge P. Kalaiyarasan. The AG too assured that no final decision shall be taken till then. Though the petitioner’s counsel insisted on staying the inquiry or to pass an order of status quo, the A-G said the government had no role to play at this stage since the inquiry had already commenced. He said the State was perfectly justified in constituting the commission since there had been instances of former Vice-Chancellors having been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment. Sating that complaints against Mr. Surappa were only being inquired into, he said the final decision on the inquiry report would be taken only by the Chancellor. In his affidavit, Mr. Surappa had denied all charges levelled against him. Claiming to have to spearheaded major development works in the University ever since he assumed office in April 2018, he said his opposition to the State government’s decision to pass all engineering students without conducting arrear examinations due to COVID-19 and the efforts taken by him to obtain the Institute of Eminence (IoE) status to the university triggered a confrontation. Mr. Surappa also stated that he refused to part with university funds for purchasing decorative items at the offices of the Higher Education Minister and the Secretary. He also took back four university cars used by the Minister and the Secretary. Stating that the first complaint against him was lodged in the name of A. Suresh, from Adikudy village, in Lalgudi taluk, of Tiruchi district, on February 21, 2020, he said the complaint was forwarded to the university from the Prime Minister’s grievance cell and it was responded to promptly. However, the State government sat over it for 262 days and forwarded it to the university only on October 13, 2020. After replying to the State government too, the university found that the complaint had been made under a fictitious name and address. Hence, it lodged a police complaint to trace out the real complainant. In the meantime, the CoI began holding a roving inquiry without going into any specifics. Several documents were summoned, and the university was coerced to depose against him, the petitioner alleged. Even his former domestic help was not spared. She was summoned to the inquiry to find out if she had accompanied his family on a foreign trip though the woman does not even hold a passport. “I owed an apology to the maid and gave it but the trauma and anguish undergone by her can be imagined. This singular instance is testimony to the intent of the State” to fix him, he said and sought an interim stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-act-on-inquiry-report-against-surappa-hc-tells-govt/article33952671.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diverted for Koyambedu flyover work||With work on the four-lane-wide flyover on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai at Koyambedu nearing completion, traffic from Kaliamman Koil Street has been diverted via E-Street to reach Poonamallee High Road at Mettukulam junction. The diversion has been carried out by the traffic police based on a request from the Highways Department. “The approach ramps are now under construction and on one side, due to lack of enough space, vehicles are forced to move at reduced speeds causing traffic jams. Until the work on the ramps is completed, the diversion will remain,” a police source explained. The Highways Department has completed construction of the core structure of the Rs. 93.5 crore, 1.15-km-long flyover, work on which began in February 2017. “Around 90% of the ramp work on the Vadapalani side has been completed and 20% on the Thirumangalam side is done. We are presently filling earth inside the retaining walls of the ramps. We hope the flyover will be ready by the end of March,” a source in the Highways Department said. On completion, the flyover will allow 60% of the 90,000 vehicles proceeding from and to Anna Nagar and Vadapalani to avoid waiting at the signal on the junction of Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and Kaliamman Koil Street. Virugambakkam resident S. Arumainathan said the widening of Kaliamman Koil Street should also be taken up to avoid traffic snarls. “Some portions have been widened but other stretches remain narrow,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diverted-for-koyambedu-flyover-work/article33953240.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||A tale of a region and time||Not many professors among Tamils have taken to literary creative writing. P. Sundaram Pillai, Mu Varadarajan and Indira Parthasarathy are among those who belong to this club. A specialist in bio-physics, P.K. Ponnuswamy, former Vice- Chancellor of University of Madras and Madurai Kamaraj University, is an aspirant to be part of such a league. Having roots in the western belt (called in Tamil “Kongu” zone), Prof. Ponnuswamy has now come out with his third novel,Thirumurthi Mann(Soil of Thirumurthi) which captures the social, cultural and economic changes in a rural part of the belt in the light of Tiruppur emerging as a new industrial hub. The work, brought out by NCBH publication, is an extension of his earlier novel,Padukalam. It covers the events in the lives of a host of people over 50 years, ending with 1985. As far as the 82-year-old author is concerned, his experiences in the most impressionable part of his life are fresh in his memory and he has brought them out through the work, which is characterised by the Kongu dialect. The period and the region, apart from the factor of familiarity for the author, are significant for the reason that there had been no major caste conflicts during the period in question in the region, known for having two evenly-balanced intermediate castes in terms of resources and social standing. The determination of women to carry on with their lives despite suffering misery is an important feature of the work, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-tale-of-a-region-and-time/article33953254.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Project ROPES will help needy children undergo eye surgery||The Rotary Paediatric Eye Surgery Project (ROPES), an initiative to conduct surgeries free of cost for eye disorders in children from underprivileged backgrounds, was launched on Saturday by Rajan Eye Care Hospital (RECH) in association with the Rotary Club of Madras (RCM) T. Nagar, Chennai Vision Charitable Trust and Varshini Illam Trust. Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director, RECH, said childhood visual impairment was a huge burden in India. Pointing out that a number of causes like congenital cataracts, retinopathy of prematurity and glaucoma could lead to blindness, he said complex surgeries required for these disorders were often expensive and hence unaffordable for those below the poverty line. Three children have already undergone surgery under the project. This includes a 1.5-year-old boy who was found abandoned in a bush and later handed over by government authorities to Varshini Illam Trust, a recognised adoption home. P.N. Vasudevan, one of the trustees of the home, said the boy had complete loss of sight in his left eye probably due to an injury he incurred when he was abandoned. “The cornea was largely white and his eye was bulging out. The boy was constantly crying, perhaps due to pain,” he said. Stating that the boy could not undergo surgery for several months due to the COVID-19 lockdown, he thanked RECH for readily agreeing to perform the complex surgery. Muthu Palaniappan, governor, Rotary International District 3232, who launched the project, said the impact the project would have on the lives of these children was huge. He spoke about project Orange being undertaken by his Rotary district, which aimed to set up 200 vision centres in Tamil Nadu, with the objective of moving towards the complete prevention of avoidable vision loss. C.K. Gariyali, retired IAS officer and trustee of Varshini Illam Trust; John Felix, trustee, Varshini Illam Trust; Syhammkumar, president, RCM T. Nagar; and Sujatha Mohan, executive medical director, RECH, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/project-ropes-will-help-needy-children-undergo-eye-surgery/article33953234.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM hopes to lead third front, Sarathkumar meets Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday exuded confidence that he will likely form a third front to fight the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Asked if he would lead the third front, Mr Haasan told journalists at the party headquarters that the “clouds are forming and it will rain”. Earlier, All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi president R. Sarathkumar visited MNM office along with Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi representatives to discuss a possible electoral alliance. Mr. Haasan said he was ready to compromise for “good causes”. “The clouds are forming and it will rain soon. We are welcoming and our doors are open. We cannot speak on guesses. We will announce the alliance soon,” he said. Mr. Sarathkumar said that he met Mr. Haasan to explore the possibility of whether “good people with similar points of view” could get together. “I have understood what he feels and his opinion. MNM office-bearers will speak with us. We are waiting for a good answer,” he said. MNM sources said Mr. Sarathkumar, who had recently met former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala, mentioned that he was in talks with the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), headed by her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran. The party preferred a third front that was secular and had credibility. Since Mr. Haasan was ideologically aligned with the Congress, an alliance with Seeman’s Naam Tamilar Katchi, Aravind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party and Sarathkumar’s party was a possibility, the source indicated. MNM sources said Mr. Haasan was least likely to align with the AMMK as people continued to view Ms. Sasikala negatively and hence an alliance would be difficult to justify. Veteran joins MNM Meanwhile, Pazha Karuppiah, who was previously with a host of parties, including the AIADMK and the DMK, joined the MNM. Mr. Haasan said he would be fielded in the elections. Besides, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam’s Senthil Arumugam would work with MNM for the elections. Mr. Haasan said that the first list of candidates would be announced on March 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-hopes-to-lead-third-front-sarathkumar-meets-kamal/article33953257.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unions ‘temporarily’ call off bus strike||The Labour Progressive Front, the CITU and the INTUC announced on Saturday that the strike by the employees of the State transport undertakings has been temporarily withdrawn. There are over 1.3 lakh workers in the eight State transport undertakings (STU). Around 80 lakh people have retired from various transport corporations. In the wake of the State government’s failure to conclude wage talks and meet their demands, the unions called for a strike on February 25. A major demand of the employees has been pay revision as the term of the last wage agreement ended on September 1, 2019. They demanded wage parity with other government employees, allocation of funds by the State government instead of asking the transport utilities to borrow loans, improvement of the overall situation of the Transport Department and immediate settlement of retirement benefits. A statement from the LPF said as the model code had come into force, the government said it could not do anything. “The officials also requested us to withdraw the strike,” said M. Shanmugam, general secretary, LPF. Another reason cited by the LPF for withdrawing the strike is the assurance given by DMK president M.K. Stalin to fulfil all demands if the DMK returns to power. Arumuga Nainar, general secretary, CITU-led transport union and member of the All Transport Union Co-ordination Committee, said the transport corporation agreed to a few of their demands. “This is one of the reasons for us to withdraw the strike,” he said. Meanwhile, MTC officials said nearly 79% of the buses were operated till 1 p.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unions-temporarily-call-off-bus-strike/article33952706.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quota Bill a hasty move, says Dhinakaran||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Saturday criticised the State government for its “haste” in getting a Bill adopted by the Assemblyon quota for Vanniyars. In a series of tweets, he said that when the category of Most Backward Classes (and De-notified Communities) had 109 communities, the ideal way of ensuring social justice was to distribute the benefits of reservation without adversely affecting any community. It was “evident” that internal reservation for the Vanniyars had been done “with an eye” on the Assembly election.  Kulasekaran panel Mr. Dhinakaran wondered what had happened to the Kulasekaran Commission, which had been constituted for the purpose of collecting caste-wise data. “There is suspicion among everyone about whether the latest move is eyewash, as had happened in the case of the protected special agricultural zone for the Cauvery delta,” the AMMK leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quota-bill-a-hasty-move-says-dhinakaran/article33953262.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM upbeat about leading third front||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday exuded confidence of forming a third front to fight the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Asked if he would lead the third front, Mr. Haasan told journalists at the party headquarters here that the “clouds are forming and it will rain”. He was flanked by politician Pazha Karuppiah and Satta Panchayat Iyakkam’s Senthil Arumugam. Mr. Haasan said that Mr. Karuppiah, who was previously with the AIADMK and the DMK, had joined the MNM and would be fielded in the election. Mr. Arumugam will work with the MNM for the election. Earlier, actor R. Sarathkumar, president of All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi, visited the MNM office along with Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi representatives. Mr. Haasan said he was ready to compromise for “good causes”. “The clouds are forming and it will rain soon. We are welcoming, and our doors are open. We cannot speak on guesses,” he said. Mr. Sarathkumar recently met former AIADMK interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala. Mr. Sarathkumar said he met Mr. Haasan to explore whether “good people with similar points of views” could get together. MNM sources said Mr. Sarathkumar mentioned that he was speaking with the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, headed by T.T.V. Dhinakaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-upbeat-about-leading-third-front/article33952697.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those above 60 can get vaccine from tomorrow||The Health Department has arranged to administer vaccines to members of the public aged above 60 and those over 45 with co-morbidities beginning March 1. People may register in advance or walk-in for onsite registration at COVID Vaccination Centres. The State government will be introducing the COWIN 2.0 app, in addition to self-registration based on Aadhaar or government issued ID cards such as voters ID, driving licence, PAN card or pension document with photograph. Vaccination will be administered free of cost in government healthcare facilities. The Health Department said 761 private hospitals and 529 government hospitals had expressed interest to provide the vaccine. Cost fixed at Rs. 250 Private hospitals have been permitted to charge up to Rs. 250 per person per dose of the vaccine. COVID Vaccination Centres have been additionally permitted to recover a service charge of up to Rs. 100 per person per dose. All district officials and authorities have been given guidelines, according to T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and State immunisation officer Vinay Kumar reviewed the preparedness for the immunisation drive. People could call 104 if they require clarification, the health officials have said. According to health officials, so far the State had received 23.77 lakh doses of COVID vaccines. Of this, Covishield comprises 21 lakh doses and Covaxin 2.77 lakh doses. Till date 4.57 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers have been vaccinated against a target of 8.21 lakh persons, the DPH has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-above-60-can-get-vaccine-from-tomorrow/article33952709.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||President’s Medal, CM’s Medal given away||Over 220 personnel of the Departments of Police and Prison and Fire and Rescue Services were given the President’s Medal and the Chief Minister’s Medal in recognition of their service. At Rajarathinam Stadium, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan presided over the Medal Parade and presented the President’s Medals, the Union Home Minister’s Medals and the Chief Minister’s Medals to officers and personnel of the Departments of Police and Prison, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption and Fire and Rescue Services for gallantry, distinguished service, meritorious service, excellence in public service, investigation and training. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) S.K. Prabakar, DGP J.K. Tripathy and other top officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/presidents-medal-cms-medal-given-away/article33953249.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable prices drop by 20% at Koyambedu wholesale market||Prices of most vegetables dropped by 20% as the Koyambedu Wholesale Market received sufficient supply compared to early February. However, a few essential vegetables still remain costly, noted traders. One kg of coriander leaves is priced between Rs. 100 and Rs. 130 a kg and a bunch of curry leaves, weighing up to 250 g, costs nearly Rs. 50 at the market. The unseasonal rain this winter had caused a supply shortage, leading to escalating prices. The city received about 70% of its supply of curry leaves from Andhra Pradesh and the rest from Tamil Nadu, wholesale traders said. Drumstick season Similarly, drumsticks priced up to Rs. 100 a kg and small onions, which cost up to Rs. 110 a kg, are also expensive. The market received only 50% of the produce now. The city is mostly getting its current supply from Ahmedabad, which led to a surge in prices. The drumstick season will take another 10 days to start in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. However, the prices of beans, broad beans and brinjal have dipped compared to last week, wholesalers said. P. Sukumar, treasurer, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association, said carrot, bitter gourd and capsicum were priced between Rs. 15 and Rs. 25 a kg in the wholesale market. Radish and cabbage Some vegetables, including radish, cabbage and cucumber are cheap, priced Rs. 10 a kg. “Fresh produce harvested after the monsoon is arriving at the market. Nearly 425 trucks bring produce daily. Tomatoes cost only between Rs. 10-Rs. 20 a kg. But onions are slightly costlier at Rs. 45 a kg. We expect it to come down to Rs. 25 in a fortnight,” he said. Though fuel price has gone up, it was yet to reflect on the cost of vegetables as freight charges remained the same. There might be a hike around mid-March, Mr. Sukumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-prices-drop-by-20-at-koyambedu-market/article33953245.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held in asphyxiation case at Fort St. George||Personnel from the Fort police station on Saturday arrested two persons from a private contract firm in connection with the asphyxiation of two workers who were cleaning a sewage tank located behind the military campus inside Fort St. George, which houses the Tamil Nadu Secretariat complex. On Friday, five workers, all residents of Annai Sathiya Nagar, were employed by private contract firm Srital Systems to clean a sewage tank. At 11 a.m., one of the workers K. Santhosh, 35, collapsed after inhaling poisonous gases and co-worker K. Raja, 40, who tried to rescue him, also fell unconscious. Another person, Venkatesh, managed to get out of the tank after sensing something was wrong along with two others, Panneerselvam and Manivannan, who suffered discomfort. The staff on the campus pulled out the duo and rushed them to the Military Hospital and then to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where Raja and Santhosh were declared dead due to asphyxiation, police said. Based on a complaint from the wife of one of the deceased, the police booked a case against S. Rajiv, 34, of Perambur, who runs the firm, and M. Gopikannan, 30, a manager of the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-asphyxiation-deaths-at-fort-st-george/article33953243.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15th Assembly witnessed constructive debates, says Speaker||Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal said that while the 15th Assembly witnessed a number of constructive debates, there were certain unsavoury incidents that he would not forget. Speaking on the last day of the 15th Assembly, he said the incidents of February 18, 2017, would be etched in his memory. On that day, the government, led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami, won the no-confidence motion, after violence in the House that led to the eviction of all DMK MLAs and a walkout by their allies. “Despite what transpired that day, I forgave all of them. No action was taken against them. I still abide by the advice given by my late leader Amma [Jayalalithaa] that as the Speaker I should strictly follow the rules and regulations of the House and be neutral,” he said. ‘No personal hatred’ The Speaker said he didn’t have any personal hatred or affection while doing his job. “As a Speaker, I make certain decisions; when they go against some persons, they show their anger on me. In fact, a separate no-confidence motion was brought against me [by the DMK] and was defeated. Although it was based on a wrong understanding of my decisions, I convey my regrets for that. If those incidents by one or two members had not been there, I would have been happier for having been given this post,” he said. While lauding the Chief Minister for attending all the sittings of the House and for guiding his party members in the Assembly, Mr. Dhanapal commended the Opposition benches for putting forth constructive views during debates. “When it was necessary to commend and when it was necessary to criticise, the Leader of the Opposition [M.K. Stalin] did his job quite well,” the Assembly Speaker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15th-assembly-witnessed-constructive-debates/article33952711.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM should look at BJP’s record: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should first look at his own party’s performance in Tamil Nadu before criticising the DMK. “The BJP does not have any representation in the Assembly. The party does not have an MP from the State. Whereas the DMK is a strong Opposition party in the Assembly and is the third largest party in Parliament. Without knowing this, Mr. Modi has remarked that the DMK is losing its strength,” he said. The DMK president was speaking at “Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin (Stalin in your constituency)”, the DMK’s poll outreach programme, in Kancheepuram district. Mr. Stalin said the Prime Minister should get Home Minister Amit Shah to inquire into the number of persons with criminal backgrounds joining the BJP in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. He expressed confidence that the DMK would win the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-should-look-at-bjps-record-stalin/article33952701.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heart flown in from Madurai for transplant||A heart harvested from a brain-dead person in Madurai was flown to Chennai on Saturday and transplanted on a 36-year-old woman with end-stage heart failure at Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC). A release from the hospital said arrangements were made with the help of the police to ensure swift transport of the organ from Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute (VMCHRI) to Madurai airport and from the city airport to RIMC. According to the release, the cadaveric donor was a regular blood donor from Sivaganga district who met with a road accident near his hometown on Tuesday. He was rushed to VMCHRI with severe head injury. Despite treatment, his condition deteriorated and he was declared brain dead on Friday. With his family agreeing to donate, the organs were harvested after adherence to due processes, and the heart was taken to RIMC for the transplant. A team, headed by Sandeep Attawar, programme director, Heart and Lung Transplant, RIMC and KIMS Hospitals, took four hours to perform the transplant and the patient’s condition was stable, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heart-flown-in-from-madurai-for-transplant/article33953238.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for raping minor||Personnel from the Avadi police station arrested a 20-year-old on charges of abducting a 15-year-old girl and raping her. The police said the girl, daughter of daily wagers in Avadi, was alone at home on Thursday, when accused Gnanaprakasam, of Nandavana Mettur, also a daily wager, abducted her. The girl’s parents lodged a police complaint after her disappearance. A special team nabbed the accused and rescued the girl. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-raping-minor/article33953241.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to hold interviews with aspirants||DMK president M.K. Stalin will hold interviews from March 2 to 6 with candidates who have applied for the party ticket in the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Assembly elections. According to an announcement made by DMK general secretary Duraimurugan on Saturday, the interviews would be held at Anna Arivalayam, the party headquarters in Chennai, district-wise. The aspirants should not bring any supporters or recommendations for the interview, he said. Mr. Stalin will seek details about the ground situation and victory prospects, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-hold-interviews-with-aspirants/article33953255.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||G.O. issued on ‘all pass’ announcement||The State government has issued an order instructing the Government Examination Department to take up processes to certify all Class 9, 10, and 11 students of the State board as having passed their annual examinations without having to physically appear for them. The G.O. said all students studying in the three classes in government, aided, self-financing and matriculation schools will not have to take a public examination. The schools must provide a nominal roll of students enrolled in the schools to the Government Examination Department which, in turn, has been urged to issue the pass certificates. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had, on February 25,announced in the Assembly that there would be no examsfor Classes 9, 10 and 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-issued-on-all-pass-announcement/article33953261.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rs. 102. 93 crore required for T.N. polls’||A sum of Rs. 102.93 crore is required for the conduct of the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu slated for April 6, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who holds the Finance portfolio, said on Saturday. Tabling the final supplementary estimates for 2020-21, Mr. Panneerselvam said out of this, a sum of Rs. 102.38 crore has been provided in the estimates and the remaining amount will be met by re-appropriation within the grant of the Public Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-102-93-crore-required-for-tn-polls/article33953264.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nominated to law varsity senate||The State government has nominated designated senior counsel Chitra Sampath and S. Ravindran, practising in the Madras High Court, as members of the Academic Senate of the Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University for three years on the recommendation made by Advocate General Vijay Narayan. Two lawyers from mofussil bar associations and two more from among presidents of district bar associations have also been nominated to the Senate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominated-to-law-varsity-senate/article33953265.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to probe charges against Rajesh Das||The Crime Branch-CID of the Tamil Nadu police will investigate the allegations of harassment levelled by a woman IPS officer against the former Special Director-General of Police, Rajesh Das, police sources said on Saturday. Mr. Das has been placed on compulsory wait. While the State government has already formed a committee, headed by senior IAS officer and Secretary of the Planning and Development Department Jayashree Raghunandan, to investigate the allegations, the DGP has transferred the petition given by the complainant to the CB-CID to register a case and investigate, the sources said. The agency would also investigate the charge against Chengalpattu Superintendent of Police D. Kannan that he intercepted the vehicle of the officer when she was proceeding to the police headquarters and forced her to talk to Mr. Das, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-probe-charges-against-rajesh-das/article33953250.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heart flown in from Madurai for transplant||The heart harvested from a brain-dead person in Madurai was flown to Chennai on Saturday and transplanted to a 36-year-old woman with end-stage heart failure at Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC). A release by the hospital said that arrangements were made with the help of the police to ensure swift transport of the organ from Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute (VMCHRI) in Madurai to the airport there and from Chennai airport to RIMC. According to the release, the cadaveric donor was a regular blood donor from Sivaganga district, who met with a road accident near his hometown on Tuesday. He was rushed to VMCHRI with severe head injury. He was declared brain dead on Friday. A team headed by Sandeep Attawar, programme director – Heart and Lung Transplant, RIMC and KIMS Hospitals, took four hours to perform the transplant and the patient’s condition was stable, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heart-flown-in-from-madurai-for-transplant/article33953387.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Work to set up election control room begins||A day after the Election Commission of India announced the election schedule for Tamil Nadu and three other States, the district administration on Saturday began the process of setting up a control room at the Collectorate. District Collector K. Rajamani had asked a District Revenue Officer-level official to head the control room and that was most likely to be headed by the DRO in-charge of land acquisition for the Coimbatore airport expansion project. The administration was in the process of setting up phone lines with toll-free number. Once complaints start pouring in, the control room staff, who would manage the room 24x7 in turns, would forward the complaints to the DRO-cadre officers. Mr. Rajamani said the administration had calculated that it would need additional 1,300-odd polling booths in the ensuing election to ensure it could enforce COVID-19 safety protocol. Of the 1,300-odd booths, 900-odd booths will be in the same polling station. The rest would be at a premises close by, he said. While identifying voters who would be exercising their franchise in the new booths, the administration had taken care to see to it that people of a street or layout or an area were not divided to poll in two different booths, he added. The increase in number of booths would mean the administration would require more staff. It had identified that it would require an additional 5,516 polling personnel, which it would draw from Central and State government departments and that include public sector undertakings.  Surveillance teams The administration has formed three static surveillance team, three flying surveillance team and two video surveillance team for each Assembly constituency. A total of 230 electronic voting machines have been sent to the returning officers of the 10 Assembly constituencies for training the staff, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-set-up-election-control-room-begins/article33953273.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Himalayan griffon vulture spotted in Coimbatore||A Coimbatore-based birder recently sighted and photographed a Himalayan griffon vulture (Gyps himalayensis) at Anaikatti, the first recording of the large raptor in the district.  An old world vulture native to the Himalayas and Tibetan plateau, Himalayan griffon vulture has previously been sighted at Moyar Valley in the Nilgiris and at Point Calimere in Tamil Nadu.  According to D. Gajamohanraj, who sighted the vulture, he spotted a large raptor on flight from Anaikatti ghat section around 5.10 p.m. while returning home after a regular birding session with his family at the Nilgiri Biosphere Nature Park on February 21. “I immediately stopped the car and took some photographs, and was surprised to see that it was a vulture. As I followed it with my camera, it circled down into the valley below and perched on an Acacia tree, while being mobbed by a group of over 100 crows,” he said. Mr. Gajamohanraj noticed that the bird was quite large in size, unlike any of the other vulture species he had sighted earlier in Coimbatore district - Indian vulture, White-rumped vulture, Red-headed vulture and Egyptian vulture, all residents in Tamil Nadu. The three other species found in Tamil Nadu are migratory, namely Cinereous vulture, Himalayan griffon vulture and Eurasian griffon. Mr. Gajamohanraj consulted with experts and confirmed that the sighting was that of a juvenile Himalayan griffon vulture. “After the vulture perched on the tree, Anaikatti hills received good showers. I returned to the spot early next morning and found the vulture basking in the sun before leaving the place,” he said. Vulture expert B. Ramakrishnan of Government Arts College, Udhagamandalam, said that the Himalayan griffon vulture migrated to other places from its breeding grounds during winter. “Sporadic sighting of Cinereous vulture, Himalayan griffon vulture and Eurasian griffon is reported in Moyar Valley during the migratory season. Juvenile vultures are known for their vagrant movements and travel long distances. Unlike dense forests, like the one at Moyar valley, visibility of carcasses is high in thorny forests such as Anaikatti hills. This could be a reason behind the sighting of the Himalayan griffon vulture at Anaikatti,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/himalayan-griffon-vulture-spotted-in-coimbatore/article33952740.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wine Society formed||Coimbatore now has a wine society, formed with 14 founding members. According to a press release, the Coimbatore Wine Society will enable its members to explore the world of wine, its origins, the culture of the regions where it proliferated, expansion of wine trade, etc. The Society will also organise programmes for its members to understand the evolution of the process of wine-making, the science of viticulture and oenology, the varieties of grapes, terroir, the role of soil, climate and water in the taste and quality of wine, its ageing and ability to preserve. Among several activities planned, the Society will arrange for its members lectures by wine makers, viticulturists and oenologists, the press releas adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wine-society-formed/article33952737.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH gets new dean||Efforts will be taken to strengthen the hospital’s tertiary healthcare services to cater to the needs of the region, said A. Nirmala, the new Dean of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.  She also said that special attention would be given to start high-end procedures at CMCH, also a referral centre in the region, for the benefit of people. Lauded for her work in COVID-19 management as the Dean of the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, Dr. Nirmala took charge as the Dean-cum-Special Officer of CMCH on Saturday. M. Raveendran, former Dean-cum-Special Officer of Government Medical College Hospital, Udhagamandalam, is the new Dean of ESI Hospital, Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-gets-new-dean/article33953282.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SITRA lab to come up on spinners assn. premises||The South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) will set up a laboratory on the premises of the South India Spinners' Association (SISPA) here to test cotton and yarn. N. Murugesan, president of the Spinners' Association, said its members were in need of testing facilities and had submitted a project to the Union Ministry of Textiles. The Ministry said SITRA could set up a facility to cater to the requirements of the members of SISPA. Accordingly, SITRA was setting up the testing facilities on the SISPA premises, and it would be inaugurated on March 4. SISPA had allocated approximately 500 sq.ft. on its premises for the testing centre. The maintenance cost would be shared by both the organisations This facility would benefit the SISPA members as not all of them could become SITRA members and use the facilities and services of the research organisation. SITRA and SISPA had entered into a five-year agreement for this programme. SITRA would install machinery and depute personnel to test cotton and yarn samples given by the SISPA members, numbering nearly 450. SITRA would also extend its training and awareness programmes to SISPA members, Mr. Murugesan said. Since SITRA's testing results was recognised in other countries too, this would help SISPA members. According to an official of SITRA, it will offer the testing services at a special rate to the SISPA members. It will install some of the spare machinery it had and would purchase a couple of more equipment. In case of other tests, the samples would be taken to SITRA and tested at a concessional rate for SISPA members.  SITRA will install machinery and depute personnel to test cotton and yarn samples given by South India Spinners' Association members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sitra-lab-to-come-up-on-spinners-assn-premises/article33952738.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Reservation only for political mileage’||The Society for the Rights of Backward Communities (SFRBC) has alleged that the allocation of 10.5 % special reservation for Vanniyars by the Tamil Nadu Government on Friday was done for political mileage. V. Rathna Sabapathy, president of SFRBC, alleged on Saturday that the ruling dispensation was hurrying with the Draft Act on reservation to Vanniyar and other sub sects only for getting political mileage. “It is a mockery to give a reservation based on 1983 statistics,” he said in a statement.   Mr. Rathna Sabapathy, who met media persons along with State leaders of various communities in Coimbatore, said that the Government had earned the contempt of 160 communities including a few from the erstwhile Most Backward Class group. The organisers announced that they would be conducting awareness meetings at district, town and union level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reservation-only-for-political-mileage/article33953279.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC staff continue strike over transfer of four employees||Though the State-wide strike by the Opposition transport trade unions was called off on Saturday, a section of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) employees continued their agitation at Sungam depot-II in the city demanding the Coimbatore Division of the Corporation to cancel the transfers of four employees. Protesting trade unions including the LPF, CITU, AITUC and INTUC said that four TNSTC employees namely driver S. Mohanraj, conductors N. Thirumoorthy, R. Kamaraj and checking inspector P. Selvaraj were transferred to other locations from Sungam-II depot and Ukkadam. The four employees had actively taken part in the strike on Friday. M. Velankanni Raj, general secretary of CITU’s Coimbatore unit, alleged that the four employees were transferred due to the intervention of leaders of the Anna Thozhil Sanga Peravai, the trade union wing of the ruling AIADMK. “Though the State-wide strike has been called off, the agitation in front of Sungam depot-II over the transfers of the four employees will continue until the TNSTC officials change their decision,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-staff-continue-strike-over-transfer-of-four-employees/article33953275.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen from house at Saravanampatti||Unidentified persons broke into a house at Saravanampatti in the city and took away 30 sovereigns of jewellery. The police said that the gold ornaments were stolen from the house of T. Arunkumar (38) at Thirumurugan Nagar near Saravanampatti, when he was off to Salem between January 30 and Friday. According to the police, the man returned to his house around 10.30 p.m. on Friday and found the back door broken open. On checking, he found 30 sovereigns of jewellery kept in a shelf missing, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen-from-house-at-saravanampatti/article33953280.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA launches development works||Hours ahead of the Election Commission of India announced the election schedule for the State and ushered in the Model Code of Conduct, Singanallur MLA N. Karthik launched development works worth Rs. 85 lakh in his constituency. A release from him said using the funds allotted for his constituency development, the MLA launched the work to build a noon meal centre in Dhanalakshmi Nagar in Ward 53, a shelter for commuters at SIHS Colony, storm water drain in the same area and a few other works that included bore wells.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-launches-development-works/article33953274.ece
28 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||1,817 polling booths in Dharmapuri||The model code of conduct has come into force for the five Assembly constituencies of Dharmapuri, Palacode, Paapireddypatty, Harur (Reserved), and Pennagaram and the Returning Officers have been notified for the segments, said the Collector and district election officer S.P. Karthika here on Saturday. The Returning Officers for Harur and Dharmapuri will be seated at the respective Sub-Collector’s offices, whereas the Returning Officers for other three constituencies will be seated at the respective taluk offices. Flying squad and static surveillance teams have already been pressed into operation since Saturday morning. The static surveillance teams will be stationed at the checkposts and the flying squads will move around the constituency. The number of polling booths is 1,817. There are 56 polling stations designated critical, and 344 polling stations designated as vulnerable. Similarly, 41 locations have been designated for public meetings by the administration. The election control room has also been activated, at toll free number 1077 and whatsapp number 8903891077. COVID management and care is also being given special focus, Ms. Karthika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1817-polling-booths-in-dharmapuri/article33952746.ece
28 February 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP wants to change secular fabric of nation’||Though the elections are to be held for the Assembly in four States, including Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry, the polls had a national significance, said CPI (M) politburo member Prakash Karat in Dindigul on Saturday. Addressing a party workers’ meeting in which he kicked off the poll campaign, he charged that the BJP had been aiming to have ‘one party rule’ in the nation, so as to change the democratic and secular fabric into Hindutva Republic. For the last seven years, they have been working to achieve these goals. The BJP and the RSS do not want any opposition parties. State after State, they have been trying to shun democratic values and establish the BJP-RSS establishment. The BJP, he said, had been claiming to support and protect the Hindus, but they were not. Keeping this in mind, Mr. Karat said that the general elections to the Assembly were important. “We need a like-minded party in all the States, which will oppose tooth and nail the BJP at the Centre. In Tamil Nadu, the DMK-led combine should win hands down as the AIADMK government had neglected the rights of the people and its responsibilities to the BJP,” he charged. The Communist leader said that the BJP does not want any dissent. Be it political, social or from the media. In case of any dissent, those voices would be booked under the sedition laws for expressing different views and jailed. Attacking the BJP government and its leaders, Mr. Karat said that without any discussions, the three controversial farm laws were passed in the Parliament. Due to this autocratic and arrogant attitude, 250 farmers have so far died in the protests, which were being held for the last three months. The farm laws have only benefited corporate houses, who were friends of the BJP, which was the prime reason, the farmers were agitated, he charged. The BJP government was also determined to liquidate the public sector undertakings, so that private players could step into their shoes. The BSNL was a classic case of destruction and dismantling of a well functioning PSU, he alleged. Likewise, the Centre’s labour laws too were draconian. When the major parties opposed it, the AIADMK raised its hands in favour of the BJP in the Parliament, Mr Karat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-aims-to-change-secular-fabric-of-nation/article33952725.ece
28 February 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market inaugurated just before MCC comes into force||Forests Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan inaugurated the newly constructed Gandhi Market here on Friday. As the news about the Election Commission of India’s decision to announce the poll dates to Tamil Nadu and other States at a press conference in New Delhi at 4.30 p.m. started circulating, the concerned officials, in a hurried manner, decided to declare open the Gandhi Market at 2.30 p.m. Besides, the Minister inaugurated a complex near the bus stand at 3 p.m., they added. The Gandhi Market, which housed over 100 shops to sell vegetables, was razed down last year and the Corporation decided to build a new one. Since, COVID-19 pandemic surfaced around March end last year, the market, which was closed for construction, had to be shifted at least to five places for various reasons. First, it was shifted to Mettupatti. Then, the market was put up at the Round Road, MVM College, ITI Grounds and finally at the Dindigul Nehruji Corporation School. However, due to the unseasonal rains, the market had to be removed from the corporation school due to water logging. Then, for a short period, the market functioned at the roadside near the Gandhi Market, which posed severe hurdles to smooth vehicle movement. Under such circumstances, sensing that the ECI’s announcement would stall the government from inaugurating any projects as the model code of conduct (MCC) would be in force from the time the date was announced by the Chief Election Commissioner, the Minister rushed to the two venues and declared them open well before the ECI's announcement. However, political opponents have sharply criticised the move as the construction at the Gandhi Market was yet to be completed and the hurried inauguration would not serve the purpose. CPI (M) former MLA Balabharathi said that the Minister had assured that the Balakrishnapuram bridge construction would be dedicated to the people in March. With not even 50 % of the work done till date, only the next government should take it up earnestly and complete the project. The DMK MLA I. Periasamy also reacted saying that the AIADMK government remained in silent mode all these years. Now, they were attempting to mislead the voters, who would not be fooled this time, he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfinished-gandhi-market-inaugurated/article33952723.ece
28 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Contact numbers of returning officers for constituencies in Erode||The public and political parties can lodge election-related complaints to the respective returning and assistant returning officers in their constituencies for which contact numbers have been published. Details of returning officers and assistant returning officers respectively were, Erode East Assembly Constituency – Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan (Returning Officer) at 94434-28644 and Tahsildar Vijayakumar (Assistant Returning Officer) at 9423-57319; Erode West - Erode Revenue Divisional Officer Saibudeen at 94450-00439 and Tahsildar Balasubramaniam at 94450-00563; Modakurichi – Assistant Commissioner (Excise) P. Jeyarani at 70106-09547 and Tahsildar Shankar Ganesh at 98656-21212; Perundurai – District Civil Supplies Officer M. Elahi John at 99945-79988 and Tahsildar Karthick at 94450-00564; Bhavani – Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer Vanilakshmi Jegadambal at 99449-31659 and Muthukrishnan at 94450-00567; Anthiyur – Backward Class and Minority Welfare Officer Elangovan at 99655-66276 and Tahsildar Veeralakshmi at 94454-61899; Gobichettipalayam – Gobi Revenue Divisional Officer Palanidevi at 94450-00441 and Tahsildar Thiyagarajan at 94450-0056; and Bhavanisagar – Assistant Director (Panchayats) Umashankar at 94438-95338 and Tahdilar Ravishankar at 94450-00569.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contact-numbers-of-returning-officers-for-constituencies-in-erode/article33952753.ece
28 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||2,741 polling stations in Erode||District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan have said that 2,741 polling stations were established at 926 locations in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district for the election scheduled to be held on April 6. Addressing the media at the Collectorate here on Saturday, he said that there are a total of 19,57,203 electors comprising 9,53,767 men 10,03,332 women and 104 third gender. A total of 50,062 electors above 80 years, 14,380 differently-abled persons and 278 ex-servicemen were there in the district. A total of 526 ancillary polling stations were also created in the district. Of this, 193 stations at 72 places were identified as vulnerable, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that 13,157 polling officers and 192 micro observers were appointed for carrying out election duty. A total of 3,454 control units, 4,757 ballot units, 3,695 voter verifiable paper audit trial (VVPAT) machines were kept ready along with necessary batteries. Also, 24 flying squads, 206 doctors in 76 primary health centres, 37 vehicles for emergencies and 550 wheel-chairs for differently abled persons were ready, he added. Apart from this, 24 flying surveillance teams, 24 static surveillance teams, 16 video viewing teams, and 24 video surveillance teams were ready. The Collector said that counting of votes on May 2 will take place at two centres instead of the usual one centre. The votes polled in the constituencies of Erode East, Erode West, Modakurichi, Perundurai, Bhavani and Anthiyur will be counted at Institute of Road and Transport Technology (IRTT) at Chithode while the votes polled in Gobichettipalayam and Bhavani Sagar constituencies will be counted at Gobi Arts and Science College at Gobichettipalayam. Mr. Kathiravan said that complaints related to model code of conduct (MCC) and other election-related complaints can be lodged at the control room’s toll free number 1077 or 0424-2267672. The control room functions round-the-clock and the public can lodge complaints, if any, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2741-polling-stations-in-erode/article33952742.ece
28 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||36 polling stations in hilly areas lack mobile connectivity||As many as 36 polling stations located in the hilly areas in the constituencies of Bhavani Sagar and Anthiyur have no mobile connectivity and the entire polling will be videographed. Of the total 2,215 polling stations located at 926 locations in all the eight constituencies in the district, 118 were identified as places located in remote areas of Bargur and Talavadi where tribal people reside. A total of 16 stations in Bhavani Sagar constituency and 20 stations in Anthiyur are located in remote hilly areas that have no mobile connectivity and passing on the polling percentage will be a challenging task for the election officials. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan said that all the booths are located in shadow zone polling stations and entire polling will be videographed. Sources in the Election Department said that data card or dongle connectivity is not available at these stations and zonal teams will be given the responsibility to pass on the polling percentage to the returning officers concerned once in two hours through SMS. “Officials with the help of local people had identified the nearest places in the hill areas where the minimum net connectivity is available”, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/36-polling-stations-in-hilly-areas-lack-mobile-connectivity/article33952745.ece
28 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Small industries seek export terminal in Erode||The Erode District Small Scale Industries Association (EEDISSIA) has urged the Central government to establish an export terminal either on Sipcot premises at Perundurai or in a nearby area, for the benefit of the industries in the district. Resolution In a resolution passed at its 38th general body meeting, the association urged the government to encourage exports from the district by establishing the terminal. The association also wanted the government to establish food processing units in the district and a research institute. Other resolutions called for simplifying the steps for refund of GST, reducing GST for cloth bags to 5%, and ensuring banks did declare holidays for more than two days a week. The association also called for resolving practical difficulties in ESI and PF laws and simplifying the procedures. The meeting also elected the following persons as its office-bearers: P. Thirumoorthy (president), V.T. Sridhar (vice-president), R. Ram Prakash (secretary) and S. Palanivel (treasurer). The association wanted the District Collector to hold grievances redress meetings with industrialists and entrepreneurs once in two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-industries-seek-export-terminal-in-erode/article33952736.ece
28 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Federation wants items notified in reserve list for power looms||The Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Looms Association has urged the Prime Minister to notify certain items in the reserve list for power looms so that the items are not produced in auto looms in the State. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the federation said power looms provided employment to 10 lakh people in the State and were the second highest provider of employment next to agriculture. Though the growth of the industry was good from 1992 to 2014, it faced challenges thereafter due to auto looms producing plain power loom fabrics, which also resulted in job loss. The letter said that second-hand shuttle-less looms and new shuttle-less looms were involved in producing the plain woven fabrics that were being manufactured by plain shuttle power looms for many decades. “Instead of making value-added articles and innovative products, the auto looms were mostly producing the plain power loom articles, affecting us”, the letter said. The federation said power looms did not get adequate orders due to this problem and over 50% of the units were lying idle. This lead to 40% job loss, with the most affected being women. Hence, the federation wanted plain fabrics from 16s counts to 45s counts and up to 64 inch fabrics to be produced only in normal power looms. It also wanted fabric weight less than 200 gram per square meter (GSM) to be produced only in power looms. These should be notified in the reserve list for power looms and should not be produced in auto looms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/federation-wants-items-notified-in-reserve-list-for-power-looms/article33952733.ece
28 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Political graffiti being removed from compound walls||With the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) for the Assembly election coming into force, election officials have begun works to clear political graffiti from compound walls here on Saturday. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan during a meeting with representatives of recognised political parties held at the Collectorate asked them to remove graffiti on walls in corporation, town panchayats and municipalities. He said that political graffiti, including pasting of posters and wall writings, is not allowed in public or private places under the three local bodies. Graffiti is allowed only in private buildings in village panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-graffiti-being-removed-from-compound-walls/article33952744.ece
28 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||‘Number of check-posts to be increased’||There are currently nine manned inter-State border check-posts and 12 motorable inter-State roads in the district. The number of inter-State border check-posts shall be increased in the coming days, said Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy here on Saturday. Speaking on the sidelines of an all-party meeting, Dr. Reddy, who is also the District Election Officer, said that an inter-State coordination meeting with the officials of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh has yielded to a proposal to put up eight check-posts each on the Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh side of the border. A total of 19 flying squads and static surveillance team have already been constituted. The proposed polling booths for the district were 2298. These include additional polling booths of 435. Of these, there were 286 vulnerable polling stations and one critical polling station. The total number of ballot units is 4006, and control units is 2153. The number of VVPATs is 3003, which is 127% of the polling units, the Collector said. With the Election Commission of India introducing postal ballots based on the requirements for the elderly above 80 years of age and the differently-abled, Dr. Reddy said, it will be considered based on requests. There were 13,723 persons with disabilities, and over 28,543 voters above 80 years of age. With the announcement of the elections, and enforcement of model code of conduct, any advertisements will be added to the party expenditure, he said. The district will go to polls with an electorate of 15,99,018 for the six Assembly constituencies of Krishnagiri, Uthangarai (Reserved), Hosur, Thally, Vepanapalli, and Bargur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-check-posts-to-be-increased/article33952748.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai to have 3,856 polling stations||Madurai district, which has 10 assembly constituencies, will have 3,856 polling booths for the upcoming elections, said District Election Officer and Collector T. Anbalagan, here on Saturday. Addressing the mediapersons, after chairing a meeting with the representatives of recognised political parties, Mr. Anbalagan said that a total of 992 polling booths have been identified as vulnerable ones based on the past elections. He said that each of the constituencies will have three flying squads, three static surveillance teams, and three video surveillance teams. All these teams have started conducting raids and taking action against complaints received from the public, he said. Each constituency will have one general observer, and an observer for election expenditure. Returning Officers have been deputed for all the ten constituencies. A total of 21 places have been identified in Madurai district for conducting public meetings and campaigns. The public can report about Model Code of Conduct and Expenditure violations during the elections through cVIGIL mobile application. The public can file complaints by uploading a photo or video. After rectifying the problem, the officials will upload a photo or video as a proof, he added. COVID-19 safety precautions will be followed during the conduct of the elections. The Collector said that the representatives of recognised political parties had been instructed to follow all the rules issued by the Election Commission of India. The political parties must refrain from distributing cash or gifts to canvass votes. A candidate should not do any activity which may aggravate or create mutual hatred or cause tension between different castes and communities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-to-have-3856-polling-stations/article33953378.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK remote-controlled by BJP, says Prakash Karat||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-led alliance is being remote-controlled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). AIADMK is being used as an instrument by the BJP, which is bad for the people of Tamil Nadu, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) polit bureau member Prakash Karat in Madurai on Saturday. Addressing a public meeting, he charged that the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas had risen across the country, causing severe inconvenience to the public. "Nearly 62% of the price of petrol is from taxes imposed by the government. The government is doing this to spare the Corporates, who enjoyed a major tax benefit as announced in the previous Union budgets. Although CPI (M) has been insisting to reduce the price of petrol, diesel and cooking oil, the government has failed to do so," he said. The announcements made in the Union budget regarding the privatisation of Public Sector Enterprises, including banks, and insurance corporations, are to loot the public resources of the country. When farm laws were announced in the Parliament, it was the CPI (M) MPs who opposed it. "But the AIADMK MPs supported the farm laws. The AIADMK is not in a position to oppose the ‘anti-farmers’ and ‘anti-people’ policies introduced by the BJP government," he said. Mr. Karat said that the BJP government works with the slogan 'one nation, one language, one culture and one leader'. "The RSS and BJP are working against the secular fabric and democracy of the country," he charged. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said that although two years had been completed since the foundation stone was laid for AIIMS in Madurai, there was not much progress with the construction of AIIMS. "The State government delayed the transfer of land to the Centre for construction of AIIMS by two years. Both the Union and State governments show lackadaisical attitude towards setting up AIIMS in Madurai," he added. CPI (M) State Secretary K. Balakrishnan also participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-remote-controlled-by-bjp-says-prakash-karat/article33953384.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Painting competition for students||The Hindu Young World , along with JSW Paints Futurescapes , is conducting a painting competition for school students. As part of the competition, there will be a preliminary round and a final round. For students from Classes 3 to 5, the topics for the competition includes dream house, family picnic and my favourite animal. Students of Classes 6 to 8 can paint on favourite festivals, fun with family and wildlife safari. The topics for students from Classes 9 to 12 are colours of India, family vacation, and clean and green India. Students can choose any one of the topics from the above category and paint on a white drawing sheet. Students must log on tohttp://www.ywc.thehindu. com/jswpaintsto register for the competition. After completing the registration, the students must upload a clear scanned copy of the painting and generate a unique registration number. On the front side of the drawing sheet, the students must write down their registration number and the topic that they have chosen. The back side of the drawing sheet must have the details of the student's name, class, school, city, state, category of participation, parents name, registered email ID and mobile number. A hard copy of the painting must be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu , as chosen by the student during the online registration process. On the top left of the envelope, the students must mention “JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021” . The painting must reach The Hindu Office before March 10. If the student qualifies for the final, the date and details will be intimated to the student through the registered email ID. This competition is open to students residing in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Online registration for the competition is mandatory. Every participant must use their mobile number and email ID for registration. The students may use water colours, crayons and colour pencils. Sketch pens and markers can be used only for outline purposes. Every participant can submit only one painting. The paintings received without the ‘Unique Registration Number’ will not be considered. Paintings received after the set deadline will not be considered. In case of any queries or clarifications, students or parents may call the toll free number 1800 102 1878 from 10:00 AM to 6:00 p.m. (Monday to Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painting-competition/article33952731.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||192 EVMs dispatched||A total of 192 Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) were sent from Madurai Corporation office here on Saturday to the special camps across the district to create awareness among the public about voting ahead of the upcoming assembly elections. The EVMs were dispatched in the presence of Divisional Revenue Officer Senthilkumari and Madurai Corporation Deputy Commissioner Sangeetha. Representatives of various political parties were also present. Ms. Senthilkumari said that 5% of the total number of EVMs of the district had been sent for creating an awareness among the public across the 10 constituencies of the district. "The public will be sensitised to the use of EVMs during the elections," she said. The same EVMs will be used to train the officials ahead of the elections. "After the training, the EVMs will be separately stored and will not be used for the elections," she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/192-evms-dispatched/article33953376.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special Court inaugurated in Madurai||Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee inaugurated a special court to deal with cases pertaining to offences in contravention of the provisions of the Mines and Minerals Act on the district court campus, here on Friday. The Chief Justice inaugurated the special court in the presence of the Administrative Judge of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Justice M.M. Sundresh and the Principal District Judge P. Vadamalai. The members of the Bar Associations in the district court were present at the event. They put forth a few demands that included an additional court building and advocate chambers on the district court campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-court-inaugurated/article33952732.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court comes to the rescue of police aspirant||Coming to the relief of a police aspirant, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the State to appoint the woman to the post of Sub-Inspector of Police (finger print). The State had rejected the candidate on the ground of inadequate eyesight. The court held that she could do the work. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi held that it was not the case of the candidate that she could not do the work. Inadequate eyesight makes a person wear eyeglasses and once such a glass is worn, then that deficiency goes away. Therefore, such a person becomes eligible on a par with other person, who performs without glasses. The court was hearing the appeal preferred by the State against the single bench order that had directed the State to appoint S. Durga Devi to the post. It took into account the fact that the recruitment notification did not specify visual standards. It said that it was not as if work cannot be done by wearing glasses. What the candidate lacked was adequate eye power. Dismissing the appeal filed by the State, the court said that the notification does not specify the extent of the visual standards and even otherwise, the candidate can perform the work by wearing glasses. One has to see the eligibility and suitability of the candidate to the post. But such eligibility cannot be fixed on the basis of a candidate with or without eyeglasses, the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-comes-to-the-rescue-of-police-aspirant/article33953377.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Focus on child rights and protection||The role of the media in providing ethical coverage on child rights and child issues is important to protect the children who are voiceless and powerless, said A. Devaneyan, Director of Thozhamai, a non-governmental organisation, here on Friday. He was addressing the mediapersons as part of a workshop, organised by Unicef and Thozhamai, to sensitise the journalists to their contribution to end violence against children and child marriage. Although children form a large proportion of the population, a very few stories about children are reported across media platforms. It is important for journalists to provide details to the public about authorities who can be contacted regarding child issues. With the aim to report a story first, journalists often reveal several details about children through media platforms. In such circumstances, it is important to question if stories are reported in the interests of children. When there are separate beats to cover various issues, media platforms must also have reporters who mainly cover child issues. The instances of child marriages, illegal adoption and missing children are high in Tamil Nadu, he said. Senior journalist Shanmuga Sundaram, and Lily Margaret, senior programme coordinator of Thozhamai, also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-child-rights-and-protection/article33953386.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Weekly special train||The Western Railway will run a weekly special train between Okha and Thoothukudi from April 4. Train No.09568 Okha - Thoothukudi Weekly Special on Fridays will leave Okha at 12.55 a.m. on and from April 2 and reach Thoothukudi at 4.45 a.m. on the third day. In return direction Train No.09567 Thoothukudi - Okha Weekly Special on Sundays will leave Thoothukudi at 10 p.m. on and from April 4 and reach Okha at 3.35 a.m., on the fourth day. Train No.09568 Okha - Tuticorin Weekly Special will have additional stoppage at Khambhaliya. Train No.09567 Tuticorin - Okha Weekly Special will have additional stoppages at Kovilpatti and Yelahanka.  Reservation for the above trains will open on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekly-special-train-from-april-4/article33953388.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC: Trial court cannot be blamed for delay in trial||Disposing of a petition that sought to quash a case pending before a special court for cases under Prevention of Corruption Act, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court observed that no one could be blamed for delay in trial due to the COVID-19 situation. It can only be considered as an Act of God. The court directed the trial to be completed in six months. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Rajendran, an accused in a corruption case. He filed the petition seeking to quash the proceedings pending before special court in Tiruchi, for the second time. Earlier, the court in 2019 had disposed of his first petition with a direction to the trial court to complete the trial in one year. Justice K. Murali Shankar observed that due to the COVID-19 lockdown, all the courts in the country were functioning virtually. But the virtual hearing was effective only for the final hearing cases and not for examination of witnesses, that too in cases relating to Vigilance and Anti Corruption where witnesses are being cross-examined at length. Simply, because the trial was not completed as per the direction of the court, it cannot be said that the petitioner is entitled to take advantage of the same, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-trial-court-cannot-be-blamed-for-delay-in-trial/article33953381.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Advocates chambers in HC to be re-opened||The advocates chambers at the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court will be reopened from March 1, said a High Court notification. With the decrease in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, the High Court has decided to re-open the law chambers situated on the premises of the Madurai Bench from March 1. The COVID-19 guidelines have to be adhered to and if there were a spurt in cases, the measures will be rolled back, said the notification. Advocates were requested to keep their chambers open from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday for carrying out cleaning and sanitisation works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocates-chambers-to-be-re-opened/article33952721.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Retired woman HC judge should probe complaint’||People’s Watch, Madurai-based NGO, said it was shocked to hear the complaint of sexual harassment at the workplace against former DGP Law and Order Rajesh Das. It called for an independent probe into the complaint by a retired woman judge of the Madras High Court. In a press release, its Executive Director Henri Tiphagne said if a senior officer in the rank of a DGP whose task was to maintain law and order across the State, was accused of sexual harassment at the workplace by a senior woman IPS officer, then it deserved the strongest condemnation by every citizen and human rights institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-woman-hc-judge-should-probe-complaint/article33952689.ece
28 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||water||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 128.75 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 179 cusecs and a discharge of 300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 65.52 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 620 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,082 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water/article33952728.ece
28 February 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||2,049 polling booths to be set up in Namakkal||District Collector and District Election Officer K. Megraj held meetings with government officials on implementation of model code of conduct and provided necessary instructions for smooth conduct of elections. Mr. Megraj said that 2,049 polling booths would be set up in the district in six Assembly constituencies and added that till date, 240 booths have been identified as sensitive. Mr. Megraj said that 18 flying squads and 18 static surveillance teams have been formed with three teams for each of the constituencies. Public are not allowed to carry more than Rs. 50,000 and they should have necessary proof for the amount. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said that each SST has been provided with 20 points for surveillance. All vehicles have been provided with GPS facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2049-polling-booths-to-be-set-up-in-namakkal/article33952749.ece
28 February 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Three held with jewellery stolen from temple||Namakkal police arrested three youth while splitting valuables stolen from various parts of the district on Friday. Police said they were found in possession of temple jewellery and other valuables near Keerambur toll plaza by the public and they were arguing on splitting the loot. Public nabbed the youth and tied them down. They shot video of the incident on their mobile phones and the video went viral. The suspects threatened the public in the video and claimed that they would walk out of the prison in a month. The accused were identified as Murugan, Surendran and Karuppusamy from Madurai. Based on the alert, Paramathy police arrested the youth and they were remanded. Temple jewellery worth about Rs. 1 lakh was stolen from Setrukal Mariamman Temple here recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-with-jewellery-stolen-from-temple/article33952751.ece
28 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry logs one death||The Union Territory on Saturday registered one COVID-19 death and 20 new cases. An 87-year-old-person with co-morbidity died at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research Jipmer taking the toll due to the virus to 668. Of the new admissions, nine each were from Puducherry and Karaikal regions while the remaining two were from Yanam region. The new cases were detected from 1,414 tests conducted in all the four regions. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 6,27,975 persons were tested for the virus, according to the data released by the Health Department on Saturday. As of now, there are 30 patients at Jipmer and 50 at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute. There are 21 patients at government hospitals in the three other regions. Another 96 virus infected persons are under home isolation, the Health Department data said. Fatality rate The case fatality rate now stood at 1. 68 % and recovery rate at 97. 82 %. In the Union Territory, a total of 39,717 persons got infected and 38,852 people got treated and discharged, data said.  Meanwhile, the vaccination drive had covered over 10,000 persons on Saturday. Of the targeted population for the vaccination in the first phase, the Health Department had so far vaccinated 9,589 healthcare personnel and 740 frontline workers in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-one-death-and-20-new-covid-19-cases/article33953466.ece
28 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Masi Magam’ festival celebrated||Hundreds of devotees thronged the Vaithikuppam beach on Saturday to offer worship on the occasion of the ‘Masi Magam’ festival. ‘Utsava’ deities from around 100 temples in Puducherry and the neighbouring districts of Tamil Nadu were brought to Vaithikuppam for the annual ‘Theerthavari’ ceremony. The idols were taken in a procession through the thoroughfares for the puja on the beach. Devotees offered prayers and took a dip in the sea to pay obeisance to their forefathers by offering ‘tharpanam.’ Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan visited the Pachai Vazhi Amman Temple at Vaithikuppam and then visited the beach to offer worship to the deities brought from various temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masi-magam-festival-celebrated/article33953462.ece
28 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Wall painting for campaign purposes banned in U.T.||Wall painting with ink, chalk, paint or any other material for the purpose of political propaganda and electioneering has been banned till the completion of the Assembly election process in the Union Territory. Special Secretary (Revenue) Purva Garg, in a notification, said the Lt. Governor had directed that “no person shall impair or interfere with the appearance and beauty or damage, disfigure, erect, fix, spoil or injure in any manner or deface any place open to public in the whole of the Union Territory.” However, programmes conducted by the government, under the Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP), for election purposes have been exempted, the notification said. The notification has been issued on the directions of the Election Commission of India to ensure the conduct of free and fair elections and to ensure a level-playing field for all political parties and candidates. Political parties, candidates or their supporters should desist from wall writing and painting, Ms. Garg said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wall-painting-for-campaign-purposes-banned-in-ut/article33953460.ece
28 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||50 officers undergo training||The Town and Country Planning Department conducted a training programme for 50 officers in Puducherry. Inaugurating the programme, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said “training improves the efficiency of working of an individual.” The method of training is very important and the person who gives the training is also very important, Ms. Soundararajan also said. Secretary K. Mahesh, in a release issued here, said around 50 officers from the Town and Country Planning Authority, Puducherry Slum Clearance Board, Smart City, Public Works Department and Hindu religious institutions participated in the training programme. Senior Adviser, NITI Aayog, Prem Singh conducted the training programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-officers-undergo-training/article33953464.ece
28 February 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng Ayyanar temple, garland horse idol||The annual Masi Magam festival held at Sri Perungaraiyadi Meenda Ayyanar Temple in Kulamangalam near Alangudi began on Friday with thousands of devotees thronging the temple to offer prayers and garland a horse idol. The devotees garlanded the 35-foot-tall horse as a sign of gratitude for a good year and hope for a better one. Though devotees visit the temple on the Villuni riverside throughout the year, huge crowds descend during the Tamil month of Masi when the festival is celebrated. Devotees in the town buy garlands big enough for the horse idol and take it to the temple on their vehicles. “While they say that the garlands used to be made of flowers, we now use coloured paper as it is difficult to make garlands that big for so many devotees,” said A. Ananthakumar, a devotee. The garlands are taken to the temple located outside the village on big vehicles, including mini vans and tractors, where special harnesses are used to garland the horse. “We do not want to damage the structure, so this set-up works well,” he said. Devotees spend two days garlanding the horse, after which prayers are offered to the presiding deity at the temple. While plastic garlands were in use, temple authorities have been insisting against its use over the last few years, devotees said. Over 20 families are engaged in making the garlands in the village and surrounding villages. Police personnel were posted to ensure safety of the devotees while at least 25 spots were earmarked for annadhanam. A float festival forms part of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-ayyanar-temple-garland-horse-idol/article33952681.ece
28 February 2021||R. KrishnamoorthyTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘All pass’ decision leaves teachers confused||Teachers handling secondary and higher secondary classes are apparently confused after the State government announced its ‘all pass’ decision for students of Classes IX to XI as there was no mention about students attending daily classes. Schools were opened for Classes X and XII on January 19 to prepare students for the public examinations, and the Chief Educational Officers of the respective revenue districts were entrusted with the responsibility of conducting mid-term examinations during the first week of March. After the announcement on cancellation of exams, the teachers have no idea whether or not they must continue with handling the subjects for completing the assigned portions. The State government had, earlier this year, reduced the content and the teachers were mid-way through completing the portions. All through the 2020 calendar year, students were taught through the State-run Kalvi education TV channel. But teachers had no way of monitoring their academic progress. The syllabus of students had to be downsized subsequently by the School Education Department taking into account the practical difficulties of teachers and students. “Irrespective of whether or not the exam will be conducted, we will continue with the task of completing the portions for Class X, since they will have to attend the school during March-April,” a teacher said. School heads acknowledge that the confusion among teachers need to be addressed, as the students have not been told that they do not have to attend the classes for the rest of the academic year. “There is no instructions as yet on 10th students coming to the school. Till further instructions, the students will be attending classes. The difference, however, is that they will be attending school without any stress about the examination factor,” Chief Educational Officer R. Arivazhagan said. CBSE Meanwhile, the Central Board of Secondary Schools do not see any cause for complacency since they have been issued clear instructions to take steps to identify and resolve learning gaps and conduct examinations for Classes IX and XI by following COVID-19 safety protocol. The Board has also recommended that the new academic session may begin from April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-pass-decision-leaves-teachers-confused/article33952710.ece
28 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Assn. seeks action in sexual harassment complaint||‘Voice of Voiceless’, an association of former police officers here have sent a memorandum to State DGP demanding stern action in the sexual harassment complaint filed by a woman IPS officer recently. The organisation condemned the alleged behaviour of a senior police officer and said that the alleged incident defamed and brought down the image of Tamil Nadu police. M. Ashok Kumar, president of the organisation, said that the incident is condemnable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assn-seeks-action-in-sexual-harassment-complaint/article33952750.ece
28 February 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Four gored to death||Four persons were killed at a manjuvirattu held as part of the Sri Baladhandayuthapani Swami Temple festival at Araliparai near Singampunari here on Friday. Police said that Sethu (45) of Tirupathur Pudur, Ajit Kumar (26) of Athangudi, Marudu (40) of Namanoor and Mahesh (33) of Melavannar Iruppu died after they were gored by bulls. The bodies were sent to the Government Hospital for post-mortem. Further investigation is on. As many as 94 spectators, who were injured, were treated as out-patients and four among them were referred to Sivaganga Government Hospital. The temple, which has been celebrating Maasi Maham festival, conducted the manjuvirattu on the 10th day of the celebrations and a large number of spectators participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-gored-to-death/article33952729.ece
28 February 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Toll up||Sixth worker in the Kalayarkurichi fire accident reported on Thursday succumbed to injuries here on Saturday. The deceased was identified as M. Mariappan (60) of Sukravarpatti. He had sustained 100% burns and was under treatment at the GH here. With this, four women and two men have been killed in the accident reported at Thangaraj Pandian fireworks under M. Pudupatti police station limits. Two persons have been arrested, including the owner. The condition of two more workers is said to be critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-up/article33952726.ece
28 February 2021||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||New GM for BHEL Ranipet Unit||P. Raguraman, 58, has assumed charge as the General Manager and head of the Ranipet unit of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited. Mr. Raguraman was earlier heading the operations of the Ranipet unit as General Manager since February 2019. He succeeds C. Murthy, who superannuated on February 24 after serving the company for more than 36 years, a press release issued said. An alumna of the Regional Engineering College, Trichy, Mr. Raguraman joined the Trichy unit of BHEL as an engineer trainee in 1985 and served in various positions. The release said he was instrumental in developing markets for valves and oil field equipment in West Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-gm-for-bhel-ranipet-unit/article33953463.ece
28 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Election control room set up||A control room to receive complaints with respect to violations of model code of conduct and other election-related grievances or suggestions has been set up at the Collectorate here. Disclosing this to reporters here on Saturday, the District Election Officer and Collector, M. Govinda Rao said that apart from toll-free number 1950, the public could also dial 04362 230121 to bring the MCC violations to the notice of the officials or to air any grievances relating to the election process in the eight Assembly segments in Thanjavur district. Returning Officers Stating that the control room would function round-the-clock, he said the following officials would act as Returning Officers of the Constituencies indicated against their positions: District Supply Officer, Thanjavur (94450 00286) - Thiruvidaimaruthur; Revenue Divisional Officer, Kumbakonam (94450 00466) – Kumbakonam; District Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribe Welfare Officer, Thanjavur (97867 59657) – Papanasam; District Backward Class and Minorities Welfare Officer, Thanjavur (94421 49101) – Thiruvaiyaru; Revenue Divisional Officer, Thanjavur (94450 00465) – Thanjavur; Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Thanjavur (94450 74594) – Orathanadu; Sub-Collector, Pattukottai (94450 00467) – Pattukottai; and Deputy Tahsildar (independent), Stamp Duty, Thanjavur (96001 75148) – Peravurani Assembly constituency. ‘Erase symbols’ Adding that the political parties have been given two days’ time starting from the Election Commission’s announcement of the election date on Friday evening to erase their respective party election symbols and other announcements through wall paintings/plaques and to remove their party flags and flag masts from public places, the DEO said that flying squads, three for each constituency, have been formed to monitor the implementation/violations of the MCC. In addition to the flying squads, three static surveillance teams for each Assembly segment had also been formed. Nine check posts The police have also set up check posts at nine entry points to the district to monitor movements of vehicles, he added. Complaints/grievances relating to the election process could also be lodged with the Returning Officers, Mr. Govinda Rao added.  The phone numbers  Toll-free number 1950 or 04362 230121 can be used to file complaints on MCC violations  Complaints/grievances regarding the election process could be lodged with Returning Officers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-control-room-set-up/article33952690.ece
28 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Clarification to be sought on vaccination for booth agents||Clarification will be sought from the Election Commission on whether booth agents appointed by political parties should be vaccinated for COVID 19, Collector and District Election Officer M. Govinda Rao said. Talking to reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Rao said that though getting vaccinated to avoid COVID-19 virus infection remains voluntary, the Election Commission had insisted that those drafted for election duty should have taken the vaccine. 16,000 taken shots In Thanjavur district, around 16,000 government officials/staff of different departments have taken the vaccination shots so far, the DEO said by pointing out that nearly 80% of the District Police personnel and 78% of the government employees coming under the control of the Assistant Director (Panchayats) have taken the vaccination. When asked whether the vaccination compliance clause for deployment in poll duty would also be applicable to booth agents/counting agents to be appointed by the political parties, Mr. Rao said the District Election Wing would be seeking clarification in this regard from the Election Commission. At this juncture, the DEO added that steps were also being initiated to provide COVID-19 vaccination for the media personnel too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarification-to-be-sought-on-vaccination-for-booth-agents/article33952691.ece
28 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Medical camp||A total of 120 persons availed the services at a free medical camp organised by Sevalaya at Katharinatham near Ammapettai on February 26. According to a Sevalaya release, the camp was inaugurated by panchayat union chairman V. Kalaiselvan. Medical tests to detect heart disease, blood pressure, diabetes and other ailments were conducted on the patients. Medicines were distributed free of cost to the patients, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-camp/article33952692.ece
28 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rahul Gandhi accuses BJP-RSS of dislodging elected governments||Accusing the BJP-RSS of using “unimaginable money power” to dislodge governments, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that all vital institutions, which are keeping democracy vibrant, have been systematically destroyed. “I am sad to tell you that Indian democracy is now dead,” he said, interacting with advocates at VOC College in Thoothukudi, commencing his three-day electioneering in the southern districts. He accused the BJP–RSS of unleashing the Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax, CBI and other agencies against the Opposition parties and its MLAs. They were using “unimaginable money power to dislodge the governments elected by the people”. The elected governments of Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Goa and Arunachal Pradesh had been dislodged with money and these agencies, he alleged. If an elected representative like MLA could not sustain the pressure, how could others bear with this onslaught? While the BJP was getting thousands of crores of rupees as donation, the business houses giving funds to the Opposition parties were being targeted and destroyed, he alleged. “If we raise this issue in Parliament, we are not allowed to speak. The people of this country alone can get the remedy for these serious issues,” Mr. Gandhi said. He alleged that the RSS and the BJP had penetrated the judiciary and bureaucracy and the media, which were facing a huge challenge from this combine. This dangerous combo was unleashing a sustained attack on secularism, the foundation of the country. He said the three new farm laws had been designed to wreck the agriculture sector while two or three corporate firms were getting immensely benefited out of it. Terming it as highly discriminatory, he slammed the Centre for enacting the Citizenship Amendment Act. “There is one place where we can get a remedy and that is the people, who alone can save this country. I have been honest throughout my political career. No ED, CBI is going to affect me. That is why no corruption charges can be levelled against me. That is why they keep attacking me 24x7,” he said. Batting for 50% reservation for women in Parliament, the Assemblies and in every institution across the country, he said that women should be given more space and that “Indian men need to change the way they look at women”. When a participant termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as useless, he intervened and said, “He is useless to the poor while extremely useful for two persons. Hum do hamare do (We two, ours two).” Chinese intrusion On the recent Chinese aggression, Mr. Rahul said Mr. Modi, who was scared of China, miserably failed to check the intrusion in Doklam. “Our land is not going to come back to us under this government. India will lose land. China will not stop at Ladakh,” he said and added there was a similar attempt by China in 2013 when the Congress was in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-gandhi-accuses-bjp-rss-of-dislodging-elected-governments/article33952700.ece
28 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow code of conduct’||Collector K. Senthil Raj on Saturday said that masks, with the symbol of a party, would be treated as expenditure of political parties/contestants. Speaking to reporters, he said that the campaign shall be conducted between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Any violation would be dealt with by the officials concerned as per the Election Commission of India’s guidelines. Any complaints on money for votes or other forms, the public can use the CvigilApp and action would be taken. Similarly, political parties/contestants seeking permission for organising rallies/public meetings can access SuvidhaApp and for those wanting to get approval for vehicle use shall access SugamApp. There should not be any speech or act, which may trigger any unrest among any community or caste in any manner, the Election Officer said. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu said on Saturday that as per the guidelines of the ECI, static surveillance teams, flying squads and other committees had been formed and the officers concerned would undergo training soon. There were 316 sensitive polling stations identified in the district. A special control room had been opened at the Collector's office and the public can get in touch at 18004258373 or 1950.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-code-of-conduct/article33953527.ece
28 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Election officials remove graffiti from public walls in Tiruchi||Election officials on Saturday began a drive to remove graffiti of political parties on public walls in Tiruchi and other parts of the district. While the portraits of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa were removed from the Collector Office, Corporation Office and other offices of the State government, the officials removed the portraits of political leaders and paintings on Amma canteens. The officials tasked with the removal of graffiti visited various parts of the city and erased paintings of the AIADMK and the DMK. Collector cum District Election Officer S. Sivarasu, who presided over an all-party meeting here on Saturday, said that political parties had been instructed to remove flag posts in public places within two days. Otherwise, the officials would remove them and the expenditure for removing the posts would be collected and added to the expenditure of the political parties. He said that no candidate or political party would be allowed to campaign between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. It was mandatory to get permission for writing wall paintings and banners on private walls. Political parties should desist from campaigning at religious places. The parties and candidates should get permission online for public meetings. No traffic disruption It should not disrupt the traffic movement and the normal life of the people. Mr. Sivarasu said that the Election Commission had instructed to take stern action against those distributing cash or kind to voters. Flying squads and static surveillance teams had begun monitoring movement of vehicles transporting cash and materials. There was no ban to carry cash up to Rs. 50,000. Valid documents were required to carry cash above the limit or other materials. Otherwise, the election officials would seize them. He said that instances of COVID-19 cases were on the rise in Maharashtra and Kerala. It was noted that there had been a slight increase in COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. Hence, political parties, candidates and voters should exercise maximum vigil. Eligible persons should get the vaccination. M. Anbazhagan (DMK), V. Jawahar (Congress), Boopathy (AIADMK) and leaders of various parties participated in the all-party meet. Earlier, Mr. Sivarasu held a meeting with Commissioner of Police Loganathan and Returning Officers and Assistant Returning Offices of nine Assembly constituencies in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-officials-remove-graffiti-from-public-walls-in-tiruchi/article33952684.ece
28 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dislodge unholy alliance: Brinda||CPI (M) politburo member, Brinda Karat, on Saturday said that the “unholy” AIADMK- BJP alliance should be voted out of power in the coming Assembly elections. Addressing a public meeting at Tiruverumbur, she charged that the BJP leaders had been spreading hatred among people with an ulterior motive to divide them on communal lines. The BJP was using religion as an instrument to divide the people. The unique identity of the Tamils, their culture and rights had been facing a severe threat. But the AIADMK government had never raised its voice against the oppressive policies of the Centre. Coming down heavily on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, she said that several States, including Kerala, had passed legislations against the three farm laws of the Centre. But he had not only failed to register his protest but also voiced his support to the laws. His party should be given a fitting reply by the farmers for “betraying” them, she said. ‘Poor performance’ Earlier, addressing a press meet, she flayed the Centre for reducing funds for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in its Budget this year, Ms. Karat claimed that Tamil Nadu fared poorly in implementing the scheme during the pandemic last year when the rural workers were badly in need of a “livelihood lifeline.” “The average workdays under the scheme during the pandemic was just 45. The average wage was Rs. 191, which was among the worst in the country, against the centrally notified wage of Rs. 256 a day,” she said. In Tamil Nadu, 26% of the MGNREGS workers belonged to Scheduled Castes and 86 % were women. They were the worst hit. At a time when the pandemic resulted in job loss in organised and unorganised sectors, the State government failed to act to “fill 2.88 lakh vacancies in government departments,” she said.   The unique identity of the Tamils, their culture and rights have been facing a severe threat  Brinda Karat CPI (M) politburo member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vote-out-unholy-alliance-brinda-karat-urges-voters/article33953259.ece
28 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Change of govt. imminent in T.N.: Brinda Karat||It is undeniable that there is going to be a change of government in Tamil Nadu and the people have been waiting for the opportunity (to usher in the change), Brinda Karat, politburo member, Communist Party of India-Marxist, said here on Saturday. Accusing the AIADMK government of being subservient to the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre and toeing its “anti-people” policies, Ms. Karat predicted that the AIADMK-BJP combine will be “soundly defeated” in the election. It is shameful that the AIADMK government, which claims to be pro-farmer, has not come out in support of farmers fighting against the three new farm laws, which are “designed to benefit a few corporates,” she said. Flaying the Centre for reducing funds for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in its Budget this year, Ms. Karat claimed that Tamil Nadu fared poorly in implementing the scheme during the pandemic last year when the rural workers were badly in need of a “livelihood lifeline.” “The Union government has cut funds for MGNREGS by 34.5%. While there has been strong criticism against the Centre’s move, the AIADMK government was conspicuously silent on the issue,” Ms. Karat said addressing a press conference. “The average workdays under the scheme during the pandemic was just 45. The average wage was Rs. 191, which was among the worst in the country, against the centrally notified wage of Rs. 256 a day,” she said. In Tamil Nadu, 26% of the MGNREGS workers belonged to Scheduled Castes and 86 % were women. The poorer sections were the worst hit. At a time when the pandemic has resulted in job loss in organised and unorganised sectors, the Tamil Nadu government has failed to act to “fill 2.88 lakh vacancies in government departments,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-of-government-imminent-in-tamil-nadu-says-brinda-karat/article33952688.ece
28 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||55 new cases, two deaths in central region||The central region reported 55 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. One death was reported in Thanjavur district where a 70-year-old man with a history of acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to COVID-19. In Thanjavur, 28 patients tested positive for COVID-19 and the samples of eleven others returned positive in Tiruchi. Three discharged Three patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Five fresh cases were reported in Karur. Four cases each were reported in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur. Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai reported one case each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/55-new-cases-two-deaths-in-central-region/article33952686.ece
28 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Metttur dam stood at 103.23 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 413 cusecs and the discharge 1,500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33952694.ece
28 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Join hands to show new direction to India: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday called upon the people of Tamil Nadu to join hands with him in salvaging the State from rampant corruption and showing a new direction to the nation. “I request the highly affectionate, lovable and dignified people of Tamil Nadu, who consider self-respect as the most valuable virtue, to join hands with us to show new direction to India and save Tamil Nadu from rampant corruption,” he said addressing a mammoth party meeting near Nanguneri in the evening. Tamil Nadu where there was no dearth for skilled workforce was reeling under unemployment primarily due to the Narendra Modi-led government’s policies like GST, demonetisation and hefty taxes on fuel price that had destroyed the country’s small, tiny and marginal industries, the backbone economy. While a couple of corporate houses could get any amount of loan they want from banks in no time, no loan was being given to the small, tiny and marginal industries capable of creating hundreds of lakhs of jobs, he charged. While helping the huge business houses a lot, the small, tiny and marginal manufacturing units had been wiped out leaving several crores of families in the lurch and millions of dynamic youths with immeasurable dreams and innovative ideas unemployed. “If the governments can nurture these youth in proper manner, then Tamil Nadu can challenge China, which is dumping everything right from mobile phone to shoes in India,” he felt. Claiming that he cannot be scared by central agencies, he wondered how long it would take for Mr Modi and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to fall asleep peacefully. He charged Mr Modi with coercing the “corrupt” rulers of Tamil Nadu and was thinking that he could control the Tamils too, which would never be possible. “The gracious and kind-hearted Tamils can be won only through love and affection and not through coercion,” he said. Mr. Modi, who is thrusting upon ‘one culture one nation’ should be resisted with all might, he said addressing the public at Sattankulam. Training guns on Mr Palaniswami, he alleged the “corrupt administration” in the State was being blackmailed by the Union Government. Mr. Gandhi met the family of trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks who died due to alleged police torture in Sattankulam police station on June 18, 2020. “If you encounter any hurdle during the course of the trial of the case, you can approach our party workers, who will help you in every possible way,” he promised the devastated family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/join-hands-to-show-new-direction-rahul/article33953260.ece
28 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Murderers of democracy’ will be taught a fitting lesson, says Sanjay Dutt||Terming the recent political development in Puducherry that resulted in the ouster of Congress government as ‘murder of democracy’, national secretary of Congress Sanjay Dutt has said the people of the Union Territory would teach a fitting lesson to those assailants in the ensuing Assembly polls. “Since the government elected by them for a full term of five years has been murdered midway, they will teach an unforgettable lesson to the murderers of democracy,” Mr. Sanjay Dutt said. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Mr. Sanjay Dutt said the BJP, after crippling the functioning of the Narayanasamy-led Puducherry Government through the Lieutenant Governor, had murdered democracy in the Union Territory through coercion and all other means.Unfortunately, the people could not enjoy the fruits of the welfare schemes introduced for their well-being. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who did not visit the people of Puducherry and Tamil Nadu when cyclones repeatedly devastated these areas, is coming again and again to fetch votes. The people of Puducherry are silently witnessing what is happening and will teach a fitting lesson to the BJP and its allies in the forthcoming Assembly election,” Mr. Sanjay Dutt said. While various arms of the Union Government were exerting pressure on the Opposition parties and threatening its MPs and the MLAs, the charges against the Union Ministers were gathering dust for reasons best known to the Centre. Even as the crude oil price in the international market was tumbling, the fuel price in India was sky-rocketing leaving the common man in trouble. Consequently, prices of essential commodities were also shooting up threateningly, he said. He came down heavily on the Union Government for exporting COVID-19 vaccines to foreign countries even as the citizens of this populous country were desperately waiting for it. Mr. Sanjay Dutt said the 3-day whirlwind tour of their leader Rahul Gandhi in the southern districts from Saturday (February 27) would rejuvenate the Congress. “He will meet saltpan workers, professors, academicians, small traders, farmers, fishermen and the students during this tour,” he said. Tiruchi MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar said the recent tours of Mr. Rahul Gandhi in Tamil Nadu had invigorated the party. Having understood Tamils’ love for ‘Nehru Family’, he had planned two more rounds of visits to Tamil Nadu. He claimed that the first round of seat sharing talks with the DMK had concluded in a “satisfactory manner” though no agreement was reached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murderers-of-democracy-will-be-taught-a-lesson/article33953284.ece
28 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||water||The water level in Papanasam dam was 120 feet (max level 143 ft) with an inflow of 295.14 cusecs and discharge of 567.25 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 107.70 ft (max level 118 ft) with an inflow of 119 cusecs and discharge of 445 cusecs. There was no rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water/article33953524.ece
28 February 2021||Tirupattur,TAMIL NADU||Tirupattur govt. doctors treat child with rare condition||Doctors at the Special Newborn Care Unit (SNCU), Tirupattur Government Hospital, successfully treated a 24-day-old baby girl who was diagnosed with diabetic ketoacidosis and acute renal failure, and was brought in a critical state to the hospital last week. Doctors claim this is a rare presentation during the newborn period. The baby girl, daughter of Sivaranjini from Tirupathur, was born in Vellore Medical College Hospital, Adukamparai. Though her birth weight was 2.8 kg, it dropped to 1.78 kg and the parents complained that the child was feeding poorly and suffered from breathlessness. She was brought to the SNCU last Sunday, and doctors R. Senthil Kumaran, nodal officer of the unit and Shakti Ganesan, paediatrician, checked the child’s condition. They also checked with S. Srinivasan, state nodal officer, SNCU and took his guidance for treating the child. “The child's blood sugar level was around 700 mg/dl; her kidney was also in the process of shutting down and she was severely dehydrated. It was diabetic ketoacidosis. We immediately administered insulin through intravenously and slowly, her blood sugar levels started dropping,” said R. Senthil Kumaran, nodal officer. Subsequently the baby’s renal parameters started improving and the blood urea levels also reduced. “She was brought out from her critical condition on February 23. Now, the child is taking oral feeds and is recuperating,” he added. Dr. Kumaran said that this was a rare presentation in the newborn period. This condition could have been caused by faulty feeding, like introducing artificial feeds during the newborn period, leading to renal injury. Another reason could be low insulin levels in the baby during birth, he said.  Doctors claim this is a rare presentation during the newborn period||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirupattur-govt-doctors-treat-child-with-rare-condition/article33953530.ece
28 February 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Refuse cash for vote’||Madras High Court Judge Justice N. Kirubakaran on Saturday urged the people to turn down offers of cash for vote and termed corruption as the biggest pollution in society. “Do [we] vote without accepting money? Where do they [politicians] get the money given to voters? The root cause is because people’s minds have polluted,” said Mr. Justice Kirubakaran at the sixth anniversary of Vanathukkul Tiruppur , a project by non-governmental organisation ‘Vetry’, in Tiruppur on Saturday. “Refuse cash for vote. This will remove the disease that has infected the society. This is the biggest pollution in the society. If we get rid of this pollution, politicians and officials will not have the justification to indulge in corruption,” he said. Mr. Justice Kirubakaran also pointed out that sand, mining of which is banned in Kerala, is sold illegally to the neighbouring State with the support of officials in Tamil Nadu, and medical waste is brought back from there. ‘Vanathukkul Tiruppur’    He released an environmental impact study of Vanathukkul Tiruppur project under which NGO ‘Vetry’ planted 10.5 lakh tree saplings in Tiruppur district in the last six years. Sivaram T.R., founder of ‘Vetry’, said that the environmental impact study was conducted by another NGO, which found that the trees planted under the project so far had a survival rate of 88.4% and they sequestered 7,377 tonnes of carbon dioxide.  The NGO had recorded 79 species of birds, and 65 species of butterflies in the total plantation area of 2,071 acres.  S. Sundaresan, Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Tiruppur Circle, K. Kalidas of ‘Osai’ NGO from Coimbatore and members of ‘Vetry’ took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/refuse-cash-for-vote/article33953276.ece
28 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Sales counter for Toda handicrafts to come up near Ninth Mile||The construction of a counter to sell handicrafts made by members of local Adivasi communities began recently at the Pagalkodu Mund Eco-Development Committee (EDC). President of the EDC Northay Kuttan, a member of the indigenous Toda community, said the sales counter would not only sell handicrafts made by the Todas and other Adivasi communities in the Nilgiris, but also sell products unique to the Nilgiris district. The construction of the counter was inaugurated by District Forest Officer (Nilgiris division) Guru Swamy Dabbala. Mr. Kuttan said “As many people visit the Ninth Mile Shooting Medu, which is managed by the Pagalkodu Mund EDC, having a sales counter nearby will hopefully drive demand for local Adivasi handicrafts and for other products made in the Nilgiris. Adivasis can sell the products through the sales counter without having to go through any middle men”. The Pagalkodu Mund EDC has also started a nursery for native Shola tree species, and plans to raise more than 7,000 saplings of native species. The launch of the construction work for the sales counter was marked by the planting of 40 native Shola trees in the nursery.  Training in weaving Forty women from nearby Toda hamlets will be trained in knitting and weaving. Once trained, they would stitch uniforms for school children and the staff at the EDC. “This will hopefully lead them to taking up tailoring and embroidery as a profession in the long-run,” said Mr. Northay Kuttan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sales-counter-for-toda-handicrafts-to-come-up-near-ninth-mile/article33952735.ece
28 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 11 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,975 with 11 new cases reported on Saturday. While 20,581 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 43. The district's death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,239. In Tirupattur district, one case was reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,632. In Tiruvannamalai district, one new case was reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,493. Out of this, 19,175 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 34.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-11-fresh-cases/article33953467.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||House of cards||It was all over for the Congress-DMK government in Puducherry when the Assembly convened a special session for a confidence vote on Monday. But that was merely the last straw. The story of how Puducherry’s house of cards collapsed has an origin outside of, and a process longer than, the doomed confidence vote in the Assembly. On Monday, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy launched a diatribe against the Centre and the BJP, alleging designs to topple the government, and Whip R.K.R. Anantharaman raised loud protests over the three nominated BJP MLAs being allowed to vote on the motion. But, on D-Day, all that was required was for the Opposition legislators to show up in the House for the government to bow out. Before the proceedings reached the stage of a show of hands, Mr. Narayanasamy and the members of the ruling front walked out in a huff after an unsuccessful appeal to bar the nominated MLAs from casting votes. Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu quickly declared that the government had lost the confidence motion and adjourned the House sine die . The same afternoon, Mr. Narayanasamy and the Council of Ministers met Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to submit their resignations. Implosion in Congress In the lead-up, an imploding Congress saw a spate of resignations in a couple of weeks, rapidly dwindling its majority in the House to a point where its defeat in a trust motion was a certainty from the three votes of the nominated MLAs. While Mr. Narayanasamy alleged that these were part of the designs of the BJP to engineer the exit of MLAs through “intimidation and inducements”, the Opposition sought to snuff out the speculation that it had any hand in the collapse of the government and painted the chain of events as the fallout of an internal strife in the Congress. “The government collapsed under the weight of its own failures over the last five years, so much so that it became untenable for Congress leaders to face the people,” said former Chief Minister and AINRC leader N. Rangasamy. “The crisis is of the Congress’s own making as its own legislators had lost confidence in the government,” BJP president V. Saminathan said. The timing of resignation of the six legislators has raised more eyebrows than the resignations itself. Though the reasons trotted out by the legislators ranged from being sidelined in the party to requiring family time, the chain of events suggests the unfolding of a larger game plan to reduce the government to a minority, days before it was due to complete its term. Spate of resignations The Congress, which disqualified its Bahour legislator N. Dhanavelou for anti-party activities in July last year, was first rocked by the resignation of former PWD Minister A. Namassivayam, effectively second-in-command in the Narayanasamy Cabinet, on January 25. He joined the BJP four days later. Along with him, legislator Theepainthan put in his papers. Then, former Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao announced his resignation on his personal Twitter account and A. John Kumar quit on February 16, as embarrassment deepened for the Congress just hours before the visit of party leader Rahul Gandhi. At that point, the Congress-DMK alliance had 14 seats and the Opposition AINRC, AIADMK and BJP had a similar strength. Trust vote ordered On February 18, Ms. Soundararajan, appointed to the post after Kiran Bedi was moved out, directed the Assembly Secretariat to convene the House on February 22 for a vote for the government to prove its majority. The Lt. Governor noted that consequent to the disqualification of one member of the House and the resignation of four others, the strength stands altered: the Congress and its allies are deadlocked with the Opposition, with 14 seats each. Even at this point, the Congress was keeping up a brave face claiming that at least a few MLAs in the Opposition would not vote to topple a government. The final nail in the coffin was the resignation of Congress legislator K. Lakshminarayanan and DMK legislator K. Venkatesan on Sunday, a day before the vote. This reduced the strength of the Congress-DMK (plus Independent) combine to 12, including the Speaker, who could cast a vote only if the Treasury and Opposition benches were tied. In effect, the government’s fate was sealed after five Congress and one DMK MLA resigned in four weeks — a pale shadow of the 19-MLA alliance that assumed the reins of power in 2016. Debate over nominated MLAs The fall of the government has stirred up a debate on both the process of nominating MLAs and the powers vested with them. It can be argued that past governments, including the AINRC regime, had also indulged in partisan choices for these posts — even nominating party functionaries to these posts which were meant to accommodate representatives from civil society. In fact, nominations to the Assembly have been done in 1985, 1990, 1996, 2001, 2006 and 2011; on every occasion, the nominated members belonged to one political party or the other. The stark difference was that the three legislators were at present vested with powers on a par with the 30 elected MLAs, including voting rights, by a 2018 Supreme Court ruling. Historically, when the erstwhile Pondicherry and the enclaves of Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam were merged with the Indian Union following a treaty with France in 1962, the Jawaharlal Nehru government brought a Constitution (Amendment) Bill in Parliament to insert Article 239A in the Constitution. The Home Minister at that time, Lal Bahadur Shastri, had framed the Bill in Parliament, which grouped these territories into the Union Territory of Pondicherry, and inserted Article 239A into the Constitution. The new article empowered Parliament to create a legislature for the Union Territories that could be either fully elected, or part nominated and part elected. Under the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963, Puducherry will have 30 elected MLAs and not more than three nominated legislators appointed by the Central government. The only stipulation was that government servants not be nominated. M. Ramadass, former parliamentarian of the AIADMK, pointed out that in 1963, when the nomination of legislators came up for discussion in Parliament, Shastri recommended important guidelines to allay Opposition concerns that it would lead to political appointments. Shastri reasoned it would be made sure that the nominations were used to appoint people from communities unrepresented in the Assembly through the electoral process and eminent personalities who could add value to debates on law-making. Radical shift While the convention has been for the government to forward a list to the Centre and secure clearance, this was breached in significant ways when the Centre, through the Ministry of Home Affairs in June, 2017, unilaterally and without consultations with the Puducherry government, chose two BJP men and a sympathiser-education entrepreneur as nominated legislators. And, when instead of the Speaker, the then Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi administered the oath of office to the nominees at a hurriedly convened ceremony on July 5, 2017, it triggered widespread protests, with the Congress and the DMK leading a bandh on July 8, along with 24 pro-Tamil outfits, and releasing of the copies of the FIRs in cases pending against two of the nominees. In 2018, the nomination of the three MLAs was challenged before the Madras High Court. The High Court ruling upholding the nomination was then challenged in the Supreme Court. In December 2018, a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court held that no consultation with the Puducherry government was required before the nomination of members and since the 1963 law did not distinguish between the elected and nominated MLAs, they enjoyed powers on a par with the elected MLAs, including voting rights. Complaints to ECI When a high-level team of the Election Commission of India (ECI) visited Puducherry earlier this month, parties under the Congress-led Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance flagged their concern that the Centre’s absolute power to nominate three MLAs with voting rights queered the pitch for the upcoming election and had the potential to override the popular mandate. In a memorandum, DMK Legislature Party leader R. Siva said the Centre’s power to nominate MLAs, now backed by a Supreme Court ruling, would deny equal opportunities to all parties contesting in the election to come to power. He called for a ban on unilateral appointments by the Centre or a provision in the Act stating the lack of voting rights to nominated legislators. The CPI, which also raised the issue before the ECI, pointed out that when nominated members were activists of the ruling party at the Centre they could use their vote to topple a government that had the people’s mandate. “The very objectives of parliamentary democracy, elections and people’s representation are being defeated,” CPI State secretary A.M. Saleem said. Political observers said such a situation has as much to do with the Congress’s complacence in drafting a list of potential nominees well beyond a year in office, as with the BJP’s exploitation of a good faith constitutional convention that was intended to create space in the democratic process for non-/under-represented communities and members of civil society. In December 2018, a three-member Bench of the Supreme Court upheld the Centre’s prerogative, noting that the nomination to the Assembly is to be made by the Central government by virtue of Article 239A of the Constitution, read with Section 3(3) of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963. “No statutory rules or any delegation has been referred to or brought on record under which the administrator is entitled or authorised to make nomination to the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory of Puducherry in aid and consultation of the elected government.” The court granted nominated legislators all rights and privileges vested with elected members. “The statutory provision does not give any indication that nominated members have no right to vote on budget and no- confidence motion against the government,” it held. “The Supreme Court’s ruling while upholding the letter of the law has ignored the spirit behind its provisions,” said K. Lakshminarayanan, who was Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister before he resigned as MLA, and a petitioner in the case at the Supreme Court. What was a good faith provision had been weaponised by the Centre, he said. “The anomalous situation has stemmed from the failure of the Centre to amend the rules governing Section 3 (3) of the Government of Union Territories Act,” Mr. Ramadass said. He suggested an amendment to the Act, mandating the constitution of a selection committee to nominate members to the Assembly.  Review petition The Congress is, meanwhile, preparing to file a review petition in the Supreme Court on the issue of voting rights for nominated MLAs. Political analysts said that a review by the top court could bring much-needed specifics to the governing laws as their current form left enough ambiguity that could be exploited by the government of the day at the Centre. Clarity on both the process of nominations and the rights of these nominated MLAs would ensure that they bring their intended value to the democratic process and preserve the integrity of free and fair elections, observers said. And as Puducherry heads to polls under President’s rule on April 6, the debate on the voting rights of nominated MLAs and federal powers and constitutional norms will re-occupy the centre stage, should the people’s mandate produce a hung Assembly.  The government collapsed under the weight of its own failures over the last five years, so much so that it became untenable for Congress leaders to face the people N. Rangasamy, AINRC leader   In 1963, when the nomination of legislators came up for discussion in Parliament, Lal Bahadur Shastri recommended important guidelines to allay Opposition concerns that it would lead to political appointments M. Ramadass, former parliamentarian AIADMK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-of-cards/article33952720.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK clinches pact with PMK, allots 23 seats||“As far as this election is concerned, our intention was to ensure reservation for the Vanniyars. We demanded it and the State government agreed to it. Therefore, we agreed to a lower number of seats.” Thus, after a gap of 20 years, the PMK will face the Assembly election as an ally of the AIADMK. In the 2001 election, the PMK won 20 seats out of the 27 it had contested in the company of the AIADMK. In 2009 and 2019, the two parties faced the Lok Sabha election together. Mr. Anbumani said repeatedly that the party agreed to a lesser number of seats because the government met its demand for reservation. “In this election, we wanted to ensure that the 40-year-old demand of [PMK founder] Dr. Ramadoss — separate reservation for Vanniyar — has been agreed to. So, we have agreed to a lesser number of seats.” In the night, Ministers P. Thangamani and S.P. Velumani, along with AIADMK deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy, called on Mr. Vijayakant at his residence. A DMDK source said that only discussions took place and the details would be announced on Sunday. Over the past month, the DMDK had repeatedly urged the AIADMK to hold talks with it and even warned that it was capable of fielding candidates in all 234 constituencies. Earlier in the day, a delegation of BJP leaders, including Union Ministers V.K. Singh and G. Kishan Reddy, national general secretary C.T. Ravi and State president L. Murugan called on Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam. Sources said the ruling party was inclined to set apart 20 to 22 seats for the BJP, whereas the latter was said to be pitching for a higher number of seats. A clear picture may emerge in a day or two. Besides, if around 15 seats are distributed among other allies, such as the DMDK and the TMC, the AIADMK will have to contest in 180 seats, sources said. With Union Home Minister Amit Shah arriving in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, the seat-sharing exercise is likely to gather momentum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-clinches-pact-with-pmk-allots-23-seats/article33952708.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore records 40 fresh cases||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 40 new cases of COVID-19, taking the tally so far to 55,713. The district had 382 active cases of COVID-19 as on Saturday. Forty-four persons returned home after recovering from the disease. In Tiruppur, 14 persons tested positive for the disease on Saturday. A total of 122 persons from the district are still under treatment. The Health Department said that 12 persons from the district got discharged from hospitals on Saturday. Erode district reported six new cases, taking the tally to 14,782. While 18 persons were discharged, 98 continue to be under treatment. Twelve positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, three cases were reported. Patients had returned from Erode, Coimbatore and Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-records-40-fresh-cases/article33953278.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fair ground||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fair-ground/article33953532.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 12 cases in Salem||Erode district reported six new cases, taking the tally to 14,782. While 18 persons were discharged, 98 continue to be under treatment. Twelve positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, three cases were reported. Patients have returned from Erode, Coimbatore and Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-12-cases-in-salem/article33952741.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE TODAY||Kaumara Madalayam: Amarnath ice lingam, 12 Jothirlingam darshan, Sivanandapuram, Chinnavedampatti, 6 a.m.  Union Bank of India, Andhra Bank, Corporation Bank: Home and car loan mela, Suguna Kalyana Mandapam, Peelamedu, 10 a.m.  Kathir College of Engineering: Thiruvalluvar Vizha, Sarojini Nataraj Auditorium, Kikkani School, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33953271.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Long wait for ‘mini-Lalbagh’ makes Mahadevapura residents restless||Echoing the growing emphasis on the need to conserve lung spaces, residents of one of the busiest parts of Bengaluru have started petitioning for a green haven. Whitefield residents have urged the government to expedite the ‘mini-Lalbagh’ project at Kannamangala to make up for the lack of green spaces in the tech hub. According to Horticulture Department officials, in 2011, five botanical gardens were proposed across the State, of which one was the mini-Lalbagh, which is yet to be realised. In an online petition addressed to the Chief Minister, the Horticulture Minister and Mahadevapura MLA and Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali, signatories said the mini-Lalbagh project in Kadugodi–Whitefield area had been pending for several years for want of Rs. 2 crore. “Don’t you think this amount is quite small considering the ecological impact and environmental benefits this project can provide to the city and people living in the neighbourhood. With recent announcements from the Chief Minister about development of environmental spaces at Kadugodi, there is a hope that we may finally see light to this long- pending project,” stated the petition. Amit Sharma, an IT professional and resident of Kadugodi who started the petition, said it had attracted over 5,000 signatures. “The project has been pending for a decade. If funds are an issue, we are ready to crowd-fund the project. Despite being among the biggest tax contributors, residents of Mahadevapura have to make weekly trips to Lalbagh or Cubbon Park for some fresh air. Usually in a city, the biggest hurdle for such a project is land. Here the land is already there. Why is the project still hanging?” he asked. Members of the residents’ group, Whitefield Rising, said that more lung spaces were needed. “We hope more green spaces can be identified and developed in Mahadevapura and Whitefield,” they said. ‘Not a normal park’ However, Horticulture Department officials said the Kannamangala project is one of five botanical gardens announced in 2011 for the State, and it was being implemented in a phased manner. “It will take time as it is not a normal park. There is a committee in place headed by [environmentalist] A.N. Yellappa Reddy. Botanical gardens need a lot of time — around 15 years to take shape. The Kannamangala one is coming up on 70 acres, where we have already set up a compound, irrigation system, and planting. It is primarily an elite seed coconut farm which was in a dilapidated condition. Now the main purpose of rejuvenating the farm has been served. Next, we will have to see what can be planted under the coconut trees,” said M. Jagadeesh, Joint Director of Horticulture. Adding that the project would be implemented “in the near future”, he pointed out that the others announced too were taking shape at the same pace, and the ones that were spread over large area would need longer than those on smaller stretches. “Even Lalbagh took three decades. Systematic planning is required for a scientific garden,” he added. Asked about the residents’ crowd-funding proposal, he said it would have to be taken up at the government level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/long-wait-for-mini-lalbagh-makes-mahadevapura-residents-restless/article33953220.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Next phase first in taluk, district, 79 private hospitals||The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination for those aged above 60 and those above 45 with specified comorbidities to begin from Monday will initially be taken up in all taluk and district hospitals apart from 79 identified private hospitals in Karnataka. Vaccination will be free of cost only at government vaccination centres. All private facilities empanelled under CGHS, Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka health scheme and other State health insurance schemes will be allowed to operate as COVID-19 vaccination centres. Hospitals mapped State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra told The Hindu on Saturday that a list of 983 hospitals including 582 private empanelled hospitals in Karnataka have been identified and mapped with the nearest cold chain points to ensure seamless flow of vaccines. “However, in the initial phase, all taluk and district hospitals and two identified private hospitals from each district apart from 19 private health facilities from BBMP will implement the vaccination from March 1,” he said. In the initial few days, vaccination will be done only for online registered beneficiaries in urban and private facilities and both on-site and online in rural areas. “The State will scale up the vaccination for other mode of registrations and ramp up the number of facilities. It will be done on four days every week - Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday – in government facilities, and all working days in private hospitals from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. The number of vaccinations per day would be limited to 200 per session site and will be served on first come first serve basis. However, online registered beneficiaries would be allotted a specific time in a day,” he said. The ongoing vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers will continue simultaneously along with the second phase, he said. Those taking the vaccine at any empanelled private health facility will have to pay a pre-fixed charge subject to a ceiling of Rs. 250 per person per dose as stipulated by the Centre. Beneficiaries will receive a digital QR code-based certificate on getting inoculated, he said. Ahead of the second phase, Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Saturday tweeted a list of 20 specified comorbidities for determination of eligibility of citizens in the age group of 45 years to 59 years. For people in this age group, a certificate of comorbidity signed by a registered medical practitioner is also required, he said.  Self-registration In a series of tweets, the Health Minister said that the registration process was simplified. “While advance self-registration through Co-WIN 2.0 or Arogya Setu has been enabled, beneficiaries can choose a centre of their choice with date and time of the available schedule. On-site registration at the centre is also available,” he tweeted. All beneficiaries are advised to carry one of the following photo IDs: Aadhaar, electoral photo identity card, photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration, employment certificate or official identity card with photo and date of birth. Although COVID-19 experts had suggested that the State conduct a survey to identify and map beneficiaries for the second phase, Mr. Chandra said there was no need for this now as the Centre has allowed self-registration. “People can walk in to the centres, register on-site and get vaccinated,” he said. Earlier, the Health Department had planned to go by the electoral rolls for elderly population and existing data on comorbid population in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/next-phase-first-in-taluk-district-79-private-hospitals/article33952789.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM unveils dispute resolution policy for speedy case disposal||With the State government being party to lakhs of cases of litigation in the High Court and subordinate courts in the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has unveiled the Karnataka State Dispute Resolution Policy–2021 for speedy disposal of cases, including the adoption of alternative dispute resolution (ADR). This policy is applicable to all disputes involving government departments. The disputes include those involving questions of public law, commercial or contractual matters, service law matters, and criminal cases. The policy applicable to all disputes between government departments, whether they were pending before any court or tribunal, arbitrations, lok adalats, and also the ones that involve the State as quasi-judicial authorities. The 55-page dispute resolution policy envisages that each department should appoint a nodal officer to coordinate with the law officers and assist the heads of the departments on legal matters. The nodal officer should be an advocate with legal practice experience of at least five years. However, the policy does not deal with the independent wings of governance such as the Judiciary or the Police Department (investigation). ADRs are non-judicial and out-of-court methods of resolving disputes, and the policy has recommended the establishment of a dispute resolution board in each department. It envisages the constitution of an empowered committee headed by the Chief Secretary to monitor the implementation of the policy and evaluate the performance of stakeholders internally.  Justice S.R. Bannurmath, chairperson of Karnataka State Law Commission, said more than three lakh cases were pending in the High Court of Karnataka and in lower courts wherein the government was a party to the dispute. The pendency of cases was high, and on some occasions writ petitions were filed to deliberately disturb the functioning of government departments, he said. The Chief Minister also released a coffee table book on 24 Advocate Generals who served the State in the past 75 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-unveils-dispute-resolution-policy-for-speedy-case-disposal/article33952783.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trust gets a pat on the back for bat protection mission in Kolar||The year that went by was not a good one for bats. They were looked at with suspicion for being the possible culprits that spread a virus that paralysed the world. But in a little-known part of Karnataka, efforts to conserve a supremely rare species of bats have earned praise and funding. For its work on conserving the critically endangered Kolar leaf-nosed bat, Bat Conservation India Trust was recently picked for the ‘Lesser-known Species Grant’ by The Habitats Trust, which aims to secure key habitats and indigenous species. The Kolar leaf-nosed bat ( Hipposideros hypophyllus ) is said to have been first described in 1994 based on specimens collected from Therahalli and Hanumanahalli, and is unique among the Hipposideros family as it has only one pair of supplementary leaflets around its nose leaf. “This species has not been documented anywhere else after it was first described in 1994. There wasn’t any specific attention given to search and study on this bat till the beginning of 2013,” said Rajesh Puttaswamaiah, citizen scientist and trustee, Bat Conservation India Trust. It is found only in a cave on a small hillock in Hanumanahalli “If we need to protect the species from extinction, we need to not only protect its roost site (home), but also protect its foraging area (food source). We have been collaborating with the Forest Department on various aspects, including preparing a short-term conservation action plan,” said Mr. Puttaswamaiah. Interestingly, though COVID-19 created a negative perception about bats among people, the communities living close to the bats defend them, saying they have been living around these bats for hundreds of years and haven’t faced any issues so far, he said. “Our first step is to engage with the community and instil a sense of pride in them to protect these bats and their habitats. We have planned a few outreach programs and identified a few youngsters to participate in our research activities,” he added. The State forest officials involved in the project also echoed similar concerns. “The most important point is that this bat species is exclusive to Karnataka. The basic thing the Forest Department took up was to protect their roost sites. Along with other agencies, such as the Revenue Department, we were able to get it notified as a conservation reserve though it is not in a forest area,” said a senior official. Challenges The major issue, officials said, was that the area of the hillock was under pressure for quarrying. “The other challenge is that the landscape around Kolar has changed drastically. We don’t know what these bats eat and come back. From what we heard, these are bats which eat insects, or they could be omnivorous. Are they feeding only on insects of crops, and are these crops still being grown? We don’t know. All these aspects, where they go, and what they feed on are being looked into now,” the official said. Though local communities have been extremely supportive, protecting the area from travellers, for instance, remains a priority, for which watchers have been deployed. Trisha Ghose, project director, The Habitats Trust, said the Lesser-known Species Grant aims to support organisations that are working to protect threatened species that form the backbone of our ecosystem, but have not necessarily been afforded the same level of conservation attention give to the tiger, elephant, rhino, or leopard. About the Kolar leaf-nosed bat and the conservation efforts attached to it, she said, “This elusive species has only been recorded from one cave in Kolar and its population is estimated to be a mere 150 to 200 surviving in the wild. Their numbers are rapidly declining because of changing land use, hunting, and stone quarrying in their only remaining habitat. Under the project, we will be carrying out surveys to assess the habitat, ecology, and population of the Kolar leaf-nosed bat with the goal of developing a long-term conservation plan to prevent its silent extinction,” she said. .  This elusive species has only been recorded from one cave in Kolar and its population is estimated to be a mere 150 to 200 surviving in the wild. The numbers are rapidly declining because of changing land use, hunting, and stone quarrying in their only remaining habitat Trisha Ghose, project director, The Habitats Trust||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trust-gets-a-pat-on-the-back-for-bat-protection-mission-in-kolar/article33952778.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PSI suspended, three constables in the dock after custodial death||A police sub-inspector has been suspended while three members of his team are facing a departmental inquiry after an accused in a cheating and forgery case allegedly committed suicide on Friday. The incident took place at the house of the deceased, Siddalingaswamy, at Vidyaranyapura when the police had escorted him to recover documents related to the fraud. Following the incident, Police Commissioner Kamal Pant suspended police sub-inspector Manjunath Kattimani, who was heading the investigation, and ordered an inquiry against head constables Ravi Kumar and Mrutyunjaya, and constable Umesh. “Action will be initiated against them based on the findings of the inquiry,” said a senior police official. He added that the incident was captured on CCTV cameras installed in the building. “Since the incident amounts to custodial death, the case has been handed over to the CID,” the official added. Siddalingaswamy, 63, hailed from Malavalli in Mandya district, and worked as a real estate agent in Bengaluru. He was arrested on February 26 based on a complaint that he cheated a person of several lakhs after promising a site allotted by the Bangalore Development Authority. The four police personnel escorted Siddalingaswamy to his house on Friday to recover documents pertaining to the case. “The accused reportedly pushed them out of the kitchen and jumped through an open window on the third floor of the building. He crashed on the scooter parked outside the building and died owing to severe head injuries,” the senior police official added. The police team took him in a car to a hospital in the area where the doctor declared him dead on arrival. (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/psi-suspended-three-constables-in-the-dock-after-custodial-death/article33953222.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council prescribes dress code for staff||The Legislative Council has prescribed a dress code for its staff and also restricted their movement along the corridors of the State Secretariat. According to a circular issued on Saturday, all Group ‘D’ employees will have a dress code — white for men and maroon for women. This will come into effect from March 15. Drivers too will have to report to work wearing the prescribed uniforms. To curb absenteeism, a biometric system of attendance will also be started from March 1. The circular stated that forming groups, standing in the corridors and talking on phone there would be prohibited. Officers have been asked to maintain movement registers to ensure that loitering during working hours is discouraged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-prescribes-dress-code-for-staff/article33952780.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to offer fellowships for social sector work||In order to improve its rankings in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the State government decided to offer fellowships for senior executives in the private sector and to domain experts to work in the government, particularly in civic affairs/social sector, starting from this year. Selected fellows under the Indian Administrative Fellowship, an initiative of the Bengaluru-based The/Nudge Foundation, will have to work under senior IAS officers (rank of Secretary and above) for 18 months to design and implement programmes in fields related to civic affairs, rural development, education, and water/sanitation. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar said, “The government has plans to implement multiple high-impact programmes in the next two years to warrant our ascendancy in the SDG rankings.” Ten to 12 fellows will be selected in this first year by The/Nudge Foundation after intensive scrutiny of the applications. The last date for submitting applications is March 15. Fellows will be given Rs. 20 lakh per year during the fellowship period by the government. The initiative has received over 200 applications from across diverse sectors, including directors, vice-presidents, and general managers at multinational corporations and leading banks, apart from entrepreneurs from established startups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-offer-fellowships-for-social-sector-work/article33952784.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vokkaliga meet planned||Leaders of the Vokkaliga community have planned a meeting for March 1 to discuss ways of taking forward their demand for increased reservation in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. Seers, including the head of Adichunchanagiri Mutt Nirmalananda Swami, are expected to attend the meeting. On Saturday, prominent personalities of the Vokkaliga community held a meeting in the city to discuss the issue. They discussed the need to increase reservation for the community, include all sub-sects in the list, and create a Vokkaliga development board or corporation. Meanwhile, the weaving community (Nekara) have sought the formation of a board or corporation for their welfare. Various organisationsrepresenting the community, including Karnataka Rajya Nekara Samudayagala Okkoota, met the BJP State president, Nalin Kumar Kateel, and made the appeal. Mr. Kateel promised to take the issue to the government soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vokkaliga-meet-planned/article33952781.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Priest duped||A 40-year-old priest who had registered on a matrimonial site was allegedly blackmailed and cheated by a man of Rs. 1 lakh. In his complaint, the priest, V. Bhat, said he had registered himself on the site and sent out requests to other members. OnFebruary 17, he received a call from a man who introduced himself as a police officer posted at the Commissioner’s office. He claimed that one of the members on the site had attempted to kill herself and blamed him for it. “The conman told the priest that the Mumbai police were coming to Bengaluru to conduct a probe. Later, the man called Bhat and informed him that he had reached out to the Mumbai police and requested them to close the case. He demanded Rs. 10,000, which the priest transferred to an account online,” said a police officer. However, it did not end there. The conman started calling Bhat regularly and blackmailed him into transferring more money. In total, the victim transferred Rs. 1 lakh via several online transactions. Worried, Bhat confided in his friends who advised him to contact the Bengaluru police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priest-duped/article33952910.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plog run||A plog run was launched by MLA for Bommanahalli Satish Reddy on Saturday as part of Swachh Survekshan campaign. BBMP Special Commissioner D. Randeep said the responsibility of keeping the city clean rested not just with the civic body but also with citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plog-run/article33953223.ece
28 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM visiting Shivamogga||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will be visiting Shivamogga on Sunday and Monday to take part in many programmes including a felicitation organised by his fans in Shivamogga. He would reach Tallur village in Sorab taluk at 11 a.m. on Sunday to inaugurate a project to fill up Muguru tank and other development works. Then he would take part in a TAPCMS programme of the TAPCMS of Shikaripura at 4 p.m. In the evening he will inaugurate the building of the Medical College Association in Shivamogga, and development works taken up under the Smart City project at Freedom Park. Later, he would take part in Nammolume, a programme to felicitate him, on Old Jail premises at Vinoba Nagar at 6 p.m. He will return to Bengaluru on Monday at 9.30 a.m. by helicopter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-visiting-shivamogga/article33952897.ece
28 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two held for robbery||Two people, who robbed a woman of valuables at Kalyan Nagar in Chikkamagaluru town on Saturday, were caught later with the intervention of the public and police. The accused, wearing helmets, entered the house belonged to B.S. Chandre Gowda around 11 a.m. They caught hol dof Chandre Gowda's wife Sarojamma, who was alone at home, and seized valuables wielding a knife. Even as they were filling up their bag with cash and gold jewellery, Sarojamma's son, who had gone out, came home. As she could not open the door even after he pressed the calling bell repeatedly, her son got suspicious and raised an alarm. The accused tried to escape with the stolen valuables after opening the door, wielding weapons. The neighbours chased them and also threw stones at them. A fire tender which was on the way at the time also joined the efforts to nab the accused. The driver of the fire tender stopped his vehicle such that the duo could not escape on their two-wheeler. Video clips of these developments have gone viral. The duo ran away with Rs. 50,000 and 75 grams of gold jewellery. Later the police also joined the efforts to nab them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-robbery/article33952900.ece
28 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rural reservation in agriculture varsities will go up: Minister||To facilitate more students from rural areas to get into courses in universities of agriculture and horticulture, the Chief Minister had been requested to increase the rural quota to 50%, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil has said. He added that in-principle approval had been secured for this. Addressing the 33rd annual convocation of University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad (UAS-D) on Saturday, Mr. Patil said that the reservation of 40% for the students from rural areas would be increased to 50% from the current academic year. The Minister said that under the ‘Lab to Land’ pilot project launched in Koppal district under the District Mineral Fund (DMF), 20 mobile laboratory units had been pressed into service. “These mobile units will visit every field and test the soil. The farmers will be given information on the soil condition and solutions for pest attack. Such mobile units will be launched in every district,” he said. Mr. Patil said that the government had also launched the programme to issue ‘Swabhiman Cards’ to all farmers. The cards, which contained details of land survey number, residential address, mobile phones, and Aadhar number, would help the farmers in getting bank loans, crop insurance claim, and title deeds, he said adding that till date 1.5 lakh cards had been issued. Regarding utilising the services of employees of agricultural universities, Mr. Patil said that a new policy had been brought into force to depute one associate professor to the Agriculture Department in every district, and an assistant professor to each Raitha Samparka Kendra (RSK) to assist the farmers and agri officials in addressing farm issues. The Minister also said that to promote startups in the farm sector, a committee, headed by former director of ICAR Aiyappan, had been formed. Based on the recommendations of the committee, assistance would be extended to agri startups. The Union government had given Rs. 450 crore towards promoting start agri startups in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rural-reservation-in-agriculture-varsities-will-go-up-minister/article33952762.ece
28 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Reduced water availability will be a challenge for farming’||“With estimates indicating that the water availability for agriculture likely to be reduced to 70% from 83% by 2050, the availability of good quality and adequate quantity of water for farming would be crucial for continued food and nutritional security of the country,” secretary of Union Ministry of Science and Technology Ashutosh Sharma has said. Delivering his address via video link at the 33rd annual convocation of University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad (UAS-D) on Saturday, Mr. Sharma said that recycling of waste water, including domestic and industrial effluents in farming, would substantially increase the reuse of waste water. He said although the country received an average rainfall of 100 cm annually, just around 29% of the rainwater was conserved and used for farming. There was huge potential for in-suit and ex-suit rainfall conservation, storage and use it for farm activities including livestock and fisheries, he said. He said in the coming years, energy was likely to become a limiting factor for farming. He said cultivation of short duration and stress tolerant energy crops in wastelands was a solution to address the issue. He also said that there was need for tapping the potential of converting residues and bi-products of farming into energy needs. Post-production Mentioning that required attention was being paid towards post-production activities in the country now, Mr. Sharma said these activities were capable of generating large number of off-farm jobs. “Doubling farm income rests on increasing annual growth rate, enhancing the quality and appropriateness of crops, post-harvest measures, effective marketing and slew of other measures,” he said. Mr. Sharma said to overcome the ‘problem of plenty’, there was urgent need for addressing the challenges of marketing. “India has begun reorienting the trade policy to protect the interests of farmers and work on price and demand forecasting mechanisms, so that the farmers can be advised to take informed decision on what to grow and how much to grow,” he said. On the need for adapting the benefits of newer technologies like artificial intelligence in the farm sector, Mr. Sharma called on the fresh farm graduates to work towards sensitising the farmers. Welcoming the gathering, Vice-Chancellor of UAS-D M.B. Chetti briefed about the activities and achievements of the university. Agriculture Minister and Pro-Chancellor of the university B.C. Patil, conferred various farm degrees on 890 graduates and post-graduates and also honoured meritorious students with gold medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reduced-water-availability-will-be-a-challenge-for-farming/article33952769.ece
28 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Include roots, tubers in diet: DC||Deputy Commissioner of Dhawad Nitesh Patil has stressed the need for returning to traditional foods by including millets and tubers in the diet. He was inaugurating the two-day “Roots and Tuber Mela’ organised by Gandhi Peace Foundation and ‘Sahaja Samruddhi’ at Gandhi Pratishtana in Dharwad on Saturday. Mr. Patil said as our ancestors had the habit of consuming traditional foods like tubers and roots and had developed a healthy lifestyle, they could live for a century. However, excessive use of chemical fertilisers in cultivation and the junk food culture had resulted in mankind inviting several diseases, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that because of the changed lifestyle and unhealthy food habits, children were facing problems of obesity and diabetes, which was alarming. He said it was time people went back to the traditional healthy foods and introduced it to children. He said excluding sweet potato, most children did not have much knowledge on roots and tubers, which were rich in fibre and vitamins, and called on parents to make children aware of their benefits. Sanjiv Kulkarni of Gandhi Peace Foundation, Krishnaprasad of Sahaja Samruddha, Shankar Halagatti, and others were present. Over 30 varieties of roots and tubers grown in Joida and other parts of Uttar Kannada and Dakshina Kannada districts are on display at the mela. Food items prepared from tuber will also be on display on Sunday. The mela will conclude on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/include-roots-tubers-in-diet-dc/article33952765.ece
28 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||ASSOCHAM award for KLE Tech university||KLE Technological University, Hubballi, has bagged the prestigious “ASSOCHAM University of the Year Award-South” under Science and Technology for the year 2021. According to the press release issued by the university, Dean (Academics) of the university Prakash Tewari received the award on behalf of the university from Rajya Sabha member Vinay Sahasrabudhe at a function held in New Delhi recently. Chairman of The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) Prashanth Bhalla, co-chairman Kunwar Shekhar Vijendra, and director of National Book Trust Yuvraj Malik were present, the release said. In recognition The award has been given to the university in recognition of its contributions in the spheres of teaching-learning process, academic research, innovations in science and technology, providing incubator ecosystem for technology-based startups, and overall contribution to the regional society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assocham-award-for-kle-tech-university/article33952767.ece
28 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Literary programmes to mark centenary celebration||Literary programmes and a workshop will mark the birth centenary celebrations of Kannada scholar R.C. Hiremath on March 1. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, member of Karnataka Sahitya Academy Jinadatta Hadagali said the day-long programmes will begin at Government First Grade College in Dharwad from 10.30 a.m. Senior writer Guruling Kapse will inaugurate the centenary celebrations and chairman of Karnataka Sahitya Academy B.V. Vasanthkumar will preside over the function. Works and achievements Various sessions on works and achievements of R.C. Hiremath would be held and linguist Sangamesh Savadattimath will deliver the concluding remarks, Mr. Hadagali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/literary-programmes-to-mark-centenary-celebration/article33952763.ece
28 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Arvind Bellad’s remarks on reservation opposed||Taking serious exceptions to the remarks of Arvind Bellad, MLA for Dharwad West, in the backdrop of the agitation by the Panchamasali community for better reservation, the Progressive Muslim Thinkers Forum termed the comments as “irresponsible” intending to disturb communal harmony. Mr. Bellad had recently said that the 4% reservation being offered to the Muslim community should be taken back and given to the Panchamasali community. Addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Shoukat Ali Alur, Sajjad Ali Inamdar and Mastan Biradar, leaders of the forum, said Muslims were among the most oppressed and backward communities in the country and 4% reservation offered to it was just and legitimate. “After the in-depth study of the social, economical, political, and cultural conditions of the Muslim community, the Justice Rajindar Sachar Committee concluded that Muslims were among the most backward communities in India. The reservation offered to the community was in fact insufficient considering its population size and the extent of backwardness. Depriving the community of its Constitutional rights of reservation is therefore condemnable,” Mr. Alur said. Caste census Referring to the socio-economic and educational survey, popularly known as caste census, conducted by the Karnataka Permanent Backward Classes Commission during the Siddaramaiah government, Mr. Alur demanded the government release the census and reorganise the reservation based on its findings. “Nobody knows about the exact population size of a particular community and its socio-economic and educational conditions. The caste census will provide correct answers and put an end to speculations. The government should first make the report public and then redistribute the reservation among the backward communities considering their population sizes and socio-economic and educational conditions,” he said. Mr. Alur, criticising the government’s privatisation policy, warned the backward communities of disappearing government jobs where they could claim reservation. “The BJP-led Union and State governments are increasingly selling Public Sector Units to private parties. If the rapid privatisation continues at the same speed, there would be no State-owned undertakings and, resultantly, no government jobs where backward communities can claim reservation. These oppressed communities should fight against the government privatisation policy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arvind-bellads-remarks-on-reservation-opposed/article33952772.ece
28 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ahead of State Budget, HKCCI puts forward its demands||Expressing dissatisfaction over what was termed as “continuous negligence” by successive governments towards Kalyana Karnataka region, the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), a body of industrialists and traders of the region, put forward a few demands for incorporation in the State Budget. At a press conference in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Amarnath C. Patil and Shashikantha B. Patil, president and vice-president of HKCCI, released a set of budgetary expectations that included creation of an industrial area of around 100 acres in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts under the aegis of Karnataka State Small Industries Development Corporation (KSSIDC) for encouraging micro and small entrepreneurs, upgrade of all State Highways in the region to six lane, establishment of Kalaburagi Railway Division, establishment of National Investment & Manufacturing Zone in Kalaburagi, establishment of Centre of Excellence at the Central University of Karnataka, Kalaburagi, creation of Special Economic Zones, and sending a fresh recommendation to the Centre for establishment of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Kalaburagi. “Backwardness-driven migration from Kalyana Karnataka region to mega cities such as Bengaluru on a massive scale is serious cause for concern. We need big industries that can individually invest over Rs. 100 crore and generate jobs on a massive scale. Big companies won’t invest in the region unless they are offered better infrastructure and monetary benefits such as tax concessions. Special Economic Zones (SEZ) can attract the industries as they offer an industry-friendly environment including infrastructural and monitory benefits. Such SEZ would also encourage budding entrepreneurs from the region to start their micro, small and medium industries. We appeal to the government to allocate enough funds in the budget for creating SEZ in Kalaburagi,” Mr. Amarnath Patil said. Responding to a query on the Inland Container Depot that the HKCCI sought for Kalaburagi, Mr. Amarnath Patil said the establishment of such a container railway depot would encourage the export of agricultural and horticultural crops from the region. The project would, he added, require around 25 acres of land and Rs. 25 crore. “The Centre has to take a call on the project. However, the State government should take the initiative by allocating 50% of the project cost in the budget and offering land free of cost,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ahead-of-state-budget-hkcci-puts-forward-its-demands/article33952774.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. will consider tourism as an industry and extend support’||Minister for Tourism, Environment and Ecology C.P. Yogeshwar on Saturday said the government will treat tourism as an industry and extend all support to private entrepreneurs, including provision for subsidy, to establish projects in coastal Karnataka. Speaking to reporters at the Blue Flat beach at Padubidri in Udupi district, the Minister said, “We have failed somewhere. But it does not mean we can take corrective measures. There was vast potential in the tourism sector and private participation should be encouraged”. The government would extend all help to entrepreneurs to develop tourism facilities along the coast as mentioned in the Tourism Policy 2025, he said. While neighbouring Goa and Kerala have leaped forward in tourism sector, Karnataka would follow the same, he added. Mr. Yogeshwar said the department would approach the Prime Minister seeking permission to operate sea planes along the 320-km Karnataka coast for which there is high demand. The department would also seek permission for receiving foreign yachts bringing tourists to Karnataka, he said. The government was committed to develop coastal tourism and he would urge the Chief Minister to give focus to health, eco, and coastal tourism circuits. He said all these years potential of the tourism sector was not exploited and private players were not roped in. Tourism-related activities should be undertaken on public private partnership basis wherein the government would play the role of the facilitator. This would generate substantial local employment too. Speaking about Padubidri Blue Flag beach, Mr. Yogeshwar said there was lot of potential to develop watersports facilities at the venue. The department would take the adjacent revenue land on lease from the Revenue Department and provide the same to any private player who comes forward to set up water sports activities, he said. Responding to demands from local residents to widen the access road to the beach that was witnessing traffic jams, particularly on weekends, Mr. Yogeshwar said Rs. 10 crore would be released for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-will-consider-tourism-as-an-industry-and-extend-support/article33953404.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||ASIs take time off from work to be with family members||This 35-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector worked at the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) and handled telephone calls to the office. Just a week ago, he moved to be part of the police escort team for Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP. This change of work, in a way, helped him to be in the field, which, he said, had brought down his blood pressure to a tolerable level. But his work that demands presence all through has continued to keep him away from spending quality time with his counterparts and family members. For the last two days he could spend time with 145 other ASIs and Assistant Reserve Sub-Inspectors (ARSIs). Having watched a Kannada movie on Friday, he joined other ASIs and ARSIs to undergo a health check-up and attend sessions related to maintaining fitness, money management, and legal awareness at the Netravathi auditorium. Their family joined them at noon and they spent their evening at the Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama. These 146 ASIs and ARSIs attended the two-day refresher course-cum orientation camp, which started on Friday. Similar refresher course-cum-orientation camp was held for 235 women personnel in the city police on Wednesday and Thursday. “Unlike the police constables and head constables, who can avail weekly offs, the ASI and ARSIs work continuously and hence have lesser time to socialise with their friends and family members,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said the two-day orientation camps were conducted on the lines of annual conference of police officers. “These events give opportunity for our personnel to exchange their thoughts and feelings with their counterparts,” Mr. Kumar said and added, “Such events help in building a bond among family members of the personnel, which is very important.” Manjunath, who was among the team of the doctors from Father Muller Hospital conducting health check-up on Saturday, said nearly 60% of the personnel had hypertension while 40% had symptoms of diabetes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asis-take-time-off-from-work-to-be-with-family-members/article33953413.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre, State govt. have scant regard for woes of common man, says Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday said the governments at the State and Centre were working with scant regard to the woes of the common man — the farmer, the worker and others. At a time when the economic crisis has only deepened due to COVID-19 pandemic, the governments have ignored the common man who have been hit hard by the steep rise in the prices of essential commodities. People were fed up with governments and as such, the Congress had launched the Jana Dhwani Padayatra to lend support to their voice, Mr. Shivakumar said. He was speaking at the valedictory of Udupi District Congress Committee’s Jana Dhwani Padayatra from Hejmady on Dakshina Kannada border to Byndoor close to Uttara Kannada border in Udupi district. Jana Dhwani Padayatra was not just Congress’ programme; but a symbol of the common man’s woes. People had supported the padayatra in large numbers throughout, thereby extending solidarity with the Congress. Mr. Shivakumar said the Central government has resorted to merger of nationalised banks. Late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had once nationalised Corporation, Canara, Vijaya, and SyndicateBanks that were born in this region of the country. Now, the government has merged these banks against the wishes of customers and general public. It was surprising that MPs of the region were silent when banks that had offered economic strength to the region and the country were merged, he said. While the Congress had focussed on nationalisation of assets, the present government was moving in the reverse direction by privatising all of them. Employment generation has stopped. Manual workers, including weavers, tailors, hair dressers, construction workers and many others had lost employment for six months during the COVID-19 lockdown. Governments did not respond to their problems. Fishermen in coastal Karnataka were not getting diesel subsidy since five months. Yet, the governments have remained mute to all these issues, Mr. Shivakumar castigated. He said the Jana Dhwani Padayatra would continue in all the districts of the State. The Congress was confident of securing majority on its own during the 2023 Assembly elections. Former Ministers Vinay Kumar Sorake, Abhayachandra Jain, and Pramod Madhwaraj, former MLA K. Gopala Poojari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-state-govt-have-scant-regard-for-woes-of-common-man-says-shivakumar/article33953400.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Leopard caught in Udupi dist.||The Forest Department on Saturday caught a leopard at Mudradi village in Hebri taluk of Udupi, which is on the fringes of Mookambika Wildlife Sanctuary. Deputy Conservator of Forests, Kundapura, Ashish Reddy, said the leopard weighing around 80 kg was found roaming in the forest area near Subbanna Katte of the village on Saturday morning. As the area is close to the human habitation, the staff, led by Range Forest Officer Markandeya, took steps to place a net and also a trap to catch the leopard. Services of a veterinarian from Mangaluru were taken to dart it. The department took the help of the police to avoid gathering of people at the place. Around 4 p.m., the leopard was shot with a dart and it was brought to the department’s office in Hebri in a cage. Mr. Reddy said the leopard had an injury that appears to have been caused from a snare. The leopard has revived and was under observation. Decision on leaving it to the forest will be taken after reviewing its condition on Sunday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-caught-in-udupi-dist/article33953411.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Power unit’s water discharge into beach threatening marine life, allege fisherfolk||Residents and fishermen in and around Yermal near Padubidri in Udupi district have said the Udupi Power Corporation Ltd., (UPCL) of Adani Group has been letting out hot water used in the plant directly into the beach, thereby affecting marine life. Fisherfolk, who did not want to be identified, told The Hindu though UPCL had laid a 1 km long outfall defuser pipeline into the sea, it appeared to have developed problems. The company removed the pipeline about 1.5 months ago and since then, waste water was being discharged into the sea on the beach itself, they alleged. Representatives of the group, meanwhile, said that discharged water contained no chemicals and was brought to ambient temperature before being let out. Traditional fishermen However, a fisherman said letting out used hot water into the sea, be it 1 km from the beach or on the beach itself, would adversely affect marine life because of change in water temperatures. The worst affected were the traditional fishermen who do not venture into deep seas. Their catch has been decreasing every year, he said. Another fisherman said there was no constant discharge of the waste water, but once in a while large volumes were discharged. The discharge takes place when people are not around, he said. He said a breakwater built to support the pipeline was removed by the district administration about five years ago as it had begun causing massive sea erosion. After dismantling of the breakwater, the erosion drastically reduced. The fisherfolk said neither the district administration nor the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board responded to the issue. Response from Adani Adani Group’s South India president and Executive Director Kishore Alva said UPCL was drawing seawater only for boiling purposes and the discharged water did not contain any chemical properties. The pipeline was being replaced, he said, adding that he would check whether the water was being directly let out on the beach. The plant discharges water after bringing it to ambient temperature, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-units-water-discharge-into-beach-threatening-marine-life-allege-fisherfolk/article33952790.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Scouts and Guides Kannada Bhavan inaugurated||Scouts and Guides Kannada Bhavan and Mundrudeguthu K. Amarnatha Shetty Auditorium came to be inaugurated at Moodbidri on Saturday. The facilities, next to Swaraj Maidan in the town, were constructed at a cost of Rs. 12 crore and be available for public to conduct various public programmes. Inaugurating the facilities, Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade said Moodbidri was the right to place to have the Kannada Bhavan as it was the land of great poet Rathnakaravarni who contributed to Kannada substantially. Releasing Amara Smarane , a memoir on Late K. Amarnath Shetty, Karnataka Scouts and Guides chief commissioner P.G.R. Sindhia reminisced times spent with the former. He said students of Scouts and Guides had distributed over 35 lakh masks to the needy free of cost during COVID-19 pandemic across the State. Over 15,000 teachers associated with Scouts and Guides voluntarily worked in examination centres, he said. Dakshina Kannada district in charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari, Moodbidri MLA Umanath Kotian, Bhattaraka Charukeerthi Panditacharyavarya Swami of Moodbidri Jain Mutt, M. Mohan Alva, president of Scouts and Guides Kannada Bhavan Nirmana Samiti, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scouts-and-guides-kannada-bhavan-inaugurated/article33953402.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||39 new cases in DK, Udupi||With 21 new COVID-19 cases and 26 patients discharged, the active cases in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday stood at 202. A fine of Rs. 35.64 lakh has so far been collected from 34,573 cases of not wearing masks, said the bulletin by Dakshina Kannada district administration. In Udupi, 18 new cases were found and nine patients discharged on Saturday. The active cases stood at 69.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/39-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article33953409.ece
28 February 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Cattle rescued in Hebri taluk||The residents of Belve Village in Hebri Taluk in Udupi district and the Udupi police rescued a head of cattle that was being taken in an “inhuman way” in an autorickshaw on the Someshwara-Halady State highway on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cattle-rescued-in-hebri-taluk/article33953415.ece
28 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bring special schools under Education Dept.’||While asking the State government to bring special schools under the ambit of the Education Department, the Karnataka State Association for Special Educators and Supportive Staff on Saturday sought revision in the honorarium paid to special educators. The association said this in separate memorandums given to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar when he visited the Saanidhya Residential Special School for Differently Abled in Shaktinagar. Vasanth Kumar Shetty, the general secretary of the association, said there were 400 special schools in the state and they were presently coming under the Department for Empowerment of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens. The special educators working in these schools were receiving monthly honorarium of Rs. 13,500, fixed in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bring-special-schools-under-education-dept/article33953408.ece
28 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||briefly||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar on Saturday said it was good that teachers have found an alternative in Vidyagama and online classes during the pandemic, or else students would have been deprived of learning. He was speaking after inaugurating Reshma Memorial Auditorium at Shakti Educational Institution campus here.    The Hasiru Dala and APD Foundation have organised a clean-up drive as part of Namma Netravathi-Namma Javabdari project between Kallapu and Netravathi bridge on NH 66 between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. Teams of volunteers will assemble near Nethravathi bridge and clear trash accumulated near the waters before it is washes into the ocean during the monsoon. General public are welcome to join. For details, call 87621 62036.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33953406.ece
28 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mayoral polls: Tanveer Sait to meet D.K. Shivakumar tomorrow||Former Minister Tanveer Sait, who has drawn the ire of a section of Congressmen led by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah over his role in the recent mayoral polls in Mysuru, will be meeting Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar in Bengaluru on Monday to give an explanation on the decision taken by him to align with the JD(S) in Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). In the wake of the summons given to him by the KPCC president, Mr. Sait said he had offered to meet him on Saturday, but the meeting was deferred in view of the KPCC president’s scheduled visit to Mangaluru. “I will meet him in Bengaluru on Monday and submit my report”, Mr. Sait said. KPCC working president and former MP R. Dhruvanarayan, who had been deputed as the party’s observer for the polls,will also be submitting a report in the regard. The party is expected to take a decision based on both the reports. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Sait said he had not taken any steps that compromised on the party’s principles and expressed hopeful of securing justice from the party leadership. However, he also said that he was not afraid of any action by the party. Responding to demands for his suspension by a section of the Congressmen in Mysuru including former Mayors, Mr. Sait said the party can take any action it deems fit even after his explanation, but it will have to consider the consequences arising out of any such action. ‘No role in sloganeering’ With regard to the sloganeering against Mr. Siddaramaiah in front of his house on Friday, he said he had no role in the matter and cannot be held responsible for the acts of his supporters. He also regretted the sloganeering. Mr. Sait said the persons making the resignation demands were mere “puppets” and the strings were elsewhere. He refused to identify the ‘puppeteer.’ He said he was entrusted with the task of holding talks with the JD(S) for the mayoral polls and added that he had successfully discharged the responsibilities and kept the BJP out of power in the MCC. He said he was aware that he would be blamed if the BJP had grabbed power in the MCC. Seeks probe Referring to accusations that he had entered into a ‘deal’ with the JD(S), Mr. Sait said there should be a high-level inquiry into the polls, which will “unravel the truth”. Mr. Sait said he has been in politics for the last several years, representing Narasimharaja Assembly constituency for five successive terms, and had his own charisma. “I cannot compromise on my self-respect to protect somebody else’s charisma”, Mr. Sait said without referring to Mr Siddaramaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayoral-polls-tanveer-sait-to-meet-dk-shivakumar-tomorrow/article33952905.ece
28 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Engineering Exploration lab to sharpen students’ skills||An ‘’Engineering Exploration Lab’’ to introduce engineering students to multidisciplinary experiment-based projects with hands-on experience and to imbibe strong fundamentals in current technologies, was inaugurated at the Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering (VVCE) in the city. A release said it was inaugurated on Friday and will cater to students of all engineering branches. The laboratory is in sync with the proposed NEP 2020 focusing on developing skills in real-time experiments such as voice-controlled car, solar-based water pumping system, web page development, construction of drone, 3D printing, wiring and soldering, civil-based bridges and houses. B. Sadashive Gowda, Principal, VVCE, said the Engineering Exploration Lab is an extension of V–Innovate lab which was run from the past three academic years as “beyond syllabus exercise’’ for first year engineering students to give them a flavour of different disciplines. A unique feature of this lab is that all the experiments are self-designed by the engineering faculty of VVCE without outsourcing any of the models. The experimentsrepresent real-time applications. Discrete components were purchased and assembled by faculty members and the team has kept all models ready for use by the students. Mr. Sadashive Gowda said that autonomy has given them freedom to start new initiatives which will cater to the student and industry requirements. The lab will help induce entrepreneurship ability amongst students and promote problem solving skills. It was inaugurated in the presence of P. Vishwanath, secretary, VVCE Board of Management, and Gundappa Gowda, president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engineering-exploration-lab-to-sharpen-students-skills/article33952908.ece
28 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Stakeholders for expediting music varsity’s development||A stakeholders’ meeting to give wings to the long-term objectives of the Karnataka State Dr.Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University, was held here on Friday. Chaired by the newly appointed Vice Chancellor Nagesh V. Bettakote, the meeting was attended by classical artists as also academicians who reiterated the imperatives of expediting the development of the varsity. The immediate objective of the meeting was to take stock of the situation of the varsity which is perceived not to have grown as envisaged though it was established 11 years ago. The general consensus was that the varsity, while striving to function within the guidelines of the University Grants Commission, should also evolve its own modalities to impart education in the field of music, dance and performing arts that goes beyond the academic framework of a conventional university. Prof. Nagesh Bettakote who shared the details of the meeting with The Hindu said that he elicited opinion of subject experts and accomplished artists who gave their suggestions on how best to take forward the education that was being imparted by the varsity. Stakeholders have opined that the government should accord more importance and attention to the varsity as it was one of its kind in the State and help facilitate its growth. There were suggestions for roping in established artists as guest lecturers so as to fine tune the education that was being imparted by the varsity. “At the end of the course the students passing out should be accomplished artists was the general refrain’’, said Prof. Bettakote. He said the varsity has certain issues which only the government can resolve and this includes sanctioning additional staff. He said there were 61 employees and the government should ensure that the funds for salary and development works are not sacrificed. As a university there should be adequate facilities not only in terms of classrooms but auditorium, documentation of various forms of performing arts, and establishment of museums showcasing different art forms including musical instruments, said Prof. Bettakote. The stakeholders also opined that going forward the guru-shishya tradition in imparting education in the classical performing fields should become an established form in the varsity, he added. The varsity is yet to receive any funding from the UGC as the government was yet to sanction the requisite number of staff to qualify for the UGC grants. Besides, the music varsity in Mysuru is functioning out of a school building and does not have its own campus all of which has to be resolved. Prof. Bettakote said he will strive to secure the 12 B approval and notification from the UGC during his tenure so as to make the varsity eligible to receive development grants from the UGC and the MHRD, Government of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stakeholders-for-expediting-music-varsitys-development/article33952899.ece
28 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leaders seek suspension of GTD||The mayoral polls in Mysuru have not only caused a rift in the Congress, but also sparked trouble in the JD(S) with the party’s Mysuru City leadership seeking suspension of party MLA G.T. Deve Gowda and Sandesh Nagaraj, MLC, for abstaining from the elections. Though Mr. Gowda and Mr. Nagaraj enjoyed voting rights as people’s representatives, both chose to stay away from the elections held on February 24. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, JD(S) Mysuru City unit president K.T. Cheluve Gowda accused the two leaders of betraying the party. He alleged that both remained in their houses when the polling took place for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Mysuru City Corporation. He said both Mr. Gowda and Mr. Nagaraj did not have any commitment to the party and questioned the need for the party to retain them. He dared Mr. Gowda to resign from the Assembly and recontest as an independent candidate to prove his political strength. He called upon the party to act against Mr. Gowda, who was indulging in “anti-party activities”. Mr. Cheluve Gowda said party leaders from Mysuru City and the district will resign en masse if the party does not act against Mr. Deve Gowda and Mr. Nagaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-leaders-seek-suspension-of-gtd/article33952901.ece
28 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Digital outreach programme for farmers||The digital outreach programme connecting farmers with scientists and researchers and which provided the stakeholders a learning platform, has evoked positive response from the farmers and helped create a database of information and agricultural knowledge. The programme conducted every Monday since the last 3 months, is set to conclude in the first week of March and has created a database of information which the farmers can tap at leisure. Though the live programmes are viewed by about 250 to 300 farmers, the online link provided by the organisers has helped increase the traffic and there are issues germane to agriculture which has clocked over 5,000 unique visitors. This was stated by G.H. Yogesh, Deputy Director, District Agricultural Training Centre (DATC) at Naganahalli which took the initiative in conducting the series of programmes. Going forward the DATC intends to collect feedback from the farmers and redesign the programme so as to be of more help to the agricultural community. The DATC’s digital learning programme has also helped emerge as a forum for continuous sharing of knowledge and information pertaining to agriculture with focus on organic farming. Theprogramme was a joint initiative of DATC and Department of Agriculture, Krishi Samvahana Vedike, Mysuru, Naganahalli Agriculture Research Centre, Horticulture College and Krishi Vijnana Kendra, Suttur. The programme was streamed live on social media platforms and its cumulative outreach continues to rise as there are farmers who may want to revisit a programme to clarify a doubt, said Mr. Yogesh. This was the first such initiative in any district in the State and though other regions were supposed to emulate and devise similar programmes to reach out to the farmers, they are yet to take off. The bulk of the programme was on organic farming and related issues. The concept of digital outreach took roots during the lockdown last year and over 3,500 farmers made use of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-outreach-programme-for-farmers/article33952902.ece
28 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||More paddy procurement centres opened||The Chamarajanagar district administration has decided to open 22 additional paddy procurement centres for the benefit of the farmers. The last date to procure paddy with minimum support price has been extended to March 31 and the additional 22 centres will be apart from 9 procurement centres already functioning. A release said the additionalcentres have been established at various hoblis and even the Jyothi variety of paddy was also being procured at the centres. A farmer could sell 25 quintals of paddy per acre of land while the procurement of ragi was initially pegged at 10 quintals per acre. But the release said the maximum cap has been removed and the minimum support price for ragi has also been increased and this is expected to benefit farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-paddy-procurement-centres-opened/article33952903.ece
28 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Video of youth driving on KRS dam sparks outrage||An undated video of a youth driving on the Krishnaraja Sagar dam in Srirangapatana taluk of Mandya district has raised outrage and questions on different rules for different folks. The video, which has gone viral on social media, shows a youngster driving a police vehicle with one of the cops by his side. The entry of the public from the main gate of the KRS is banned and tourists have to drive across the Cauvery bridge and reach the other side of the Brindavan Gardens directly. It was customary for visitors to park the vehicles near the main gate and walk for more than a km to reach the gardens and the Cauverystatue, till some time years ago. But security was ramped up after perceived threat to the safety of the dam and during the frequent agitations against the release of Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu. This led to the closure of the main entrance to the general public but for the local villagers who lived on the other side of the dam. But the video seem to make a mockery of the prevailing law and security concerns and has put the district administration and the local police in a discomfiture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-of-youth-driving-on-krs-dam-sparks-outrage/article33952906.ece
28 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Janapada Sammelana on March 27||The second district Janapada Sammelana will be organised by the Aniketana Trust in Yadgir on March 27, Mallesh Kurkundi, honorary president of the trust, has said. Attending a meeting in Yadgir on Saturday, Mr. Kurkundi said the venue and the president for the event will be announced shortly. The First district Janapada Sammelana was held in 2016. The district has prominent Janapada singers whose contribution to the field is immense. They will be recognised at the event, he said. Amarayya Swamy Jalibenchi, member of Karnataka Janapada Academy, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/janapada-sammelana-on-march-27/article33952776.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In hot water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-hot-water/article33953398.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Explosives destroyed||The police destroyed 20 explosive sticks by detonating them in Hattarwat village near Chikkodi in Belagavi district on Saturday, after they were found illegal. The police wanted to seize them, but experts advised that they could not be moved. A team of police officers decided to explode them as they were. Farmer Kallappa Sooji, Shantilal Duggar and Tyagaraj Rathod had obtained these explosives in violation of permits. They were bought to dig and widen wells. The explosives were detonated in the wells that were already dug. A case has been booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/explosives-destroyed/article33952768.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||King of the square||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/king-of-the-square/article33952787.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||engagements for Feb 28||MANGALURU Karnataka sangeetha Parishat:Music concert, vocal recital by Shreevarada Pattaje, Kasargod, 3.45 p.m; vocal recital by Shruthi S. Bhat, Chennai, Sharada Vidyalaya Auditorium, Kodialbail, 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements-for-feb-28/article33953407.ece
28 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Power use reaches a new high for Feb.||With the mercury soaring, power consumption in the State reached a new high for February on Friday. The total power consumption on Friday was 81.0674 million units (mu), the highest ever recorded during February. As per the data available at the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC), Kalamassery, the previous day’s estimate of power consumption was 80.3764 mu. A senior SLDC official says the peak hour consumption now is by 10 p.m., which is experienced during the peak summer season in March. Normally, the peak hour consumption is at 7 p.m. An increased use of air-conditioners is perceived to be the reason for the rise in power consumption. He says this change in trend in peak hour consumption from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. was noticeable by the end of February. The cloudy atmosphere had caused a rise in temperatures, leading to the unusual pattern in power consumption by the end of February. However, the trend cannot be considered to be one that will continue, leading to an overall increase in consumption. He says the State had achieved 100% power connection for domestic consumers and it cannot be termed an increase in domestic consumption. Power consumption is maximum in commercial and domestic sectors. Industrial consumption is around 23%. He says there has been no change in the consumption level in these sectors and the increase in power consumption may be due to the rise in temperatures during night time. A marked change was visible from February 24. On Friday, the power generated from hydel, thermal, wind farm, and solar power units in the State was 28.5697 mu. While 52.4978 mu was imported from outside sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-use-reaches-a-new-high-for-feb/article33952885.ece
28 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Stir to be intensified against ESZ move||Various organisations, including farmer, political and religious bodies, are gearing up to intensify agitation against the draft notification of the Ministry of Environment and Forest for declaration of eco-sensitive zones (ESZ) around the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS), which shares its borders with many villages in the district. An all-party action council formed in Sulthan Bathery has decided to stage a ‘rail roko’ protest at the Kozhikode railway station on April 10 against the draft notification. Resolutions will be passed by the ward committees under the aegis of the councillors of Sulthan Bathery Municipality against the notification, and they will sent to the Prime Minister, organisers said in a release here. Meanwhile, the pastoral council of the Syro Malabar Diocese of Mananthavady urged the government to repeal the draft notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-to-be-intensified-against-esz-move/article33952802.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ramps to be built at 327 booths for differently abled voters||District Collector and election officer S. Suhas has said all basic facilities for the election to the State Assembly in the district will be ready in time. He was addressing a meeting of polling officials to review election preparations here on Saturday, said a press release. There will be special arrangements for senior citizens as well as those with different abilities at the polling stations. Ramps will be built in places where necessary. The communication said that 327 booths would need ramps out of the 3,899 polling booths in the district. The places where ramps will be built include 40 government buildings and 168 private buildings as well as temporarily built facilities. The ramps will be ready in five days. The Collector also issued instructions to KSEB officials to provide electricity connection to polling booths that do not have power links now. Two stations in Kothamangalam constituency would run on electricity generators because there was no way of providing normal power connections to them, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramps-to-be-built-at-327-booths-for-differently-abled-voters/article33953362.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CCTV eye on more residential areas||Residents’ associations in the city are installing closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in their areas like never before to keep tabs on criminals and strangers, and to act as a deterrent against dumping of garbage. The footage from the cameras is also helping the police detect crimes. A few months ago, images of a motorbike from a CCTV installed in Chalikkavattom helped the Kadavanthra police identify a person who snatched the bag of a pedestrian and escaped. “The maximum number of CCTVs has been installed by residents’ associations which fall under the Kadavanthra and Palarivattom police stations,” said D.G. Suresh, district committee member of Ernakulam District Residents’ Associations’ Apex Council (EDRAAC). It was just a few months ago that the Palarivattom police nabbed a history-sheeter who was wanted in connection with a theft from a mosque, based on a CCTV grab. “It turned out that he was wanted in around 100 theft cases in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Installing high-resolution cameras capable of zooming in to faces and also registration number of vehicles will be an added advantage,” said a police officer associated with the case. Monitoring visuals That the footage from many such devices is monitored by personnel of respective police stations helps quicken the pace of response by the police. About 10 of the 57 residents’ associations in Palarivattom have installed CCTVs covering different lanes in their areas. They include P.J. Antony Road Residents’ Association, which plans to use the Rs. 3-lakh award money it got from P.T. Thomas, MLA, for doing commendable work in ensuring safety, welfare and cleanliness, to install surveillance cameras. “The first set of cameras was placed five months ago at an intersection. This tremendously helped keep anti-social elements at bay, especially so since criminal groups are roping in workers from other States to indulge in crimes. An estimate has been readied to install more such devices,” said Mr. Suresh. Four residents’ associations at Chalikkavattom were among the first in the city to install CCTVs in their areas, said A. Ajith Kumar, former general secretary of EDRAAC and a resident of Chalikkavattom. “The decision was taken in consultation with the police. CCTVs can be optimally utilised if the police monitor them throughout, since it could prevent crimes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cctv-eye-on-more-residential-areas/article33953371.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SWTD withdraws catamaran ferries for alterations||The pair of catamaran ferries that the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) launched a week ago in the Ernakulam-Fort Kochi sector have been temporarily withdrawn from service to make a few modifications. They include installation of fans, grab rails and modification of steps at their entry. The decision to install eight fans - four on each side - was taken since the ferries have sliding glass panes, as compared with shutters in the steel ferries that operate on the route. This was found to affect air circulation within the ferries. Many guests complained of this on the day of inauguration of the vessels. There are electric points along the perimeter of the vessels, from where power to propel the fans can be sourced, SWTD sources said. Similarly, it was decided to install grab rails at entry points and within the vessels, considering that the catamaran ferries made of fibre-reinforced plastic are taller than their steel counterparts. All these modifications are being executed by the private firm which built the vessels. The two vessels will be ready to operate on Tuesday or Wednesday. Similar alterations will be made in five more catamaran vessels that the private firm will roll out at the rate of one every 45 days, they said. The SWTD’s fast ferry Vega-2 - which operates in Alappuzha, has eight fans in the passenger cabin. The West Kochi Passengers’ Association said the withdrawal of the ferries for modifications was due to the SWTD’s apathy and slack supervision. The department must emphasise quality, safety and comfort of passengers, including at boat jetties. It must also restore early morning and late night trips in the sector, the association demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swtd-withdraws-catamaran-ferries-for-alterations/article33953360.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call for judicial inquiry into deep-sea fishing deal||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday said the State government should institute a judicial inquiry into the multi-crore deal between the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC)  and a U.S.-based company to build deep-sea fishing trawlers. The deal was withdrawn because the Opposition had exposed the “cheating of fishers” by the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in the State, he alleged at a press conference here on Saturday. UDF convener M.M. Hassan, who was present at the press conference, said that two rallies were being organised in the coastal areas of the State to highlight the “attempt by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to cheat fishers”. One rally from Kasaragod and another from Vizhijnam would convene at Vypeen, where the fishers would be addressed by former chief minister Oommen Chandy on March 6, he said. The rally from Vizhinjam will be led by former minister Shibu Baby John while T.N. Prathapan, MLA, will lead the rally from Kasaragod. Senior Congress leaders K.V. Thomas, K.P. Dhanapalan and K. Babu will participate. Mr. Chennithala said the State was surprised by the Chief Minister’s statement that he did not know about the deal to build deep-sea fishing trawlers between a U.S.-based company and a State government agency. The Chief Minister and the Fisheries Minister have been trying to mislead the people, he said. He said the State Cabinet appeared to be suffering from “forgetfulness” because the Chief Minister appeared to be without knowledge about what has been happening in the departments he controlled. He compared the incident regarding the deep-sea fishing agreement to the one involving an American company for sharing details on COVID-19 patients in the State. Mr. Chennithala greeted all fishers unions that took part in a hartal in coastal areas on Saturday to protest against the fishing deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-judicial-inquiry-into-deep-sea-fishing-deal/article33952811.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||17 cameras are watching this region||Among the associations having the most number of CCTV cameras is the Lal Salaam Road Residents’ Association at Ponnurunni. A total of 17 surveillance cameras kept at vantage points keep tabs on the area where 165 families reside. “Each member pooled in money, from between Rs. 500 to Rs. 3,000, to realise this project which was readied in three phases and cost a total of around Rs. 2 lakh. The footage from the 17 cameras is stored in four servers kept at nearby houses,” said P.G. Jayamohan, executive committee member of the association. During the past year, the footage came in handy to nab a bicycle thief, a stranger who used to knock on the doors of houses at midnight, and people who illegally dumped garbage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/17-cameras-are-watching-this-region/article33953363.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Registration from tomorrow for people above 60 for vaccination||The district has an estimated population of 5 to 6 lakh people aged between 45 and 60 years with co-morbidities and people over the age of 60, who will soon be prioritised to receive the vaccine for COVID-19. People who fall in this category would be able to download and register themselves on the Co-WIN app from March 1, said Dr. M. G. Sivadas, Reproductive and Child Health Officer and nodal officer for vaccination, Ernakulam. But vaccine administration for this vulnerable category of people among the general public will begin only after polling officials in the district are given the shot, he added. The vaccination drive for polling officials is from March 1 to 3. It will be a wholly self-registration process, he said. On-the-spot registration will also be permitted at the vaccination centres. The app is expected to have locations of vaccination centres. ASHA workers already had lists of people over the age of 60 and those with co-morbidities, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. But these would not be used for registration, and the ASHA workers would only encourage the elderly and people with co-morbidities to register themselves and take the shot, he said. Around 60,000 healthcare workers and 26,000 frontline workers, including polling officers, have taken the vaccine so far in the district. At the vaccination centres, doctors have been trained to identify “contraindications” or conditions in which people should not take the vaccine, Dr. Sivadas said. Pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children below the age of 18 cannot take the vaccine. “People with diabetes, hypertension, and any other lifestyle disease are recommended to take the vaccine since they are at high-risk of developing severe COVID-19,” said Dr. Anish T.S., Associate Professor at the Department of Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. “In some cases, we might postpone the vaccination. People who have had COVID-19 might have to wait 28 days after testing negative. A person who is taking another vaccine like the anti-rabies vaccine might have to wait two weeks after the last dose of the anti-rabies vaccine to take the COVID-19 shot,” Dr. Anish said. A communication from Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary, Union Health Ministry, to senior health officials in all States sent on January 14, also suggests that COVID-19 and other vaccines should be separated by an interval of 14 days. A history of chronic diseases like cardiac, renal, neurological, pulmonary, metabolic diseases, and malignancies are not contraindications for the vaccine, the communication says. The vaccine is not suggested for people who have had an anaphylactic or allergic reactions to vaccines, injectable therapies, pharmaceutical products and food items, according to the communication. A specific set of guidelines or order on administering the vaccine to the general public is still awaited, Dr. Anish said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-from-tomorrow-for-people-above-60-for-vaccination/article33953369.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Local bodies should get approach road ready: CIAL||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has said that local bodies should acquire land to build a suitable approach road for the bridge across Chengalthode, which was built by the airport at a cost of Rs. 6.88 crore as part of flood mitigation works. The Chengalthode bridge links Thuravanakara and Chethikkode across a tributary of the Periyar river. Angamaly municipal councillor Thomas Mathew from Chethikkode ward said the approach road was narrow and residents were raising a protest. The bridge, he said, was built by the airport authorities to ensure that villages on the banks of Chengalthode had easy access to safe places if the area was flooded. Chethikkode was one of the areas severely affected by floods in August 2018, when even the airport had to be shut down. The airport authorities have said that the approach road on both ends of the bridge that links Angamaly municipality and Kanjoor panchayat belonged to the local bodies, and the authorities should take steps to solve the problem. Since the bridge was broad enough, the local bodies should be able to solve the problem by acquiring land and building an approach road, according to an official communication from CIAL on Saturday. The bridge is 45 metres long, has a breadth of 7.5 metres, and has a 1.5-metre footpath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-should-get-approach-road-ready-cial/article33953373.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval officer in-charge for Lakshadweep||Commander T.K. Praveen assumed charge as Naval Officer in Charge (Lakshadweep) and Commanding Officer, INS Dweeprakshak, at a ceremony at the Naval Base in Kavaratti on Thursday. A native of Alappuzha, Cdr. Praveen is a specialist in Communication Networks and Electronic Warfare and is also a qualified Ship Diving Officer. He is an alumnus of Sainik School, Kazhakkoottam. He was Commanding Officer of INS Cuddalore and served on board INS Delhi. He has held staff appointments at Flag Officer Sea Training (FOST), Flag Officer Doctrine and Concepts (FODC) and Maritime Warfare Centre (Kochi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-officer-in-charge-for-lakshadweep/article33952796.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CADAL: allow discussion on policy||The Coastal Agency for Development and Liberation (CADAL), an initiative of Kerala Region Latin Catholic Council, has urged the Centre to place the draft policy on Blue Economy (sustainable use of ocean resources for economic growth), for wider consultations. In a letter addressed to the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, the organisation said that the policy would have many implications on the marine communities, fishers and on the marine ecology. “The draft needs to be discussed with the people/ fishers and fishing communities who will have to undergo untold miseries by way of coastal erosion, fish resource depletion and drastic ecological disasters in the sea and the sea coast. It will affect the life, livelihood and the very existence of fishing communities in the country,” it said, requesting that the policy may be put on hold for some time to enable public discussions once the scourge of the pandemic was over. In a press release, the agency said that the draft policy was published on February 17 and the last date for giving opinions was February 27, which it said was too short a period to discuss something with far-reaching consequences as this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-urged-to-allow-discussion-on-blue-economy-policy/article33952808.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call for steadying job sector||A State-level convention of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and Students’ Federation of India (SFI) will be held in Ernakulam on Monday to urge the Centre to steady up the troubled employment sector in the country. CITU State general secretary Elamaram Kareem will inaugurate the convention, which will demand formulation of policies to create permanent jobs, regularisation of contract, casual labourers and those working on a voluntary basis in the welfare and educational sectors. The convention will also urge the Centre to fill vacancies in various Central departments and public sector undertakings and to appoint candidates from the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities. A slew of demands, including strict compliance with ensuring reservation in jobs, are being raised by the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-steady-up-job-sector/article33952795.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||415 new cases, 516 recoveries in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded 415 new COVID-19 cases and 516 recoveries on Saturday. A total of 8,969 people are recovering from the infection in the district. Two health workers tested positive on the day. Thripunithura recorded 21 new cases, Kumbalanghi 15, Piravom 14 and Manjalloor 12. As many as 25,031 people remain in quarantine. While 7,726 people are recovering at home, 33 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 54 at PVS Hospital, 11 at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital and 406 at private hospitals. For testing, 6,869 samples were sent on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/415-new-cases-516-recoveries-in-ernakulam/article33953366.ece
28 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||117 centres for poll officials||A total of 117 centres have been readied for vaccination of officials who will be on poll duty in the upcoming Assembly elections. A total of 28,352 officials will be on poll duty in the district. Messages have been sent out to polling officials, informing them of the vaccination drive. The Reproductive and Child Health co-ordinator has been tasked with registering those officials who have not yet registered for the vaccine. Officials with questions on the vaccination drive may approach village offices or public health facilities. Vaccination will take place from March 1 to 3 for officials on poll duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/117-centres-for-poll-officials/article33953367.ece
28 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Coastal areas in Kollam see protest marches||A day long hartal called by various organisations over the ongoing controversy regarding a deep-sea fishing contract between the Left Democratic Front government and a U.S.-based company evoked mixed reaction in the coastal areas of Kerala on Saturday. While the coastal hartal called by various pro-Congress organisations did not affect the traditional sector with most of the boats venturing into the sea, vessels from the mechanised sector stayed off the waters. Though the coastal areas witnessed a spate of protest marches and meetings, no cases of violence were reported. “The hartal was a total failure as the fishers went ahead with their routine trips and came back with the day’s catch at nearly all fish landing centres. Around 168 boats from Kollam ventured into the sea at midnight and other 75 boats went on their fishing trips this morning. Apart from a minor clash related to sales there was no issue and everything went as usual and even fish vending was not affected,” said Kollam district Matsya Thozhilali Union (CITU) president H.Basil Lal. According to some fishers, the fall in the number of boats was mainly due to the annual lean season not hartal. “If it was the season, more boats would have gone. Most boats that stayed off are not venturing out regularly nowadays due to a dip in catch. Also, we think this hartal is not for fishers as it has a clear political motive,” says Ambrose, fisher. Meanwhile, the mechanised sector participated in the hartal with the majority of trawlers staying in the harbours. “We participated in the hartal due to multiple problems other than the alleged deep-sea fishing deal between the State government and the U.S. firm. There are many issues in the sector, including the hike in fuel price, that require immediate redressal. Though we are an independent association with no particular political allegiance, we considered it an opportunity to mark our protest,” says Peter Mathias, president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association.  Resignation sought “The Fisheries Minister has tried to deceive fishers and she should resign. We also want a judicial probe into the entire episode and we will launch more severe agitations in coming days,” said said Biju Lukose, district president of the Matsyathozhilali Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-areas-in-kollam-see-protest-marches/article33952887.ece
28 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Alert on summer diseases issued||As the temperature keeps soaring in many parts of the district, the Health Department has issued an alert to prevent summer diseases and dehydration. Those engaged in hard labour outdoors should take rest between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. In order to avoid dehydration increasing the intake of water is mandatory, said District Medical Officer Dr.R.Sreelatha. “Stop working in the sun and seek immediate medical aid if you feel any physical discomfort,” she said. Taking into account the chance of sunstroke, precautions should be taken and only loose cotton clothes in light colours should be used. Since the possibility of vector-borne diseases is high, dry day should be observed in all households, offices and educational institutions. Source reduction should be done and all potential mosquito breeding sources should be cleared to curb vector-borne outbreaks. Ensuring safe drinking water should be another priority and drink safe boiled water to prevent diseases including jaundice, typhoid, diarrhoea and cholera. Vehicles distributing drinking water should register their details with local bodies concerned. Tankers carrying portable water should display the details and the tanks should be chlorinated and the hoses and pumps used to distribute water should be clean. ‘Avoid soft drinks’ The Department has also urged the public to avoid soft drinks and other food items prepared at unhygienic open places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alert-on-summer-diseases-issued/article33952858.ece
28 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam panchayat project to help people on the brink||With Kollam recording the topmost suicide rate in India, the district panchayat is all set to launch Amrutham Gamaya, an emotional immunisation programme to identify vulnerable persons and provide them psychological support and continued individual attention. A first-of-its kind initiative by a local body, the project is expected to bring down the suicide rate in the district that is currently four times higher than the national average. 210 suicides “As per records, the Karunagapally police station alone has recorded 210 suicides from 2017 to 2020. The reasons include family problems, indebtedness, substance abuse, and even social media-related issues. While 80% of people who commit suicide are men the coastal belt and eastern ghat section of the district have reported the maximum number of suicide cases,” says K. Prasad, district panchayat secretary. Four zones The panchayat officials have divided the district into four zones, including rural, coastal, eastern, and urban to implement Amrutham Gamaya. Depending on the volume of cases, 100 wards cutting across Corporation and municipal and village panchayat areas will be focussed in the first phase of the project and door-to-door surveys will be held for data collection. “We have prepared a questionnaire with the help of psychiatrists and other experts to identify potential social and emotional issues. The survey will be conducted at 100 homes in each ward covering a total of 10,000 families,” says district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel. Survey Continuing education preraks and Accredited Social Health Activists (Ashas) will be in charge of conducting the survey and they will be trained on how to interact with people during data collection to get vital details. After the survey, regular campaigns to spread awareness will be held and the authorities are planning to rope in celebrities, including actors. “Apart from general sessions, individual cases will be offered all support, including tele-counselling,” says Mr. Prasad. The project is being implemented with the support of District Literacy Mission Authority, Women and Child Development Department, and various voluntary organisations. Permanent system Taking into account the different risk factors, including previous attempts, mental health issues, and social isolation, the Kollam district panchayat will also arrange a permanent system to provide counselling for persons belonging to the most vulnerable category. “We have already started training investigators for the primary survey. It will be a continued programme as repeated intervention is required in many cases. Unlike routine counselling programmes, Amritutam Gamaya will monitor people for a long duration of period and offer them medical and emotional support. We hope to bring down the number of suicides with consistent efforts,” says Mr. Daniel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-panchayat-project-to-help-people-on-the-brink/article33952852.ece
28 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||411 new COVID cases in Kollam||The district reported 411 new cases of COVID-19 and 279 recoveries on Saturday. While 402 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include seven NRIs and two health workers. The district currently has 15,064 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 8,50,191. While 1,595 people completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 1,83,937 primary and 15,081 secondary contacts of the positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/411-new-covid-cases-in-kollam/article33952859.ece
28 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Freedom of speech under attack, says N. Ram||There is no doubt that the freedom of speech and expression has come under attack and it creates a chilling effect to see much of the media carrying out a propaganda for the Hindutva ideology and its projects, N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, has said. He was inaugurating through online a reunion of former Students Federation of India (SFI) activists at the CMS College in Kottayam on Saturday evening. Holding that the extreme right has been on the ascend since 2014, Mr. Ram said the new rules proposed by the Narendra Modi government sought to bring the digital platform of all major news publications under the control of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry. He came down heavily on the interlinked project of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Registry of Citizens, which went against the principle of equality. “The citizenship regime that began after the independence has now become a highly illiberal and surveillance-oriented regime,” said Mr. Ram, while also accusing the Congress of sharing much of these concepts. “The Congress is a champion of neo-liberalism as much as the BJP is. There is a continuity of economic policies from the UPA, specifically the UPA 2 to the present government,” he said. According to Mr. Ram, youth organisations in the country, especially the SFI, have a key role in fighting for and restoring the constitutional rights of citizens . On the occasion, Mr. Ram also lauded the alternative model presented by Kerala, which, as pointed out by economist Amartya Sen, relied on public discussion, humanity and reasoning, among others. Suresh Kurup, MLA, presided over the function, organised in connection with the 50th anniversary celebration of the SFI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/freedom-of-speech-under-attack-says-n-ram/article33952861.ece
28 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fronts working on new templates for Assembly polls||Kerala is apparently poised for a turbulent Assembly election, of a kind perhaps never witnessed before. Between the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), it is a no-holds-barred battle. But it is the challenge posed by the BJP against the two main adversaries that is likely to influence the outcome in a large number of Assembly segments. With the political scenario undergoing a change, the LDF is eyeing a return to power, riding on the steady support of its coalition partners. But the UDF hopes for a comeback by parading Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in its campaign. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is banking on the rock-solid cadre base of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the rising support of voters among Hindus and a section of Christians. The 2019 Lok Sabha polls favoured the Congress coalition, while the 2020 three-tier local body polls gave an advantage to the Left parties. These elections may have served as a template to the oscillating electoral prospects of both the fronts for the Assembly polls that work at different matrices. Vote share In the 2016 Assembly polls, the LDF secured 43.48%, UDF 38.81% and BJP-led NDA 14.96% of the vote share. Except the BJP, which increased its votes by 8.93%, the LDF and the UDF lost 1.63% and 6.97% respectively when compared to the 2011 elections. Incidentally, of 140 seats, the LDF bagged 91 seats, UDF 47 and NDA 1 and the remaining one, won by P.C. George, as Independent. A shift in terms of voting loyalties and the coming together of 11 cohesive partners increase the confidence of the LDF which is aiming to continue in power. Allegations by the Opposition over a series of scams could not stop the LDF from putting up a good show in the three-tier local body polls December. However, the recent controversy over the regularisation of temporary staff, prompting widespread protests from job aspirants, is a worrying factor for the front. So is the allegation of a deep-sea fishing contract, the latest one to surface. The Congress will have to methodically organising its political affairs to create a new electoral agenda. The leadership believes that electioneering by Rahul-Priyanka will help stave off Pinarayi Vijayan’s re-election bid. The pandemic impact The BJP’s continuing support among Nair and Ezhava communities has emerged from controversies related to women’s entry to Sabarimala and ‘love jihad’. But the performance of all three fronts cannot be easily predicted against the grim backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic and the social unrest sparked off by religious and casteist pressure groups in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-working-on-new-templates-for-assembly-polls/article33952871.ece
28 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Parties kick-start candidate selection in Kozhikode||Mainline political parties have begun candidate selection for the 13 segments in Kozhikode district for the Assembly elections on April 6. Modalities have been worked out on seat-sharing among coalition partners, though both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have not finalised seats. However, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has finalised candidates for key segments in the district. It will announce the candidates in a week. At least nine sitting legislators are likely to contest this time. Of them, seven belong to the CPI(M) or are LDF-backed Independents, and the remaining two belong to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). Ministers T.P. Ramakrishnan and A.K. Saseendran are likely to contest from Perambra and Elathur respectively. Mr. Saseendran’s candidature will also depend on the decision of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), as a section of local leaders have opposed his renomination. Also, the CPI(M) district committee has taken the stand that the party should contest the seat. The CPI(M) and the CPI have decided not to field those who have contested Assembly elections twice and thrice respectively. But the CPI(M) is likely to waive that stipulation for A. Pradeep Kumar and K. Dasan, who have completed three and two terms from Kozhikode North and Koyilandy respectively. The CPI(M) is likely to field E.K. Vijayan once again from Nadapuram. Chances of P.T.A. Rahim and Karat Razak, both LDF-backed Independents, contesting again from Kunnamangalam and Koduvally respectively cannot be ruled out, sources said. The CPI(M) plans to field K.P. Kunhammedkutty, former district panchayat president, from Kuttiyadi, where the IUML had won. The CPI(M) has also plans to replace its sitting legislators, V.K.C. Mammed Koya and George M. Thomas, in Beypore and Thiruvambady respectively. The party is considering fielding DYFI national president P.A. Mohammed Riyas from Beypore. The party is planning to field a young Christian candidate in Thiruvambady after Mr. George M. Thomas, incumbent MLA, has announced his decision not to enter the fray citing health reasons. The Congress has been eyeing Thiruvambady, though the IUML has been contesting there for long. Incumbent legislator M.K. Muneer is likely to contest on IUML ticket from Kozhikode South again. The CPI(M) will consider fielding Kozhikode Corporation Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahammed from the segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-kick-start-candidate-selection-in-kozhikode/article33952805.ece
28 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A boon for kids with rare disorders||Faseel, 20, has a penchant for repairing mobile phones and electrical gadgets and wants to become an engineer. When he was a child, his relatives recalled, Faseel used to spend more than three weeks a month in hospital, as he had a rare deficiency of antibodies that are vital to preventing infections. He now gets immunoglobulin replacement every four weeks, provided for free by the State government. On Rare Diseases Day on February 28, many like him are thanking a programme launched at the Department of Paediatrics, Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, which made it possible to have collaborative research on such disorders. Better awareness According to Geeta Govindaraj, Professor, Department of Paediatrics, the programme involving scientists at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, resulted in the genomic diagnosis of rare disorders in children and led to better awareness among clinicians. “Next-generation sequencing, which involves the usage of cutting-edge technology to find out the exact genomic basis for the disease, was offered for free to patients through the GuaRDIAN Consortium, a nation-wide research network of clinicians and scientists. The programme was funded by the Science and Engineering Research Board, New Delhi, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and the Foundation for Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases,” she said. Dr. Govindaraj said Faseel’s illness had started when he was just 16 days old. He had developed fever, and his body turned blue. He was diagnosed with a respiratory infection and was taken to hospitals in Mangaluru, where doctors performed multiple procedures to remove the pus that had collected around his lungs and for complications due to bacterial meningitis. Faseel grew up with his mother’s family after his father abandoned him. The family is still in debt after spending lakhs on treatment. However, Faseel has now cleared the SSLC exams with the help of a scribe and wants to earn some money on his own. Another case is that of Sanjay, whose mother lost count of his hospital visits for recurrent infections. The family was advised by the doctor to keep him at home and away from contact with outsiders. He had never played with other children and grew rebellious and withdrawn. His mother also rarely left the house, other than for the corner shop when it was absolutely necessary. She would have a thorough bath after that. He was later diagnosed with Hyper IgM syndrome, a rare inherited disorder. On regular treatment with antimicrobials and intravenous immunoglobulin, he became free of recurrent infections. “It is important to diagnose the inborn errors of immunity and manage them as early as possible. Newborn screening programme and genetic counselling for affected families, with wider access to cutting-edge technology like next-generation sequencing enabling prenatal diagnosis, are the need of the hour. Families should be given the opportunity to make informed reproductive choices,” Dr. Govindaraj added.  (Names of patients changed for anonymity)   It is important to diagnose the inborn errors of immunity and manage them as early as possible Geeta Govindaraj Department of Paediatrics MCH, Kozhikode||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collaborative-research-a-boon-for-children-with-rare-disorders/article33952794.ece
28 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Global summit on cybersecurity begins||Upholding the theme, ‘Real time real threat’, the two-day annual international virtual summit on cybersecurity began here on Saturday. Inspector General of Police (North Zone) Ashok Yadav opened the event hosted by the Kerala Police Cyberdome. District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George presided over the function. The day witnessed sessions on social engineering and cyber forensic. Cyber security researcher Pranav Venkit and cybersecurity consultant Vipin George led the sessions. Cyberdome officials said the theme and topics of the summit were chosen on the basis of the experience of the police during the lockdown, which witnessed a boom in Internet usage and online communication. Hacking possibilities in emerging technologies and the scope of Internet of Things were the topics for group discussions. ‘Capture the Flag’, a gaming event for participants, was also held on the day. As many as 18 topics will be presented by experts on Sunday. A session on ‘Inside the mind of a threat actor: Beyond the pentesting’ will also be held. It will discuss the possibilities of ensuring cyber security, besides penetration testing to look for vulnerabilities in software applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-summit-on-cybersecurity-begins/article33952807.ece
28 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||519 fresh cases in Kozhikode||As many as 519 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. According to the District Medical Officer, 501 of them were locally acquired infections while the source of 14 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 99 cases of local transmission of the infection, while Chakkittapara reported 16 cases, and Unnikulam 14. TPR at 6.65% A total of 7,800 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 6.65%. As many as 326 people recovered from the infection and the active case load is 5,210.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/519-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article33952806.ece
28 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Will guard communal harmony in State at any cost, says IUML||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal began his Sauhruda Sandesa Yatra from Changaramkulam on Saturday. IUML State president Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal inaugurated the yatra by handing over the party flag to Mr. Sadikali. Mr. Hyderali Thangal said it was time to give a befitting reply to those dividing society communally to earn a second term in office. He said the IUML would not allow anyone to divide the land communally. “We will remain sentries to guard communal harmony in the State,” he said. IUML district vice president Ashraf Kokkoor presided over the function. Party national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP; treasurer P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, Muslim Youth League State president Sayed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal, MLAs Abid Husain Thangal, N. Shamsuddin, P.K. Abdu Rabb, P. Ubaidullah, K.N.A. Khader, T.V. Ibrahim, and Manjalamkuzhi Ali, and C.P. Bava Haji and Abdurahman Randathani were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-guard-communal-harmony-in-state-at-any-cost-says-iuml/article33952813.ece
28 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||IFFK final edition from tomorrow||Curtain will go up on the final edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) here on Monday. The five-day festival will be held at Priya, Prayadarshini, Priyatama, Satya Movies, and Sreedevi Durga theatres. Eighty films from 46 countries will be screened at the Palakkad edition of the IFFK. As many as 14 films are there in the competition section, including two Malayalam films, Churuli and Hasyam . There will be 22 films in the contemporary world cinema section, 12 in Malayalam section, and seven in Indian cinema category. There will be five films in the Kaleidoscope category, selected from international film festivals. The festival will be held as per the COVID-19 protocol, said organisers here on Saturday. They said 1,500 delegate passes would be distributed. Filmmaker Priyanandanan inaugurated the delegate pass distribution here on Saturday.  Free tests The delegates must get COVID-19 negative certification from the counters set up at the venue. The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy is offering free COVID-19 tests for the delegates.   Quo Vadis, Aida? , Jasmila Zbanic’s Bosnian war drama film co-produced by 12 production companies from Basnia and Herzegovina, Austria, Germany, France, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, and Turkey, will be the inaugural film at the festival. It will be screened at Priya Theatre Complex after the inaugural function at 6 p.m. on Monday. The 2020 film, unveiling the horrors of Srebrenica massacre of July 1995 through the eye of a UN translator named Aida, was nominated for several international awards, including the Oscar. It was well received at several global film festivals such as the 77th Venice International Festival. Reservation rules Reservation for seats at IFFK shows has begun through its website. It can be done either through the website registration.iffk.in or through the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy’s IFFK app. Reservation will be allowed one day ahead of the show. Booking can be done from 8 a.m. until one hour before the show. Entry into theatres would be allowed only for those who reserved their seats. Seat numbers would be sent to the delegates through email and SMS. They will be thermal-scanned before allowing entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iffk-final-edition-from-tomorrow/article33952804.ece
28 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kim Ki-duk, Irfan Khan among 10 to be honoured at IFFK||The International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) 2021 being held here from March 1 to 5 will pay tributes to 10 film personalities who died in recent months. Foremost among them will be Korean filmmaker Kim Ki-duk. The others getting the tributes will be Argentine filmmaker Fernando Solanas; Indian actors Soumitra Chatterjee, Irfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor, and Anil Nedumangad; costume designer Bhanu Athaiya; cinematographer K. Ramachandra Babu; directors Shanavas Naranipuzha and Sachy. Kim Ki-duk’s famous 2003 film Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter and Spring , which portrays the changing seasons through his trademark magical realism, will be screened in his honour. Solanas’s 1988 film Sur (The South), Sachy’s Ayyappanum Koshiyum , and Shanavas Naranippuzha’s Kari will be screened. Anil Nedumangad has a solid role in Ayyappanum Koshiyum . The 1977 Tamil satirical film Agraharathil Kazhutai will be screened in honour of Ramachandra Babu. He has worked in more than 125 films in Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Hindi, Arabic, and English. Satyajit Ray’s 1964 film Charulata will be screened in honour of Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee. Irfan Khan’s Qissa and Rishi Kapoor’s 2018 movie Mulk will be the tributes to them. Marathi film Nagrik will be screened to pay homage to Bhanu Athaiya. 3 Lee Chang-dong films The IFFK will host South Korean director Lee Chang-dong’s three suspense films: Burning (2018), Oasis (2002), and Poetry (2010). When Burning had an Oscar nomination, Oasis had won the Silver Lion Award for the Best Director at Venice International Film Festival, 2002. Poetry had won the Best Screenplay Award in 2010 Cannes Film Festival.  Burning is a mystery drama film based on the short story ‘Barn Burning’ by Japanese author Haruki Murakami. Poetry tells the story of a woman in her 60s who begins to develop an interest in poetry while struggling with Alzheimer’s disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kim-ki-duk-irfan-khan-among-10-to-be-honoured-at-iffk/article33953515.ece
28 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar mother tonsures head, plans protest across the State||The mother of deceased Walayar girls who has been leading an agitation demanding action against the police officer who investigated her daughters’ deaths in mysterious circumstances tonsured her head on Saturday in protest against the government attitude. She said she would stage protests in 14 districts across the State against the ‘denial of justice by the government.’ She had announced earlier that she would tonsure her head if no action was taken against the investigating officer before the election notification. Dalit Human Rights Movement State chairperson Saleena Prakkanam and social activist Bindu Kamalan too had their heads tonsured along with her. Ramya Haridas, MP, and Mahila Congress State president Latika Subhash registered solidarity with the protesters here on Saturday. Walayar Action Council leaders said they too would lend support to the mother by tonsuring their heads on March 4, the fourth death anniversary of the younger daughter. Two minor sisters of Walayar, aged 13 and nine, were found hanging in their house on different dates in mysterious circumstances four years ago. A POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court here exonerated all accused as the prosecution failed to prove their involvement in the alleged rape and murder of the children. The acquittal caused an uproar and the High Court directed a further investigation in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-mother-tonsures-head-plans-protest-across-the-state/article33952891.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rituals pass off incident-free||Attukal Pongala passed off peacefully without any untoward incident being reported in the city, thanks to the strict implementation of the COVID-19 norms that required devotees to offer Pongala within the confines of their homes. The situation contrasted scenes that were usually seen on a Pongala day when the police would remain on tenterhooks as they managed huge crowds, even while striving to thwart incidents of chain-snatching. Barring two instances of devotees collapsing from heat stroke at Attukal and Killipalam, the ritual remained incident-free. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Vaibhav Saxena, who oversaw security arrangements, said no cases were registered in connection with the Pongala. “No efforts were spared to ensure that the pandemic norms were adhered to. Besides setting up an advanced control room near the temple, surveillance measures including bike patrolling and camera drones were deployed,” he said. In a statement, City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay placed on record his gratitude to the public for desisting from crowding and cooperating with the COVID-19 protocol while observing the ritual. A deployment of 1,500 police personnel was made under the supervision of four Assistant Commissioners. While the Attukal Bhagavathy temple premises and its vicinity remained the prime focus of the security measures, local police units also remained on the move to prevent gatherings by devotees in houses. No fire mishaps Thiruvananthapuram Regional Fire Officer P. Dileepan added no fire mishaps were recorded in the city. Six fire units comprising fire tenders and personnel were stationed at places frequented by devotees including the Attukal temple premises, Pazhavangadi Ganapathy temple, Iranimuttom, Attakulangara, and Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station. Around 60 Civil Defence volunteers, trained by the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services, were also involved in assisting the police in crowd control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rituals-pass-off-incident-free/article33953510.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Painting contest for students||Giving an opportunity for aspiring young artists to showcase their talent, the JSW Paints ‘Futurescapes’ painting competition 2021 organised in association with The Hindu Young World invites entries across three categories. This competition is open to students residing in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana only. The painting competition will have a preliminary round and a finale. Students in Classes 3 to 5 can submit entries for the sub-junior category, and the topics for them are ‘Dream Home,’ ‘Family Picnic,’ or ‘My Favourite Animal.’ Students in Classes 6 to 8 under the junior category can paint on ‘Favourite Festival,’ ‘Fun with Family,’ or ‘Wildlife Safari.’ Students in Classes 9 to 12, who are a part of the senior category, can paint on ‘Colours of India,’ Family Vacation,’ or ‘Clean and Green India.’ Students are mandatorily required to register online and upload a clear scanned copy of their painting to generate their registration number. The physical copy of the drawing should also be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process before March 10. For the final Students who qualify for the finale will be intimated of the date and details through their registered email ID. For detailed instructions regarding the registration process and the competition, participants can log on towww.ywc.thehindu. com/jswpaints In case of any queries or clarifications, students or parents can also call the toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/painting-contest-for-students/article33952801.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||An appraisal of governance||The Kerala Shadow Cabinet, an independent civil society initiative of activists, NGOs and individuals, on Saturday released a performance appraisal of the Left Democratic Front government’s five-year tenure. While lauding the government for its achievements in the health and education, sectors, the report comes down heavily on it for missteps, including the Sprinklr deal and the amendments to the Police Act. ‘Shadow ministers’ According to John Joseph, core committee head of the initiative, the ‘shadow cabinet’ was formed in 2018 by four NGOs to track the performance of each department. Nineteen shadow ministers were sworn in for the purpose. The appraisal report is being released at a time when the three fronts are preparing their election manifestos to send a message to them that the public is seriously tracking the promises they are making. The report, released at the Press Club here, praises the government for its novel step of releasing an annual progress report. It says that the Opposition ought to have taken the progress report more seriously and tried to challenge the claims. Improved infra According to the appraisal, government school infrastructure has improved tremendously, and the quality of teachers has gone up. Textbooks are supplied promptly. It notes a turnaround in the general impression about government hospitals as a place that the people approach with faith and enthusiasm. Other positives that the report highlights include the establishment of the Kerala Administrative Service, the way the government handled multiple crises, including the two floods and COVID-19, the law introduced by the government which allowed lakhs of women to sit and work at many workplaces like textile shops, and leave with salary to pregnant teachers of unaided schools for delivery. ‘Wrong decisions’ The reports lists several instances of the government being compelled to withdraw wrong decisions taken, including the Sprinklr deal, sand-mining from the Pampa river, resignation of the Industries Minister on the allegation of appointment of a relative to a government post, illegal licensing of beer breweries and a distillery, the awarding of marks by the Higher Education Minister, award of consultancy to PricewaterhouseCoopers, amendment to the Police Act, and the latest deep-sea trawler issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-appraisal-of-governance/article33952880.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NSS unimpressed by LDF overtures||The Nair Service Society (NSS) has excoriated the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s ‘bid to lionise its founder Mannathu Padmanabhan to curry favour with his followers and later conspiring to blot out the leader’s legacy when its political purpose was served.’ NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair on Saturday sharply reacted to a recent article in CPI(M) newspaper Deshabhimani hailing Mannam’s leading role in Kerala’s struggles against caste discrimination, Brahminical hegemony, superstition and untouchability. The writer said Mannam led the peaceful protest to allow ‘untouchables’ into the Guruvayur temple in the 1930s. However, the LDF government forgot Mannam’s part in the historic struggle when it inaugurated a monument to commemorate the Guruvayur Satygaraham in 2018. The LDF had made several overtures to the NSS in the run-up to the election. It had extended 10% reservation in government jobs for economically disadvantaged persons from socially privileged forward communities. More recently, the LDF heeded the NSS’s demand to withdraw cases against those who participated in peaceful protests against the enactment of the Supreme Court’s decision at Sabarimala in 2018. However, the NSS leadership appeared unimpressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-unimpressed-by-ldf-overtures/article33952877.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traffic restrictions in city||Traffic restrictions will be enforced in the city on account of the ‘Yuva Mahasangamam’ being organised by the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) at Shanghumughom here on Sunday. The regulations will come into effect from 3 p.m. until the end of the rally. Vehicles headed towards the NH-66 bypass from the domestic airport must proceed through Vallakadavu from Enchakkal, while those coming from Vettucaud could enter the bypass via. Veli. Vehicles transporting DYFI workers for the event must drop the passengers off near the Valiyathura police station and park on the road sides at All Saints, Madhavapuram or Veli. Buses Large buses must, however, be parked along the bypass stretch from Enchakkal to Kovalam, the police has directed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-restrictions-in-city/article33953511.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four persons arrested for attempted murder||The Vizhinjam police arrested four people who allegedly attempted to murder a workshop owner for apparently failing to return a vehicle given by one of them for repair. The police officers dentified the accused as Vineeth, 29, Kumar, 36, Deepu, 28, Biju, 28, all hailing from Periyanamcode in Athiyannoor. Assault They have been accused of assaulting Sunil, who ran a workshop at Chavadinada in Venganoor, and fleeing after hacking him using a machete on February 19. The gang targeted Sunil for failing to return Vineeth’s two-wheeler. The accused persons were remanded to judicial custody after being produced at a local court here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-for-attempted-murder/article33952863.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) confident of smooth seat-sharing||The CPI(M) State secretariat met here on Saturday for the first time after the declaration of the Assembly election. By some accounts, the secretariat held exploratory talks on seat-sharing. It foresaw no issues given Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Mani C. Kappan’s defection to the United Democratic Front. The NCP remains aligned with the Left Democratic Front. It is unlikely to make a bid for the Pala seat held by Mr. Kappan. Jose K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M) has also hinted that he would be accommodative in intra-coalition talks. The CPI(M) and the CPI have agreed to give up a few of their seats to billet the KC(M) and Loktantrik Janata Dal. The CPI(M) leaders were unwilling to hazard a guess on each constituent’s number of seats. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the seat-sharing process would proceed like clockwork. Candidate list soon The CPI(M) has sought a panel of likely candidates from its district committees.Its list would reflect youth, governance experience and demographic changes. The LDF is likely to meet next week. The front has not set any deadline for rolling out its candidate list. There is unlikely to be much delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-confident-of-smooth-seat-sharing/article33952876.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,792 new cases, 4,650 recoveries in State||Kerala reported 3,792 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 73,710 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began rose to 10,56,149. The test positivity rate was 5.14% on Saturday. Of the 73,710 tests done by the State, 40,920 were rapid antigen assay. With the State engaging the first mobile RT-PCR lab at Thiruvananthapuram, in addition to the existing labs, the total RT-PCR test numbers went up to 30,304 for the first time. 18 deaths With 4,650 recoveries being reported on Saturday, the active caseload dropped further to 50,514. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 10,01,164. On Saturday, the addition of 18 deaths that occurred in the past few days to the official list took the State’s cumulative COVID-19 toll to 4,182 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram reported seven deaths, Kozhikode three, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram two each while Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta reported one death each. Kozhikode on top Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases with 519 cases, followed by Thrissur 416, Ernakulam 415, Kollam 411, Malappuram 388, Alappuzha 308, Pathanamthitta 270, Thiruvananthapuram 240, Kottayam 236, Kannur 173, Kasaragod 148, Palakkad 115, Wayanad 82, and Idukki 71 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3792-new-cases-4650-recoveries-in-state/article33952882.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||240 new COVID-19 cases in capital||With 240 fresh cases reported during the last 24 hours, the capital district’s COVID-19 caseload continued its downward trend as it fell to 3,082 on Saturday. There were also 394 recoveries and the death toll stood at 822. While almost all the newly diagnosed cases have been attributed to local transmission, four health-care workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration placed 1,409 people under quarantine, while 1,895 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated self-isolation period. There were currently 22,237 people who were quarantined in houses and 54 in various institutions. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 69 people for violating pandemic norms. While 27 people were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, 37 others were fined Rs. 18,500 for failing to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/240-new-covid-19-cases-in-capital/article33953509.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Soorya festival to be back as before||The Soorya festival is set to be back in a physical form after a COVID-19 pandemic-forced one year gap. Only an online version of the festival was organised last year. The 51-day-long festival this year will be inaugurated on March 7 at Ganesham, Thycaud. Writer T. Padmanabhan will be honoured, with around 30 writers offering him books and flowers. Mr. Padmanabhan will deliver the inaugural lecture and also release the book Nurunguvettam , written by Soorya Krishnamoorthy. Followed by the inaugural, the State-award winning short film Side effects , directed by Sujith Sahadev will be screened. On the concluding day on April 26, Haasyam , directed by Jayaraj, will be screened. The first week of the festival will feature a Malayalam film festival from March 8 to 14, with the screening of the films Run Kalyani , Kenjira , Biriyani , Vrithakrithiyil Ulla Chathuram , Kallanottam , Ilayaraja , and Vasanthi . The talk fest from March 15 to 21 will include speakers such as CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar, Congress leader K.S. Sabarinathan, Youth League leader P.K. Feroze, CPI(M) leader Muhammed Riyas, activist Rahul Easwar, BJP spokesperson Sandeep Warrier, and Mahila Congress leader Veena Nair. Short film fete A short film festival will be held from March 22 to 28. The Meet the Masters series of films from March 29 to April 4 will feature actor Tapsee Pannu’s four films Thappad , Pink , Naam Shabana, and Badla , as well as The Great Indian Kitchen , Soofiyum Sujathayum, and Jilebi . The Hindi film festival will feature Dil Bechara , Game , Special 26 , Neerja , Section 375 , Missing , and Dear Zindagi . Performances The music and dance festival from April 13 to 25 will feature ghazals by Sithara Krishnakumar, fusion music by Roopa Revathy, Hindustani vocal performances by Sreenath Nair and Devanand, Carnatic music performance by Chinmaya sisters, and musical performances by Sajna and Soumya Sanathanan, Bharatanatyam performances by Uma Namboothirippad, Shwasika Vijay, Shijith Nambiar, and Parvathy, Kathak performance by Hari and Chethana, Kuchipudi by Reddy Lekshmi, Mohiniyattam by Kalamandalam Ashwathy, and solo ballet performances by Kalakshetra Sreyasi and Aishwarya Raja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soorya-festival-to-begin-on-march-7/article33952853.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU Syndicate nominees||Former MP P.K. Biju and CPI(M) district committee member I. Saju have been nominated to the Syndicate and Board of Governors of A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University. Other nominees include B.S. Jamuna, Vinod Kumar Jacob, G. Sanjeev, and S. Vinod Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-syndicate-nominees/article33952888.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Doctors to observe protest day on March 1||Doctors in the State health service will observe protest day on March 1 against the pay revision order, which, they say, would in effect lead to reduced pay and affect the promotion prospects of doctors. The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) will begin an indefinite non-cooperation strike from March 1. While patient care in hospitals will not be affected, doctors will stay away from trainings, webinars, medical camps and other such field activities. They will also dissociate themselves from the National Quality Assurance Standards activities. The KGMOA took exception to the fact that the salary of the entry cadre of assistant surgeons had been slashed and that the allowances which were given to doctors working in rural and difficult terrains and in family health centres had been denied in the pay revision order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-to-observe-protest-day-on-march-1/article33952889.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical college doctors to observe betrayal day||The faculty of government medical colleges in the State will observe “betrayal day” on March 3 in protest against the State government’s denial of pay arrears in full to medical college teachers. In a statement here on Saturday, the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) said the government which had got the faculty to withdraw their strike demanding pay arrears by promising to pay the arrears in full had blatantly gone back on their word. The new order in this regard, issued by the government just before the election code of conduct came into force, gives doctors just a nominal amount as pay arrears. The government had denied the faculty their rightful dues when it appeased all other sections of government staff, offering them pay hikes, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-doctors-to-observe-betrayal-day/article33952890.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Safety awards announced||Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd (FACT), Kochi, and HLL Lifecare Ltd, Thiruvananthapuram, have bagged the Safety Award 2020 instituted by the Department of Factories and Boilers for very large factories that employ over 500 workers. Hindustan Organic Chemicals, Kochi, was adjudged the best in the large factories (251-500 workers) category. P.K. Narendra Kumar of HLL Lifecare, Peroorkada, won the best safety worker award in the ‘very large factories’ category. Cochin Shipyard and Naval Ship Repair Yard were selected for the award in the engineering, automobile repairing and servicing, textile and coir subcategory. Other winners include St. Gregorios Cashew Industries, Kollam, and Saint-Gobain India, Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-awards-announced/article33952878.ece
28 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tree Walk seeks Governor’s help to save tree||Tree Walk, a collective of nature lovers in the city, has written to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan yet again on the issue of cutting down of a 150-year-old mango tree on the Raj Bhavan premises. Tree Walk had met the Governor at Raj Bhavan on February 8 where its members had suggested that as the fresh leaves and flowers on the tree indicated good biological health, a Vriksha Ayurveda treatment would rejuvenate it. Some branches of the tree affected by Loranthus could be pruned under the supervision by tree healers. They also suggested that the tree health helpline at the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) be invited to assess the health of the tree scientifically and prescribe mitigation measures. Tree Walk also shared the contacts of the KFRI team and offered to coordinate the process. Tree Walk said in the letter that the Governor was very much in favour of protecting the tree and taking precautions as suggested in its report submitted last month. However, there was no further response from Raj Bhavan. Vested interests The letter also alleged vested interests who wished the tree to be cut down. It termed unscientific reports of the Fire and Rescue Services and the Forest department on the health of the tree, and said a move against the tree would mean Mr. Khan’s wish to protect the tree had been denied. The letter urged him to stand by the tree and science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governors-help-to-save-150-year-old-tree-sought/article33952862.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation’s annual plan approved||The District Planning Committee has approved the city Corporation’s Rs. 228.44 annual plan for the 2021-22 financial year, said a press release from the Corporation. The annual plan was finalised last week after a development seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporations-annual-plan-approved/article33953512.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Remove hoardings by today: Collector||All unauthorised advertisement boards and hoardings in the district should be removed by Sunday evening, District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Election Officer, has said. The decision comes in the wake of the model code of conduct for the Assembly polls coming into force in the State. People who have put up the hoardings and ads should remove them at their own expense. An anti defacement squad has been formed to monitor the process, Ms. Khosa says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remove-hoardings-collector/article33952855.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Startup Mission’s event for women||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has invited applications from women entrepreneurs for a six-month virtual business acceleration programme, Udaan, organised in association with Prayaana Labs and the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council. Women graduates or those pursuing graduation and with more than two years of experience in running small and medium scale enterprises in any industry may enrol. The last date for registration is March 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/startup-missions-event-for-women/article33952872.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||K.V. Thomas to head KPCC media panel||Senior Congress leader K.V. Thomas has been appointed chairman of the KPCC media committee. K.C. Joseph, V.S. Sivakumar and K.P. Anil Kumar will be members of the committee, according to a KPCC release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kv-thomas-to-head-kpcc-media-panel/article33952874.ece
28 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chief Secretary to assume charge today||V.P. Joy, senior IAS officer of 1987 batch from Kerala cadre and Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, will assume charge as the State Chief Secretary at 11 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-secretary-to-assume-charge-today/article33952875.ece
28 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Unholy alliance of fronts, says Surendran||The United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) have entered an unholy alliance in many places, including Nemom, alleged BJP state President K. Surendran. Addressing media persons here on Saturday, he said the alliance was the result of efforts by leaders such as Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. “We will expose this political gimmick of the two fronts,” he said. On IUML The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was the biggest communal party in the country. Only a Muslim could get membership in it. The IUML was the party that divided the country, he said. When it was pointed out that BJP leader Sobha Surendran had invited the IUML to the BJP, he said if the IUML could discard its communal agenda and accept the leadership of Narendra Modi, it could join the BJP.“Sobha Surendran and I express the same idea. Media are creating controversy,” he alleged. The final decision on the candidates of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) would be completed soon. Popularity would be a criterion for selection, he said. Meanwhile, eminent football coach T.K. Chathunny joined the BJP along with a few other persons. A group of arrack shop workers too expressed their loyalty to the party. “After the arrack ban in the State, we were left jobless. Both the UDF and the LDF neglected us,” they alleged. The Vijay Yatra led by Mr. Surendran was received at various places in the district on Saturday. Union Ministers Prahlad Joshy and V. Muraleedharan addressed the concluding section of the Vijay Yatra in the district at Kodungallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unholy-alliance-of-fronts-says-surendran/article33952809.ece
28 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur youth Aniyan Midhun masters the dragon||Wushu may be a not-so-familiar martial art in the State. But for Aniyan Midhun, it has been part of his life since childhood. He is in a ten-member Indian squad competing in the South Asian Wushu Championship scheduled for March 30 and 31 in Nepal. Hailing from Nattika in Thrissur, he is the first wushu player from southern India to reach the Indian team. He will be competing in the 70-kg category. Performances at State meets paved way for his entry to the national team. He is at present training under Indian wushu coach and Arjuna Award winner Kuldeep Handu. “I am so happy to represent the county in the South Asian championship. I hope I can make the country proud through my performance,” says Aniyan, also a national champion in kick-boxing. The 28-year-old was introduced to wushu, also known as Chinese kung fu, when he was a fifth standard student. His trainers in karate and kick-boxing advised Aniyan to practise wushu, when they realised his potential. Without disappointing his gurus, he got selected to the Thrissur Sports Club and went on to participate in competitions across the country to win medals. He became a national champion in wushu as well as kick-boxing. He is also a black belt in karate.  Fitness trainer too A celebrity fitness trainer, Aniyan used to referee State-level wushu competitions. Back at Nattika, this multimedia graduate from Annamalai University has many disciples with over 70 training under him.  Aniyan Midhun is in the Indian squad competing in the South Asian Wushu Championship scheduled for March 30 and 31 in Nepal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-youth-masters-the-dragon/article33952799.ece
28 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Aloor rape case: 11 held||The police on Saturday arrested 11 persons in connection with the rape of a minor girl at Aloor. The arrested were Arun Monappilly, 28, Vishnu Kulangara, 20, and Aneesh Ainikkadan, 30, of V.R. Puram; Midhun Paraparambil, 30, and Manikandan Kaduvetty, 30, of Vellanchira; Delvin Arikkattu, 26, Joban Nediyakalayi, 38, and Nazeer Manakulangara Parambil, and Arun Porunnamkunnu Tharayil, 29, of Aloor; Unnikrishnan Padinjare, 49, of Manattukunnu; and Kabeer Puthiyaveetil, 54, of North Chalakudy. The survivor has recognised all the accused.  Multiple times According to the police, the accused had raped the minor girl many times. Arun, the key accused in the case, is involved in many criminal and drug-peddling cases. A team led by Thrissur Rural SP G. Poonkuzhali and Dy.SP T.R. Rajesh is investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aloor-rape-case-11-held/article33953450.ece
28 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||416 new cases in Thrissur||A total of 416 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday while 385 people recovered from the disease. There are 3,927 active cases in the district and 55 people from the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals in other districts. So far, 97,605 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 93,243 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 404 people, including one health worker, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 64 people are above the age of 60 and 22 are below 10 years of age. In all, 2,750 people are in home care. In all, 108 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Saturday. A total of 7,044 samples were collected for tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/416-new-cases-in-thrissur/article33953449.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Training for teachers to end tomorrow||A three-day training in information technology for teachers in government and government-recognised schools for the visually challenged will conclude on Monday. The training is being organised by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). In the city, the school-based training programme at Government School for the Visually Impaired, Vazhuthcaud, was inaugurated online by SCERT Director J. Prasad. School headmaster Abdul Hakeem K.M. and mentors B. Vinod and Rajneesh S.S. were present. Training is being provided in Sharada Braille Writer, an open source software that provides a six-key approach to producing print material; iBus, an input method framework for multilingual input in Unix-like operating systems; and Lios, a software for converting print into text using scanner or camera. The Sharada Braille Writer software helps type ordinary letters based on the Braille script that is composed of six dots without visual challenges posing an impediment. Any language can be typed easily using this software. iBus Braille uses the same mechanism to enable them to use the Internet and email. Lios helps the visually challenged read printed books using a scanner. The training would be extended to students and parents in phases, the SCERT said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-teachers/article33952810.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tradition intact||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tradition-intact/article33953517.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-colours/article33953454.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poetry on stage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poetry-on-stage/article33953358.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Test of strength||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-of-strength/article33953365.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ballot protection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ballot-protection/article33952884.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fuelled by price rise||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fuelled-by-price-rise/article33953507.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a better tomorrow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-better-tomorrow/article33952867.ece
28 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Border demarcation with Karnataka by Survey of India still in process||The Inter-State border demarcation between Anantapur of Andhra Pradesh and Bellari district of Karnataka is yet to be completed by the Survey of India as the officials of both States are yet to sign on the commonly and jointly agreed map and location of the 72 border stones fixed in the past four months. The Survey of India officials in association with the Department of Survey of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka had been working on the geographical positions with the commonly agreed coordinates and work has been completed as far as the physical grounding of stones is concerned, but the same had to be concurred by the officials of both States as per the 2018 Supreme Court directive to the Survey of India. Some stakeholders, leaseholders of mining on the Karnataka side have been objecting to some points on the ground that some of their leased lands would be lost. A petitioner in this case, Tapal Ganesh had sought RTI information from the Survey of India as to the completion of the process of survey, but the officials concerned had replied recently that it was a piece of Classified Information. Now the Survey of India officials need to fly a drone camera and get the coordinates of all the 72 stones that have been fixed after resurvey in the recent days following the court order. The Anantapur district officials said they had verified the stones and officials at the State government level had signed the papers and action was pending from Karnataka’s side. Reserve forest area The village maps on both sides in that area are as per the Forest Department maps, as it was a reserve forest area of Bellari. Some persons on the Karnataka side have been contending that the village trijunction points had been changed and the boundary had come deep into Tumti, a Karnataka village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/border-demarcation-with-karnataka-by-survey-of-india-still-in-process/article33953432.ece
28 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur tops State in rice distribution||The distribution of rice, dal and sugar began on February 15 in rural areas and so far, 71% of the beneficiaries have been covered, the highest in the State, said Joint Collector Nishant Kumar. In a release here on Saturday, Mr. Nishant Kumar said that out of 2,63,535 eligible card-holders, 2,41,368 were given goods in the urban areas (municipal areas) accounting for 91.59% while in the rural areas, the distribution was affected in some pockets due to bad network and technical glitches in the website. In the rural areas, out of 9,02,130 card holders, 6,37,313 were given rice accounting for 71% of the families, the highest in the State for this month, he added. Out of the 754 mobile dispensing units, 172 were deployed in urban locations and 582 in rural areas. The MDU operators were initially given Rs. 16,000 per month, but later it was enhanced to Rs. 21,000 following their representation to the State government, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-tops-state-in-rice-distribution/article33952619.ece
28 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies in cylinder blast||Bandi Lakshmi Devi, 65, died of burns following an LPG cylinder blast in her house in Garuguchintalapalli in Putlur Mandal of the district. The women, who was living alone, died at the Kurnool Government General Hospital on Saturday while undergoing treatment. She was injured on Wednesday when the hutment got filled with gas due to a leak and caught fire when she switched on the light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-in-cylinder-blast/article33952620.ece
28 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adhere to rule book, SEC tells officials||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Saturday asked officials of Rayalaseema districts and Nellore district to ensure peaceful polling during the elections to the urban local bodies scheduled on March 10. During a meeting with the District Collectors and Superintendents of Police of Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur and Nellore districts in Tirupati, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said he had full confidence that the official machinery in the Rayalaseema districts would conduct the elections peacefully, after successfully handling the panchayat elections recently. He said the officials should strictly adhere to the model code and deal with any violations as per the rules. He asked the revenue and police authorities to take all measures to improve the voting percentage to the optimum level in the municipal elections, and provide foolproof security during the polling process and counting of votes. Officials of each district had apprised the SEC of the steps initiated in their jurisdiction, apart from identifying hypersensitive and sensitive polling stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adhere-to-rule-book-sec-tells-officials/article33953442.ece
28 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strengthen relationship between Central, State institutions: Suresh||The first meeting of the Andhra Pradesh Higher Education Planning Board (APHEPB) was held at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati, on Saturday. The board comprises the Vice-Chancellors and Directors of Central and State universities in Andhra Pradesh. Functions During the inaugural address, Minister for Education Adimulapu Suresh said the board was constituted to strengthen the relationship between various Central and State institutions. The HEPB would suggest new courses of contemporary relevance, extend support in designing and developing curriculum, and facilitate conduct of academic events involving national and international organisations. Further, the board would also look into the formulation of the State higher education policy, Mr. Suresh said. Special Chief Secretary (higher education) Satish Chandra said the board’s objective was to foster qualitative and inclusive growth of higher education in the State. Chairman of AP State Council of Higher Eduction Hemachandra Reddy said the main functions of the board were to suggest ways to promote inter-institutional research projects, credit transfer, share the best practices and resources, develop the ecosystem of harmonious relationship among all the State and Central institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strengthen-relationship-between-central-state-institutions-suresh/article33953438.ece
28 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cadre unhappy as Naidu’s visit fails to lift their spirits||The three-day visit of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu to his Kuppam Assembly constituency concluded on Saturday amidst widespread resentment within the party workers against what they called lack of seriousness in boosting their sagging morale in the aftermath of the YSRCP’s landslide victory in the recent panchayat elections. It was alleged that Mr. Naidu had limited himself to addressing mini roadside meetings and launching monologues at the meetings organised for the party cadres hailing from Kuppam, Ramakuppam, Shantipuram and Gudupalle mandals. On the first day of Mr. Naidu’s visit, a senior party activist of Gudupalle mandal had attempted suicide after he reportedly failed to draw the attention of the party supremo and have a word with him when his convoy entered the district from Karnataka. During the constituency-level meeting at Kuppam organised a couple of days prior to Mr. Naidu’s visit, the party cadre from Gudupalle had openly held three local leaders responsible for the party’s debacle in Kuppam – Manohar, Mr. Naidu’s personal secretary in Kuppam, P.S. Munirathnam, constituency in-charge, and G. Srinivasulu, MLC. Following the accusation, the three leaders had “tendered their resignation.” Main demand “But there seems to be no clarity on it. Have they resigned to the party post, or to the party?” questioned a senior leader from Gudupalle. At all the meetings, the cadres had demanded a change in local leadership. “But there was no response from Mr. Naidu. He was visibly irritated at our demand,” said another disgruntled activist, who was defeated in the recent elections. The cadres lamented that they were ignored when the TDP was in power, and that those who had enjoyed power for decades chose to slip into hibernation after the party’s debacle in 2019. “Mr. Naidu opted to interact only with those who won the panchayat elections. This has pained us a lot,” said a few others who had unsuccessfully contested the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cadre-unhappy-as-naidus-visit-fails-to-lift-their-spirits/article33953440.ece
28 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Need to raise legal awareness to protect child rights’||Chittoor District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) secretary and senior civil judge I. Karuna Kumar on Saturday stressed the need for raising legal awareness on the social evils of child marriages and child labour to protect child rights. Inaugurating the one-day workshop on “Protection of child rights through Legal Awareness” jointly organized by the DLSA, Rural Organization for Poverty Eradication Services (ROPES) and Canadian INGO Children Believe at Ragimanupenta, Mr. Karuna Kumar said teachers working in rural areas should play a crucial role in eradication of child marriages and child labour menace. ‘Field visits important’ “Parents should take up the responsibility of sending their children to schools by availing all the government support extended to the children through various schemes of the Central and State governments. In case of any difficulty to send the children to the schools, parents could take counselling from the local police, revenue officials and voluntary organizations. Frequent field visits by the volunteers and concerned officials and conducting of legal awareness campaigns would go a long way in effectively protecting the target group from child abuse, marriages and labour,” the judge observed. ROPES chairman, K. Dhanasekharan, said that since 1989, their volunteers were actively involved in protection of child rights in about 40 villages nestled in forested areas of Bangarupalem mandal. “In coordination with the police, revenue and ICDS personnel, child marriages had been stopped in the region over years, besides promoting education among the underprivileged sections,” he said. Clothes distributed Teachers of the Government High School at Ragimanupenta, village elders, parents and students took part in the event, followed by planting of saplings to mark the campaign for protection of child rights. Later, Mr Karuna Kumar distributed food relief material and clothes to residents of the forested hamlets, who bore the brunt of Nivar cyclone in December last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-raise-legal-awareness-to-protect-child-rights/article33952622.ece
28 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotee donates Rs. 7 cr. to Kanipakam temple||The famous temple of Sri Varasiddi Vinayakaswamy at Kanipakam, 15 km from here, on Saturday received a hefty donation of Rs. 7 crore from an anonymous devotee. A big donation to the temple is first of its kind in the temple history so far, officials said. Temple Executive Officer A. Venkatesh told The Hindu that the same devotee has promised to donate another Rs. 1.75 crore soon. He said the donation would be used for the temple reconstruction project. “The outlay of the project is Rs. 8.75 crore. The core part of the temple along with the sanctum sanctorum will be reconstructed by widening, besides increasing the length of the structure. This is to facilitate the devotees to have a hassle-free darshan, apart from enjoying the opportunity to witness the prime rituals of abhishekam to the presiding deity, while moving along the queue line inside,” he said. The official said the construction would be taken up as per the prescribed norms of temple architecture and adhering to the sastras, and the traditional material would be used for the construction. “We are going to call for the tenders at the earliest,” the Executive Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotee-donates-rs-7-cr-to-kanipakam-temple/article33953350.ece
28 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll code will be enforced strictly: Commissioner||Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha has asked the municipal employees and police personnel to implement the Model Code of Conduct strictly in the run up to the elections to Urban Local Bodies scheduled to be held on March 10. The Commissioner, who is also the additional election authority, said that all publicity material, including banners and hoardings of political parties should be immediately removed. Political parties and their supporters who wish to take out any processions should seek permission from the departments concerned and the MCC teams would keep a strict vigil over the parties violating the MCC norms. Counter set up A single window counter has been set up at the GMC office to issue permissions. Additional Commissioner Niranjan Reddy, deputy commissioner Venkata Krishnaiah, DSPs Seetharamaiah, Jessy Prasanthi and Supraja were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-code-will-be-enforced-strictly-commissioner/article33953541.ece
28 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caution sounded as COVID-19 cases rise||Joint Collector P. Prasanthi has asked the people to take all precautions in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. Ms. Prasanthi on Saturday said that the caseload which was in a single digit has now scaled up to double digit. The number of cases is increasing steadily. She said that testing facilities are available in all Primary Health Centres. All those with a history of foreign travel should get tested immediately and volunteers should keep a watch on all foreign returnees. People should continue COVID-appropriate behaviour, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caution-sounded-as-covid-19-cases-rise/article33953540.ece
28 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exhibition of designer wear in Guntur||An exhibition of designer wear will be inaugurated at Siddharth Gardens here on Sunday. The Designer Rack pop-up exhibition is displaying a wide array of designer wear and features contemporary designs, said organisers. The women-led venture has curated a variety of stalls ranging from glamorous design wear to exquisite local handlooms, designer highend diamond and gold jewellery to fancy funky artificial jewellery, exclusive luxury leather furniture designs, along with yummy food stalls and refreshments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exhibition-of-designer-wear-in-guntur/article33953542.ece
28 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 in fray for March 14 Council polls||Thirty candidates are in the fray at the end of the withdrawal of candidates for the biennial elections to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council from the teachers’ constituencies of East-West Godavari (11) and Krishna-Guntur (19) districts. The MLC elections are scheduled to be conducted on March 14. Among those in the fray for the elections being conducted on non-party basis are the former member of the Legislative Council Boddu Nageswara Rao (Guntur) and A.S. Ramakrishna (Guntur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-in-fray-for-march-14-council-polls/article33953443.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB tells TS not to go ahead with 10 lift schemes||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has directed the Telangana government not to carry out any work on over 10 lift irrigation schemes, including six in Suryapet and Nalgonda districts, which were given administrative approval recently. In a letter addressed to Engineer-in-Chief (General) C. Muralidhar, Member of KRMB Harikesh Meena suggested the government to submit detailed project reports of the schemes for appraisal by the board and approval by the apex council before taking up any work. The KRMB wrote to Telangana following a complaint lodged by A.P. in the past. The projects mentioned included Buggamandaram, Amaravaram, Revuru, Chinthalapalem, Yerragattu Thanda and Chowtapally lifts in Suryapet and Nalgonda districts and Jurala-Pakhal flood flow canal, Gattu, Shoonyapahad and Relampadu lifts based on Jurala reservoir water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmb-tells-ts-not-to-go-ahead-with-10-lift-schemes/article33952532.ece
28 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coupon system to be introduced for PDS||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Saturday said commodities and rice would be supplied at the doorstep of the beneficiary of the Public Distribution System from March 1 by issuing coupons. Speaking to newsmen here, Mr. Lakshmisha said coupons would be given to each household and the coupon contains the details of date, time and contact number of the delivery personnel. The Joint Collector admitted that there were some challenges in the delivery of the commodities and rice on time through the mobile dispensing units (MDUs), through which 88% distribution had been completed for February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coupon-system-to-be-introduced-for-pds/article33953470.ece
28 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. man dies in Australia||A 36-year-old man, a native of Pamidipadu in Prakasam district, was found dead under suspicious circumstances in his residence in Salisbury, an Adelaide suburb in Australia on Friday. The NRI, R Harishbabu, a techie living in Australia for over six years, was running his own IT firm. A pall of gloom descended on Pernamitta on the city outskirts, where the man’s wife, R. Dharani lives. As per information given by the police to his wife, her husband was found in an unconscious state near the washroom and was pronounced dead by doctors later. But his wife suspected foul play. His father rushed to Delhi to receive the body of his son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-man-dies-in-australia/article33952626.ece
28 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vote for BJP for development: Kanna||Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) former president and party Prakasam district In-charge for municipal elections Kanna Lakshminarayana on Saturday promised liberal allocation of Central funds for the continued development of cities and town in the State. Introducing the BJP and Jana Sena Party(JSP) nominees for the civic elections in Ongole and six other urban civic bodies in the district to the mediapersons here, he said people should reject YSR Congress Party and Telugu Desam Party, which had allegedly misused money power to win the elections and indulged in large-scale corruption. Asserting that BJP and JSP would continue to fight all future elections also together, he listed the Central funding to the State under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation(AMRUT) and 129 other Central schemes to make cities and towns a better place to live in. ‘States responsible for fuel hike’ Replying to a question, he said States should bring petrol and diesel under the GST regime and cooperate with the Centre to lower the taxes on fuel. “The States’ reluctance is responsible for the present predicament,” he explained. The Narendra Modi government was only following the previous government’s policy of leaving the refining firms to decide on the fuel price depending on international crude oil price from time to time. Replying to another question, he said the State unit was trying its best to avert privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) by explaining to the party high-command about the people’s sentiments. He said it was the BJP which had fought for infrastructure projects to the residuary State at the time of bifurcation while other parties misled people by maintaining that the State would remain united for ever by spearheading the ‘Samaikyandhra’ agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vote-for-bjp-for-development-kanna/article33953428.ece
28 February 2021||PEDDAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers told to adopt drone tech to minimise input cost||Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU) Director of Research N. Trimurthulu on Saturday appealed to farmers to adopt drone technology to minimise the input cost on agriculture workers apart from effective practices of seed sowing and spraying pesticides. Addressing a gathering of farmers from across the district at the Agricultural Research Station (ARS) here during the one-day Kisan Mela, Mr. Trimurthulu claimed that the research on developing new technology for testing moisture percentage in paddy was in progress. ANGRAU Assistant Director of Research (Godavari Zone) G. Jogi Naidu called upon farmers to share their experiences and field level challenges and provide inputs to find solutions to the diseases being reported in the cultivation of the agriculture or commercial crops. The progressive farmers urged the scientists and agriculture department officials to ensure the reach of their research, new technologies and innovations to farmers at the ground level through Rythu Bharosa Kendras. ANGRAU Director (Extension Wing) P. Rambabu, ANGRAU Board Member Panchari Devullu, NABARD District Development Manager Y. Sanyasi Naidu and district agriculture department officials interacted with the farmers during the exhibition of various varieties of paddy, millets and maize. Peddapuram ARS Principal Scientist T. Anuradha explained the growth story of the research on maize and finger millet here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-told-to-adopt-drone-tech-to-minimise-input-cost/article33953469.ece
28 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD okays budget of Rs. 2,937.82 cr. for 2021-22||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Saturday approved its annual budget for 2021-22 with an estimated revenue of Rs. 2,937.82 crore. Even though the temple hundi topped the receipts table with an estimated income of Rs. 1,131 crore, it is, however, less by Rs. 220 crore compared with the previous year budget estimates of Rs. 1,351 crore. The interest on investments, which was the second major source of income, was pegged at Rs. 533.10 crore as against the revised estimates of Rs. 738.18 crore last year owing to drastic reduction in the bank interest rates. Other receipts include Rs. 375 crore to be earned by way of sale of prasadams and darshanam receipts of Rs. 210 crore. Kalyanakatta receipts Rs. 131 crore, accommodation and kalyana mandapam Rs. 93 crore, loans and advances to employees, EMD, Security deposits Rs. 66.78 crore, arjitha receipts Rs. 70 crore, trust receipts Rs. 50 crore. rent, electrical and water charges Rs. 42 crore, publication Rs. 22.15 crore and Rs. 23.50 crore by way of other miscellaneous receipts. On the expenses side, the outflow showed a stellar allocation of Rs. 1,308.15 crore towards the human resource payments followed by procurement of materials at Rs. 385.60 crore, engineering capital works Rs. 250 crore, engineering maintenance works Rs. 180 crore, corpus and other investments Rs. 150 crore, The outbreak of COVID-19 also had gravely impacted the temple hundi with an income of just Rs. 731 crore as against the actual estimates of Rs. 1,351 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-okays-budget-of-rs-293782-crore-for-2021-22/article33953445.ece
28 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 couples reunite at Lok Adalat||The Lok Adalat conducted by the District Legal Services Authority headed by its chairman and Principal District Judge Y. Lakshmana Rao saw the reunion of three couples separated several years ago. ‘Purpose fulfilled’ Mr. Lakshmana Rao, who spoke at the inaugural meeting of virtual Lok Adalat at Machilipatnam, said that the very purpose of the adalat was fulfilled as three couples from three different faiths reunited, ending marital disputes that lasted for years. The couples, Tatapudi Solomon Raju and Sirisha, S. Rajitha and Veera Venkata Narasimha Swamy and Samareen Fathima and Md. Iyub Khan exchanged garlands at the meeting. They were also presented with new clothes by officials. Mr. Rao said that couples in dispute were willing to continue their matrimonial life with the mediation and conciliation of judicial officials and trained mediators. He appreciated the efforts of L. Balaji, the petitioner’s counsel and K. Venugopal Rao, the respondent’s counsel and mediator G. Prabhakar Rao. Many cases settled Mr. Rao said 1,076 cases were settled in the Lok Adalat conducted on January 21 and the Saturday’s session was conducted to settle 8,253 cases, including cheque bounce cases, accidents, compoundable criminal cases and others through 27 benches across the district. A case of accidental insurance was also settled and the petitioner was paid Rs. 1.69 lakh. Permanent Lok Adalat For Public Utility Services chairman R. Pundarikakshudu, district judges, bar association representatives were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-couples-reunite-at-lok-adalat/article33953539.ece
28 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rabi procurement to commence on April 1||The Andhra Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation is gearing up to procure paddy being harvested in the rabi season. The procurement will commence from April 1. The government is expecting a bumper yield of food grain, including paddy, this year. As per preliminary estimates, paddy production is likely to be between 65 lakh tonnes and 70 lakh tonnes. The government is likely to procure about 40 lakh tonnes to 45 lakh tonnes through the paddy purchase centres. According to information, the Civil Supplies Corporation had procured 34.73 lakh tonnes of paddy during 2019-20 rabi and 18.44 lakh tonnes during 2018-19 rabi. The Union government had fixed the MSP for paddy at Rs. 1,868 per quintal for the 2020-21 crop year, which is Rs. 53 more than the previous year. The government’s intervention would provide an interim platform for the farmers to sell their rabi produce at the assured MSP. When contacted, A.P. Agricultural Mission vice-chairman M.S. Nagi Reddy said paddy procurement for the kharif season was still going on. But the procurement for the rabi season would commence as per schedule, he said. An amount of Rs. 6,333.98 crore was spent on paddy procurement during 2019-20. Both kharif and rabi put together, the government had incurred an expenditure of Rs. 15,113 crore. As on February 19, paddy (kharif 2020-21 crop) worth of Rs. 7,287 crore was procured, he said. Civil Supplies Corporation officials said that 1,442 PPCs were opened during the 2019-20 rabi season and 1,151 PPCs during 2018-19. More than 1.90 lakh farmers benefited during 2018-19 and 2.23 lakh farmers during 2019-20 rabi. The government had spent Rs. 4,838 crore and Rs. 6,331 crore on paddy procurement during rabi 2018-19 and 2019-20 respectively. The total rice received by the corporation was 18.44 lakh tonnes and 22.94 lakh tonnes during 2018-19 and 2019-20 respectively, they said. Agriculture officials said that the rabi yield would exceed expectations and estimates this year. The targeted area of paddy cultivation was 19.79 lakh acres. The season’s normal acreage was 17.60 lakh. As on February 20, 19.38 lakh acres was under paddy cultivation. Nellore district tops with 5.06 lakh acres under paddy cultivation. Visakhapatnam district is at the bottom with 7,114 acres under paddy. The extent under paddy cultivation in Vizianagaram district is 9,379 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rabi-procurement-to-commence-on-april-1/article33953434.ece
28 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DoT finds telecom towers safe after random tests||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) found that none of the 3,755 Base Transceiver Stations (BTS) in Andhra Pradesh, which it had tested randomly for Electro - Magnetic Radiation (EMR) between July 2020 and February 2021, posed a danger to the people. Growing concern Deputy Director General of DoT (Vijayawada) Robert J. Ravi, in a release, said there was growing public concern over exposure to EMR from mobile phones or BTS. It was feared that continuous exposure to EMR emanating from the telecom towers causes harmful thermal and non-thermal health effects. The DoT, as part of its annual inspection, had tested 3,755 BTS belonging to BSNL, Vodafone-Idea, Reliance Jio, and Airtel, and found that none of the BTS failed the EMR test, which reiterated the fact that mobile towers were safe. Portal launched Mr. Ravi stated that the guidelines for EMR from BTS in India were stringent when compared to developed countries. The DoT had established ‘Tarang Sanchar’ portal (https://tarangsanchar.gov.in/emfportal), from which customers could find information on EMR compliance status of all the towers in any location. Provision for audit There is also a provision for the people to request for audit of the radiation emanating from any tower by paying suitable charges. For further clarification, DoT Assistant Director General M. Raj Anup can be contacted on the phone number 0866-2487699, or adgc.vjap-dgt-dot@gov.in .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dot-finds-telecom-towers-safe-after-random-tests/article33953501.ece
28 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Waste water surveillance will prevent outbreak of epidemics’||Waste water surveillance will help to detect early warning system which monitor and prevent the spread of an epidemic in an area or the community, said Indian Institute of Chemical Technology-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (IICT-CSIR) Senior Principal Scientist S. Venkata Mohan. He participated in the workshop for science teachers on ‘Role of Science in Sustainable Development’ on the occasion of National Science Day – 2021 celebrations, organised by Science City of Andhra Pradesh, at its office on Saturday. Addressing the teachers, Mr. Venkata Mohan said waste water surveillance and management would minimise the outbreak of the infection and act as an alarm in the locality. He explained to the teachers the various methods of waste management and on how to produce hydrogen from the waste. Science City of A.P., Government of Andhra Pradesh, Chief Executive Officer Konda Jayarami Reddy elucidated the importance of the science and asked the teachers to motivate students in taking up research activities. A.P. State Skill Development Corporation, Chief General Manager (CGM-Technical) G. Ravi Kumar called upon the participants to acquire new teaching methods and provide the best knowledge and guidance to students. APCOST project officer J. Dilleswara Rao, Tadepalli Mandal Education Officer V. Raja Sekhar and other officers were present in the workshop. Later, certificates were presented to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waste-water-surveillance-will-prevent-outbreak-of-epidemics-scientists/article33952632.ece
28 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central govt. released huge funds for Vijayawada growth: Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju said the Central government was giving funds on a large scale for the development of municipal corporations and municipalities under a wide range of schemes like the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission and through the 15th Finance Mission, and pointed out that the role of States was limited to their implementation. The Centre was focusing on improving civic amenities from ward level as it firmly believed that the nation would develop only when local bodies were given the required impetus, he observed. Addressing mediapersons here after campaigning for party leader A. Sriram, who is contesting in the elections to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation from the 53rd division, Mr. Veerraju said the Centre gave Rs. 1,000 crore (Rs. 500 crore each under AMRUT and Swachh Bharat Mission) to Vijayawada in addition to an allocation of Rs. 400 crore per annum by the 15th Finance Commission. Vijayawada and Guntur cities got Rs. 1,000 crore for upgrading of infrastructure when M. Venkaiah Naidu was the Union Minister for Urban Development. Mr. Veerraju said the Central government earmarked Rs. 25,000 crore to the Jal Shakti Mission which has been extended to urban areas. The TDP government had got Rs. 6,000 crore and the present dispensation Rs. 2,000 crore under AMRUT. This and other massive fund allocations reflected the emphasis laid by the Central government on the development of urban areas, he said, exhorting people to vote for the party in civic polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-govt-released-huge-funds-for-vijayawada-growth-somu/article33953545.ece
28 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MP seeks police protection||YSR Congress Party MP from Narasapuram K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has written a letter to Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang seeking protection (during his visit to the constituency) from a section of the Christian community, whom he has accused of misusing reservation and welfare schemes meant for the Scheduled Castes. Mr. Ramakrishna Raju stated that he had taken the alleged misuse of reservation and welfare schemes to the notice of the Prime Minister and sought appropriate action. He alleged that a spate of complaints had been lodged against him with the police at the behest and with the active cooperation of the State government in order to take him into custody upon his reaching the constituency. The MP further alleged that some police officers were acting as per the whims and fancies of the YSRCP leaders in abetting those looking to physically harass him and subject him to mental torture. The DGP should, therefore, give protection, he requested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mp-seeks-police-protection/article33952551.ece
28 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM remaining silent on VSP issue, alleges TDP||Former Minister and Telugu Desam party (TDP) leader Ayyanna Patrudu questioned Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s silence over the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) privatisation issue. He said that what stops Mr. Jagan to pass a resolution in the Assembly against the Centre’s decision. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Mr Ayyanna Patrudu said that if Mr. Jagan really intends to stop privatisation of the VSP, he must immediately call for an all-party meet and pass a resolution in the Assembly. The TDP leader also criticised Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy for organising padayatra on the issue and added that it is for deriving political benefit. “If Mr. Vijaya Sai is really concerned, he and his MPs should stage agitations in New Delhi,” Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said. The TDP leader said that before elections, Mr. Jagan has asked people to give him MPs, so that he would fight with the Centre. But after having 28 MPs (including those in Rajya Sabha), Mr. Jagan is not able to put forward the demands, probably due to fear of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu criticised BJP leader Somu Veerraju and questioned why he and his party members have not met Mr. Modi till now. TDP official spokesperson Pattabhi alleged that the YSRCP had willingly hid the details of the VSP privatisation from the public since they have vested interests. He alleged that parliamentary standing committee on industry gave a report in March 2020, but YSRCP MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy, who was a member of that committee, did not raise his voice against the VSP privatisation plan. He alleged that Mr. Jagan and Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy telling lies that YSRCP had no knowledge about the privatisation plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-remaining-silent-on-vsp-issue-alleges-tdp/article33953551.ece
28 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to encourage local players in defence procurement: scientist||The defence sector, especially research organisations such as DRDO, is opening up and it is being done in tune with the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat said Director General Naval Systems and Materials, DRDO, Samir V. Kamat. The distinguished scientist was here to deliver a talk on ‘Ease of doing business: Atmanirbhar Bharat’, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) here on Friday. He pointed out that as part of the opening up of the sector to the private players, the Defence Acquisition Procedure -2020 was drafted to simplify the hitherto cumbersome trial procedure and bring down the time taken in decision making. He said that in the recent Budget about Rs. 70,000 crore was earmarked for acquisition in the defence sector from indigenous sources. The Ministry of Defence has put a ban on procurement of about 101 times from foreign sources and the DRDO has put a ban on 108 items. “The idea is to encourage local players,” he said. Ragam Kishore, CEO and director of Vizag Seaport, said that maritime industry was closely monitoring the Major Port Authority Bill, as it might lead to the theme of the conference, in its true sense.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-encourage-local-players-in-defence-procurement-scientist/article33953552.ece
28 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Understanding of coastal eco-system essential, say town planners||The 69th National Town and Country Planners Conference, organised by the Institute of Town Planners, India (ITPI) with theme ‘Sustainable Development Goals in the context of COVID-19’here concluded on Saturday, with the experts coming out with a number of recommendations. Reading out the recommendations prepared during the session on local sub-theme “Integrated Coastal Region Development Plan”, ITPI vice-president V. Ramudu said that master plans must concentrate on sustainable management and must be accepted by local government, communities and need to be finalised after an extensive consultation process. He said that comprehensive understanding of coastal eco-system and its dynamics is essential before any development activities are taken up. The recommendations also included establishment of district planning authorities as nodal agencies to coordinate the planning and development activities in the State. Mr. Ramudu said there is a need to formulate AP State Urban and Regional Development Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/understanding-of-coastal-eco-system-essential-say-town-planners/article33953549.ece
28 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice Admiral A.B. Singh to take over as ENC chief||Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh will assume command of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) at a ceremonial parade at the Naval Base on Monday. Vice Admiral Singh will take charge as Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C), Eastern Naval Command from Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, who will move to New Delhi as Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC). A ceremonial parade comprising ceremonial guard and platoons of naval personnel drawn from various ships, submarines and establishments of the ENC will be held at the Naval Base. The parade will also be attended by all Flag Officers and Commanding Officers of ships, submarines and naval establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-admiral-ab-singh-to-take-over-as-foc-in-c-of-enc/article33953351.ece
28 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to make bandh on March 5 a success||Members of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee led by its chairman Ch. Narasinga Rao have submitted a representation to the Visakha Joint Action Committee (JAC) to support Visakhapatnam city bandh on March 5, which is being organised in protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The committee held a meeting here on Saturday. District JAC chairman M. Jaggunaidu said that people make the bandh a success. The committee members met TDP leader Ganta Srinivasa Rao and sought his support for the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-make-bandh-on-march-5-a-success/article33953550.ece
28 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New office-bearers for CII Vizag Zone||D.K. Mohanty, Director (Commercial), Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, has been appointed as the chairman of CII Visakhapatnam Zone for the year 2021-22. Ragam Kishore, CEO and Director, Vizag Seaport Private Limited, will be the Vice Chairman. This was announced by D. Ramakrishna, Chairman, CII Andhra Pradesh, here on Saturday. Mr. Mohanty said that he would focus on programmes which will bring the latest technology and best practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-office-bearers-for-cii-vizag-zone/article33953553.ece
28 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders highlight petrol price hike in civic poll campaign||The Telugu Desam Party(TDP), keen to retain its reins of Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation, is leaving no stone unturned to win the hearts of voters of the Fort City. Vizianagaram Assembly’s TDP-In charge Aditi Vijayalakshmi Gajapathi Raju, TDP Mayor candidate Kandi Samantakamani and other party leaders have busied themselves with campaigning in all divisions, highlighting skyrocketing of prices of essential commodities and condemning the government’s ‘huge’ taxes over petroleum products. “At a time when many people have lost their jobs due to the pandemic and scraping by, the soaring petroleum prices are a double whammy. Rice, oils, vegetables are costing 30% more than the price seen during the TDP regime,” Ms. Aditi Vijayalakshmi Gajapathi Raju said. Ms. Samanatakamani, who is contesting from 22nd ward, recalled that the party ensured road widening, proper drainage system, water facility for new areas during its previous tenure. “We will strive hard to improve basic amenities in all newly-developed areas this time as well. We will also concentrate on assured water for future needs of the city,” she added. TDP senior leader Kandi Murali Naidu, who is contesting from 37th ward, said people were “fed up” with the YSRCP government and vote them out of power this time. “TDP has initiated many welfare measures, including Rs. 2,000 pension scheme for the benefit of senior citizens. It has given equal priority for both development and welfare, unlike the present government that has been implementing ‘unwanted’ schemes which only increase financial burden,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-highlight-petrol-price-hike-in-civic-poll-campaign/article33953474.ece
28 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artisans need more support from people, says YSRCP leader||YSR Congress Party women’s wing State General Secretary Kolagatla Sravani on Saturday said that artisans of different parts of the country needed more support as their families affected by the COVID-19 and the lockdown would be benefited. She inaugurated Sri Kala Bharati Cheneta Hastakala Mela, an All India Craft Bazaar, in Lions Club Function Hall located near Vizianagaram Fort. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Sravani said that the customers would also get benefited with the availability of various products at reasonable prices. Sri Kala Bharati president R. Prasada Rao said that saris of Gadwal, Narayanpet, Mangalagiri, Kolkata and other places were displayed in the exhibition and it would continue till March 21. According to him, dress materials, toys and others were being displayed in 35 stalls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/artisans-need-more-support-from-people-says-ysrcp-leader/article33953472.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||118 new cases emerge in State||The State reported 118 new COVID infections, the highest single-day tally in the month so far, in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. Chittoor, which has been witnessing a spike in daily infections, reported 33 cases in the past day. No new death was reported. The tally increased to 8,89,799  and the number of active cases also increased to 667  as 86 patients have recovered in the past day. Testing The total number of recoveries stand at 8,81,963  with a recovery rate of 99.12%. The death rate and toll remain at 0.81% and 7,169  respectively. Meanwhile, the number of samples tested per day was also increasing. As many as 37,041 samples, highest in the past month, were tested for COVID and 0.32% of them turned positive. The overall positivity rate of the 1.39 crore samples tested came down to 6.39% and the tests per million rate crossed 2.60 lakh. Meanwhile, one-fourth (146 cases) of the past week's infection tally of 589 of the State came from the Chittoor district. With more than 50 cases each in the past week, Visakhapatnam (63), Guntur (62), Krishna (56) and East Godavari (53) also contributed to the spike in cases. The new infections reported in the past day were as follows: Chittoor (33), Visakhapatnam (14), East Godavari (14), Guntur (13), Krishna (9), Anantapur (7), Kadapa (7), Srikakulam (5), Kurnool (5), Nellore (4), West Godavari (4) and Prakasam (3). Vizianagaram reported no new case. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,447), West Godavari (94,329), Chittoor (87,441), Guntur (75,716), Anantapur (67,753), Nellore (62,470), Prakasam (62,204), Kurnool (60,878), Visakhapatnam (60,022), Kadapa (55,365), Krishna (48,909), Srikakulam (46,207) and Vizianagaram (41,163).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/118-new-cases-emerge-in-state/article33953437.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan aims at revival of MSMEs’||The Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan aims at revival, rejuvenation and rehabilitation of MSMEs amidst COVID-19 and at the times of ‘V’ shaped recovery of the country's economy, said CFO, International Council of Small Business (ICBS)- Professional Member, K. Bhanu Prakash, on Saturday. He was the resource person at “Entrepreneurial dialogue on MSME-Financing and Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”, organised by the Department of Management Studies in Lakkireddy Bali Reddy College of Engineering (LBRCE), Mylavaram, as part of a research project “Financing Issues of MSMEs in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh- A Diagnostic Study in 2019”, sanctioned to the college by the Indian Council of Social Sciences Research (ICSSR) under Ministry of HRD. Speaking about the status and significance of MSMEs’ in global and Indian scenario, he highlighted the need of FinTechs in the regime of AI-2.O and Analytics.  Need for reforms Chairman, IALA, Kondapalli, M.V. Ramalingeswara Rao, general secretary M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Chairman and Managing Director of NIFTY Labs D. Kesava Reddy provided their insights on the subject. Mr. Ramalingeswara Rao said there was a dire need of MSME reforms, while Mr. Ramachandra Rao laid emphasis on the positive traits of ‘entrepreneurs’ for achieving success. Mr. Kesav Reddy stressed the need of digi-entrepreneurship. President of LBRCE G. Srinivasa Reddy, Principal K. Appa Rao, Vice-Principal K. Harinadh Reddy, program convenor and Head of the Department A. Adisesha Reddy, Deans, faculty members and students participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atmanirbhar-bharat-abhiyan-aims-at-revival-of-msmes/article33953543.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Playtime!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/playtime/article33953430.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Playtime!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/playtime/article33953548.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grand welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grand-welcome/article33953555.ece
28 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||A song that reflects the glory and neglect of a shrine||To shine the spotlight on issues facing the 17th century Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam, artistes owing allegiance to the Yuva Telangana Party have come up with a Hindi song to highlight the temple’s glorious history and its alleged neglect. “Ayodhya me janme Ramji, Bhadrachal aagaye Sri Ram Ji,” the beginning verse of the song draws a parallel between Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and the Bhadrachalam temple, popularly known as south Ayodhya. The song produced by Yuva Telangana Party founder Jitta Balakrishna Reddy encapsulates the history of the temple built by legendary saint composer Bhakta Ramadasu (Kancharla Gopanna), the then local Tahsildar during the regime of Abdul Hasan Tanesha in the 17th century. The video clip of the song features the historic hermitage of Parnashala encompassing sculptures of mythological significance illustrating the significant episodes of Lord Sri Rama’s ‘vanavasam’ (exile in Dandakaranya) in Dummugudem mandal. It depicts the reverence of ‘Kamalanaths’ (BJP leaders) towards Ayodhya and seeks an explanation from the latter for keeping Bhadradri Rama’s ‘temple lands’ in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. The final verses of the song slam the ‘Kamalanaths’ for allegedly remaining indifferent to the longstanding demand for re-transfer of five Gram Panchayats situated in proximity to Bhadrachalam from Andhra Pradesh to Telangana. Against the backdrop of a replica of a bullet train running between Ahmedabad and Mumbai, the song seeks to find answers from the persons at the helm for the inordinate delay in laying a 13-mile railway line between Panduragapuram in Manuguru mandal to Sarapaka near Bhadrachalam. It takes a dig at the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government over its “unkept promise” of releasing Rs. 100 crore for the development of Bhadrachalam temple. Sources said the Yuva Telangana Party was contemplating using the song during the campaign for next month’s Legislative Council elections. The Yuva Telangana Party has fielded journalist and former TV anchor Rani Rudrama from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-song-that-reflects-the-glory-and-neglect-of-a-shrine/article33952760.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Norms set for COVID jab in private hospitals||People who opt COVID-19 vaccination at private hospitals will have to pay a maximum of Rs. 250 per dose. Since two doses of the vaccine have to be taken with a 28-day gap in between, the total vaccination will cost Rs. 500. The jabs will be given free of cost at government hospitals or vaccination sites. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said the amount of Rs. 250 includes Rs. 150 for the vaccine and Rs. 100 as service charge. The vaccine amount will be transferred from private hospitals to the government. It was published in these columns that vaccination for people above 60 years, and those belonging to 45-60 age group with co-morbidities would begin from March 1. There are two ways to register for the vaccination — advanced online registration and walk-in registration. Online registration will be through Co-WIN 2.0. They can opt for vaccinatiuon at a government or private facility. According to the guidelines issued to State Health department, seven identity cards have been listed for online registrations. The ID cards include Aadhaar card, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), passport, driving licence, pan card and others. One mobile number can be used to register a maximum of four beneficiaries. After the registration, an acknowledgement will be sent to the registered mobile number. People can select a vaccination centre and the date of their choice as per availability of slots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/norms-set-for-covid-jab-in-private-hospitals/article33953316.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Debt burden rise, lack of new revenue source impact GHMC||Increasing debt burden coupled with no new sources of revenue is proving to be a millstone around the neck of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Employees and workers of the civic body have received salaries with 10 to 15 days’ delay in February, and sources attribute the same to the financial difficulties faced by the corporation. While the norm is to pay salaries by first or second day of every month, this time, even permanent employees were paid only on February 15. While officials rubbish the claim of financial difficulties, insiders confirm that this is the first time after 1996 when salaries were paid this late. ‘Late bill submission’ Senior officials from the Finance department attribute the delayed payment to late submission of bills by the outsourcing agencies and other departments. Wages to Sanitation and Entomology workers were paid during the first week itself, they say, while linking the delay in salary payment to permanent employees with non-submission of income tax returns. A glance through the revenue statement of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) reveals that the expenditure on the debt servicing has grown exponentially compared to that of the previous year up to February. While the components of Interest on Municipal Bonds, Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd. (HUDCO) Loan Payment and provision for Sinking Fund remain constant for the two years, additional head of Interest on Rupee Term Loan has spiked up the total amount under debt servicing. SRDP works GHMC has availed the HUDCO loan for the double bedroom housing project, and the rupee term loan to fund the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) under which several ongoing projects for flyovers, underpasses and elevated corridors have been taken up. Municipal bonds too, have been issued for funding the Strategic Road Development Plan projects. Interest on term loan, non-existent during previous financial year, has added up Rs. 67 crore to the financial burden this year up to February. The interest on HUDCO loan is higher by Rs. 5 crore compared to that of last year. Both these components have increased the debt servicing expenditure by about Rs. 73 crore. At Rs. 143 crore, the expenditure on debt servicing has surpassed the budget allocation of Rs. 136.5 crore, even before the financial year came to an end. Roads and road maintenance are two more components under which the expenditure has increased considerably. Up to February, Rs. 372 crore was spent on creating road infrastructure, against Rs. 300 crore spent during the previous year for the corresponding period. Budgetary allocation of Rs. 200 crore was made this year for Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP), under which 709 kilometres of major road stretches were given for private maintenance. Expenditure goes up However, the actual expenditure of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) up to February this year has far exceeded the allocation, at about Rs. 310 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/debt-burden-cash-crunch-hit-ghmc/article33953330.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Statehood helped only one family’||Union Minister of Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar has observed that the statehood to Telangana has empowered only one family and it is that of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Speaking at a talk on “Towards Building Atmanirbhar Bharath - The Role of Graduates” organised by BJP Telangana in support of the party’s candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar Graduates’ Constituency in the Legislative Council, he said people of Telangana were hoping to get empowered in different ways with the achievement of statehood. But, after rising to power on the crest of statehood sentiment Mr. Rao’s family had shared everything among family members leaving the people high and dry. On the other hand, BJP was family in itself and every member who believed in it was empowered in different ways as the party believed in the concept of country first and nation first. He stated that BJP was empowering the poor, middle-class and the working class. Supply of free ration to about 80 crore people during the lockdown was just a small example of it. He stated that the Centre was launching free COVID vaccination to all people aged over 60 years from March 1 and it was the Centre that was bearing the cost and no State government had any contribution in it. “In a month’s time other sections of the population would also get the vaccine and it is also being made available in the private sector at an affordable price”, Mr. Javadekar said. Stating that a majority people of the country were supporting BJP, he cited the example of the party’s huge win in the municipal corporation elections in Gujarat held recently, wherein the party had bagged 500 out of 600 seats even 20 years after staying in power there. He hoped that graduates of the two Legislative Council seats goings for polls in Telangana would support the party and stated that party candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar Constituency N. Ramchander Rao was the most eligible candidate in the fray. State president of Bharatiya Janata Party Bandi Sanjay Kumar, former MP G. Vivekanand, former Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh I.Y.R. Krishna Rao and party candidate N. Ramchander Rao spoke at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/statehood-helped-only-one-family/article33953338.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP seeks SCs’ help in coming to power||Bharatiya Janata Party has exuded confidence that the party candidates will win in the elections to the Graduates constituencies from the Legislative Council and also the upcoming bypoll for the Nagarjunasagar Assembly. President of State BJP Bandi Sanjay Kumar claimed on Saturday that the “political winds are in favour of the party candidates with the intellectuals and the educated people too deciding to follow the poor in supporting the party to show the ruling TRS its place as it had happened during the Dubbak bypoll and GHMC elections. "We have raised the issues concerning the employees and the pensioners including the delays in the Pay Revision Committee (PRC). We have been fighting for the lands of the tribals and there is no question of taking a step back in fighting against this dictatorial regime. We do not fear police cases," he declared. Addressing a gathering at the party office on the occasion of the 644th birth anniversary of Sant Shiromani Ravidas Maharaj in the presence of SC Morcha president Koppu Basha, the Karimnagar MP wanted SCs to “halt all their respective works” and campaign in the slums and other parts across TS against the “injustices” meted out to the community under the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government and galvanise them to ensure a government for the poor comes to power in the next elections. "Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced an SC leader would be made Chief Minister. What happened to the promise or that of providing land to SCs? Why are LIDCAP - Leather Industries Development Corporation and SC Corporation non-functional," he questioned. "We will work for the poor and for their upliftment if we are elected to power in the next election. Your political awakening will dramatically change the prevailing scenario", he said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader also assured to bring soil from different parts of the country to build a statue for B.R. Ambedkar in the city centre and a temple for Sant Ravidas - both issues ignored by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-seeks-scs-help-in-coming-to-power/article33953340.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIN launches national e-survey to map nutrition, health status||City-based ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) has launched an online e-survey in an endeavour to generate a national-level, participatory real-time data on food intake, dietary habits and health indicators for mapping of nutrition and health status of people across the country. Voluntary participation The institute has invited people of all age groups to visit the NIN website and fill up a simple e-survey form voluntarily. Considering that there are shifts in agricultural production, food production, availability and accessibility of foods and their consumption, changes are bound to happen in the dietary patterns and hence the health risks, a press release issued by NIN said. “Monitoring of food intakes, nutrition and health status of the population should be dynamic in nature to enable the planners, implementers and developmental partners to revise and design new nutrition and health intervention programmes. We hope this experiment of e-survey will help us fill this gap reasonably,” NIN director Hemalatha R. said. Two types of forms She said there are two types of e-survey forms available on the NIN’s website — one for adults (above 18 years) to collect self-reported data on nutrition status, food frequency and intakes, and another for parents/caregivers of children below two years of age, wherein they are expected to fill in the information related to infant and young child feeding, especially in terms of food frequency, diversity and nutritional status. Immediately after filling up the e-survey forms, the respondents can have a quick glance of their nutritional status or the child’s nutritional status based on the data provided online. One can participate in the e-survey and fill up the forms by visiting https://www.esurvey.nin.res.in.  Monitoring of food intakes, nutrition and health status of the population should be dynamic... to revise and design new nutrition and health intervention programmes. Hemalatha R., Director, NIN||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/national-e-survey-to-map-nutrition-health-status/article33952757.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||20 conditions, diseases listed under co-morbidities||The next leg of COVID-19 vaccination from March 1 will include the general population aged above 60 years and those in the 45-60 age group with co-morbidities. However, there wasn’t much clarity about the conditions or illnesses that are categorised as co-morbidities from the perspective of the infection. According to details shared by senior officials of the Telangana Health department, 20 conditions or diseases are listed under co-morbidities. Some of them include heart failure with hospital admission in past one year, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, hypertension or diabetes on treatment, kidney or liver or hematopoietic stem cell transplant, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis, decompensated cirrhosis, and severe respiratory disease with hospitalisations in past two years. Further, acid attack with involvement of respiratory system, persons with disabilities having high-support needs and multiple disabilities, have also been included. Doctor’s certificate But how would one establish during registration for vaccination that they have one or more of the co-morbidities? Officials said a proforma of certificate to identify individuals with co-morbidities will be issued. The certificate should be issued by a registered allopathy doctor. It lists the 20 co-morbidities and a vaccine recipient has to mark ‘yes’ against the conditions that they suffer from. Apart from name of the doctor, medical council registration number of the doctor also has to be mentioned on the certificate. Officials said doctors in Primary Health Centres (PHC) and other health facilities would be asked to issue the certificates. Considering vaccine hesitancy among people, this step would ensure that people don’t back out from the vaccination drive because they find securing the certificate a cumbersome procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/20-conditions-diseases-listed-under-co-morbidities/article33953318.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||High fuel price hits gig workers||In 2019, Mohammed Fahimuddin used to take home Rs. 1,000-Rs. 1,200 daily for a 12-hour shift of driving his cab. On February 25, 2021, he took home Rs. 500 after driving 210 km picking and dropping commuters in Hyderabad. “We cannot protest. Our savings have been wiped out during lockdown. At least at this critical moment, the government should step in to help us out. Why doesn’t the Indian government deploy an app that will take 5% commission instead of 30% we are paying to a foreign firm,” says Mr. Fahimuddin, a cab driver who lives in Mallapur. “The diesel rate in the city is Rs. 88.69 per litre. The price of diesel has gone up by Rs. 7.89 over the past 14 days. The fares that cab drivers are getting is the same. Many of them are unable to pay EMIs and have gone back to villages,” says Shaik Saluddin of Telangana State Taxi and Drivers’ Union. As petrol and diesel prices get into the roaring 90s space, gig workers, including cab drivers, auto drivers and food delivery executives, are feeling the pinch. They have seen their take-home money dip by the day as fuel prices surge by the day. “Delivery workers are being paid Rs. 6/km, while the cost including fuel and maintenance comes to around Rs. 2.5-3/km. So after travelling say about 100 km a day in more than 12 hours, they are earning about Rs. 600-700 from which they have to keep aside Rs. 200 for petrol. Earlier, they were compensated for long distance order by extra per/km charges, which now is uniform of Rs. 6 per km irrespective of distance,” informs Mohammad Sajjad Hussain, a PhD scholar at Delhi School of Economics who is doing his research on food delivery workers in Hyderabad. The business of commission, wait time pay, batched orders, and incentives is a maze of words and digits for most gig workers. So, while a delivery worker might see Rs. 291 as an earning per order once the distance of 27.49 km and 57 minutes delivery time is factored in along with the fuel cost, the earnings don’t look so lucrative. One of the food delivery apps sent out a message to its workers: ‘Fuel Price Hike? We’ve got a solution: Guaranteed minimum base pay is now Rs. 20 per order.” Prior to that it was Rs. 15. Waiting for orders near Mehfil Hotel in Narayanguda, Shabbir who works for a food delivery app scoffs at the hike. “When petrol price was Rs. 65-70, we were getting Rs. 15 per order. Now, when the price has increased by Rs. 20 per litre we are promised Rs. 5 more. This is cheating,” he says. This small hike in fee was followed by the message from the food delivery company: “We continue to watch the increase in petrol costs closely and while they are not in our control, we remain committed to you in these difficult times.” A message that doesn’t mean a thing to thousands of delivery workers trying to make a living from the only skill they have: Driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-fuel-price-hits-gig-workers/article33953349.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC faces crushing losses||It is a double whammy for the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC). On the one hand it is dealing a decrease in earnings per kilometre, and on the other, given the COVID – 19 pandemic, it is struggling to increase its occupancy ratio which was 56.72 in January 2021. What has exacerbated the problem is the continuous rise in diesel prices. The transport juggernaut procures diesel by means of the consumer mode of pricing. This is different from retail mode pricing which is applicable on the average vehicle owner. As on Saturday, the retail mode of pricing stood at Rs. 88.85. As compared to retail mode of pricing, the consumer mode of pricing is marginally lesser. But despite this, the sources said that the TSRTC is facing crushing losses as there is no increase in revenues for different reasons, including an ageing fleet. Data indicates that earnings per kilometre (EPK) up to January 2020 was Rs. 31.30. Upon comparison with the EPK from April 1, 2020 to January 31, 2021, the EPK stood at Rs. 26.12. This despite the fact that TSRTC improved its kilometre per litre efficiency from 5.13 kmpl up to from April 1, 2019 to January 31, 2020 to 5.43 from April 1, 2020 to January this year. The loss incurred from April 1, 2019 to January 31, 2020 was over Rs. 400 crore. This increased in the next year over the same period to approximately Rs. 1,950 crore. Data shows that the gross EPK till January 2020 was Rs. 38.41. But on account of uses going off the roads due to the lockdown, and other important factors, such as high diesel prices, this plunged to Rs. 27.46. “The steady increase in diesel prices have have a crippling effect on the revenues. The TSRTC uses lakhs of litres per day for its operations. As you can see, the fuel efficiency increase too is not helping much. The pandemic and the lockdown primarily have had a massively negative effect on the revenues,” a sources said. TSRTC unions, such as the TSRTC Employees Union, have been demanding that the State government ease the burden on the corporation by exempting Value Added Tax diesel procurement. They have also indicated that loss of revenue be compensated by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-faces-crushing-losses/article33953355.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||APSRTC Logistics told to refund cost of mobile, pay compensation of Rs. 10,000||A consumer commission directed the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation Logistics to refund the cost of a mobile phone and pay compensation of Rs. 10,000 for not having delivered the package. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, RangaReddy bench, comprising president Chitneni Latha Kumari, and members G.V.S. Prasad Rao and D. Madhavi Latha were dealing with a case between P. Srikrishna and APSRTC Logistics represented by Syed Abrar Hussain of A 1 Sahara Tours and Travels and APSRTC Logistics depot manager, Pandit Nehru Bus Station, Vijayawada. The complainant stated that he bought a new phone from Flipkart on December 21, 2018, along with a ‘smart back cover’ and mobile protection, worth Rs. 13,218. He then approached the opposite parties so as to send the mobile phone to his brother residing in Pidiguralla, Guntur, in Andhra Pradesh, two days later. He paid shipment charges of Rs. 102. While the package was supposed to reach his brother in 24 hours, it was neither delivered, nor returned. The complainant stated that he approached the opposite parties but to no avail. The opposite parties stated that the package was delivered on time, and the online extract shipment track report showed that the goods were delivered to the intended person. They denied that the complainant had approached them. Taking all evidence placed on record, the commission observed that the onus on proving that the package was delivered at the intended location was on the opposite parties. They should submit evidence such as a receipt by the receiver of the package. The disputes redressal commission noted while the opposite parties relied on online extract shipment track report, no such documentary evidence from the receiver was submitted. The commission stated that oral submissions by the first opposite party does not have merit. “In the aforementioned circumstances, we are of the considered opinion that the opposite parties failed to deliver (the transshipment booked by the complainant) at Piduguralla i.e. the destination point and as such this certainly amounts to deficiency in service on their part (sic),” the commission stated.  In the aforementioned circumstances, we are of the considered opinion that the opposite parties failed to deliver (the transshipment booked by the complainant) at Piduguralla i.e. the destination point and as such this certainly amounts to deficiency in service on their part (sic). Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apsrtc-logistics-told-to-refund-cost-of-mobile-pay-compensation-of-rs-10000/article33953332.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam meets family of murdered lawyers||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu along with Congress leaders met the parents and family members of late Vaman Rao and Nagamani in their house in Manthani and assured that the Congress would not rest till they get justice. Speaking to the Congress delegation Kishan Rao, father of late Vaman Rao, said he did not have any confidence in the investigation of the local police and Mr. Uttam Reddy responded saying they had met Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan demanding a court-monitored CBI investigation. Speaking to media persons later, he said it was highly unfortunate that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had not even condemned the murder or assured speedy justice in the matter. He described the double murder as a result of a high-level conspiracy hatched by TRS leaders, in connivance with the sand and land mafia. The TPCC chief alleged that a few police officials, including Police Commissioner Satyanarayana, were acting as TRS agents and there was a serious doubt over fair investigation under the local police. The Chief Minister appears reluctant in ordering a CBI probe into the matter, the local police were not gathering the call data records of the accused and the victims to unearth the larger conspiracy and unmask the people involved in the double murder. Earlier in the day, Mr. Reddy held a meeting with TPCC Legal Cell through Zoom App and advised the office bearers of Legal Cell to extend all possible help to the family of late Vaman Rao and Nagamani. He also asked them to campaign in favour of Congress MLC candidates from Graduates constituencies Ramul Naik (Warangal-Nalgonda-Khammam) and G. Chinna Reddy (Hyderabad-Rangareddy- Mahabubnagar). Legal Cell Chairman Damodar Reddy said that a meeting with advocates would be convened next week in connection with the MLC polls. Later, Uttam Kumar Reddy, along with candidate Ramulu Naik, visited Kakatiya University and interacted with the students and faculty seeking their support in the MLC elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-meets-family-of-murdered-lawyers/article33953344.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SHE Teams organise job mela for women||SHE Teams of Hyderabad police on Saturday conducted a job mela for unemployed women at Prof. G.Ram Reddy Centre for Distance Education, Osmania University. “Sense of compassion is required in a job. One should try to help others who are not as talented as you,” said Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar after inaugurating the event. “This is the first step in your life. You should take advantage of the opportunity that comes before any job. If you don’t like it, then you should look for a replacement and everyone should take advantage of this job fair,” Mr. Kumar told the job aspirants. Over 8,000 people registered and of them, 4,000 people have already been given job letters and the rest will be called later, he said. “Around 25 companies are organising job fairs to offer 3,000 jobs which are divided into three categories — Skill, Semi Skill and Non-Skill. We are giving assurance and security to women through the SHE teams,” the officer said.  Around 25 companies are organising job fairs to offer 3,000 jobs in Skill, Semi Skill and Non-Skill categories. Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/she-teams-organise-job-mela-for-women/article33953322.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Trainee civil servants put their culinary skills to test||The 121 trainee Civil Servants belonging to 22 States and nine services, who are attending the Special Foundation Course at Dr MCR HRD Institute, rolled out FETE- The Utsav , a day-long food-cum-recreation extravaganza, turning the Ramadasu Mandapan at the institute into a sprawling kitchen. It was a pleasant surprise to see the trainee Civil Servants dishing out mouth-watering delicacies, selling them as hard-core salespersons, generating profits, and donating them to an NGO, for a socially-relevant cause. The food items for sale reflected the true diversity of the batch. To keep guests entertained, the event offered an array of exciting games and activities. Electrifying background music and hit Bollywood numbers added zing to the event. Officers, faculty, and staff of the institute visited the stalls and relished the food items and even tried their hand at the games and activities on display. Harpreet Singh, Director General of the institute, inaugurated the event. Benhur Mahesh Dutt Ekka, Additional DG of the institute, was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trainee-civil-servants-put-culinary-skills-to-test/article33953326.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Specify changes sought from academic institutions: IICT head||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) Director S.Chandrasekhar on Friday urged industry to prepare a white paper specifying changes it wanted academic institutions to make, thus helping industry-academia collaboration gain momentum. “Industry needs to make a white paper and tell the world publicly this is what we are looking for from these institutes. That clarity needs to be given so that academic institutes could really reorient their curriculum, syllabus or experimental part so that [students] are really ready to join the industry,” he told a virtual conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Telangana. Noting that industry-academia collaboration was being discussed for many decades now, he emphasised measures to help build trust between the academia and industry, including by locating small research and development facilities of industry on campuses. Mr.Chandrasekhar, who also called upon CII to work in this direction, said trust between both parties is key as “industry always thinks by talking to academic collaborator, there is every possibility of their knowledge being leaked out to their competitor. The academic collaborator thinks I share some idea with industry and they will not give back my royalty or they will not acknowledge the way it has to be acknowledged”. Such measures to bolster collaboration would help meet Atmanirbhar (self-reliance) goals, he said. Addressing the webinar on ‘Enriching industry - institutional collaboration on research and technology’, US Consul General in Hyderabad Joel Reifman sought to highlight Ind- US collaborations, especially in Telangana. Defence and aerospace, biotech and pharma, and environment technology sectors offer potential for more partnerships. Joint Secretary to Centre’s Department of Science and Technology Sunil Kumar said Telangana has huge potential in the area of industry-academic collaborations. It is crucial to encourage entrepreneurs to invest more in R&D and engage with institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/specify-changes-sought-from-academic-institutions-iict-head/article33953313.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four employees felicitated||Four employees of different departments in the Telangana Secretariat were felicitated on attaining the age of superannuation at BRKR Bhavan on Saturday. The function organised by General Administration Department and Telangana Secretariat Employees’ Association was attended by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other officials. The employees were assistant secretary of Irrigation Department O. Sridevi, section officer of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development B.N.S.V. Prasad, personal secretary to Secretary of Roads and Buildings K. Umarani and a Grade II section assistant of medical and health R. Kishan Lal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-employees-felicitated/article33953328.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Where was Talasani in Telangana movement?’||AICC national spokesperson Sravan Dasoju has urged the TRS leadership not to use Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, who was nowhere in the Telangana movement, to criticise Telanagana soldiers like him. Reacting to derogatory words used against him by Mr Yadav, he said it was an insult to all the people of Telanagana and claimed that IT Minister KT Rama Rao (KTR) was encouraging such elements to attack the opposition leaders using unparliamentary words. He asked KTR to stop playing provocative and undemocratic politics in Telangana instead he asked him to focus on creating employment to over 40 lakh beleaguered unemployed youth in the State. Terming Mr Yadav a political beggar he reminded that he insulted the Telangana agitation and also the family of K. Chandrasekhar Rao and how come he is now being encouraged. The AICC leader reminded KTR to recall multiple visits to his residence in 2009 requesting him for joining the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) at a time he was working with Chiranjeevi who treated him like a brother. Congress had created new employment by setting up new universities across the state including Telangana. Mahatma Gandhi University, IIT Basara, IIT-Hyderabad, Palamuru University, and Shatavahana University among others. Mr Sravan lamented KTR for his failures to retain ITIR, NIMZ while doing business with Pharma City lands grabbed from farmers at Rs. 6-8 lakh per acre and offering them for Rs. 1 crore per acre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talasani-words-insult-to-people/article33953341.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BC bodies plan ‘Chalo Parliament’||National Backward Classes Welfare Association along with other BC bodies will take up “Chalo Parliament” in the third week of March with the demand of 50% reservation for BC communities in the law-making bodies and creation of separate ministry for BCs. Activists of BC Associations would go to Delhi in three special trains and take up “Chalo Parliament” march with 5,000 of them in support of the two demands. The decision was taken at a meeting of the NBCWA held here on Saturday. Speaking at the meeting, president of NBCWA, R. Krishnaiah, alleged that BC communities were provided 27% quota in education, employment and local bodies, against their proportion of over 50% in the population. However, the SC and ST communities BCs have no quota in the law-making bodies, he said, and accused the upper castes of denying them of their due share in political sphere. BC associations’ leaders G. Krishna, N. Venkatesh, P. Satish, M. Mahender Goud, R. Chandrasekhar Goud, M. Chanti, K. Manohar and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bc-bodies-plan-chalo-parliament/article33952758.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS industrialist appointed member of Coir Board||Senior joint secretary of Telangana Industrialists Federation (TIF) Mirupala Gopal Rao has been appointed member of Coir Board, a body under Union Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). A release from TIF thanked Union Minister of MSME Nitin Gadkari for the appointment. Federation general secretary S.V. Raghu said he looked forward to Mr.Rao playing a constructive and active role in the development of the MSME sector and contribute his best to the Coir Board. Mr.Rao said it was an honour for TIF to work with Mr.Gadkari for development of the MSME sector that served as the backbone of the country’s economy. He will pay special attention and efforts in solving problems of the sector, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-industrialist-named-coir-board-member/article33953319.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal rise in Telangana’s daily caseload||The State is witnessing a marginal increase in COVID-19 infections. For the better part of February, less than 150 cases were recorded daily, but on Thursday and Friday, the per-day case tally has gone beyond the 175-mark. On Friday, 178 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus after 40,000-odd samples were put to test. The results of 684 persons were awaited while one patient died, taking the toll to 1,633. Testing has increased of late. The number of samples examined in a day had dropped from the beginning of this month — from nearly 40,000 to around 25000. On Thursday and Friday, however, a little over 40,000 people were checked for the presence of the virus. The 178 new cases include 30 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 20 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 15 from Rangareddy, and 10 from Karimnagar.  The total cases detected in the State so far stand at 2,98,631. Of those, 1,939 are active while 2,95,059 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/marginal-rise-in-telanganas-daily-caseload/article33953314.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed as ‘drunk’ friend hits signal post||In a suspected case of drunk driving, a 29-year-old man, who was travelling in a car, was killed when one of his friends, who was behind the wheel, lost control and hit the traffic signal post at BN Reddy Nagar in the little hours of Saturday. Nallabolu Sandeep Reddy, a private employee from Champapet, along with his friends S. Goutham and Mallikarjun, was proceeding towards Turkayamjal from Champapet around 3.30 a.m., when the accident took place. Goutham was driving at high speed under the influence of alcohol and hit the signal post, due to which Sandeep, who was sitting on the rear seat, suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. His body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) morgue for autopsy. Goutham was taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-as-drunk-friend-loses-control-hits-signal-post/article33953327.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Citroen phygital showroom opened in city||Car maker Citroen, pre-bookings of whose C5 Aircross SUV are set to open on March 1, has launched a phygital showroom here. The showroom, on Road no.12, Banjara Hills, is well integrated with the Citroen India’s ATAWADAC (AnyTime AnyWhere AnyDevice AnyContent) experience with high definition 360-degree 3D configurator. The facility will provide test drive to customers as well as offer full-fledged after-sales services, a press release informed. Citroen will also offer a range of services, including finance and leasing services, through Citroen Finance and Insurance and 30 minute guaranteed trade-in facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/citroen-phygital-showroom-opened-in-city/article33953320.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS asks its MLAs to counter BJP criticism||TRS working president K. T. Rama Rao has directed the cadre to expose the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) questioning them on the rising fuel prices and the failure to sanction projects to Telanagana. At a meeting with city MLAs and corporators to discuss the strategy for the MLC elections, he asked them to counter the 'fake news' of the BJP 'WhatsApp University' with figures and facts on the jobs given by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had failed the state in all aspects and Telangana was always ignored while other states were favoured, he said. Stating that party-supported candidate Vani Devi had a clean record, he said it was a big advantage for the party and this should be vigorously taken to the voters. There was no way the opposition parties could mudsling on her and this was a big advantage for the party. Moreover, the opportunities provided by the government for youngsters in both the government and private sectors are there to be seen. He said perceptions were not always true and reminded that TRS won two elections in GHMC from a earlier position where it could not even contest. Moreover, the opposition parties were not in a position to take on the ruling party on any issue, he said.Earlier, Ministers T Harish Rao, Srinivas Goud and V Prashanth Reddy held meetings with local leaders in support of Vani Devi. and advised the cadre to repulse the criticism of opposition parties with facts and figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-asks-its-mlas-to-counter-bjp-criticism/article33953342.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Briefly||A social worker Mankena Srinivasa Reddy has been appointed member of the National Afforestation and Eco-Development Board under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests, and Climate Change. Mr.Srinivas Reddy, the lone South Indian who has been appointed to the National Afforestation and Eco-Development Board, has experience in Agriculture, Social Welfare and Micro-Insurance sectors, a statement informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/briefly/article33953336.ece
28 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Briefly||A 121-year-old Galapagos Giant Tortoise from the Nehru Zoological Park has been adopted by a city resident, Saroj Devi, who visited the zoo along with her family members, a press statement informed on Saturday. She presented a cheque of Rs. 30,000 to deputy curator of the zoo A. Nagamani towards the adoption contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/briefly/article33953331.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Award to Northern Discom||The Northern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSNPDCL) has got the award in the “best distribution utility achieving highest electrification including metering of un-electrified households” category. The award was presented virtually to Chairman and Managing Director of the Northern Discom A. Gopal Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/award-to-northern-discom/article33953334.ece
28 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Tension during protest by shopkeepers||Mild tension prevailed near Bommana Centre here on Saturday when the police ‘foiled’ an attempt by the members of the “Old Bus Stand Parirakshana Committee” to hold a rally cum demonstration demanding withdrawal of alleged move to shut down the existing old bus stand after the inauguration of the new bus station in the first week of March. Members of the committee including the local leaders of the Congress, the CPI (M), the CPI (ML-ND) and some other Opposition parties besides several petty vendors converged near the present bus stand to take out a rally on Saturday morning. Citing lack of permission, the police thwarted their attempt and whisked them away. CPI (M) district secretary N Nageswara Rao condemned the attempts to “suppress” peaceful agitation. He said the old bus station should be continued as “local bus stand” to operate Palle Velugu and other local buses to avoid extra financial burden on the commuters from rural areas and protect the livelihoods of hundreds of poor families. of small vendors and traders of the old bus station surroundings. He contended that the fastest growing city needs a second bus stand apart from the new bus station, which is getting ready for inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-during-protest-by-shopkeepers/article33953352.ece
28 February 2021||N. RahulHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revenue deficit continues in TS||A huge revenue deficit continues to face Telangana in the pandemic year as its tax and non-tax revenue receipts failed to make an impact despite significant drop in revenue expenditure in January over the previous month. According to the data put out by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on Friday, the State government earned a tax revenue of Rs. 60,424.72 crore and non-tax revenue of Rs. 2,801.66 crore up to January-end, which was 59.22 per cent and 9.16 per cent respectively of the budget estimates for 2020-21. Overall, the revenue deficit was Rs. 23,770.57 crore against an estimate of Rs. 4,482 crore. While the revenue receipts were Rs. 74,990.94 crore, the revenue expenditure was Rs. 98,761.51 crore. The tax revenue was mainly mopped from GST (Rs. 20,146.21 crore, including State’s share of CGST which was Rs. 2,850.96 crore), sales tax (Rs. 16,416.87 crore) and State excise duties (Rs. 11,443.50 crore). The State’s share of Union taxes other than CGST component was Rs. 5,870.32 crore which was far below the projected budget estimate of Rs. 10,906.51 crore. The government’s woes were compounded by negative grants-in-aid from Centre and contributions to the extent of Rs. 253.50 crore. Thus, the receipts in this category fell from Rs. 12,018 crore in December to Rs. 11,764.56 crore in January. A silver lining to the efforts of the government was a steep slash in revenue expenditure, excluding interest payments, salaries and wages, pensions and subsidies, from Rs. 9,525.94 crore in December to Rs. 5,162.06 crore in January. The total revenue expenditure comprising all the above heads itself was Rs. 98,761.51 crore against the budget estimate of Rs. 1.38 lakh crore. The government also curtailed its capital expenditure to peg the same at 54.83 per cent of the budget estimates. But, the payout in this category in January was much higher at Rs. 2,339.61 crore than in November and December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revenue-deficit-continues-in-ts/article33953335.ece
28 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||12 KGBV students test positive for coronavirus||Twelve students Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalay (KGBV) have tested positive for COVID-19 and have been kept in isolation. There are about 162 students and staff at the KGBV when rapid antigen test was conducted after which the infection incidence was confirmed. For the remaining students too, samples were collected and sent to lab. Test results are expected by Sunday evening. The students were sent home and supplied with medicines. No family member of the 12 students have tested positive so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/12-kgbv-students-test-positive-for-coronavirus/article33953323.ece
28 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Access practice papers for all exams from 1 app||An educational institute in the district has developed an app that has preparatory material for all exams from school to competitive examinations. The examinations are categorised into separate bundles for the convenience of the subscriber. The single app developed by Calcus India, an educational institute based at Kishtareddypet in Ameenpur mandal, aims at helping those attending various exams, access preparatory material at one place. There is material for 1,324 types of examinations loaded in the app starting right from school level up to the competitive civil service exams. One can prepare for NTSE, IIT, NEET Olympiads with the help of this app, according to M. Krishna, one of those dealing with business operations. All the 1,324 types of examinations were divided into 25 bundles, each bundle consisting of relevant examinations like all railway examinations as single bundle, all police personnel recruitment in another bundle. The app of any bundle is available for Rs. 99 per year. If the app was purchased by a family, any one in the family from school to college-level can use the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/practice-for-all-exams-from-one-app/article33953346.ece
28 February 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Peddagattu all decked up for biennial jatara||The biennial Peddagattu jatara of Sri Lingamanthula Swamy and Goddess Choudamma, popular as the most-visited after Medaram’s Sammakka Saralamma jatara in the State, is all set to begin here at Durajpalli on Sunday. Officials since the past month were involved in several preparatory works at the temple and the jatara site. Thanks to the State government that sanctioned Rs. 2 crore under ‘Special Development Fund for Welfare and Developmental Activities’ scheme in January, several works have been possible. According to officials, the premises around the temple were levelled, barricades arranged for smooth flow of traffic, and temporary and permanent amenities for visitors and devotees were taken up on priority basis, to accommodate lakhs of visitors. Permanent infrastructure included purchase of solar panels for uninterrupted lighting and CCTVs all around the hillock. And in the wake of COVID-19, sanitation and hygiene on the premises, officials said, was being given utmost attention. Rs. 28 lakh earmarked About Rs. 28 lakh was earmarked for the purpose, for sanitation equipment, material and workforce. On Saturday, a day before the four-day jatara, the temple atop the Durajpalli hillock, was illuminated and was vibrant in freshly painted colours. According to District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy, for the first time, a scientific method will be followed to arrive at the footfall to estimate the overall visitors in the four days. Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran said that the district police is making sound arrangements to make the jatara a peaceful and memorable experience for visitors. In all, a police force comprising about 1,400 officials, including six DSPs and 36 circle officials, dedicated women police team and quick response teams, among others, will watch and guard all the events. As a tradition, a dishti puja was conducted a fortnight prior to the jatara, and with the carrying of Devarapette or divine box from Kesaram village to the hilltop late Sunday evening, the jatara would commence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peddagattu-jatara-begins-today/article33953345.ece
28 February 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Dwaja sthambam falls||A day before everything was set for the start of the four-day temple jatara , a dwaja sthambam or the flag post on the premises of Peddagattu Sri Lingamanthula Swamy Temple fell on Saturday. Officials rushed for immediate action, and soon MP Badugula Lingaiah Yadav and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy arrived at the scene. According to an official source, the stone flag post fell at around 6 p.m., when a truck driver was reversing the vehicle. It was one of the other flag posts on the temple premises, located ahead of the temple steps. The incident shocked locals and devotees. Minister Mr. Reddy soon reviewed emergency measures with priests and leaders of the Yadav community. It is learnt that there is another dwaja sthamba available with the temple authority, and arrangements are being made to erect it following all Yadava customs and traditions by the time the jatara starts on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dwaja-sthambam-falls/article33953499.ece
28 February 2021||new delhi,||Labourer dies in warehouse fire||A 35-year-old labourer was killed and another suffered injuries when a fire broke out at a warehouse in north Delhi’s Gulabi Bagh in the early hours of Saturday. A case has been registered in the matter. A Delhi Fire Services (DFS) official said a call regarding a fire near Pratap Nagar metro station was received at 3.47 a.m., and 15 fire tenders were rushed to the site. Subsequently, 10 more fire tenders were sent. The fire was brought under control around 8.30 a.m. and doused by 11.00 a.m. “The fire broke out at a warehouse where plastic and nail polish material is kept. It started from the upper ground floor and the first floor,” the official said. A charred body was found inside the building and an injured person was also rescued. The deceased was identified as Upchand Kumar, from Bihar. The injured was identified as Sunil, 22, a resident of Kishan Ganj. Police said that workers used to stay in rooms in the warehouse and the deceased was likely sleeping when the fire broke out. A case under Sections 435 (Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage), 436 (Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), and 308 (Attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and further investigation is underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/labourer-dies-in-warehouse-fire/article33952918.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||A first, DU awards ‘digital degrees’||Delhi University (DU) on Saturday awarded over 1.76 lakh ‘digital degrees’ — a first in the country, according to acting Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi. The 97th convocation also saw 670 PhD degrees being conferred, the highest in the last five years, according to officials. Apart from the degrees awarded to bachelors and masters graduates, 156 medals and 36 prizes were also awarded to students across disciplines. Due to the pandemic, the convocation was held with social distancing norms in place. Arrangements were made for parents and kin to view the event online. On the endeavours in the last few months, Mr. Joshi said, “The university has initiated the innovative ‘Vidya Vistar Scheme’ to establish academic links between partner colleges and departments of fellow universities. Aimed at maximising the utilisation of resources available with the university through academic collaboration and cooperation with partner institutions, the scheme is deemed to be instrumental in augmenting collective human resources.” Mr. Joshi added that DU was the first in India to conduct the Open Book Examination during the pandemic. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ was the chief guest, and UPSC Chairman P.K. Joshi was the Guest of Honour. Education policy The Minister said DU was expected to be a frontrunner in implementing the National Education Policy (NEP). “We will reform, perform, transform and show results. We will go vocal for local and then make local, global. You [students] have to be the ones generating employment instead of seeking employment.” He said the university has been witness to a time when the “country was burning” with the Vice-Regal Lodge being a place where several freedom fighters had been confined at a point. Urging students to ensure that “dreams are fulfilled,” he said, “We have a dream in front of us... we have to make India a ‘Vishwaguru’ yet again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-first-du-awards-digital-degrees/article33952921.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||AQI to worsen, says SAFAR||The air quality of Delhi improved slightly but stayed in the lower end of the ‘poor’ category on Saturday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board data. “Increased surface wind speed, higher temperature, and higher boundary layer heights are influencing AQI positively,” said monitoring agency SAFAR. “AQI is forecast to fall to the ‘poor’ category in the next two days,” it said, adding that dust from dry desert regions of Rajasthan may start influencing Delhi’s AQI soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aqi-to-worsen-says-safar/article33953300.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘AUD used lockdown to prepare for online shift, focus now on research’||Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) Vice-Chancellor Anu Singh Lather talks about how the institution adapted during the lockdown, implementation of the National Education Policy, introduction of the Happiness Curriculum and focus on research and entrepreneurship. Excerpts from the interview:  It has been a very tough year for education and learning. How did AUD switch from physical classes to online? As soon as the lockdown was announced, we went in for a long vacation that was initially planned for June-July. This gave us time to plan and prepare, including faculty training, for a shift to online classes. While many universities had short-term plans, expecting educational institutions to open by May, we realised that COVID-19 was not going away. Hence, we made a plan till December that included the new admission process. We also followed a continuous assessment system so we did not face problems regarding conduct of exams. How did you deal with the digital divide and access to high-speed Internet as AUD attracts students from across the country? We went in for a synchronous as well as an asynchronous mode of teaching. Books, study material, presentations and case studies were all put together and emailed to students. We also recorded the lectures so that students from the Northeast and Kashmir, who were facing problems with Internet connectivity, could watch recordings and access material. We had students approaching us for laptops, smartphones and other relief. We provided EWS students with reimbursements for their Internet connection. We also purchased and gave tablets to those who were in need. When can students expect to attend classes like pre-pandemic times? We waited for the State government to notify us when we could open the university for students. PhD students who are interested are already on campus. We are working on a definite schedule for UG and PG students as well. We want final-year MA and UG students to attend classes on campus before opening it up for other students. How does AUD fare now when compared with other universities in the Capital that have been around for much longer? Do you feel it has become the first choice for students? We have started organising campus placements and appointed a full-time assistant registrar for placement and training. The assistant registrar ensures that “skilling” is a part of education here. While we are approaching the industry for placement of our students, we saw an interesting trend — students who are graduating from courses like history and global affairs are being placed for unique profiles that show that there is an integration of social sciences and acceptability for employability. It is encouraging that we have found profiles for our students from the social sciences, and we hope to take further steps in this aspect. With the National Education Policy (NEP) coming in, what changes will we see at AUD? The university is taking a few steps on the quality parameters when it comes to research. We have created our own ordinance for the PhD programme. Also, regulations for that have been created to meet the international demands of research work. This kind of direction is required as there is a perception that Indian research is often plagiarised and viewed to be fake or not up to international standards. These ordinances will help researchers be professional and move towards better integration of what is expected of them internationally. The NEP also has a lot of focus on early childhood care. We are one of the universities in the country that thought about it far ahead and have established ourselves in the field of early childhood care. We also want at least three-four programmes at the UG level to be of the four-year duration. We might make the switch in the next session after discussions with all the Deans. AUD is regularly adding new courses. Any more new courses that AUD is planning to start? We are going in for a major revision of our syllabus in the near future to incorporate aspects of the NEP and keep it updated. We are also planning to launch a Happiness Curriculum. This will be done at two levels. At the university-level, it will be introduced as an essential course. On a wider note, a training programme will be launched for the judiciary, government officials and others. In the three-six months of training , the course will teach those enrolled to look at life differently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aud-used-lockdown-to-prepare-for-online-shift-focus-now-on-research/article33952916.ece
28 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Naveen govt. presents Puri heritage corridor project plan in House||The Naveen Patnaik government aggressively pushed the Rs. 3,200-crore heritage corridor project for Puri Jagannath Temple by presenting its plan in the Assembly on Saturday. The Assembly unanimously passed a resolution for its effective and smooth implementation. According to the State government, the heritage corridor would be divided into nine zones. “A seven metre green buffer zone adjacent to Meghanad Prachir (temple boundary) would be followed by 10 metre Antar Parikrama (inner circuitry walk) to be used for ceremonial procession of the deities, eight metre outer Pradikshyan (circumambulation) for devotees and a 10 metre public conveyance zone having restrooms, drinking water fountain, information-cum-donation kiosks and shelter pavilions,” said the government. The corridor plan says there will be a five metre service lane for maintenance of the corridor, 4.5 metre dedicated shuttle-cum-emergency lane, 7.5 metre mixed traffic lane to aid movement of vehicles around the corridor and seven metre wide shaded footpath. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said the mega project was conceptualised keeping three objectives such as the security of the temple, safety of devotees and religious atmosphere for devotees in mind.  Oppn. pledges support Leader of the Opposition Pradipta Naik and leader of the Congress legislative party, Narasingha Mishra, backed the resolution by pledging their parties’ support for infrastructure development around the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-presents-puri-heritage-project/article33952817.ece
28 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha issues stricter COVID protocol||The Odisha government has made home isolation for seven days mandatory for people coming from five States and set up a strict screening mechanism at airports and railway stations. All Collectors and civic body heads have been asked to keep a close tab on people coming from Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh where there has been a surge in COVID-19 cases. Even as the government is returning to stricter surveillance, 25 students of Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology, Burla, have tested positive for COVID-19 during the past 48 hours. P.K. Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said any laxity could lead to a surge in cases. Apart from screening of passengers from five States at the point of arrival, on-site rapid antigen testing of all the symptomatic passengers has to be ensured, he said. “All the incoming passengers will remain under mandatory home isolation for seven days. If they develop any symptoms they will be subjected to RT-PCR test. If found positive, they will be treated as per the treatment protocol.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-issues-stricter-covid-protocol/article33953302.ece
28 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Modi is the PM of capitalists’||“Narendra Modi is not the Prime Minister of the poor and the farmers,” charged Rashtriya Lok Dal President Ajit Singh while addressing a massive gathering of farmers in Bamnauli village of Baghpat on Saturday. “He is the Prime Minister of capitalists and corporates. He shows dreams but doesn’t care to fulfil them,” said Mr. Singh at the meeting called by the Desh Khap on the birth anniversary of Raja Sulakshpal Tomar. The RLD chief said the PM and U.P. Chief Minister promise to make the pending payment of sugarcane farmers in the region but the sugar mills were not listening. He said it was true that MSP had not been touched in the farm laws but in the last four years the debt on Food Corporation of India had increased by four times. Mr. Singh said it seemed the government made these laws to help corporates that are making huge godowns instead of the FCI. “It is on the verge of bankruptcy. How will it pay the MSP,” he wondered. Bihar’s example Mr. Singh reminded that farmers in Bihar were suffering because they didn’t get the MSP. “The capitalists work for profit. It is the government’s role to look after the welfare of the poor. If the farmer didn’t have money in his hand, the rural economy would flounder,” he said. The RLD chief said the new farm laws were against the interest of farmers and consumers as it allows corporates to hoard as much as they want. “We are not against corporate farming. Sugarcane farming is also a kind of contract between farmer and mill owners but here the government also has a specific role to ensure that the interest of the farmers is not violated. Do you think a farmer with two bigha land could stand up to the lawyers of the corporates?” he said. Continuing with his aggressive approach against the farm laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait appealed to farmers to keep their tractors ready. “Keep one eye on your tractor and the other on Delhi,” he said. “Private godowns were built first, Bills came later. It shows the nexus between the capitalists and the government. I appeal to the government to acquire those godowns.” This was the first time after the January 28 outburst that hogged national headlines that Mr. Tikait addressed a gathering in western U.P. in which political leaders were also present. BKU sources played it down as a social event in honour of the Jat king. “Rakeshji addressed before political leaders from a separate stage erected for farmers,” said an organiser.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/modi-is-the-pm-of-capitalists/article33952930.ece
28 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cong. MP sends legal notice to party MLA||A Congress MP from Assam has sent a legal notice to a party MLA for allegedly making defamatory and derogatory remarks against him in a social media post. The development has come as an embarrassment for the Congress ahead of the three-phase Assembly elections in March-April. Barpeta MP Abdul Khaleque has demanded an “unconditional apology in the form of an affidavit sworn and attested before an executive magistrate” from Sherman Ali Ahmed, who represents the Congress from the Baghbar Assembly constituency. The MP’s counsel has also threatened to initiate “criminal and civil action” if Mr. Ahmed does not tender an apology and delete the social media post immediately. The MLA had accused Mr. Khaleque of favouring a local contractor to secure a Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana phase III contract for a 7-km road in Barpeta district. The MLA alleged that the contractor had received the contract for the same road in 2008 under another project. He also accused the MP of using his influence to let the same contractor get the project. Mr. Khaleque said the allegations were “nothing but cooked-up stories”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-cong-mp-sends-legal-notice-to-party-mla/article33952931.ece
28 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||BPF joins Congress-led grand alliance in Assam||The Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) has severed its ties with the ruling BJP in Assam and joined the Congress-led grand alliance to contest the upcoming State polls. The announcement by BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary came less than a month before the three-phase elections to the 126-member Assembly are to be held. “To work for peace, unity, and development, the BPF has joined hands with the Mahajath (grand alliance) for the upcoming Assembly elections. We shall no longer maintain friendship or alliance with the BJP,” Mr. Mohilary said on Saturday night. The BPF had contested the 2016 State polls as one of the two regional allies of the BJP. The other regional party is the Asom Gana Parishad, which has remained with the BJP. Differences between Mr. Mohilary and State Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma led to the souring of ties between BPF and BJP more than a year ago. The estrangement became clear when the BJP tied up with United People’s Party Liberal, BPF’s rival, to contest the elections to the 40-member Bodoland Territorial Council in December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bpf-joins-congress-led-grand-alliance-in-assam/article33953303.ece
28 February 2021||JAIPUR,||New water harvesting plans reviewed||New initiatives for water harvesting and groundwater recharge have been launched in Rajasthan with the design standardisation of water sources. The State Public Health Engineering Department has chalked out a plan for constructing water recharge structures near tubewells and hand pumps. At a review of the activities under the Centre’s flagship Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) here, the significance of guidelines for water scarcity areas was highlighted along with the focus on regular monitoring by the water and sanitation committees in all districts. The implementation support agencies have also been selected for these committees.  Linked with MGNREGS Sudhansh Pant, Additional Chief Secretary, Public Health Engineering Department, said the funds available under the 15th Finance Commission would be utilised for building water recharge structures and the construction works would be linked with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The works undertaken for piped water supply in the buildings in the rural areas would be completed by March 31, said Mr. Pant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-water-harvesting-plans-reviewed/article33952932.ece
28 February 2021||Mumbai,||BJP demands Rathod’s resignation, accuses govt. of revenge politics||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday said it would not give up its demand for the ouster of Maharashtra Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod over the death of a woman in Pune, and criticised the State government for filing a case of corruption against the husband of its leader Chitra Wagh. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Pravin Darekar alleged that this was politics of revenge as Ms. Wagh, vice-president of the BJP’s State unit, was vocal about Mr. Rathod’s alleged link to the woman’s death. The Opposition party had earlier warned that it would not allow the budget session, scheduled to start from March 1, to proceed if the minister did not resign. “We are not going to accept anything other than Mr. Rathod’s resignation. We have intensified our agitation and various cells of the party will continue protesting until we get his resignation,” State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil told reporters. Mr. Patil also questioned the probe by the Wanwadi police in Pune into the woman’s death. “The police should make the postmortem report public. What is there to hide?” he asked. Mr. Patil also sought to know why Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, whose party is part of the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in Maharashtra, was silent on the issue. The woman died after falling from a building on February 8, and the Pune police said they were probing the suicide angle. Some audio clips purportedly having bearing on the case had gone viral after her death. Mr. Rathod, a Sena leader from Yavatmal, has denied having any links with the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-demands-rathods-resignation-accuses-govt-of-revenge-politics/article33952840.ece
28 February 2021||Mumbai,||Centre’s social media rules are dictatorial, says MVA minister||State Information and Technology Minister Satej Patil on Saturday opposed the Central government’s regulations for social media platforms and over-the-top (OTT) players, terming them “dictatorial” and a “threat” to democracy. Mr. Patil also said these regulations need to be opposed strongly as they infringe on the privacy of individuals and free speech given by the Constitution. “This move by the Centre needs to be fought tooth and nail. Such dictatorial regulations will not be accepted by the people of this democratic country,” he said. Some bureaucrats deciding on what needs to be published and what not on any media platforms is nothing but an attack on the freedom of press, he said. “Such orders will not have any standing in the court of law,” he added. On the arrest of activist Disha Ravi, the senior Congress leader from Kolhapur said the episode was an act to suppress the voice of those who are exercising their freedom of speech. A Delhi court recently granted bail to the activist. The Centre on February 25 announced sweeping regulations for social media firms, such as Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players like Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redress mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The regulations also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against the security and sovereignty of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centres-social-media-rules-are-dictatorial-says-mva-minister/article33952838.ece
28 February 2021||MUMBAI,||IndiGo to operate select domestic flights from T1||Budget carrier IndiGo on Saturday said all its domestic flights having the subset series 6E 5500-6E 5900 will be operated from Terminal 1 of the city airport from March 10. All other flights, including the airline’s 5000 series, will continue to operate from Terminal 2. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Friday announced that GoAir, Star Air, AirAsia and TruJet will also resume domestic operations from Terminal 1 from midnight on March 10. While most of IndiGo’s flights will be operated from Terminal 2, the base flights will operate through Terminal 1. Since the lockdown in March 2020, operations at Terminal 1 were suspended temporarily and consolidated at Terminal 2. IndiGo, in a release, said it has taken measures to ensure passengers are informed of this change at every stage of their journey. IndiGo is reaching out to all impacted passengers and their respective travel agents via SMS, calls, and emails provided in reservation details, the airline said. IndiGo passengers are requested to retrieve their PNR on IndiGo’s website or mobile app to check their terminal before leaving for the airport, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/indigo-to-operate-select-domestic-flights-from-t1/article33952841.ece
28 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC refuses to hear case as lawyer takes off mask||The Bombay High Court recently refused to hear a case after a lawyer removed his mask inside a courtroom. The order in the case was made available on Saturday. A single Judge Bench of Justice Prithviraj Chavan was on February 22 hearing an appeal when the appellant’s advocate removed his mask in violation of guidelines. Referring to the standard operating procedures laid down by the high court at the time of resumption of physical hearing of cases, Justice Chavan said that wearing a face mask all the time was compulsory. Justice Chavan refused to hear this particular case following which it will be listed once again in due course. “The matter be removed from the board,” the order said. Justice Chavan allows only lawyers appearing in a case that has been called out to enter his courtroom, while other lawyers and parties have to wait in the adjoining room for their matter to come up as per serial numbers. The high court and all subordinate courts in Maharashtra, except Pune, had resumed in-person hearings in December after a gap of eight months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-refuses-to-hear-case-as-lawyer-takes-off-mask/article33952837.ece
28 February 2021||Riyadh,||U.S. in delicate balancing act as Saudi Prince spared sanctions||U.S. President Joe Biden’s decision not to sanction Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince over journalist Jamal Khashoggi’s murder has frustrated campaigners, underscoring Washington’s delicate balancing act as it seeks to avoid a diplomatic rupture. Washington on Friday released a long-delayed intelligence report that accused Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of approving Khashoggi’s 2018 murder in Istanbul, drawing a rebuke from Riyadh, which strongly rejected the assessment. The public censure of the Prince and a slew of U.S. sanctions on dozens of Saudi officials marks a sharp departure from the policy of former President Donald Trump, who sought to shield the kingdom’s de facto ruler. But Washington did not slap any direct sanctions on Prince Mohammed, known by his initials MBS, with Secretary of State Antony Blinken explaining that Mr. Biden wants to “recalibrate” but not “rupture” its relations with Riyadh, a longstanding Middle East partner. “This is not the Saudi smack-down that many hoped for,” said Varsha Koduvayur, a research analyst at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington think-tank. The Washington-based campaign group Freedom House said it was “disappointing and frustrating that the U.S. is yet unwilling to act on its own intelligence” and impose sanctions on the Saudi Prince. Call for sanctions “We expect nothing less than justice for Jamal Khashoggi and all of Saudi Arabia’s brave dissidents,” said the New York-based Human Rights Foundation. “The U.S. and the European Union must urgently place sanctions on MBS himself.” The report — which had been withheld after being completed under Mr. Trump — said it was “highly unlikely” that Khashoggi’s murder could have taken place without his green light. The killing of Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist and critic of Prince Mohammed, also fits a pattern of “the crown prince’s support for using violent measures to silence dissidents abroad”, it added. But Saudi observers dismissed the highly anticipated report, with Ali Shihabi, a government adviser close to the kingdom’s royal court, saying the “thin” assessment lacked a “smoking gun”. Mr. Biden had pledged during his campaign to make the kingdom a “pariah” after it got a free pass under Mr. Trump, but observers say he is instead adopting a middle path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-in-delicate-balancing-act-as-saudi-prince-spared-sanctions/article33952531.ece
28 February 2021||Washington,||Biden’s $1.9 tn virus relief plan clears House, heads to Senate||The House approved a $1.9 trillion pandemic relief Bill in a win for President Joe Biden, even as top Democrats tried assuring agitated progressives that they’d revive their derailed drive to boost the minimum wage. The President’s vision for flushing cash to individuals, businesses, States and cities battered by COVID-19 passed in a 219 to 212 vote, with not one Republican vote, on Saturday. That ships the massive measure to the Senate, where Democrats seem bent on resuscitating their minimum wage push and fights could erupt over state aid and other issues. Democrats said the still-faltering economy and the half-million American lives lost demanded quick, decisive action. GOP lawmakers, they said, were out of step with a public that polling shows largely views the Bill favourably. “I am a happy camper tonight,” Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., said on Friday. “This is what America needs. Republicans, you ought to be a part of this. But if you’re not, we’re going without you.” Republicans said the bill was too expensive and said too few education dollars would be spent quickly to immediately reopen schools. They said it was laden with gifts to Democratic constituencies like labour unions and funnelled money to Democratic-run States that didn’t need it as their budgets had bounced back. “To my colleagues who say this bill is bold, I say it’s bloated,” said House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif. “To those who say it’s urgent, I say it’s unfocused. To those who say it’s popular, I say it is entirely partisan.” Challenge for Biden Moderate Democratic Reps. Jared Golden of Maine and Kurt Schrader of Oregon were the only two lawmakers to cross party lines. That sharp partisan divide is making the fight a showdown over who voters will reward for heaping more spending to combat COVID-19 and revive the economy atop the $4 trillion approved last year. The battle is also emerging as an early test of Mr. Biden’s ability to hold together his party’s fragile congressional majorities — just 10 votes in the House and an evenly divided 50-50 Senate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bidens-19-tn-virus-aid-plan-clears-house-heads-to-senate/article33952523.ece
28 February 2021||Washington,||U.S. airstrike in eastern Syria a warning to Iran, says Biden||President Joe Biden said on Friday that a U.S. airstrike against an Iranian-backed militia in eastern Syria, the first since he took office, should be seen by Iran as a warning. Asked what the message was from the air strike, Mr. Biden said: “You can’t act with impunity.” “Be careful,” he added, speaking in Houston during a tour of relief efforts after a huge winter storm in Texas. Syria and Iran on Friday condemned the attack, with Damascus calling it a “bad sign” from the new Biden administration and Tehran saying it would further destabilise the region. Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said two F-15E “Strike Eagles” dropped seven precision-guided munitions on Thursday on facilities in eastern Syria used by the militias believed to be behind a spate of rocket attacks on U.S. troops in Iraq. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Mr. Biden was sending “an unambiguous message.” “He’s going to act to protect Americans and when threats are posed, he has the right to take an action at the time and in the manner of his choosing,” Ms. Psaki said. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the administration wanted to make it “very, very clear — notably to Iran — that they cannot act with impunity against our people, our partners, our interests. “And I think — and expect — that that message was clearly received,” Mr. Blinken said. Syria condemned the strike as “cowardly American aggression.” The Iranian Foreign Ministry strongly condemned the U.S. attack as a clear violation of international law, saying it would “intensify military conflicts and further destabilise the region.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-airstrike-in-eastern-syria-a-warning-to-iran-says-biden/article33952526.ece
28 February 2021||Washington,||Trump backs rival to Republican who voted for his impeachment||Former U.S. President Donald Trump has signalled he will seek revenge on fellow Republicans who voted to impeach him last month, and he followed through Friday, endorsing an ex-aide against an Ohio congressman. Mr. Trump threw his “complete and total” support behind Max Miller, a 2020 deputy campaign manager and White House advisor challenging Representative Anthony Gonzalez, one of 10 Republicans who voted to impeach Mr. Trump after the deadly January 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol. “Max Miller is a wonderful person who did a great job at the White House and will be a fantastic congressman,” Mr. Trump said in a statement. “Current Rep. Anthony Gonzalez should not be representing the people of the 16th district because he does not represent their interest or their heart,” Mr. Trump added. It is believed to be the first endorsement Mr. Trump has offered to a challenger of one of the Republicans who voted for his ouster. “I will never back down and will never betray my constituents,” Mr. Miller, 32, said in a tweet highlighting Mr. Trump’s endorsement. Mr. Trump was impeached on January 13 but acquitted one month later by the Senate. He has said he aims to play a role in Republican efforts to win back the House in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-backs-rival-to-republican-who-voted-for-his-impeachment/article33952530.ece
28 February 2021||Yerevan,||Armenian President says he won’t sack Army chief||Armenian President Armen Sarkisian said on Saturday he had refused to sign the Prime Minister’s order to dismiss the Army’s Chief of Staff, deepening a national political crisis. The ex-Soviet nation has faced turmoil since Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan signed a Moscow-brokered peace accord in November, sealing a humiliating defeat to Azerbaijan after six weeks of fighting over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region. Divisions widened on Thursday when Mr. Pashinyan defied a call by the military to resign, accused the Army of an attempted coup, and ordered the Chief of the General Staff Onik Gasparyan to be fired. On Saturday, Armenian President Sarkisian said that he would not back the sacking. “The president of the republic, within the framework of his constitutional powers, returned the draft decree with objections,” the presidency said. It added that the political crisis “cannot be resolved through frequent personnel changes”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/armenian-president-says-he-wont-sack-army-chief/article33952524.ece
28 February 2021||Lagos,||42 abducted from Nigerian school 2 weeks ago freed||Kidnappers have freed 42 people, including 27 children, snatched from a school in central Nigeria 10 days ago, officials said on Saturday, a day after gunmen abducted more than 300 schoolgirls in the northwest. “The abducted students, staff and relatives of Government Science College Kagara have regained their freedom and have been received by the Niger state government,” Niger state Governor Abubakar Sani Bello said on Twitter. In mid-February, gunmen raided the college, killing one student and taking 42 others. They included 27 schoolboys, three teachers and other relatives of school staff, officials said. Northwest and central Nigeria have seen a surge in attacks by heavily armed criminal gangs raiding villages, killing and abducting residents after looting and torching homes. On Friday, in the Jangebe, a village in Zamfara state, a gang attacked the Government Girls Science Secondary School and kidnapped over 300 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/42-abducted-from-nigerian-school-2-weeks-ago-freed/article33952528.ece
28 February 2021||Port-au-Prince,||25 dead in Haiti prison breakout||More than 200 prisoners were on the run in Haiti on Friday, a day after they escaped from jail in a violent breakout that left 25 people dead including the prison director, officials said. About 400 inmates fled on Thursday. “Twenty-five people died, including six prisoners and Divisional Inspector Paul Hector Joseph who was in charge of the prison,” Secretary of Communication Frantz Exantus said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/25-dead-in-haiti-prison-breakout/article33952527.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘TRIPS waiver for vaccines key to growth’||Failing to approve the COVID-19 waiver for equitable access to medicines under the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Agreement could dent global economic output by trillions of dollars at the cost of protecting vaccine makers’ business worth just $30-40 billion, India’s ambassador to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) said on Saturday. India and South Africa have jointly moved a proposal at the WTO’s TRIPS council for a waiver to help more countries get access to medicines and vaccines during the pandemic. Fifty-seven WTO members have backed the proposal, but the EU, U.S., Japan and Canada have opposed the idea stressing the importance of intellectual property for innovation. “If we fail in the next one or two quarters by not delivering on the TRIPS waiver, let me tell you we will not just fail on the question of equity, we are coming in the way of global growth and livelihoods. It is not only that we are coming in the way of life,” asserted India’s ambassador to the WTO Brajendra Navnit. “It’s very simple economics. For a commercial business of $30-40 billion of annual vaccine output of a few companies, we are coming in the way of $6-7 trillion of global GDP output in one year. It doesn’t make any sense — to give $1.5 trillion worth of fiscal stimulus on one side, and not to be willing to design a remuneration for the IP rights holder and expand the manufacturing by just putting in $30-40 billion in the bucket,” he said. Stressing that the TRIPS waiver is ‘the priority agenda’ for the multilateral trade body, Mr. Navnit said India is a committed soldier of the multilateral trading system and doesn’t believe the WTO and multilateralism is dying in the face of a greater reliance on plurilateral and bilateral trade pacts. Speaking in a session on the future of the WTO after the COVID-19 pandemic at the Asia Economic Dialogue hosted by External Affairs Ministry and the Pune International Centre, Mr. Navnit said that India’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat campaign is ‘not contradictory’ to the principles of ‘free trade’. An India that can produce for itself can also make for the world and provide an alternative source of production, he said, adding that a key learning from the pandemic is the need to diversify so that the global supply chain is not ‘concentrated in one area’. India’s WTO representative also pitched for greater market access for agriculture, arguing that developing countries have reduced their tariffs but still face barriers to trade from countries that continue to give high subsidies to large farmers. “This has created a lot of imbalance. We hope we can have a more durable and viable multilateral trading system.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/trips-waiver-for-vaccines-key-to-growth/article33952495.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. vendors may use only parts, inputs from China’||The government has placed curbs on the procurement of finished goods from China by firms supplying goods and services under the public procurement system, while allowing the use of Chinese raw material or components without prior permission. “A bidder is permitted to procure raw material, components, sub-assemblies, etc. from the vendors from such countries which shares a land border,” the Department of Expenditure in the Finance Ministry has said in a memo, arguing that such procurement cannot be equated with sub-contracting. Last July, the government had altered its public procurement norms to ensure that contractors executing works and turnkey projects do not sub-contract any work to players from ‘a country sharing a land border with India’ unless the proposed sub-contractor was registered with the Indian government. A registration committee had been set up by the Department for Promotion of Investment and Internal Trade under the Commerce and Industry Ministry to deal with such proposals. However, no explicit restriction had been placed on successful bidders in public procurement of goods and services, on sourcing their deliverables from countries such as China. ‘Rebooting approvals’ Now, vendors proposing to source finished goods from Chinese suppliers will need to seek registration with the committee. The development assumes significance at a time the government is considering rebooting approvals for China-related investment proposals following the disengagement at the Indo-Chinese border after an extended period of tension.  The Centre is considering rebooting approvals for China-related investments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-vendors-may-use-only-parts-inputs-from-china/article33952493.ece
28 February 2021||MUMBAI,||We must continue trade with China: Bajaj||Favouring continuation of trade with China, Bajaj Auto Managing Director Rajiv Bajaj on Saturday said goods should be procured from wherever they are most competitively available. He was speaking at a session on ‘Building a reliable supply chain’ at the second day of the three-day virtual Asia Economic Dialogue 2021, jointly convened by the Ministry of External Affairs and Pune International Centre. Mr. Bajaj also said that in terms of ease of doing business, operating something in one of the ASEAN countries was certainly easier than “what we encounter here in India. We like to believe that we are a global company, and therefore, this to my mind, from a cultural point of view, and an operational point of view, demands completeness or inclusiveness not just of employee gender, but also of having dealers, distributors and equally, suppliers from all over the world.” “If we conduct our business at the exclusion of such a large country, such a large market, we will find ourselves incomplete over time, and we will be poorer for the loss of that experience,” he added. ‘Continuity is important’ Emphasising the need for continuity in the supply chain, Mr. Bajaj said, “I say this in the context of what happened around June or July, when our government, for whatever reasons, suddenly came down hard on imports, especially from China.” “Doing something like that is to cut your nose to spite your face. Because overnight, how can one source components that are simply not made in the domestic market, that you need to deliver products to domestic or export customers?” he said.  Noting that if it is cheaper to make something out of China or procure something from Thailand, Bajaj said,We must always procure stuff from wherever it is most competitively available.” He said as the automaker hoped to venture into Asia in a significant way in the future, it did an elaborate comparison of certain metrics. Based on five metrics — land, labour, electricity, logistics and the legal system — “we did an exhaustive comparison of India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, and Malaysia.”“We were not very pleased with the conclusion we drew for India,” he said.  Overnight, how can one source components — from a new locaation — not made locally?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/we-must-continue-trade-with-china-bajaj/article33952505.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K.’s CDC Group pares stake in Equitas Holdings||The U.K.’s development finance institution CDC Group has pruned its stake in Equitas Holdings Ltd. by 2.61% through sale of more than 89 lakh shares in the open market earlier this week, according to a filing. “We have on February 25, 2021, sold (in open market) 89,30,410 equity shares of Equitas Holdings Ltd., constituting 2.61% of the paid-up share capital of Equitas Holdings Ltd.,” CDC Group plc said in the filing. The disclosures are required under SEBI’s regulation on substantial acquisition of shares and takeovers, it added. Before the sale of shares, CDC Group held 7.84% stake in Equitas Holdings, equivalent to 2,67,91,230 equity shares. Hence, the total shareholding of the U.K.’s development finance institution has now come down to 5.23%, equivalent to 1,78,60,820 equity shares. CDC Group is a public shareholder in Equitas Holdings, as per BSE data. Equitas Holdings is the promoter of the south-India based Equitas Small Finance Bank.  Total shareholding of the development finance institution has now come down to 5.23%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uks-cdc-group-pares-stake-in-equitas-holdings/article33952498.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Airte l bank eyes fourfold rise in Safe Pay users||Airtel Payments Bank plans to increase the user base for its recently-introduced Airtel Safe Pay by fourfold, said a top official. “We launched Airtel Safe Pay during January 2021 and within one month, we got a quarter of a million users,” said Anubrata Biswas, MD and CEO of the bank. “Our goal is to get one million users in the next one year. To achieve this, we will be rolling it out in regional languages,” he added. Safe Pay is a security feature that can be availed by Airtel Payments Bank Savings Account customers with an Airtel Mobile number linked to the account.   “Everyone has a two-step authentication. But, here we offer three-step authentication. This additional step would prevent customers from making payment. Thus, online fraud can be prevented,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airte-l-bank-eyes-fourfold-rise-in-safe-pay-users/article33952500.ece
28 February 2021||COIMBATORE,||GHCL to expand textile capacities in Tamil Nadu||GHCL, which has two textile mills in Tamil Nadu, plans to invest Rs. 150-Rs. 200 crore in the State in FY22 R.S. Jalan, MD, told The Hindu that the company ‘has aggressive plans for expansion and a team is working on them.’ The company will look at expanding capacities at its yarn production facilities near Madurai and Tiruchirapalli and also in solar power. “We are looking at putting up weaving infrastructure, too,” he said. The company makes cotton and synthetic yarn in the mills. The textiles business had been doing well in the third and fourth quarters of this fiscal and was expected to continue the performance. GHCL exports home textiles and yarn. Mr. Jalan said India had grown in the textiles segment in terms of exports. The levy of import duty on cotton, as announced in the Budget, would affect the growth of textiles exports as several units imported cotton, mainly branded and extra-long staple, to make and export premium textile products, he added.  Levy of import duty on cotton, as announced in the Budget, would hit textiles exports||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ghcl-to-expand-textile-capacities-in-tamil-nadu/article33952502.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Black Swan event has rewritten global business rules’||COVID-19, a Black Swan event, has rewritten the rules of businesses across the globe, says Ashwin Yardi , CEO, Capgemini India. Edited excerpts:  Can you give us a brief account of the acceleration in digital that the world has seen in the last 10 months? From healthcare to edutech, we have seen digital technologies getting to the core of solutions. We see health services delivered seamlessly in a virtual mode. Similarly, intensive, classroom-based education has moved online from Ivy League universities to early-stage learning. New product development for new drug discovery is accelerated using technologies like data and artificial intelligence. We believe that technology will be more than ever a part of our lives and of all chains, whether logistical, industrial, relational or solidarity-based. Has the pandemic made selling technology easier? The pandemic has accelerated the need for marketing and IT teams to collaborate and radically transform the business to drive revenue and digital maturity. Technology now is key to business models, products and services and hence, the need is pervasive across the C suite of any organisation. Therefore, the key stakeholders for the tech decision-making now extend beyond CIOs to CMOs, CTOs, CFOs, and CHROs and chief product development officers. There is a greater need for agility, especially in understanding customer sentiments and accordingly deploy technology solutions. How is Capgemini readying its employees to serve in a changing marketplace? We all know the pandemic has brought about a multitude of changes and disruptions across the globe. Today, more than 95% of our employees are working from home and this is also an industry-wide reality in IT. As a result, new ways of working have evolved with agility. We received numerous client appreciations for continuing business operations in this difficult time. Even a few security-sensitive customers, especially in banking, healthcare and manufacturing sectors were convinced with our security model and consented to work from home for teams on their projects. For the foreseeable future, this is likely to stay. Face-to-face localised communication is something we aren’t likely to see too soon and participants in the ecosystem will have to play their part to stay relevant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/black-swan-event-has-rewritten-global-business-rules/article33952497.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,||Hyundai bags award for i20 car||Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) has bagged the ‘Indian Car of the Year 2021 (ICOTY)’ award for its i20 car. The South Korean carmaker had won the award seven times for its products such as Venue, Verna, Creta, Elite, i10 and Grand i10 since 2008, said HMIL. Since its launch in November, the i20 had sold over 42,000 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hyundai-bags-award-for-i20-car/article33952501.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||Maruti Suzuki crosses 20 lakh cumulative exports mark||India’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Saturday said it had achieved the milestone of 20 lakh in cumulative exports. The auto major achieved the milestone as a batch of products comprising S-Presso, Swift and Vitara Brezza left for South Africa from the Mundra Port.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-suzuki-crosses-20-lakh-cumulative-exports-mark/article33952503.ece
28 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Who defines what a good surface is?||A day after his cryptic tweets led to various theories, not only did R. Ashwin confirm that he was referring to the furore over the pitches in the last two Tests but the India off-spinner also lashed out at the critics who have been blaming England’s losses on the surfaces rather than crediting India’s all-round performances. Ashwin addressed the media on Saturday through a virtual interaction. Asked whether the strip at the Narendra Modi stadium, which saw the third Test lasting less than two days, was a good pitch, Ashwin shot back: “I have a question back. What is a good cricket surface?” “The bowler wants to win the game. The batsman needs to bat well to get runs. No question about it. What makes a good surface? Who defines this? Seam on the first day and then bat well and then spin on the last two days? Come on!” Ashwin added. “Who makes all these rules, we need to get over it and not talk about whatever picture you want to paint. If you’re asking if it is a good Test surface, I don’t see any of the players coming from England having an issue with the surface. “They want to improve, they look like they want to have a contest. Is it the players and the people who are reporting back that want their players to not complete and complain about the pitches? Because we have never done that on any of the tours.” Different response Ashwin also pointed out that the pink ball responded differently to the surface, compared to the red ball, with things happening “quicker”. “I started the game, in the nets, I used to be a little sceptical. When I bowled, the balance of the ball was a lot different to the red ball. “When you try to put too many revs, it wasn’t rotating as much at the seam as I thought the red ball was rotating,” he said. Spinning quite big “If at all it fell on the seam, it was spinning quite big at that time. It wasn't responding the way the red ball was responding. Whatever was happening, was happening quicker off the surface. It didn’t make a difference. Touch slower “If we played with a red ball game on the same surface, the pace of the game must have been a touch slower. These are all the things I’m talking about in hindsight.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/who-defines-what-a-good-surface-is/article33952661.ece
28 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal back to winning ways||Abhimanyu Easwaran and Anustup Majumdar’s half-centuries and Arnab Nandi’s four-wicket haul helped Bengal record a convincing 82-run win over Jammu and Kashmir in an Elite Group-E match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy at the 22 Yards ground, Salt Lake, here on Saturday. Asked to bat, Bengal scored a mammoth 368 for four and restricted Jammu and Kashmir to 286 to taste victory after two consecutive defeats. Productive stands After the early fall of Abhishek Raman, Abhimanyu (99, 105b, 11x4, 1x6) and Ritwik Roy Chowdhury (55, 62b, 7x4, 1x6) gathered 107 runs to lay a solid foundation. Abhimanyu was involved in another century partnership with captain Majumdar (92 n.o., 84b, 12x4). Following the departure of Abhimanyu in the 38th over, Majumdar and Kaif Ahmed (42, 27b, 7x4, 1x6) switched gears to add 68 in seven overs. Shahbaz Ahmed’s cameo (48 n.o., 17b, 4x4, 4x6) further boosted Bengal’s score. Dramatic collapse Jammu and Kashmir, which had a fine start thanks to openers Shubham Khajuria (44, 44b, 8x4) and Aadil Rashid (24), was jolted when it lost four wickets in six balls to be reduced to 127 for six. The collapse began with Mukesh Kumar dismissing Usman Pandit. Off-spinner Nandi, who had claimed Aadil earlier, bowled Henan Nazir (28) and had Shubham Pundir and Bandeep Singh leg-before in the space of four deliveries in the 25th over. Parveez Rasool (50, 42b, 4x4, 1x6) and Abid Mushtaq (68, 64b, 6x4, 3x6) fought well, but in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-back-to-winning-ways/article33952912.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Mithali, Harmanpreet to lead||Mithali Raj and Harmanpreet Kaur will lead the ODI and T20I squads in the series against South Africa, beginning at Lucknow on March 7. Pacer Shikha Pandey and wicketkeeper Taniya Bhatia have been dropped from both squads by the Neetu David-led selection committee. Explosive opener Shafali Verma hasn’t been included in the ODI team.  The squads:   For ODIs: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Harmanpreet Kaur (vice-capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Jemimah Rodrigues, Punam Raut, Priya Punia, Yastika Bhatia, D. Hemalatha, Deepti Sharma, Sushma Verma (wk), Swetha Verma (wk), Radha Yadav, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Jhulan Goswami, Mansi Joshi, Poonam Yadav, C. Prathyusha and Monica Patel.   For T20Is: Harmanpreet Kaur (Capt.), Smriti Mandhana (vice-capt.), Shafali Verma, Jemimah Rodrigues, Deepti Sharma, Richa Ghosh, Harleen Deol, Sushma Verma (wk), Nuzhat Parveen (wk), Ayushi Soni, Arundhati Reddy, Radha Yadav, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Poonam Yadav, Mansi Joshi, Monica Patel, C. Prathyusha and Simran Dil Bahadur.   The schedule: ODIs: March 7, 9, 12, 14 and 17.   T20Is: March 20, 21 and 23.   All matches will be played at Lucknow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithali-harmanpreet-to-lead/article33952514.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Vote for Sportstar Aces Awards 2021||The Sportstar Aces Awards 2021 celebrate consistency in performance and impact of sports stars in the decade between 2011 and 2020. The nominees for the Moment of the Decade award :  Sachin Tendulkar's 100th hundred in international cricket: March 16, 2012, Dhaka’s Sher-E-Bangla National Stadium. Sachin Tendulkar completed a century of centuries. It was indeed a special moment for him, India and world cricket.  Sachin Tendulkar's speech announcing his retirement: An image of inspiration, an idol of reverence and a man of honour, Sachin Tendulkar ended his celebrated career on November 16, 2013. Twenty-four years after his debut in Pakistan, he bid adieu to a glorious chapter after playing 200 Tests.  Viswanathan Anand winning the World rapid championship: He pulled off a truly remarkable feat at Riyadh on December 28, 2017, when, at the age of 48, he became the World rapid chess champion. It was a stunning performance as the field featured stronger and younger rivals, including Magnus Carlsen.  Dipa Karmakar finishing fourth at the Rio Olympics: She put Indian gymnastics on the world map, becoming the first from the country to book a berth at the Olympic Games (Rio 2016). Performing the extremely tough and risky Produnova vault, she missed out on a bronze by just 0.150 points.  M.S. Dhoni’s winning six in the 2011 World Cup final: With India requiring four off 11 balls, Dhoni’s giant blade sent the ball soaring over the ropes to kickstart a celebration that went on through the night and for many more months to follow. The match-winning hit is part of Indian cricket folklore.  P. V. Sindhu’s World Championship victory in Basel: India’s first World title on the badminton court became a reality when Sindhu’s grit and power-packed performances culminated in a monumental achievement. She saved her best for the last, trouncing archrival Nozomi Okuhara of Japan 21-7, 21-7 in 38-minute masterclass. Fans can cast their votes on sportstar.thehindu.com/aces-awards/popular-awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vote-for-sportstar-aces-awards-2021/article33952643.ece
28 February 2021||Manchester,||Centre-backs do it for Man City||Manchester City won its 20th straight game in all competitions and opened up a 13-point lead in the Premier League by beating West Ham 2-1 thanks to goals from centre backs Ruben Dias and John Stones on Saturday. Playing less than 72 hours after a Champions League match in Budapest, City produced one of its sloppiest displays in recent months but emerged with its winning run intact as Stones swept in the decisive goal in the 68th minute from Riyad Mahrez’s pass. Dias, Stones’ partner in central defence, put City in front off a header from a deep cross by Kevin De Bruyne in the 30th only for Pep Guardiola’s team to concede its first home goal in 2-1/2 months when Michail Antonio equalised just before halftime. 14th win  It was City’s 14th win in a row in the league — only the sixth time that has been achieved in English top-flight history. Three of those have been attained by City under Guardiola since his arrival in 2016. Manchester United and Leicester are tied for points as City’s nearest rivals, and both play on Sunday. Guardiola rotated his team, as he promised he would, and included record scorer Sergio Aguero in the starting lineup for the first time in the league since October 24 — coincidentally against West Ham, too. The injury-plagued Argentina striker lasted only 60 minutes before being taken off and he looked off the pace. He was partially to blame for West Ham’s 43rd-minute goal, too, after losing possession cheaply inside City’s half before the visitors broke forward quickly. West Ham, in the unusually elevated position of fourth, allowed City few clear-cut opportunities at an empty Etihad Stadium and posed quite a threat at the other end. Antonio struck the post before his goal, while centre back Issa Diop headed narrowly wide in the third and final minute of stoppage time. A Lionel Messi goal in the 85th minute preceded by an assist, to set up the Ousmane Dembele’s opener in the 29th, powered Barcelona past Sevilla 2-0 and into second in LaLiga standings. Barcelona is on 53 points, two behind leader Atletico Madrid but having played two extra games. Sevilla remains on 48, though it too has one game on the the Catalans.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester City 2 (Dias 30, Stones 68) bt West Ham 1 (Antonio 43); West Brom 1 (Bartley 11) bt Brighton 0.   LaLiga: Eibar 1 (Diop 83) drew with Huesca 1 (Ramirez 81); Sevilla 0 lost to Barcelona 2 (Dembele 29, Messi 85).   Serie A: Spezia 2 (Gyasi 52, 72) drew with Parma 2 (Karamoh 17, Hernani 25).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 5 (Choupo-Moting 18, Lewandowski 33, 65, Gnabry 82, Gnabry 86) bt Cologne 1 (Skhiri 49); Borussia Dortmund 3 (Dahoud 48, Sancho 58-pen, Reinier 81) bt Arminia Bielefeld 0.   Wolfsburg 2 (Klunter 37-og, Lacroix 89) bt Hertha Berlin 0; Stuttgart 5 (Endo 10, Endo 26, Kalajdzic 34, Klement 88, Didavi 90+2) bt Schalke 04 1 (Kolasinac 40).   Friday: LaLiga: Levante 1 (Roger 33-pen) drew with Bilbao 1 (Raul Garcia 56-pen).   Bundesliga:Bremen 2 (Selassi e 47, Sargent 62) bt Frankfurt 1 (Andre Silva 9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/centre-backs-do-it-for-man-city/article33952668.ece
28 February 2021||Bengaluru,||PKL media rights auction on April 5||After being postponed last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pro Kabaddi League (PKL) is likely to be held between July and October this year, Anupam Goswami, Mashal Sports CEO and PKL League Commissioner said. “The normal window of the PKL is between July and October. We are readying ourselves to conduct the league in that time-frame,” Goswami told The Hindu . PKL organising company Mashal Sports will first conduct an open market media rights auction for five seasons (Season 8 to Season 12) of the PKL. The invitation to tender has commenced, and the auction will be conducted on April 5, Goswami said. Bids will be placed through an e-auction process for global television rights, India digital rights, gaming rights and a consolidated rights package. The media rights was earlier held by Star India, which owns a majority share in Mashal Sports. “There will be no grey area when it comes to the winning bid, as we are going with a transparent e-auction process. There will be no closed bids — it is a real time live bidding process with complete visibility on the evolution of the bids,” Goswami said. “PKL is ready to face the market of current and emerging forms of sports media. We are confident that kabaddi is recognised by all forms of media — original OTT content, fantasy gaming and so on,” Goswami said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pkl-media-rights-auction-on-april-5/article33953209.ece
28 February 2021||Mumbai:,||Victorious Sermon should come good in feature||Trainer Vishal Gaikwad’s ward Victorious Sermon, who ended third in his last start, should make amends in the R N Kanga Trophy, the main event of Sunday’s (Feb. 28) races to be held at Mahalaxmi race course. Rails will be placed 5 metres wide from 1200m up to the winning post.  BEJAN BHARUCHA PLATE (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 3.30: 1. Sophistocrat (4) C.S. Jodha 61, 2. The Bawaji (7) Aniket 61, 3. Kamaria (2) Rupesh 59.5, 4. Anoushka (6) T.S. Jodha 59, 5. Hioctane (1) K. Bhagat 58.5, 6. Touch Of Faith (3) Sandesh 58.5 and 7. Polaris (5) Parmar 54.5.  1. THE BAWAJI, 2. HIOCTANE   R N KANGA TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward, 4.00: 1. Augustus Caesar (2) Neeraj 59, 2. St. Andrews (1) T.S. Jodha 58, 3. Flying Visit (3) Sandesh 57.5, 4. Grand Accord (7) Parmar 57, 5. Victorious Sermon (6) Zervan 54, 6. Raees (4) Ayyar 52.5 and 7. Trouvaille (5) C.S. Jodha 51.5.  1. VICTORIOUS SERMON, 2. TROUVAILLE   SION F NESSIM PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 4.30: 1. Majestic Warrior (1) Kaviraj 62, 2. Mount Moriah (5) Trevor 62, 3. Daddy’s Pride (7) T.S. Jodha 58.5, 4. Galloping Goldmine (3) C.S. Jodha 57.5, 5. Rambler (8) Sandesh 54, 6. Princess Annabel (6) Parmar 53.5, 7. Rambunctious (2) Neeraj 53 and 8. Oui Sauvage (4) Zervan 51.  1. RAMBUNCTIOUS, 2. MOUNT MORIAH, 3. DADDY’S PRIDE   MANIFOLD PLATE (1,000m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Ms Boss (7) Sandesh 62, 2. Wild Fire (5) Kaviraj 62, 3. Belenus (1) Trevor 59, 4. Jetfire (6) Gagandeep 58.5, 5. Pleiades (4) T.S. Jodha 56, 6. Sachertorte (9) Vishal Bunde 55, 7. Grand Architect (11) Ayyar 54.5, 8. Luminosity (3) S. Amit 53.5, 9. Gold Member (2) M.S. Deora 52.5, 10. Saltbae (8) Peter 49.5 and 11. Sandra’s Secret (10) Raghuveer 49.  1. WILD FIRE, 2. BELENUS, 3. JETFIRE   Y M CHAUDHRY TROPHY (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o only, 5.30: 1. Above The Law (7) V. Jodha 56, 2. Flying Scotsman (3) Neeraj 56, 3. Mogul (8) Trevor 56, 4. Rasputin (5) Sandesh 56, 5. The Awakening (6) T.S. Jodha 56, 6. Baby Bazooka (2) Zervan 54.5, 7. Ginsburg (1) C.S. Jodha 54.5 and 8. Medora (4) Chouhan 54.5.  1. FLYING SCOTSMAN, 2. GINSBURG, 3. THE AWAKENING   V P KOREGAONKAR PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 6.00: 1. Slam Dunk (4) Ajinkya 59, 2. Untitled (1) Shubham 58, 3. Pense’e (3) Neeraj 57, 4. Decaprio (7) Chouhan 56, 5. Quarencia (5) C.S. Jodha 53.5, 6. Vincenzo (6) Sandesh 53.5, 7. Fuhrer (12) Trevor 52.5, 8. Fassbinder (10) Zervan 52, 9. Dilbar (8) S. Amit 51.5, 10. Myrcella (9) Zeeshan 51.5, 11. Trident (11) M.S. Deora 50.5 and 12. Dawnstar (2) S. Kamble 50.  1. PENSE’E, 2. FUHRER, 3. VINCENZO  Day’s best: VICTORIOUS SERMON  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races. Super jackpot: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/victorious-sermon-should-come-good-in-feature/article33953418.ece
28 February 2021||TENHIPALAM,||SZ junior athletics: 11 records fall on day two||On a warm day at the Calicut University Stadium on Saturday, it rained records incessantly. As many as 11 new records were set on the second day of the South Zone junior athletics championship. The new record-holders were host Kerala’s Aparna Roy (Under-20 girls’ 100m hurdles), Ancy Sojan (Under-20 girls’ long jump) and Kessia Mariam Benny (Under-20 girls’ hammer throw), Tamil Nadu’s S. Barath (Under-18 boys’ 400m), R. Sakthi Mahendran (Under-18 boys’ pole vault), M. Sharmila (Under-18 girls’ shot put) and Rubasri Krishnamoorthi (Under-16 girls’ shot put), Karnataka’s Priya Mohan (Under-18 girls’ 400m), Pavana Nagaraj (Under-16 girls’ high jump) and Bopanna Kalappa Thelapanda (Under-16 boys’ 800m) and Telangana’s Agasara Nandini (Under-18 girls’ 100m hurdles).  The winners: Under-20: Boys: 400m: S.K. Kaven (TN) 49.33s. 110m hurdles: Yashwant Kumar Laveti (AP) 14.33s. Pole vault: K. Athul Raj (Ker) 4.20m. Hammer: Muttappa (Kar) 56.58m.   Girls: 400m: V. Lekha (TN) 56.74s. 100m hurdles: Aparna Roy (Ker) 14.14s: NMR; OR: 14.33s, R. Nithya (TN), 2017. Long jump: Ancy Sojan (Ker) 6.28m: NMR; OR: 6.15m, Resmi Bose (Ker), 2014. High jump: Kevinna Ashwine Annavi (TN) 1.60m. Hammer: Kessia Mariam Benny (Ker) 49.00m: NMR; OR: 47.92m, G. Subha (TN), 2000.   Under-18: Boys: 400m: S. Barath (TN) 48.04s: NMR; OR: 48.32s, W. Nihal Joel (Kar), 2017. 110m hurdles: Muhammed Hanan (Ker) 13.80s. 800m: Ajay K. Viswanath (Ker) 1:58.03. 3,000m: Shivaji Parashuram Madappagoudra (Kar) 9:13.30. Shot put: B.M. Maurya Ganapathi (Kar) 17.16m. Pole vault: R. Shakti Mahendran (TN) 4.56m: NMR; OR: 4.55m, Ebin Sunny (Ker), 2012. Hammer: Sachin (Kar) 51.84m.   Girls: 400m: Priya Mohan (Kar) 54.84s: NMR; OR: 55.70s, Aswathi Mohanan (Ker), 2009. 800m: Stephy Sara Koshy (Ker) 2:17.89. 3,000m: Maripelli Uma (Tel) 10:31.57. 100m hurdles: Agasara Nandini (Tel) 13.87s: NMR; OR: 13.90s, Aparna Roy (Ker), 2018. High jump: Roshna Augustine (Ker) 1.70m. Shot put: M. Sharmila (TN) 15.01m: NMR; OR: 14.02m, G.M. Namitha (Kar), 2014. Discus: M. Ishwarya (TN) 37.15m.   Under-16: Boys: 800m: Bopanna Kalappa Thelapanda 1:56.21: NMR; OR: 1:57.80, Appa Ravu (AP), 2001. 2,000m: Walter Kandulna (TN) 6:01.47. 80m hurdles: Hariharan Kathiravan (TN) 11.00s. Long jump: Kothuri Pranay (Tel) 6.78m. Discus: K.C. Sarvan (Ker) 51.74m. Hammer: Yashas Praveen Kurbar (Kar) 52.19m.   Girls: 800m: C.S. Keerthi (TN) 2:21.12. 2,000m: Cheripelly Keerthana (Tel) 6:59.11. 80m hurdles: Unnathi Aiyappa Bollanda (Kar) 11.85s. High jump: Pavana Nagaraj (Kar) 1.68m: NMR; OR: Kavya Muthanna (Kar) 1.65m, 2003. Shot put: Rubasri Krishnamoorthi (TN) 14.11m: NMR; OR: 13.26m, Jency Susan (TN), 2017.   Boys: Under-14: 600m: Unwin Anand Ananthan (TN) 1:28.13. Long jump: Dathu Sapavath (Tel) 6.21m.   Girls: 600m: P. Shailu (AP) 1:40.37. Long jump: S. Sainadhana (Ker) 5.27m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sz-junior-athletics-11-records-fall-on-day-two/article33952845.ece
28 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Dhawan’s century takes Delhi home||Shikhar Dhawan struck 153 off just 118 balls (21x4, 1x6) to star in Delhi’s three-wicket win over Maharashtra in the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament here on Saturday. Delhi suffered some anxious moments towards the end of its chase of a challenging target of 329, but Pradeep Sangwan swung seamer Rajvardhan Hangargekar’s second ball of the final over for a six over mid-wicket to take his side home. The run-out of Shivank Vashisht in the previous over had given Maharashtra some faint hope. Big partnerships Dhawan’s first wicket partnership of 136 with Dhruv Shorey (61, 75b, 7x4) had put Delhi firmly on course for its third win in four matches. The left-handed opener then added 101 for the fourth with Kshitiz Sharma (36, 29b, 4x4, 1x6) to take the team closer to the target. Earlier, Kedar Jadhav (86, 81b, 10x4) and Azim Kazi (91, 73b, 10x4, 2x6) were the main contributors in the Maharasthra innings. Opener Yash Nahar made 45 (64b, 6x4, 1x6). Meanwhile, Mumbai made it four out of four with a 67-run win over host Rajasthan. Skipper Shreyas Iyer led from the front once again, scoring 116 off 103 balls (11x4, 3x6). The captain’s second hundred in as many matches helped Mumbai make 317 for seven. In reply, Rajasthan was bowled out for 250 in 42.2 overs. Mahipal Lomror top-scored with 76 (69b, 6x4, 4x6) while Shardul Thakur claimed four for 50 from eight overs. Pondicherry posts win In the other match in Pool D, Pondicherry, riding on Sheldon Jackson’s 104 (141b, 12x4) and left-arm spinner Sagar Udeshi’s four for 35, thrashed Himachal Pradesh by 104 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawans-century-takes-delhi-home/article33952647.ece
28 February 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Syyarsh scalps five for Ameerpet CC||Syyarsh’s spell of five for 17 helped Ameerpet Cricket Club score a one-wicket win over Team Kun in the A3-Division (one-day) league championship here on Saturday.  The scores:   A2-Div. (two-day): Deccan Wanderers 257 in 68.3 overs bt Balaji Colts 233 in 61.5 overs (Karan Kumar Patnayak 32, Mohd. Saleh Amoodi 52, Shaik Mudassir 35, Arjun 31 n.o., Syed Altaf Ali 3/22, Thakur Utkarsh Singh 3/45).   Future Stars 179 in 73 overs (Babar Khan 63 n.o., Manojav 4/23) vs HPS-B 38/1 in 12 overs.   A3-Div. (one-day): Southend Raymonds 226/9 in 35 overs (Aijaz Mehdi 77, Mohd. Waseem Ali Khan 42, Om Prakash 3/27) bt Roshanara 155 in 26.1 overs (Preetesh A. Rawani 45, Mohd. Khaleel 3/36).   Team Kun 148 in 43 overs (Ishaan 31, Syyarsh 5/17) lost to Ameerpet 149/9 in 39 overs (Md. Sameer 40); Lal Bahadur 81 in 22.5 overs (A. Ramu 3/18, Pradyumna 3/26) lost to M.L. Jaisimha 83/5 in 19.3 overs (G. Prakash 35 n.o.).   LNCC 220/5 in 40 overs (Chetan 40, Pranav 105 n.o., Satwik Manikanta 51 n.o.) bt Walker Town 140 in 36 overs (Ritwik 40, Varshith 36, Yaswanth 5/20, Shashank 3/24).   Dhruv X1 220/8 in 45 overs (Pavan Tej 32, Vijay Kumar 49, Nirup Kumar 4/28) bt Sungrace 152 in 40.4 overs (Nihal Reddy 3/26, Avinash 3/30).   Victory 84 in 30.4 overs lost to Deccan Colts 85 in 15.5 overs (Purna 50 n.o.); Adnan 103 in 31 overs (Vinay 35, Kayur 5/30) bt Reliance 100 in 31 overs (Arnav Jadhav 5/25).  Suhas advances Suhas Raj defeated Syed Azam 67-50, 44-42, 60-37 in the seniors snooker first round of the Sreemitra Telangana State-ranking snooker and billiards championship.  The results:   Seniors snooker (first round): Ronak bt Rakesh 53-21, 47-61, 48-45, 28-49, 63-16; Musaib Ishaq bt Abdul Ahmed 43-42, 20-51, 60-45, 28-38, 53-39; Ziaullah Khan bt Joel 36-67, 82-22, 31-66, 56-39, 70-1; Hrithik bt Hamza 52-21, 45-49, 47-24, 46-52, 46-26; Md. Afzal bt G. Ashwin 18-58, 41-52, 49-20, 53-43, 60-57; Avinash bt Chantti 32-69, 60-28, 41-67, 67-44, 52-42; Ashwin bt Azhar 61-72, 48-60, 53-24, 61-22, 64-51.   Mithra bt Naseer Zubairi 53-28, 67-7, 32-42, 53-42; Syed Aziz bt Taher Ahmed 69-29, 41-11, 53-8; Saurav bt Koushik 63-13, 48-40, 69-32; Pragnesh bt Krishna 33-46, 42-72, 63-22, 61-26, 62-28; Naresh bt Nitin Sareen 67-31, 31-65, 65-17, 63-26; Kalyan bt Sameer 60-33, 35-51, 52-40, 55-34; Phani Raj bt Chetan 66-24, 56-81, 53-82, 61-19, 55-50; Suhas Raj bt Syed Azam 67-50, 44-42, 60-37; Beem Rao bt Sarvik 52-18, 10-61, 60-55, 55-45; Sandeep bt Mahmood Ulla 68-21, 57-34, 80-55; Shek Amjad bt Md. Rafi 52-20, 61-36, 52-31; Saad Salman bt Yaseen Ali 62-40, 61-28, 75-16.  Nizamabad posts win Nizamabad defeated Gate Club 9-6 in the league phase of the inaugural Mohd. Ibrahim Khan memorial handball tournament for men at the L.B. Stadium.  The results: League: Hyderabad Handball Club bt LB Stadium-Blue 9-3; HBC bt Nizamabad 19-13; LB Stadium-Red bt Warangal 24-21; LB Stadium-Red bt AP 19-18; Nizamabad bt Gati Club 9-6; Gymkhana-B bt Mahabubnagar 17-12; Kurnool bt Adilabad 17-2; Santhnagar Handball Club tied with Karimnagar 17-17; AP bt MPV, Vskp 9-4; Warangal bt MVP, Vskp 21-18; Karimnagar bt Bhavan’s 28-25; Sanathnagar bt Gymkhana-A 25-21 .  Verma moves up K. Mahendra Verma defeated Aarav Gupta 15-5, 15-7 in the boys under-13 singles third round of the CABA sub-junior badminton tournament at the Chetan Anand Academy.  The results (third round):   Boys, u-13: K. Mahendra Verma bt Aarav Gupta 15-5, 15-7; Girivasan Saravan Kumar bt A. Rishi Pranav 15-3, 15-4; J. Yuva Surya bt Arjun Tanaji Birajdar 14-16, 15-13, 15-10; Arush Khalale bt P. Rohan 15-4, 15-6; Dev Ruparelia bt Aryan Tanaji Birajdar 15-13, 16-14; Vajra Chowdary Aluru bt Katakam Lohith 15-8, 15-3; K. Vishnu Kedar bt M. Vikramadithya 15-5, 15-4; B. Pardhu bt G. Santosh 15-9, 16-14; K. Manith bt Srikar Revanur 13-15, 15-6, 15-9; V. Hari Krishna bt A. Srivardhan Akula 15-9, 15-7; Revanth Nag bt T. Bharath Reddy 14-16 17-15 15-11; K. Srikar Praneeth bt Krish Bhargav 15-9, 15-8; Tippana Ram Charan bt Chinmay Wankhede 15-9, 15-4; Y. Nikhil Prakash bt D. Venkata Umesh 15-4, 15-9; Akhil Bobba bt S.V. Akash 15-2, 15-5; Akhilesh Goud bt Tejasav Kumar Tiwari 15-2, 15-6.   U-17: Shaik Numair bt T. Harshan 15-7, 15-8; M. Ajay Karthik bt P. Jayansh 15-11, 15-12; Pritam bt T. Harshit 13-15, 15-8, 15-8; Rahul Dravid bt Jaya Sameer Reddy 15-11, 15-10; Abhinav Krishna bt Bobby Abhinav Raju 15-7, 15-9; Pranay Prashant Shettigar bt C. Anirv Reddy 15-7, 15-10; Aman Shaik bt Dheemanth 15-13, 15-12 .  Easy for Medchal Medchal defeated Gadwal 7-0 in the league phase of the fifth Telangana inter-district hockey championship for girls at Gadwal.  The results:   Mahabubnagar drew with Khammam 0-0; Ranga Reddy bt Medchal 4-3; Hyderabad bt Sangareddy 4-0; Nizamabad bt Warangal 5-0.   Medchal bt Gadwal 7-0; Ranga Reddy drew with Hyderabad 1-1; Kothagudem bt Warangal 1-0; Sangareddy bt Gadwal 8-0; Nizamabad bt Mahabubnagar 2-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/syyarsh-scalps-five-for-ameerpet-cc/article33953304.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday’s Vijay Hazare Trophy schedule||Elite A (Surat)  Gujarat vs Baroda; Hyderabad vs Goa; Tripura vs Chhattisgarh  Elite B (Indore)  Tamil Nadu vs Vidarbha; Jharkhand vs Andhra; Madhya Pradesh vs Punjab  Elite C (Bengaluru)  Karnataka vs Railways; Kerala vs Bihar; Odisha vs Uttar Pradesh  All matches start at 9 a.m.    Sunday’s schedule   Elite A (Surat): Gujarat vs Baroda; Hyderabad vs Goa;  Tripura vs Chhattisgarh  Elite B (Indore): Tamil Nadu vs Vidarbha; Jharkhand vs Andhra; Madhya Pradesh vs Punjab  Elite C (Bengaluru): Karnataka vs Railways; Kerala vs Bihar; Odisha vs Uttar Pradesh  All matches start at 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sundays-vijay-hazare-trophy-schedule/article33953227.ece
28 February 2021||Chennai,||C’wealth Games squash camp in Chennai||The squash coaching camp for the 2022 Commonwealth Games will be held at the Indian Squash Academy from April 1 to 5, said Squash Rackets Federation of India secretary Cyrus Poncha here on Saturday. “We will be inviting the country’s top 10 men and women based on World and Indian rankings. We will be sending them a letter on Monday,” said Poncha. He said the camp would focus on doubles. “It will be the first of many such camps,” he said. All top players, barring Saurav Ghosal and Joshna Chinappa, would take part in the HCL-SRFI Indian Tour event to be held at ISA from March 27 to 31. However, Dipika Pallikal-Karthik, who has been out of action for more than two years and was expected to take part in the PSA event in her hometown, has ruled herself out of the tournament. ‘Not taking part’ “I am not taking part. I am still training. I took a two-year break. I am taking it one day at a time,” Dipika, who last played in the US Open in October 2018, told The Hindu on Saturday. She had recently trained for a while in Cairo before injuring her knee during practice. It is learnt that Dipika, a former World No. 10 now ranked 357, has been doing her rehab with Shankar Basu, former strength and conditioning coach of the Indian cricket team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cwealth-games-squash-camp-in-chennai/article33953228.ece
28 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Velavan and Sunayna win||Velavan Senthilkumar and Sunayna Kuruvilla clinched the men's and women's titles in the TN State closed squash championships at the Indian Squash Academy here.  The results (finals): Boys: U-11: Shrrinith Subramanian bt Aryaan Prabhu 11-2, 11-4, 11-2; U-13: Darshil Parasrampuria bt S. Lokesh 9-11, 11-5, 17-15, 11-4; U-15: K. Arihant bt P. Sandhesh 11-3, 11-7, 11-9; U-17: R. Sreekartikeyan bt Ashvin Ganesh 12-10, 11-6, 8-11, 6-11, 11-8; U-19: Shreemann Raghavan bt S. Navaneeth Prabhu 11-8, 11-9, 10-12, 9-11, 11-3.   Men: Velavan Senthilkumar bt S. Navaneeth Prabhu 11-6, 11-5, 11-4.   Girls: U-11: Diva Parasrampuria bt R. Priyal 8-11, 11-8, 11-9, 12-10; U-13: Ananya Narayanan bt Yaavnaa Saravanakumar 11-7, 11-4, 11-6; U-15: Khushboo bt Ananya Narayanan 7-11, 11-9, 7-11, 11-4, 11-6; U-17: S. Akshaya Sri bt R. Pooja Arthi 11-8, 11-4, 7-11, 11-7; U-19: Abhisheka Shannon bt R. Pooja Arthi 9-11, 11-6, 9-11, 11-5, 11-5.   Women: Sunayna Kuruvilla bt Aparajitha Balamurukan 11-7, 11-1, 11-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/velavan-and-sunayna-win/article33953231.ece
28 February 2021||BENGALURU:,||Cavallini obliges in the main event||Irfan Ghatala-trained Cavallini (Akshay K up) won the Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar Memorial Trophy, the feature event of the races held here on Saturday (Feb 27). The winner is owned by M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP.  1. BULL TEMPLE PLATE (Div. III) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: COPPER SUNRISE (Antony) 1, Belli Deepa (R. Pradeep) 2, Tifanny (Trevor) 3 and Carmine (Shreyas Singh) 4. 2-1/4, 1-3/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 13.07s. Rs. 29 (w), 14, 12 and 21 (p), SHP: 41, THP: 40, FP: 166, Q: 90, Trinella: 336 and 255, Exacta: 1,144 and 440. Favourite: Belli Deepa. Owners: Mr. Gurpal Singh, Mr. N. Ramesh & Mrs. S. Jagadamba. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  2. NETHRAVATHI PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: DESERT ROSE (Nazerul) 1, Pastiche (P. Surya) 2, Daring Sweetheart (R. Pradeep) 3 and Glorious Dancer (Jagadeesh) 4. Lnk, 2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 26.48s. Rs. 103 (w), 45, 25 and 25 (p), SHP: 67, THP: 84, FP: 3,199, Q: 1,780, Trinella: 18,740 and 12,046, Exacta: 13,357 and 31,166 (carried over). Favourite: Glorious Dancer. Owner: Mr. K.P.G. Appu. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  3. KITTY BANK PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): KNIGHT IN HOOVES (Suraj) 1, Brunhild (Akshay K) 2, Divine Blessings (Antony) 3 and Moonlight Sonata (Zervan) 4. 3-3/4, 2-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 12.65s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 12 and 23 (p), SHP: 28, THP: 40, FP: 42, Q: 19, Trinella: 202 and 148, Exacta: 398 and 141. Favourite: Knight In Hooves. Owner: Mr. Daulat Chhabria. Trainer: Rajesh Narredu.  4. BULL TEMPLE PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: STONE HOUSE (Shreyas Singh) 1, Ocean Dunes (Ankit Yadav) 2, Sir Jersey (Antony) 3 and Chisox (J.H. Arul) 4. 3-1/4, 2-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 13.47s. Rs. 229 (w), 40, 15 and 17 (p), SHP: 41, THP: 49, FP: 1,500, Q: 560, Trinella: 5,949 and 4,462, Exacta: 46,811 and 20,061. Favourite: Profound. Owner: Mr. Harakchand C. Gandhi. Trainer: M. Rajendra Singh.  5. GATEWAY OF INDIA PLATE (1,600m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over: GREEN CHANNEL (J.H. Arul) 1, High Priestess (Trevor) 2, Queen Regnant (A. Imran) 3 and Speaking Of Stars (Zervan) 4. Not run: Brown Bess. Shd, Lnk and 1. 1m, 37.89s. Rs. 486 (w), 55, 13 and 18 (p), SHP: 35, THP: 46, FP: 979, Q: 321, Trinella: 3,810 and 1,270, Exacta: 8,061 and 2,764. Favourite: Speaking Of Stars. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Neil Devaney.  6. BYERLEY TURK TROPHY (1,200m), rated 30 to 50: DONNA BELLA (Srinath) 1, Asgardia (Shreyas Singh) 2, Ultimate Speed (Jagadeesh) 3 and Benediction (Md. Aliyar) 4. 4, 2-3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 12.24s. Rs. 75 (w), 23, 15 and 39 (p), SHP: 37, THP: 91, FP: 583, Q: 215, Trinella: 6,264 and 3,068, Exacta: 43,257 (carried over). Favourite: Kimera. Owners: Mrs. Mahima Shailesh, Dr. Dayananda Pai. P, Dr. Thomas A. Chandy and Mr. K. Ravi. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  7. SRIKANTADATTA NARASIMHARAJA WADIYAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 45 to 65: CAVALLINI (Akshay K) 1, Glenary (Arshad) 2, Regal Music (Sai Vamshi) 3 and Harmonia (J.H. Arul) 4. Not run: Ice Floe. 1-3/4, 2-3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m, 11.27s. Rs. 17 (w), 12, 23 and 22 (p), SHP: 61, THP: 42, FP: 167, Q: 115, Trinella: 1,850 and 453, Exacta: 6,488 and 2,780. Favourite: Cavallini. Owner: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  8. NETHRAVATHI PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: RADIANT TREASURE (Ashhad Asbar) 1, Ultimate Striker (Sai Vamshi) 2, Apollo Bay (Akshay K) 3 and Celestial Highway (Nazerul) 4. 3, 1 and 1. 1m, 26.45s. Rs. 31 (w), 17, 24 and 21 (p), SHP: 63, THP: 42, FP: 341, Q: 164, Trinella: 2,564 and 806, Exacta: 3,089 and 1,135. Favourite: Celestial Highway. Owner: Mr. Satish G. Kundapur. Trainer: Azhar Ali.  9. BULL TEMPLE PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: MICHIGAN MELODY (Naveen K) 1, Blazing Gold (Arvind K) 2, Areca Angel (R. Ravi) 3 and Flamingo Road (J.H. Arul) 4. 2-3/4, 1 and Lnk. 1m, 14.06s. Rs. 48 (w), 16, 33 and 150 (p), SHP: 82, THP: 254, FP: 667, Q: 325, Trinella: 17,404 and 7,459, Exacta: 20,803 and 48,540 (carried over). Favourite: Arathorn. Owner: Mr. Satish G. Kundapur. Trainer: B. Prithviraj. Jackpot: Rs. 3,54,237 (carried over); Runner-up: 7,990 (19 tkts.); Treble (i): 1,752 (three tkts.); (ii): 6,662 (carried over); (iii): 698 (17 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cavallini-obliges-in-the-main-event/article33952515.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Odisha pips EB in 11-goal affair||Odisha FC and SC East Bengal broke the record for the most goals scored in a single game — 11 — during seven seasons of the ISL before the former won 6-5 in Bambolim on Saturday. After Anthony Pilkington had put SCEB ahead, Paul Ramfangzauva levelled in the 49th. Jerry Mawihmingthanga then gave Odisha the lead when he headed home a Manuel Onwu cross. Aaron Amadi-Holloway made it 3-3 at the hour-mark with a good shot from long, but SCEB shot-stopper Subrata Paul's night went from bad to worse as Ramfangzauva's 66th-minute stunner turned him into a mere spectator and made it 4-3 for OFC. Diego Mauricio then took his tally to 12 with an amazing low free-kick. A few moments later, East Bengal substitute Jeje Lalpekhlua scored his first goal since 2019. Amadi's stoppage-time header was only a consolation for the Red and Gold Brigade.  The result:   Odisha 6 (Lalhrezuala 33, Ramfangzauva 49, 66, Mawihmingthanga 51, 67, Mauricio 69) bt East Bengal 5 (Pilkington 24, Ravi 37-og, Amadi 60, 90, Lalpekhlua 74).   Sunday’s matches: FC Goa vs HFC, 5 p.m.; MCFC vs ATKMB, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/odisha-pips-eb-in-11-goal-affair/article33952659.ece
28 February 2021||Tokyo,||‘Games should have fans’||The Tokyo Olympics should take place before a live audience, Japan’s new Olympics chief has said, despite concerns about hosting the Games during a global pandemic. Seiko Hashimoto, who became the Tokyo 2020 president last week, told Japanese media the Games should have spectators just like other major sports hosting events before fans, although in limited numbers. Any final decision will depend on the coronavirus pandemic, she said in an interview conducted Friday and published a day later. “When we think about the possibility of holding the Olympics without fans in the stands, athletes will definitely wonder why there are no fans just for the Olympics and Paralympics,” Hashimoto said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/games-should-have-fans/article33952848.ece
28 February 2021||SOFIA,||Deepak wins silver||Deepak Kumar’s fantastic run at the 72nd Strandja Memorial boxing tournament ended with a silver medal, after he lost a fiercely-contested flyweight (52kg) final on Saturday. Deepak, an Asian silver-winner, was up against Bulgaria’s Daniel Asenov, a two-time European championships gold-medallist. The bout ended in a split verdict in favour of the local favourite. The Indian had created a flutter when he stunned reigning Olympic and World champion Shakhobidin Zoirov of Uzbekistan in the semifinal.  Naveen Boora (69kg) settled for a bronze medal after going down to Asian Games gold medallist Bobo-Usmon Baturov of Uzbekistan in his semifinal bout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-wins-silver/article33952645.ece
28 February 2021||Cairo,||Bronze for Indian men’s skeet team||Angad Vir Singh Bajwa, Mairaj Ahmad Khan and Gurjoat Khangura narrowly missed a chance to fight for the gold, but clinched the skeet team bronze in the Shotgun World Cup here. The Indian team shot 146 out of 150 to reach a total of 491 and tied with Russia, while Czech Republic topped with 498. Russia not only won the shoot-off against India 6-5, but went on to capture the gold with a 6-0 victory over Czech Republic. India beat Kazakhstan 6-2 to win the bronze. The Indian women’s team of Parinaaz Dhaliwal, Ganemat Sekhon and Karttiki Singh Shaktawat lost the battle for bronze 4-6 to Kazakhstan, while Russia beat Czech Republic 6-2 for the gold.  The results:   Skeet: Men: 1. Russia 6 (491); 2. Czech Republic 0 (498); 3. India 6 (491); 4. Kazakhstan 2 (490).   Women: 1. Russia 6 (481); 2. Czech Republic 2 (485); 3. Kazakhstan 6 (476); 4. India 4 (462) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bronze-for-indian-mens-skeet-team/article33952665.ece
28 February 2021||INDORE,||Vaishnavi and Aman triumph||Second seed Vaishnavi Adkar defeated Lakshmi Prabha 6-2, 4-6, 6-2 to clinch the girls’ title in the ITF grade-5 junior tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Saturday. It was a double for Vaishnavi as she had earlier won the doubles title with Gargi Pawar. In the boys final, top seed Aman Dahiya beat third seed Denim Yadav 4-6, 6-0, 6-4, for his third successive ITF junior singles title, following the ones won in Nepal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaishnavi-and-aman-triumph/article33952913.ece
28 February 2021||RAIPUR,||Madhwin reigns supreme||Qualifier Madhwin Kamath came up with a sterling performance to clinch the singles title in the Rs. 2,50,000 Gondwana Cup AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament. In the final, Madhwin beat Lohith Bathrinath 6-2, 7-6(6).  The results: Final: Madhwin Kamath bt Lohith Bathrinath 6-2, 7-6(6).   Semifinals: Lohith Bathrinath bt Ishaque Eqbal 6-4, 6-4; Madhwin Kamath w/o Vishnu Vardhan.   Quarterfinals: Ishaque Eqbal bt Muthu Senthilkumar 6-7(5), 7-6(2), 6-3; Lohith Bathrinath bt Rohan Mehra 3-6, 6-4, 6-2; Madhwin Kamath bt Raghav Jaisinghani 6-4, 6-3; Vishnu Vardhan bt Lakshya Gupta 6-3, 6-4.   Doubles: Final: Parikshit Somani & Paras Dahiya bt Lakshit Sood & Chandril Sood 7-6(7), 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madhwin-reigns-supreme/article33952914.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Mokit Hariharan propels Vijay CC to victory||R.S. Mokit Hariharan’s unbeaten 101 set up Vijay CC’s 125-run win over Garnet RC in the District Cricket Association of Chengalpattu (DCAC) league here on Saturday.  The scores: Vijay CC 187/2 in 20 overs (R.S. Mokit Hariharan 101 n.o., S. Arun 40 n.o.) bt Garnet RC 62/8 in 20 overs (M. Senthil Kumar 3/11, G.M. Siddharth 3/11).   Mani Memorial 109/7 in 20 overs lost to Bharath CC 112/5 in 19 overs (Kesav Bharath 28 n.o., Pintu Kumavat 3/25).   Royal Gems 102/7 in 17 overs lost to Venugopal Club 103/1 in 12.3 overs (T. Girishprabu 47, Christofer Jebaseelan 47 n.o.).      The Chennai District ‘A’ division volleyball championships will be held from March 1 to 10 at the SDAT-Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium here. The top 10 teams from Chennai district will be taking part in the tournament to be played on a round-robin basis. Defending champion IOB, Customs, Indian Bank, Income Tax, TN Police, ICF, SRM, Panimalar, St. Joseph’s EC and Chepauk Friends Club are the sides in the fray. The tournament is being sponsored by Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre & Associate and Aachi Group of Companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mokit-hariharan-propels-vijay-cc-to-victory/article33953226.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Akaash clinches title||Akaash Ashok Kumar defeated Parvez Ahmed 225-158, 180-211, 189-179 in the final to claim the Karnataka State-ranking tenpin bowling tournament title. Vijay Punjabi won the special prize for recording the highest average in a 6-game block (214.17).   Aneeshwar Gautam (3/29 and 98) helped Combined City XI gain the first-innings lead in its drawn KSCA under-19 inter-zonal match against Bangalore Zone.  The scores: Bangalore City XI 179 in 53.3 overs (G. Ajitesh 49, Arjun Nair 51, Monish Reddy 4/21, Mohsin Khan 3/45) and 194/3 in 51 overs (S.H. Swaroop 52, Sanjay Ashwin 102 n.o.) drew with President’s XI 207 in 53.2 overs (M. Arsalaan 43, Mohsin Khan 59, Monish Reddy 42, Vishal Kumar 4/70).   Bangalore Zone 261 in 82.4 overs (Rajvir Wadhwa 78, N.A. Chinmay 82, Yashovardhan Parantap 25, S.M. Shamanth 3/55, Aneeshwar Gautam 3/29) drew with Combined City XI 288 in 83.2 overs (Nikhil Vedanth 56, Aneeshwar Gautam 98, Akshan Rao 38, Suhas Purushotham 3/44).   Moffusil XI 319/7 in 90 overs (Thippa Reddy 32, K.S. Lankesh 47, Chirag Nayak 46, Rohan Yareshmi 76, S. Suprith 42, Vijay Reddy 33 n.o.) drew with Combined Moffusil XI 388 in 86.4 overs (Shravan Babu 82, Shreyank Sagar 36, Kruthik Krishna 121, T.P. Prapul 55, K. Gourav 3/42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akaash-clinches-title/article33953208.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Basudeva Somani FGC, GFGC win team titles||Basudeva Somani FGC's athletes in the men's section with 16 points and Government FGC, T.N. Pura with 38 points in the women's section won the team championship title in the University of Mysore's inter-collegiate cross country races 2020-21 at the University sports complex on Saturday. C. Raghuvaran of Basudeva Somani FGC won the first place in the men's section (33m.20s), while K.R. Tejaswini of Vidyodaya FGC, T.N. Pura (42m:14.10s) was first in the women's section.  The results: Men: 1.C. Raghuvaran (Basudeva Somani FGC, 33.20s), 2. R. Purushotham (Maharaja's College, 33.22s), 3. K. Dheeraj (SBRR MFGC, 33.53s). Team: Basudeva Somani FGC, 16 points. Women: 1. K.R. Tejaswini (Vidyodaya FGC, T.N. Pura, 42:14.10s), 2. B. Chaitra (PRM Vijaya FGC, T.N. Pura, 42:14.83), 3. R. Thulasi (GFGC, T.N. Pura, 42:28.96s).   Team championship: GFGC, T.N. Pura, 38 points .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/basudeva-somani-fgc-gfgc-win-team-titles/article33952895.ece
28 February 2021||St. John’s,||Gayle returns to Windies T20 squad after two years||Chris Gayle was called into the West Indies Twenty20 squad on Friday for the first time in two years as the 41-year-old eyes a place in the World Cup later this year. Gayle was named in the 14-man squad for the three-game series against Sri Lanka which starts in Antigua on Wednesday. Andre Russell, recovering from COVID-19, has been ruled out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gayle-returns-to-windies-t20-squad-after-two-years/article33952507.ece
28 February 2021||AUCKLAND,||NZC moves T20Is to Wellington||The upcoming T20Is between New Zealand and the Australia men’s team and England women’s side, to be played at Eden Park next week, were on Saturday moved to Wellington due to fresh COVID-19 lockdown restrictions imposed here. Both matches will now be held behind closed doors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nzc-moves-t20is-to-wellington/article33952508.ece
28 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Bumrah released from squad for personal reasons||Jasprit Bumrah has been released from India’s squad ahead of the fourth Test due to personal reasons. Bumrah is understood to have left the team after the early finish to the third Test. The BCCI, while confirming Bumrah’s release, said that there would be no replacement for the fourth Test. Ishant Sharma, Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Siraj are the pacemen in the squad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-released-from-squad-for-personal-reasons/article33952650.ece
28 February 2021||LONDON,||Trott urges England to avoid 'desperate' approach aainst India spinners||Jonathan Trott wants the England batsmen to be patient and “not become too desperate” when facing R. Ashwin and Axar Patel. “It’s about being clear in how they want to go about it and not being too desperate. Sometimes you can want it too much. So getting the right kind of mentality is important. You'd like to be able to learn and still win Test matches but unfortunately that wasn't the case in the previous two,” said Trott during a conference call on Saturday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trott-urges-england-to-avoid-desperate-approach-aainst-india-spinners/article33952657.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — February 28, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-28-2021/article33953568.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Why does your head hurt?||A searing pain around the eye and on one side of the head wakes up Niranjan on most nights. It lasts between 15 minutes to an hour and on some days returns after short periods of respite. It took Niranjan seven years, multiple doctor visits, a battery of tests and hours of internet research to figure out that he has a condition called cluster headache. Considered to be one of the worst headaches (affecting one out of 1,000 individuals), it is also called suicide headache. “Some people end their lives because they cannot bear it anymore,” says Dr. Pravin Thomas, founder and chairman of the World Headache Society (WHS) and consultant neurologist and chief of headache medicine, Basildon and Thurrock University Hospitals, NHS Foundation Trust, U.K. The cluster is apparently one among 300 different types of headaches, based on the classification by the International Headache Society (a London-based organisation that helps people suffering from headaches). The WHS, which promotes headache science through a network of medical practitioners across the globe, has launched a first-of-its-kind certification course in headache medicine in collaboration with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. Edited excerpts from an interview with Dr. Thomas: Why do we need a certification course in headache medicine? The World Health Organization and the Global Burden of Diseases mention from time to time, that migraine is not only the most common neurological illness but also the most misdiagnosed and mismanaged condition. The disability of chronic migraine is compared to that of paralysis and schizophrenia. Data from around the world shows headache neurology is a minuscule part of MBBS and postgraduate syllabus. The course is meant for MBBS and BDS doctors and soon will be open to AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) doctors, specialist nurses, physiotherapists, and clinical pharmacologists. What are the dangers of self-medication or the excess use of over-the counter-drugs to treat headaches?  It depends on the type of headache. In case of migraine, overuse of painkillers can lead to perpetuation of headaches and chronic migraine. For other types of headache, the danger of over-the-counter medications can lead to missing the diagnosis and may even cost the life of the individual, along with other medication side effects and costs.  What are the most common types of headaches?   The most type, of course, is migraine. Then there are those which mimic migraine, but are more life-threatening. It is important to diagnose, classify and treat headaches properly. Headaches are broadly classified as primary — those with normal brain scans and other tests, and secondary — with an abnormality that can account for the headache. A common cause of primary headache is the cluster headache, while viral infections, including COVID-19, can cause secondary headaches. This apart, neck and face pain could also be reasons. Can altering lifestyle/food choices help in preventing/managing headaches?  To some extent, yes, if we are able to control our regular eating and sleeping habits. Certain compounds like monosodium glutamate found as additives in food, or consumption of alcohol can trigger migraines. Some individuals have specific food triggers but more often than not, it is the deviation from the routine that causes headaches. Then there are the uncontrollable factors as well, such as the weather or the work environment. Sometimes slight modifications and adjustments help to contain the trigger. Does yoga help in managing headaches?  The traditional way of doing yoga does help to some extent. There is no evidence yet if modern day variants such as power or gym yoga are beneficial. A study done at the AIIMS using a series of yogasanas and breathing practices (pranayams) found it beneficial when done along with the conventional treatment. There are several wellness practices which have gone into oblivion in many of the countries represented in the World Headache Society. Our aim is to also revive the forgotten wellness practices in other countries and couple them under headache treatment, if found effective. Are headaches common among children? What should parents do to help them cope?  Headaches are common in children but their symptoms for migraines can be unique and different. They may not actually get a headache but have abdominal pain, vertigo, loss of consciousness and vomiting and are usually made to undergo tests for the alimentary tract. When the tests come negative, unfortunately, they are blamed for malingering their illness out of laziness to go to school. Or it is treated as a psychological problem. It is important to be sensitised about headache syndromes in children so that they do not suffer loss of education and are not subjected to unnecessary tests. Are women more prone to headaches than men?  Yes, migraine is more common in women. Genetics and hormones play a role in some migraines, which account for some of the gender differences.   Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling 044 24640050||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/why-does-your-head-hurt/article33952634.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||In remembrance||On February 26, we lost Shovon Chowdhury, who wrote The Creaking Tree column for the Health section of this newspaper, to pancreatic cancer. Back in May of 2020, when he started making hospital rounds for treatment, he sent us a two-chapter piece on his experience with the words, “Laughing through the tears. They dry up faster that way.” Titled ‘Pancreatic Diaries’, the columns that month were among his funniest ones. Humour, Shovon had found, was the best way to deal with the surreal and the tragic — a principle he would apply while writing about both his personal grief and his dismay at the state of national affairs. When he further caught COVID-19, it was, he said, “for investigative reasons”. In his self-effacing manner, he called himself a ‘valued customer’ of the hospital, and remarked that the lack of return of investment in health insurance no longer rankled him deeply. Through all the needles, scans and bandages, Shovon found the energy in him to make us laugh about the nurses’ accents, the chatty ‘enema man’, and the sponge baths. At the Health team, we sometimes worry that our page may be a bit serious. Which is why we were lucky to have Shovon lighten up the mood since 2017. He would take our piece on screen addiction, and joke that it was a sinister plot by this newspaper against more convenient digital alternatives to reading the news. No topic was off-limits for him, and so we would tussle over specifics as writers and sub-editors are wont to do, but in the end he would always make us laugh. Today, he would have written on the many types of headaches he has endured over the years, most likely delving into a stream-of-consciousness anecdote about his distant Bengali relatives. We found out more about the peculiarities of people in his life than strangers are expected to know. But that is how it goes with writers; they get to choose what part of their lives you see. He may not have told us his cancer was worsening, but we did find out that he had always been proud of his luxuriant hair; that when he was in college, he had a cat named Stone who gave birth to kittens named Pebbles; that he escaped swimming lessons by thrashing water on his mother; that Shaun the Sheep doing a thumbs up was one of his favourite GIFs. Shovon made sure that we, and all his readers, chuckled throughout a grim year. Making someone laugh is one of the kindest things a person can do, and for that we remain thankful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-remembrance/article33952636.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Let roads and rails cross paths||Solve this numeric-cryptograph: 71E20251558899102. The clues: One, it is a meandering circular trip. Two, it concerns Chennai and its penumbra. Three, patches offer a touristy experience. The decoding: “On a Broadway-to-Broadway roundtrip a month ago, we boarded 71E (Broadway to Pattabiram), disembarked at Avadi, and took a 202 to reach Tambaram via Outer Ring Road; proceeding to Mamallapuram by 515, we lunched in the temple town; boarded 588, disembarked at Akkarai; boarded a 99 to reach the Sholinganallur junction, where we hopped on a 102 and were back at Broadway.” That is OMR resident Paul Kithiyon on how he and Santhapriyan Kamaraj, founder-admin of the FB group ‘TNSTC Enthusiasts’, spliced MTC routes. For Santhapriyan and Paul, a moderator, it was all in a day’s work, which commenced at 10 a.m. and was wrapped up around 7 p.m., on a weekend. The two bus fans translated the trip into a visual experience with video-editing by two other TNSTC Enthusiasts, admin Vijay Narayanan and moderator Vignesh Venkataraman. In another trip, also videographed, they explored the north-western extremities of Chennai, sallying forth from Broadway to Red Hills (MTC’s 242); to Ponneri (TNSTC); to Pazhaverkadu (TNSTC); and returning from Pazhaverkadu to Ponneri (MTC’s 595 Cut); Minjur (TNSTC); and Broadway (MTC’s 56P). Customised routes Circular trips prove that a little imagination can turn routes numbingly humdrum in themselves into a memorable experience. By foregrounding less-familiar routes, they can benefit those who rely on public transport. For those who do not, these neatly-curated trips can incentivise occasional use of public transport. Employed in Salem, Santhapriyan would be visiting Chennai at least one weekend every month through 2021 to curate such trips along with his team for a collection to mark Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s golden jubilee in the first week of January 2022. Santhapriyan says their next trip is centred around MTC routes in and around Oragadam. (However, at the time of this article going to print — the morning of February 27 — the indefinite strike by TN bus transport employees had caused the group’s immediate documentation plans to be clouded by some degree of uncertainty.) Additionally, besides the making of these videos for their YouTube channel, the group could aim at compiling an elaborately-written ready reckoner of such ‘patched’ MTC-TNSTC routes and publish it on their website tnstcenthusiasts.com and anywhere else they could to benefit those outside the esoteric circle of bus fanning. Even regular travellers can pick up an obscure but useful route or two from these circular-trip notes. Larger vision A ready reckoner combining rail and bus routes would be even more wholesome, promoting an inter-modal approach to urban-and-suburban commuting and travel. The good news is that rail fans also do circular trips and can therefore be organically co-opted into such an exercise. S. Aravind, a chartered accountant and a resident of KK Nagar, and Sridhar Joshi, a technical-writing professional living in Perambur, are both members of the Indian Railway fan club, IRFCA (irfca.org). They rattle off circular trips they have been on, with fellow rail fans from Chennai. A majority of those routes meander into other States. Of those staying closer home, the most hallowed and most-travelled is the Chennai-Chengelpet-Arakonnam-Chennai circular rail route. Sridhar focusses the spotlight on it. “From Egmore to Chengelpet (on the Chennai Beach to Chengelpet suburban line); by an unreserved passenger train from Chengelpet to Arakonnam via Kancheepuram; and another suburban train from Arakonnam to Chennai Central”. Aravind adds: “We would attempt the Chennai-Chengelpet-Arakonnam-Chennai circular route primarily because the Thakkolam-to-Arakonnam stretch of the rail route was not electrified at that time. The passenger trains used to be hauled by diesel engines, and that would make for nostalgia.” Aravind continues: “Travelling by rail lets you cover larger distances in the same time. If you take a 202 from Avadi to Tambaram, it may probably take two hours, and the distance covered would be 30 kilometres, whereas if you take the Kovai Express, in two hours, you would be at Katpadi, 140 km from here. So, the magnitude differentiates circular trips by trains and those by buses.” That comes straight out of the recesses of a ferroequinologist’s heart. However, Aravind recognises buses as an indispensable cog in the public transport system. Rail-road combos Both these rail fans have realised in their own ways that if buses do not provide the last-mile connectivity, the rail experience can feel painfully amputated. “Sadly, there is no connectivity if you have gone to Gummudipoondi or Sulurpet, to take you to Thiruvallur or Arakonnam directly by train,” says Sridhar. Aravind’s commutes bear testimony to the advantage of ‘patching’ rails lines onto roadways, and vice versa. As a resident of KK Nagar, Aravind’s everyday commute for a few years would dovetail a suburban-rail route (Maramalai Nagar to St. Thomas Mount) and Metrorail route (St. Thomas Mount to Ashok Pillar) and MTC’s “last-mile” service via 5B, 12G or 17D that would take care of his home stretch. With increased opportunities for an inter-modal, circular-travel experience, Aravind believes, the government should consider introducing a special multi-modal day ticket or pass that would cover public buses, MRTS, Metrorail and the suburban rail lines. Given the variety of options its offers, it could be suitably priced. He elaborates: “A multi-modal ticket or pass for a day, one that combines all public modes of transport within a city — rail and road — would make for a seamless travel experience. It need not even be a card; it can be app-based. With a QR code, it can be validated that this person can travel all day. It would be useful, not only for train and bus enthusiasts, but also tourists.”  The government should consider introducing a special multi-modal day ticket or pass that would cover public buses, MRTS, Metrorail and suburban rail lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/let-roads-and-rails-cross-paths/article33953116.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Has the Osprey found a new home?||Is the migratory Ospery more at home in Chennai and neighbouring districts than believed? That question is being asked by birdwatchers, their human-superciliums raised by the species’ frequency data. The raptor has redefined the migratory season for itself, being consistently sighted outside that window. Observed for a reasonable passage of time, this pattern prompts a consideration: Has a small population of them become residents? Sundaravel Palanivelu echoes a notion entertained by the birding community in these parts. That the Ospreys showing up at Siruthavoor lake could be residents; because they show up when they should not. Osprey frequency documentation seems to tilt the scales in its favour. Despite data, birders like Sundaravel know the notion has to be treated as a fledgling, and let time decide whether it should grow to adulthood. Or, if it should be allowed to go with the wind.  On the same page, eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan believes a paradoxical ‘no-and-yes’ response would be in order, at this point of time. “The right response should be: We are not really sure now. I too have seen Ospreys in places like Adyar Estuary in June and July — that was in 2016, when they were also seen early. Now, they are either staying longer and leaving late or coming back early. Or, it could be both. And that may be creating the illusion that the bird is not migrating back to their known breeding grounds, and has found one nearby. So, the bird would not be there only in July and August. Generally, resident birds breed, but there are no records of Ospreys breeding in India, and certainly not in Tamil Nadu. Of course, there are distinctions between breeding and non-breeding residents. But when it comes to Ospreys, it becoming a resident is not impossible but highly unlikely.” That said, Vikas still allows for the possibility that “in a few more years” what is presumed may be observed and verified fact. He continues: “Earlier, flamingos were strictly migratory, but now throughout the year, we find a chunk of them in some parts. As of today, it is difficult to come to a conclusion about Ospreys, and so it is a ‘no’. Is it possible for this to happen: I would say ‘yes’.” This stand seems to rest almost entirely on the strength of the fact that the Osprey is a coastal bird that is also found inland around lakes and wetlands where they can fish. “Going by the Osprey experience in the Americas, they would need a coastal forest nearby. And we have a good location for it to happen: Pulicat, which is seen as a coastal island. There are other possibilities: One of them being the Pichavaram mangroves with its forest-islets.” Sundaravel draws attention to the Osprey’s distribution, covering all continents, except for what is the Penguins’ fiefdom. That demonstrates the bird has a cladding of steel, enabling it to thrive in various coordinates. A piscivore, Osprey is mostly frozen in images of being parked on a pylon or electricity pole, sometimes feeding on the fish it has carried up there to the perch. Or, images of it carrying its kill to a perch, having the fish pinned first with the talons on one leg, followed by the talons on the other, which have led birders to bestow the title “skateboarder in the skies” on the bird.  (‘Migrant Watch ' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/has-the-osprey-found-a-new-home/article33953117.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A ‘parking lot’ for seized vehicles||The new footpaths at P.T. Rajan Salai in K.K. Nagar have been converted into a ‘parking lot’, not by residents or motorists visiting the locality. It is the K.K. Nagar police, with their seized vehicles — two-wheelers and auto-rickshaws — occupying a section of the footpaths on both sides of the road. With the Sivan Park nearby, the footpaths on P.T. Rajan Salai are well-hoofed. They were built in February 2020 following the widening of stormwater drains by Greater Chennai Corporation. With a series of lockdowns from March, the space remained hugely unused, and the K.K. Nagar police found this use for it. A few residents point out that besides the seized vehicles, regular vehicles also parked on the road margins, hindering traffic movement. “During weekends, the park witnesses many visitors. However, accessing the park by walk is difficult, especially with children,” says S. Maheshwari, a resident of K.K. Nagar. The Chennai City Police Commissionerate has specified a location for each of its four police zones to keep seized vehicles, because these vehicles should be kept safely till their owners’ legal cases come to a conclusion. Rajarathinam Stadium in Egmore is one such location. Police sources say having vehicles within eyesight — that is, near the police station — would insure them greatly against the possibility of theft. Lack of space on station premises causes them to park these vehicles on footpaths and roads, they add. Of the 12 police districts within the four police zones (north, south, east and west) in the city, the T. Nagar police district in South Police Zone is the smallest with 11 police stations. While the Vadapalani, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam and Ashok Nagar police stations are among those in the T. Nagar police district that got new and own buildings in recent years, the K.K Nagar police station continues to be situated in a dilapidated and cramped building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-parking-lot-for-seized-vehicles/article33953083.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Tongue talk||Did you know breastfeeding is a bulwark against diseases for both mother and child? Do you wish more people knew this? If you do, then join hands with The Tongue Foundation which looks for support groups to create awareness about mother-child health, in Chennai. Founder of the non-profit The Tongue Foundation, Dr. Shifa Shamsudeen is establishing her first paediatric dental clinic, We Little, in Chennai soon, and she seeks to replicate the Foundation’s work in Coimbatore, where it has doctors, researchers and parents on board. “The Foundation informs the general public about how the tongue as a muscle is related closely to many other parts. It starts with breastfeeding, then goes on to teeth development, eating and breathing. It even has a link to cardio-vascular diseases,” says Dr. Shifa, who has earlier worked at various hospitals in Chennai. “We are trying to find an association between non-functioning tongue, hyperactive deficiency and attention deficiency,” she says, adding that the Foundation is collaborating with researchers and doctors, locally and globally, to initiate more research into the role of the tongue in breastfeeding. “Bottle feeding can cause narrow jaws and also narrow the wind pipe, eventually leading to disjointed teeth. We are trying to break this chain by creating awareness,” says Dr. Shifa, adding that the group used talks, workshops and seminars towards this end. “In the past we had associated with Coimbatore Parenting Network to conduct sessions regularly, but we need more people to help us take the Foundation’s activities forward,” she says. In Chennai, the Foundation wants parents’ groups to spearhead a campaign against bottle feeding, with support from them. “Or, if you stay in a gated community, invite us over for a talk,” she adds. For details, visit www.thetonguefoundation.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tongue-talk/article33953121.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Rutland Gate gets a new park||Through M/s Express Infrastructure Private Limited (which owns Express Avenue), Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will develop a park on the open space reservation land on Woods Road in Ward 111, Zone 9. “Being levelled, the land will be ready in another 10 days for planting saplings in the Miyawaki format,” says a GCC official. On Binny Road, also under Ward 111, M/s Mangal Tirth Estate Ltd (which owns Spencer Plaza) has renovated a GCC’s park, which measures 4575.36 sq.m Besides, a new GCC park was inaugurated at Rutland Gate Second Street in Nungambakkam by the Chief Minister on February 23 via video-conferencing. The official says, “This park measuring 1250 sq.m was entirely developed by GCC.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rutland-gate-gets-a-new-park/article33953110.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Road in Kodambakkam in limbo||Milled weeks ago, the narrow carriageway at South Sivan Cross Street in Gangai Amman Colony, Kodambakkam seems forgotten. In Ward 112, Zone 9 of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), the 30-feet street needs the redeeming touch of road-laying machines. “Part of a network of roads providing access to Vadapalani, South Sivan Cross Street often witnesses heavy traffic, because it enables motorists to circumvent the congested Arcot Road, and also because of the a flyover under construction on J.N. Main Road, Koyambedu,” says K. Dheenan, a Kodambakkam resident. GCC officials cite non-availability of bitumen for the delay in having the road relaid. Of of them says, “Steps will be taken soon to have the street relaid.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-in-kodambakkam-in-limbo/article33953106.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Warriors of Society’ award for doctor||Kotak Mahindra Group has honoured professor Dr. Mohan Rajan with the ‘Warriors of Society’ award for his initiatives during the pandemic to take eye care to rural populations and also provide relief to the needy. According to a press release, ‘COVID Slum Relief Project’ initiated by Rajan Eye Care Hospital and Chennai Vision Charitable Trust in May 2020 provided relief to residents of around 200 slums in and around Chennai. Besides, the Chennai city police personnel, members of a Tamil Nadu camera professionals association, a transgender Association and a golf caddies association and government hospital personnel, sanitary workers, Metro Water drivers and cleaners were also among the beneficiaries, the release said. Each relief kit consisted of rice, wheat, dhal, bread, vegetables, milk, masks, sanitisers, sanitary napkins, detergent and bathing soaps, 3M goggles and face shields and nitrile gloves, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/warriors-of-society-award-for-doctor/article33953119.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Samayapuram’s troubles with strays||A huge number of stray dogs loiter around Samayapuram, Porur, having a disruptive effect on our morning walks. Last month, a few dogs gave my husband a scare, chasing him. With their barking and howling, they disturb our sleep. Further, they enter our buildings; one of them died inside our building last month. Fathima K.N is a resident of Porur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/samayapurams-troubles-with-strays/article33953101.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Session on entrepreneurship||In view of International Women’s Day, Women Entrepreneurs India is organising a programme on business networking on March 6 at Innov 8, Lazer Street, South Phase, Ambedkar Nagar, SIDCO Industrial Estate, Guindy. Time: From 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. According to a press release, the legal aspects of running an enterprise, marketing and the current scenario of business will be discussed. For details, call 9952013800||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/session-on-entrepreneurship/article33953078.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Mend the carriageway in the subway’||Though one of the busiest subways in Chennai, the Duraiswamy subway in T. Nagar is not in a good condition due to many potholes. Due to the damaged carriageway, the risk of accidents has increased. Greater Chennai Corporation should address this issue soon. A S Thirumalai is a resident of West Mambalam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mend-the-carriageway-in-the-subway/article33953102.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Short film contest||The visual communication department at SRM Institute of Science and Technology is conducting its annual short film contest — “Silver Frames 2021”. Students are invited to send in their short films on or before March 8. For details, call 9360281815 / 8220199386 /9940902634 / 9600174415. Email ID: silverframes.srmrmp@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/short-film-contest/article33953081.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on organic farming on March 3 on its premises in Guindy. Besides, a session on preparation of millet-based food items will be held on March 5. The programme is open to all. Prior registration is required. Participants are expected to wear maks. For details, call 044–2225 0511/ 2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-farming/article33953079.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Crafts sale in Nungambakkam||Gravity Event Affairs is organising a sale of handicraft and handloom products at Valluvarkottam hall in Nungambakkam. Handwoven saris from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa are available. Various types of jewellery and home décor are also part of the collection, says a press release. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. The sale ends on March 7. For details, call 97908 35449/ 99002 83789.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/crafts-sale-in-nungambakkam/article33953097.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sari exhibition ends on March 12||MR Creations is organising a sale of handicraft and handloom products at Sri Sankara Hall on TTK Road in Alwarpet. According to a press release, saris, such as Ikkat, Chanderi, Kalamkari, Bandhini are available. Further, paintings like Pattachitra, Madhubani and Tanjore are part of the collection. Time: From 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. The sale ends on March 12. For details, call 90808 31275/ 95517 20347.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sari-exhibition-ends-on-march-12/article33953099.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Saligramam library gets first floor||Saligramam Full-Time Branch Library now has a first floor, which was inaugurated by Virugambakkam MLA Virugai V N Ravi on February 25, in the presence of district library officer S. Elango Chandrakumar; analyst librarian P. Ranganayaki; librarian P. Kamalakannan, and president of the library’s readers circle S. Rajendran. The librarian disclosed a plan to dedicate the first floor — built at a cost of Rs. 25.15 lakh under the Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development Scheme — to youngsters preparing for competitive examinations. “This library is hugely used by such youngsters. Following our request, books to aid their pursuit were procured. We want this collection to be further increased. On this occasion, we gave a letter to the MLA seeking a coaching facility for youngsters taking competitive examinations,” said Rajendran after he had made the written plea to the MLA in this regard. “Currently on the ground floor, the children’s section may function from the new floor. Through the readers’ circle, students of four to five government and government-aided schools in the vicinity are encouraged to use the library,” says the librarian. Located at No: 19, Navanethammal Street, Saligramam, the library has 10,236 members, and eight computers. On February 23, its regular timings (8 a.m. to 8 p.m.) was restored. For details, call 044 - 2376 3391||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saligramam-library-gets-first-floor/article33953108.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘FOB needed at Kathipara junction’||Ever since the pedestrian crossing at the intersection of Kathipara Road and Anna Salai and Muthu Kumarasamy Naicker Road near Guindy Industrial Estate was blocked, pedestrians have felt the need for a foot overbridge. There is no pedestrian crossing between Guindy railway station and the Kathipara grade-separator underpass in Alandur. Now, to cross this busy intersection and go over to the other side, many pedestrians take a safer option, which however entails taking a detour of two kilometres. Hence, a foot overbridge is much needed. P. Sathyanarayanan is a resident of Guindy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fob-needed-at-kathipara-junction/article33953111.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||How would you rate Chennai on cleanliness?||The survey for Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings is still wide open for participation. Under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Swachh Survekshan ranks cities on cleanliness, with 1500 of the total 6000 marks hinging on their citizens’ feedback. Chennai’s performance keeps improving — 235 in 2017; 100 in 2018; 61 in 2019; and its best (45) in 2020 — but the top-ten ranking has proved elusive. In 2020, the city won the ‘Best innovative practices in Solid Waste Management’ title, among mega cities with a population of above 40 lakh. Solid waste management experts point out that Chennai is a laggard in citizens’ feedback. As per last count, only 2525 residents have signed Greater Chennai Corporation’s ‘Swachhata Pledge’. A city would be judged also for citizens’ participation in the survey. A. Krishnapriya of Saahas, a non-profit waste management firm, says every citizen should take the survey, irrespective of how they see their city. Preparations elsewhere In Indore, which has stood first four years on the trot, the municipal corporation spotlights the survey through messages and jingles in public places, from January to March. “Over 500 staff of the Corporation’s four solid waste management partners go from door to door, explaining the seven questions in Citizens’ Feedback. Government departments carry the survey link prominently on their official pages, including on social media. Every Sunday, activities at public places highlight what is being done to keep the city clean,” says Captain Sunpreet, director, Human Matrix. In Visakhapatnam, each ward under Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation raises awareness about the survey. A report in The Hindu says Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation conducted a mock survey ahead of the real one. In Bengaluru, officials in the solid waste management department use social media as an awareness tool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-would-you-rate-chennai-on-cleanliness/article33953113.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Online zentangle classes||Sandhya Manne Studio is conducting an online workshop on zentangle, a form of drawing art, on March 6 (from 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m.). A press release says the workshop is for those aged 13 or above. For details, call9042072639||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/online-zentangle-classes/article33953080.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Free bus pass tokens for senior citizens||MTC has restarted the distribution of free bus pass tokens to senior citizens. Senior citizens, who have identity cards issued by the MTC, can apply for these tokens. Those who want to apply for new identity cards can do so by submitting the requisite documents at any bus terminus closer home. Forms can also be downloaded fromwww.mtcbus. tn.gov.in.  The tokens are month-specific and cannot be used the next month, if the beneficiary fails to use them. The tokens can be used across bus services, excluding air-conditioned bus services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-bus-pass-tokens-for-senior-citizens/article33953093.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||New park at Rutland Gate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-park-at-rutland-gate/article33953085.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Let roads and rails cross paths||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/let-roads-and-rails-cross-paths/article33953087.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Has the Osprey found a new home?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/has-the-osprey-found-a-new-home/article33953092.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Light through the tunnel||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/light-through-the-tunnel/article33953123.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I believe only facts matter’||Goa-born, London-based author and journalist Sonia Faleiro is out with her second book of reportage, The Good Girls: An Ordinary Killing, which was released last month in India. Combining reportage with the narrative skills of a fiction writer, The Good Girls documents the 2014 gang rape and murder of two minors in Katra Sadatganj — an “eyeblink of a village” in Uttar Pradesh’s Budaun district — where land is power, security and identity. And where a girl’s life is “everyone’s business”. In Katra Sadatganj and its neighbouring hamlets, honour killings are common — girls are killed for marrying outside their caste, religion, even for having engaged in premarital sex. The rape and murder of 16-year-old Padma Shakya and 14-year-old Lalli Shakya (not their real names) — cousins as alike as “two grains of rice” — shocked the country at a time when the Nirbhaya case was still fresh in public memory. In an email interview, Faleiro, who is also the co-founder of the global journalists’ collective, Deca, shares why she set out to get to the bottom of the case, investigating in the process the rampant gender crimes in India, the flaws of the policing system and the failures of the judiciary. Excerpts: How did you process the news of the Badaun rape-murder case when it reached you? How did this case, along with Nirbhaya’s, help highlight the increasing number of incidents of sexual violence in India? I first heard about the case on social media, when I saw a picture of the hanging girls on Twitter. A rumour circulated that the teenagers had been raped, killed and hanged by upper-caste men. Like many people, I was still processing the details of the 2012 Nirbhaya case; upon seeing the picture, my immediate response was that nothing has changed in India despite the public protests and new laws. I had moved to London by then and was planning to work on a book on sexual violence. I decided to visit Badaun to study the case. After spending a few days in Katra Sadatganj, where the teenagers had lived and died, I realised that not all was what it seemed like. Something terrible had indeed happened, just not what we thought. In the four years it took you to revisit and reconstruct the story, in what ways did it change and become different from the one you had initially heard? Did you set out to humanise the story while staying objective? I had only ever heard one version of the story, that of the teenagers’ parents. While their experience was vital, there were dozens of other people present that night who played a role in the events that occurred. Many of them saw and heard entirely different things. Their experiences had a Rashomon effect on the case. To try to get to the bottom of the matter, I returned to U.P. over and over again, eventually interviewing around 100 people, some of them repeatedly. I travelled a great deal in an effort to meet as many witnesses as possible. These included family members, police officers, medical staff, politicians and investigators. And I didn’t just focus on the night’s events. I kept digging until I had a story that went years back, all the way to a time before the girls were even born. As for staying objective, well, that’s my job. I don’t feel the need to editorialise my reporting because I believe only facts matter. But it’s true that I worked hard to keep the focus on Padma and Lalli. All too often we remember the crime but not the victim, and these were two girls with long lives ahead of them. Your reconstruction of the events is vivid and engaging: the book reads like a thriller. How challenging was that considering the complexities of the case and the conflicting theories based on the re-examination of evidence? Every writer faces the challenge of how to keep their readers engaged. The challenge can appear insurmountable to those of us who write about subjects that readers may be hesitant to engage with. And in this case, aside from my own reporting material — hundreds and hundreds of hours of interviews, several books of notes and innumerable photographs — I also sifted through more than 3,000 pages of case files related to the investigation. But I’m persistent. And I’m never in a hurry. My last book, Beautiful Thing: Inside the Secret World of Bombay’s Dance Bars, took five years to publish and The Good Girls took six. I just keep rewriting until I achieve the structure and momentum that I feel a story requires. Though the Badaun case is the centrepiece of the book, it is also an investigation into gender crimes and explores what it means to be a poor, young woman filled with dreams and aspirations in today’s India. Do you see such crimes as being deeply entrenched in caste and class dynamics? Caste and class influence every aspect of life in India, so it’s hardly surprising that they would influence how women are expected to behave and how they are treated. We need to educate people to look beyond these things, empower women, and strengthen our criminal justice system so that even if we can’t change how people think we can certainly ensure that they obey the law. In the last six years, things have only worsened. What is your assessment of today’s India, especially with regard to women’s rights? There isn’t much good news coming out of India these days and the condition of women is in keeping with this. We need politicians who genuinely care and a more engaged public if we are to see any positive change. Do you see the rise in crimes against women as a failure of governance and the criminal justice system? What do you think lies at the root of the ‘culture’ of violence against women? What hope do we have? Children don’t just die. They shouldn’t just die. And when they do, especially in such devastating circumstances, no one is above blame. If you ask me who failed Padma and Lalli, I will say everyone did. We all did. The interviewer is a Delhi-based independent culture journalist.  Children don’t just die. They shouldn’t just die. And when they do, especially in such devastating circumstances, no one is above blame||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-believe-only-facts-matter/article33953164.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Nehru did not repeatedly claim to be a liberal’||Pankaj Mishra is almost unique among Indian authors in having reflected consistently on modern history, contemporary politics and literary cultures, not only in India and South Asia but also in China, Anglo-America, Europe, West Asia, Southeast Asia and North Africa. His latest book, Bland Fanatics: Liberals, Race and Empire , is a collection of many of his important political essays and polemical pieces, published over the two decades since 9/11. In an interview, he discusses his current preoccupations.  You point out that “liberalism” is a vexed category in Anglo-American political thought. Do you not see an even greater obfuscation of this term in the Indian political context? I think the word ‘liberal’ triggers hostility in India for reasons specific to India’s culture wars. Many of Modi’s critics claim to be liberal. They may not subscribe to many of classical liberalism’s precepts, such as free trade. But they use the word and invoke its morally prestigious Western associations to present themselves as embodiments of a kind of udaarta — tolerance and acceptance of different world-views. For right-wingers, however, the word stands in for an English-speaking metropolitan class whose cultural hegemony they are fighting to overthrow. I think we should examine the genealogy of this word in India more closely, and who deploys it and for what reason. It’s worth remembering that Nehru himself did not repeatedly claim to be a liberal in the way his present-day followers do. Nor did most significant figures of the freedom movement. I am not sure that many intellectuals and activists who work primarily in Indian languages describe themselves as liberal. Some of the most powerful writers and public intellectuals you engage with, say Salman Rushdie or Ta-Nehisi Coates in these essays, or V.S. Naipaul elsewhere, can find themselves having to bear the unwanted burden of representing their religion or race to white audiences. Success in the West comes at the cost of being hampered from speaking the truths that made them original and important voices in the first place. How is the moral perspective of the outsider to be preserved once a writer is accepted by the Western literary establishment? Yes, success and honour are almost exclusively reserved for those who flatter Western self-images and boosterish discourses prevalent in the West. I was often accused of making a living by running down India internationally when all I did was point to some serious problems confronting a vast majority of Indians. Ironically, those talking up the ‘New India’ were being lavishly rewarded by the Western establishment that had bought into a fantasy of India as a great democracy, economic superpower, counterweight to China etc. The propagandists are now in retreat, partly because the Western establishment has lost its old certainties in recent years, and spaces have opened up for discourses — whether about imperialism and slavery or global capitalism, inequality and our ruined environment — that it either suppressed or ignored. When The New York Times , which carried articles about the need for a new Anglo-American empire not so long ago, starts questioning with its 1619 project the accepted narrative of American freedom and democracy, the mainstream does not seem wholly resistant to some long overdue corrections. Your picture of the “marketplace of ideas” that yields odious mouthpieces of race, empire and right-wing nationalism includes such names as W.B. Yeats, Mircea Eliade, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Sri Aurobindo, Carl Jung, Nicholas Roerich, Romain Rolland and Ayn Rand. These figures, who you tar with the brush of “fascist mysticism”, all have cult followings in India, even today. Is this complicated itinerary yet another explanation for how we end upwith the Hindu Rashtra? Ideas often cross-pollinate in ways that would bewilder those who hold fast to moralising narratives about the rise of liberal democracy and Hindu Rashtra. The Nazis got many of their ideas about ethnic and racial supremacism from that great exemplar of liberal democracy: the U.S.. J.S. Mill assumed that Indians were a barbarian people, unfit for self-rule.  One reason why fascist mysticism remains potent is that it appears to address some stubborn pathologies of modern life — alienation, isolation, anomie, powerlessness. Progress has become an Indian ideology in recent decades. But it is far from resolving (and might have aggravated) fundamental problems in the relationship of the self to the world, and the experiences of love, fear, hatred, and grief that are so often traumatic. People will continue to seek palliatives for their pain and bewilderment in a variety of sources — from Mein Kampf and QAnon to Aurobindo’s supra-mental consciousness. What do you make of a certain kind of American extreme left, for which the Democratic Party is far too neoliberal, oligarchic, elitist and hawkish to make Joe Biden and Kamala Harris’s election enough of a victory ? I think the left in America is a very marginal force, shut out of both mainstream politics and journalism, despite, or perhaps because of, its formidable intellectual firepower. As such, it has the unique freedom to mount strong critiques of the establishment. The new Barack Obama memoir is very revealing in this regard. He is obviously smarting over this tiny but intellectually vigorous left’s critique of his own establishment instincts. But the left’s critique is persuasive because Obama did little with the great energy for change that had exalted him to power; he missed the chance to boldly reform a corrupt and dysfunctional system, deferred too much to Wall Street and the old political and business elites, and ended up paving the way for Trump. After that trauma, the left is naturally more suspicious of the deeply networked Democratic Party apparatchiks who are now in power and promise to restore ‘normalcy’. And let’s not forget that nearly 75 million Americans voted for Trump, and Biden and Harris’s victory is far from emphatic. AfterThe Romantics(published more than 20 years ago) you have not returned to the novel. Do you plan to write fiction again? I feel that I have reached the end of the kind of writing that I began in the late 90s, with the nuclear tests and Kashmir, and then extended to the origins of 9/11, the war on terror, China and the fate of liberalism. In retrospect, those writings and the subsequent histories I published were my own attempt to understand a world that seemed to be dramatically changing and indeed unravelling, but which the triumphant assumptions of the intellectual and journalistic mainstream had made more or less incomprehensible. Now, of course, the steady intellectual and political deterioration I wrote about, whether in India or in the U.S. and Britain, is no longer something that I have to repeatedly demonstrate to a sceptical readership. It is too painfully obvious. So, yes, it is time for me to explore other, more imaginative and personally fulfilling modes of writing. The interviewer is an intellectual historian at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, New Delhi.  Born in Jhansi in 1969. B.Com from Allahabad University and M.A. from Jawaharlal Nehru University Author of numerous books includingThe RomanticsandFrom the Ruins of Empire: The Intellectuals Who Remade Asia Awards include the Leipzig Book Prize for European Understanding and the Windham-Campbell Literature Prize (Non-fiction) Named one of the top 100 global thinkers byForeign Policyin 2012   People will continue to seek palliatives for their pain and bewilderment in a variety of sources — fromMein Kampfand QAnon to Aurobindo’s supra-mental consciousness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nehru-did-not-repeatedly-claim-to-be-a-liberal/article33953125.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Why life insurance is nonsense||If you are a logical person, you can either believe in God or in life insurance. You can’t believe in both. But most people I know believe in both. They pray to God and pay their premiums. I do neither. I used to believe in God, but not anymore. I blame Modiji for that. When he said, “Be atmanirbhar’, I decided I’ll no longer depend on a Being whose existence, according to Twitter, is a disputed claim. Did I then go and buy life insurance? No, that’s where things get complicated. I find the very concept of life insurance morally suspect and existentially contradictory. Let me explain. The whole idea of life insurance is that you go on paying little sums of money to someone so that you get a big sum of money AFTER you die. They even have a name for it: ‘death benefit’. To me, ‘death benefit’ sounds a lot like torture benefit. Or lobotomy benefit. Or Achhe Din benefit. Call me selfish or whatever, but I can’t convince myself to shell out my hard-earned money — after paying income tax, GST and petrol price — for a scheme where I get it all back when I’m no longer around to even fill out a customer feedback form. I do get why people sign up for life insurance. The argument is that if you’re an earning member of a family and you die, your family shouldn’t suffer. My point is: Why not? What’s the whole point of dying if even your family doesn’t suffer from it? I would want the whole universe to suffer when I die. Till you are 99 A friend once told me he took whole life insurance — which lasts till you are 99 years old or dead, whichever comes first — when he was 22. He said he wanted to leave his (then yet-to-be-conceived) offspring a big fortune. Since he would have been paying premiums for about 40 years when he pops it, the ‘death benefit’ in his case would be substantial, almost as much as what Ambani makes in 40 minutes. He explained the logic to me. “I may have been born in a middle class family,” he said. “But I will die knowing that my last rites would be performed by HNIs.” To my mind, there are two problems here. Firstly, what kind of a 22-year-old spends his time thinking about life insurance? I would say a 22-year-old who was born middle-aged. I mean, look at Greta Thunberg. Or Disha Ravi. Ok, I concede Disha should probably get an LIC policy. But what about someone like Bhagat Singh? Or Subhas Chandra Bose. What no agent will tell you is that you won’t get the death benefit if you are hanged while fighting for your country’s freedom. In the case of Bose, the payout would have been denied simply because the cause of death is unclear. Had Bose taken life insurance, can you imagine how much running around his family would have had to do to get their claim approved? And they would’ve still had to go to the grievance cell of IRDAI, which is a hit-or-miss even on a good day. What bothers me more than the built-in improbity of life insurance is the hypocrisy embedded in it. They claim to compensate for loss of life but they won’t do it unconditionally. I mean, does anyone sit down and select from a drop down menu how they wish to die? But that’s what insurance companies seem to believe. They will fatten themselves on your premiums for 45 years, and then give your spouse nothing if you happen to die by her hand. I mean, how is it their business whether I die of malaria or marital discord? Becoming a zombie They can also deny the claim if you drink yourself to death. Is it not hypocrisy of the highest order to call it SUM ASSURED, and then go back on this assurance over a bottle or two (or three) of single malt? And that’s not the half of it. I once asked an agent from a leading firm what happens if I’m bitten by a zombie and become a zombie myself. I would be dead but physically active. Will my family get death benefit or not? He said, “Sir, as per Section 3, sub-section (a), clause (iii) of our policy terms and conditions, an individual who is running around trying to eat other people would be deemed as a ‘living person’ and therefore any claims on his policy would be invalid.” That’s their level of understanding. Don’t they even know that a zombie, by MEDICAL DEFINITION, is a dead person? I am convinced they know it but are willfully refusing to accept it because then they will have to start paying out all those hundreds of claims they’ve denied over the years on the bogus pretext that zombies are not dead people. How shameful is that? And still people tell me life insurance is not a fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/why-life-insurance-is-nonsense/article33953189.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A crisis, to confess||There are seven sacraments — rites of devotion — that are considered holy and a channel for god’s blessings by Catholic and Orthodox Christians across the world. These sacraments — baptism, eucharist (holy communion), confirmation, reconciliation (confession), anointing of the sick, marriage and ordination — lay the very foundation for the church and its believers. Over time, the Church has contended with several crises of faith — sexual abuse charges against its clergymen being the most recent, and perhaps the one with the most ramifications. Recently, the Supreme Court issued notices to the Centre and the Kerala government and 11 Malankara Syrian Church bodies on a petition filed by three members of the church, challenging the practice of mandatory sacramental confession. The petitioners alleged that the sacrament had been misused for blackmailing and even sexual harassment of women parishioners. The provocation for the complaint came after five priests of the Malankara Orthodox Church were disrobed and arrested in 2018 for sexually abusing a woman after threatening to break the seal of confession. Her husband alleged that she was abused by the five priests for years. The woman was pressurised into sexual relations with the priests after she ritually confessed about having a premarital affair. Catholic and Orthodox Christians are mandated to undergo confession at least once a year before a priest to foster their faith. According to the canon, which lays guidelines for church governance: “The sacramental seal is inviolable. Therefore, it is absolutely forbidden for a confessor to betray in any way a penitent in words or in any manner and for any reason.” If a priest breaks this law, he is liable to excommunication. Following the case, many such confession-related blackmail allegations emerged. In one such case, a woman reportedly committed suicide after a priest leaked her confession to another person. “At a time when many clergymen are facing allegations of sexual harassment, confession before a priest is a risky affair,” says Indulekha Joseph, lawyer and member of the Kerala Catholic Church Reformation Movement (KCRM). She says nuns should be allowed to perform sacramental confession for women.  “We recently approached Cardinal Mar George Alenchery with our demand to give permission for nuns to perform confession. But he said only ordained clergy have the power to perform Confession and they are specially trained for it. Nuns are not ordained, so they lack the power.”   According to Indulekha, after the Malankara Orthodox Church blackmail case, many women church-goers came forward with their experiences of exploitation of various degrees. But nobody was ready to go public. Violation of privacy The petition in the Supreme Court says that under the pretext of rules and customs, believers are forced to undergo ‘mandatory confession’, failing which they are denied church services. They allege that compulsory confession is in violation of their fundamental right to privacy and human dignity. Jacob Kurian Onattu, member of the Working Committee of the Orthodox Church and retired principal of Baselius College, Kottayam, argues that the practice of confession is not compulsory. “You need to undergo confession only if you want voting rights in parish bodies. According to our belief, confession is done to god, not to the priests. The role of the confessor priest is only to guide the believer. I personally don’t believe in doing away with the practice because of a few errant priests.” There is also the option of confessing before a priest of one’s choice, says Onattu. “If you are not comfortable with a particular priest, you can choose any other priest in any monastery or seminary, and produce a letter to that effect to exercise your voting rights.” Compulsory or not, what’s undeniable is the need for change. Parishioners say the Church must move with the times. “It is unfortunate that such incidents have been reported in the Orthodox Church too. The church must be cautious and adapt to the changed times. If needed, reformation should be brought in the training practices of clergymen,” says Abraham Cherian, a practising lawyer in the Kerala High Court and a member of the Orthodox Church. Time for a change Though some clergymen admit in private that it is indeed time for a change, most Church authorities are vehemently against any change and say it is an internal religious matter. In 2018, the National Commission for Women had called for the abolition of the practice of confession, a move that was strongly opposed by the Church. “It’s a matter of faith and it’s illogical to ban the sacramental confession in the name of misuse of it by a few priests,” the Church said.   “The Church will go to any extent to protect the sacraments as they are the magical formula to control the laity. And according to the very patriarchal church law, only ordained clergy have the power to perform confession,” says Sr. Jesme, a former nun with the Congregation of Mother of Carmel, whose book Amen: The Autobiography of a Nun spoke about gender inequality in the Church and stirred up a hornet’s nest. There have also been instances of children being subjected to inappropriate questioning during confession. Sr. Jesme recalled an incident when a child complained that a priest had asked her during confession if she touched her private body parts.  One can argue whether or not sins are pardoned after confession before a priest, but when it becomes a matter of belief, most devotees religiously follow it, says George Pulikuthiyil, a former Catholic priest, lawyer and founder of the Thrissur-based Jananeethi, an organisation that provides free legal service to the poor. “Once you become part of a religion, you need to follow its rules,” he points out. The seal of secrecy has come in conflict with the law of the land many times. In 2019, a legislation was passed in the Australian state of Victoria, asking priests to violate the sacrament and inform the authorities if anything in the confession pointed to child abuse. Meanwhile, a few women from the Jacobite faction of the Malankara Syrian Church have also approached the SC to demand their right to confess before a priest of their choice.  One can argue whether or not sins are pardoned after confession before a priest, but when it becomes a matter of belief, most devotees religiously follow it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-crisis-to-confess/article33953191.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Avarekai anecdotes||An abiding memory that lifts off my heart like a ribbon of mist on a wintry Bengaluru morning involves avarekai or hyacinth beans and some of my favourite women. Avarekai is a curious thing: it is starchy and nutritious, like most other beans, but with a distinct, luxurious aroma, known as sogadu in Kannada. Growing up in Bengaluru, we waited eagerly for winter because it meant, among other things, going to the market to buy freshly harvested avarekai. For weeks, the entire house would smell like mulch and herbs. And a staple dish we ate a lot in the cold months was avarekai tovve, a delicious curry slow cooked on low heat with diced pumpkin and doused in a spicy, coconutty gravy, topped off with a squirt of lemon juice. To this day, it’s one of my favourite dishes to cook and eat. It brings to me the image of the women in my family — my mother and grandmother, my sister and our house help, all huddled up on bamboo mats, shelling mounds of beans while singing folk songs personifying the crops, drinking endless cups of coffee, and discussing everything from neighbourhood news to the state of the Indian economy. Laughs and secrets I share these memories with my sister, Usha, who has to make do with frozen packs of avarekai from the Indian store in New Zealand. “I looked forward to the avarekai season and ajji’s stories of her Malenadu childhood. I’d squirm and scoot every time someone spotted a green worm,” she recalls with a laugh. The women of the family, who would be quiet and solemn through the year, turned into real people as they sat through the simple winter ritual. As All India Radio rang out the olaga , the Carnatic saxophone tune, in the mornings, they would work with single-minded devotion on a pile of beans, separating the tender ones, the hardy ones, and chucking out the wormy ones. They shared laughs and secrets, claiming the air around them, getting closer to each other, redefining their self-worth. It was therapeutic for me to watch them in action. To realise that there was more to them than just kitchen and household chores was a revelation. As I was initiated into their club, I came to understand them and my roots better. One of my favourite apocryphal stories told by ajji during an avarekai session involves the naming of my city: when the 13th century Hoysala king Veera Ballala II had lost his way in a forest, an old woman fed him boiled beans. Touched by her gesture, the king named that part of the forest Benda Kaalu Ooru or the Town of Boiled Beans. Spiced with songs The avarekai routine didn’t end there. It went from the living room to the backyard, where we would wash and air the beans on yards of soft, white cotton cloth. The plump ones would be skinned and cleaned and typically used in uppittu, or deep-fried in hot oil to make a savoury trail-mix with slices of roasted coconut and nuts, a frequent coffee-time snack. The skins would be sent off in a steel dabba to the local dairy farm to feed the cows. The supple beans would be put away in the refrigerator, to be used in rottis and rasams. And through this entire lifecycle of the avarekai, from market to fridge, the women stuck together and found hope and strength in the knowledge that no one could play their roles better than them. When I returned to India six years ago, my family had moved away to another continent and I was left with only the memories of this culinary legacy. I wanted to pass it on to my daughter, but I was disappointed to note that avarekai was available in processed form throughout the year now. The thrill of anticipating the arrival of seasonal produce in the market was lost. But then I discovered the Avarekai Mela, an annual Bengaluru fair showcasing unique dishes made from avarekai, from good old curries to new-fangled sweets. It wasn’t exactly a true taste of childhood, because we had never eaten sweets prepared from avarekai, but it felt good to relive the magic of olden days. This January, I found myself in the local market, looking for my favourite winter bean. I brought home a few kilos to shell and sort with my daughter. Cooking the most cherished avarekai dish of my childhood, I spiced it up with the notes of an old folk song I had learnt from my mother and grandmother. I recounted stories of avarekai season from my childhood, and told my daughter how the women in her family turned a simple kitchen act into something poetic and meaningful. The writer is a true blue Bangalorean, lover of all things related to food and culture.    To realise that there was more to them than just kitchen and household chores was a revelation. As I was initiated into their club, I came to understand my roots better||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/avarekai-anecdotes/article33953127.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||smells the coffee||Not too long ago, Surya Chhautia was ready to give up on a 100-acre coffee plantation in Golur village in Odisha’s Koraput district. The plantation had been lying unattended, yielding little. But today, Chhautia, 39, from the Valmiki community, is leading a campaign to add another 100 acres to the plantation and to turn his fellow villagers into coffee growers. Koraput, situated in the Eastern Ghats at a height of 3,000 feet above sea level, is known as much for its picturesque hills and streams as it is for its organic coffee. Koraput’s cool climes make it ideal for coffee growing. Chhautia’s enthusiasm reflects a new interest in coffee growing in Koraput where the crop was introduced some 90 years ago. For the past two years, the project administrator of Koraput’s Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Karu Soren, has been receiving a steady stream of requests from tribal and Dalit communities to help convert wasteland and common land into coffee plantations. “The trend shows a growing interest among tribal and Dalit communities to diversify their income through coffee,” says Soren. Three self-help groups (SHGs) in Golur, involved in coffee growing, have earned over Rs. 40,000 each from the sales of the red cherry. “This year, our profit margin has grown by Rs. 12,000 per SHG. The larger plantation area will help create livelihoods for more villagers,” says Debaki Chhautia, president of the Golur Talasahi SHG. This crop has indeed brought about a remarkable change in the lives of the tribal people who have primarily practised shifting cultivation for generations. Game changer The change in Koraput, a district affected by left-wing extremism, came about when different departments joined hands to procure cherries, process the seeds, package them, and sell them in the international market. Established in Odisha in 1930 by the erstwhile royals of Jeypore on an experimental basis in the neighbouring Bichalkota village, the coffee plantation was subsequently adopted by the Directorate of Soil Conservation and Watershed Development to check siltation at the Machhkund hydroelectricity project site in 1958. Using the forest canopy, the directorate started expanding the plantation area in a graded manner. The expansion, however, did not pick up pace because of fund constraints and policy bottlenecks. Now, 4,238 ha of land has been brought under coffee plantations while the potential area available for the crop is 1,45,170 ha in Koraput. Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, which has similar climatic conditions, boasts, for instance, of 71,356 ha of coffee plantations established around the same time. In 2016-17, the Koraput district administration founded the Coffee Development Trust to create a single platform to remove bottlenecks and to turn the district into a hub of coffee and spices. As per the 10-year plan, 46,500 ha will be brought under shade plantation and 22,570 ha under coffee in the district. Some 25,000 families, mostly from tribal communities, will be given a record of rights for coffee plants as long-term livelihood. But expanding the area under cultivation cannot be meaningful without value addition to the crop. Earlier, raw coffee cherries were transported to Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka; farmers earned Rs. 35 per kilo while the procurement price went up to Rs. 45 per kilo. This is when the Tribal Development Co-operative Corporation of Odisha Ltd. (TDCCOL), with technical support from the Regional Coffee Board, made a market intervention. It promoted the beans as ‘Koraput Coffee’, and the brand was an instant hit in the national and international market, being organic. Koraput Coffee is now sold on several e-commerce platforms and an entire coffee processing chain is being set up. Wild cherries “To maintain quality, the coffee fruit is de-pulped the same night at a processing unit in Koraput and the seeds are sun-dried for 11 days. The entire process conforms to international standards and tastes,” says Mansi Nimbhal, managing director, TDCCOL . This year, the corporation procured 28 metric tonnes of cherry and transferred the dues directly to the farmers’ accounts. Coffee growers, who were contemplating leaving the sector, stuck on thanks to the door-to-door collection and a good price for the red cherry. But there are challenges: “In Odisha, coffee continues to be a district policy, while Andhra Pradesh has brought coffee plantation under State policy and has earmarked funds for the development of the crop,” says Ajit Kumar Rout, senior liaison officer, Coffee Board. Koraput coffee’s potential is huge, he says. “The taste of Koraput Coffee definitely differs from others. We have a diverse variety of coffee plants. And the plants grow in the wild, fetching us a better price for their organic value,” says Rout. As the procurement and marketing networks become streamlined, at least four private entrepreneurs have shown interest in setting up processing units in Koraput. This competition should benefit tribal farmers hugely. Coffee plantation indeed appears to be a win-win proposition for the tribal and Dalit communities of Koraput. The shade plantation needed for coffee prevents soil erosion on the sloping terrain and stabilises the micro-climate. A wide variety of spices and fruits grown in the coffee field diversifies the income of tribal farmers in a backward region. The farmers also meet their fuel wood needs from fallen branches of shade trees. And coffee may well be a way out of conflict in this violence-hit area.  The shade plantation needed for coffee prevents soil erosion on the sloping terrain and stabilises the micro-climate. A wide variety of spices and fruits grown in the coffee field diversifies the income of tribal farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/smells-the-coffee/article33953157.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The story of two Joe Bidens||“If you ask me who’s the unluckiest person I know personally, who’s had just terrible things happen to him, I’d say Joe Biden,” Ted Kaufman, a friend of Biden, told journalist Evan Osnos before the November election. “If you asked me who is the luckiest person I know personally, who has had things happen to him that are just absolutely incredible, I’d say Joe Biden.” Kaufman’s words, quoted in Osnos’s latest book, Joe Biden: American Dreamer , perhaps capture the essence of the personal and public sides of Biden’s life, one riddled with suffering and the other marked by success. Terrible loss In 1972, when he was 30 years old, Biden lost his first wife and their infant daughter in a car crash. In 1988, Biden had to go through extensive treatment for a brain aneurysm. In 2015, he lost his beloved son, Beau, who was largely seen as his political successor, to brain cancer. But personal suffering did not deter the rise of the political Biden. He was first elected to the U.S. Senate from Delaware in 1973, a position he would hold till 2009. He was the Chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for years. In 2009, he became the Vice-President of the country’s first African-American President. And in 2020, he was elected the 46th President of the U.S., defeating Donald Trump in a highly polarised election.   Osnos, a staff writer of The New Yorker and Pulitzer Prize winner, writes about both Bidens in his highly readable book, which offers a quick campaign biography of the Democratic Party leader. The book opens with Biden’s collapse in his hotel room in 1988, and takes the reader to his momentous journey through the many layers of America’s politics. Adapted mostly from his writings for The New Yorker that have been updated and added with additional reporting, the book profiles Biden mostly through the interviews of those who know the U.S. President. Osnos has interviewed Biden’s friends like Kaufman and top political bosses in Washington DC, including Barack Obama under whom Biden served from 2009 to 2017.   Shrewd politics When it was clear that Biden would be contesting the 2020 Presidential election, then President Donald Trump stepped up attacks on him. He called him “sleepy Joe”, while Trump supporters unloaded memes on the Internet mimicking Biden, who’s known for gaffes. Biden, who overcame stuttering as a teenager, knows his reputation and sometimes jokes about it, writes Osnos. “When his microphone once malfunctioned during a television interview, he said, ‘They do this to me at the White House all the time’.” But perhaps Biden’s long public career, his cool-headed approach to politics and his ability to joke about his own shortcomings struck a chord with American voters, after the high-octane Trump years. Trump seemed to have underestimated Biden’s political acumen. Osnos’s Biden comes out as a shrewd political animal. “He is very much a weathervane for what the centre of the left is,” a senior Obama administration official told Osnos. “He can see, ‘Okay, this is where the society is moving. This is where the Democratic Party is moving, so I’m going to move.”   This approach was visible in the 2020 campaign as well. Biden, a centrist like Obama, entered the Democratic campaign with a goal to end the Trump presidency. At an early campaign event in New York, he promised stability, and said, “Nothing would fundamentally change”. The left seized on it and launched an online campaign against him. But the same Biden would move towards the left, addressing many of the issues raised by the Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren campaigns. Osnos writes that typically in a Democratic campaign, centrist candidates tilt towards the left during the primaries and towards the right during the presidential election campaign. In Biden’s case, it was just the opposite. After clinching the Democratic Party nomination, Biden told Sanders, the self-styled Democratic socialist, in a phone call, “I want to be the most progressive president since FDR”, referring to Franklin D. Roosevelt, who launched the New Deal programmes in the 1930s to lift the U.S. out of the Great Depression. The challenge ahead     Joe Biden is largely a sympathetic take on Biden. There are passing references to his son Hunter joining the board of Ukrainian energy company Burisma in 2014 at a time when Biden, as Vice-President, was overseeing U.S. policy in crisis-hit Ukraine that was undergoing a transition. Hunter later apologised to his dad, writes Osnos. There are references to the allegations women raised against Biden’s inappropriate behaviour. A former Senate staffer accused Biden of sexually assaulting her almost three decades ago. Biden denied the accusation. Osnos doesn’t go into the details, staying focussed on Biden’s “retail politics”.   In the end, Biden’s bet won, at least for now. His focus on winning over both progressives and liberals helped him beat Trump. But he has inherited a divided country. There’s a raging pandemic that has exposed governance in the world’s most powerful country. The economy is in tatters. Race relations are tense. And a vast majority of Trump supporters think that the election was stolen. The question is whether his centrism would hold in the long run amid all these challenges.  Joe Biden: American Dreamer  Evan Osnos  Bloomsbury  Rs. 699    Perhaps Biden’s long public career, his cool-headed approach to politics and his ability to joke about his own shortcomings struck a chord with American voters, after the high-octane Trump years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-story-of-two-joe-bidens/article33953179.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 February 28 is celebrated as National Science Day in India to mark the discovery of a phenomenon by one of the country’s greatest scientific minds. This person, with his student K.S. Krishnan, studied an effect he had observed while on a ship in 1928. Using a small telescope and a prism, he realised that water molecules could scatter light just as air molecules could, which implied there was inelastic scattering of photons by matter. The effect was named after him and he became the first Asian to win a Nobel Prize in any science. Who was this scientist? 2 Born on February 28, 1901, Linus Pauling was an American biochemist whose revolutionary work on orbital hybridisation led to the founding of quantum chemistry. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1954. After the dropping of the atomic bombs by the U.S. in 1945, he became an anti-nuclear activist and led the effort that resulted in the Partial Test Ban Treaty. For this, he received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1962. Consequently, what special record does he share with Marie Curie? 3 On February 28, 1953, Francis and James, two gentlemen who’d been inspired by Linus Pauling’s work and had been working tirelessly over an issue, announced that they’d found an answer. Legend has it that they solved it while sharing a drink at a pub in Cambridge. What was this revolutionary discovery that wouldn’t have been possible without the work of Pauling and Rosalind Franklin? 4 On February 28, 1832, this person landed at Salvador, Brazil. At 22, he’d spent five hard years on a ship, but now had access to luxurious rainforests. He spent months studying and collecting flatworms, spiders and plants. When he found that the parasitic ichneumon wasp stored caterpillars to be eaten alive by its grubs, he realised it was more evidence against the beneficent design of nature. Who was this person who 20 years later would publish a seminal work that changed biology? 5 On February 28, 1935, American chemist Wallace Carothers and his assistant at DuPont produced a half-ounce of polymer from hexamethylenediamine and adipic acid, creating polyamide 6-6 — one of the first successful synthetic polymers ever. How better do we know this thermoplastic silky material that can be processed into fibres, films or shapes? 6 On February 28, 1956, American engineer Jay Wright Forrester was issued a patent for his invention, a multi-coordinate digital information storage device. Known then as ‘magnetic-core memory’, it bridged the gap between vacuum tubes and semiconductors. It led to a type of memory that we’re now familiar with in the context of phones and computers. What is this memory type that’s also the name of the beautiful last (sadly) album by French robot band Daft Punk? 7 On February 28, 1959, Discoverer 1 was launched from California as part of an American strategic reconnaissance satellite programme. It was the prototype for the KH or ‘KeyHole’ satellites, so called because what they did was like spying into a room through the keyhole. The official name for this programme referred to the gaseous envelope of the sun, but this word recently become more prominent thanks to a major health issue. What was the name of America’s first spy satellite program? 8 On February 28, 2007, New Horizons, NASA’s interplanetary space probe, flew within 2.3 million kilometres of a planet in our solar system. This close encounter gave us a rare glimpse of the planet’s atmosphere, many moons and magnetosphere. Named after the god of the sky and thunder in Roman mythology, which gaseous planet is this? 9 On February 28, 1977, Corky became the first animal of her kind to give birth in captivity. Unfortunately, as the public tourist attraction she was housed in wasn’t ready for the birth, the calf died. The resulting observations and studies led to the closure of this attraction, and Corky was shifted to SeaWorld. She remains there to this day, having spent 50 years in captivity. What type of huge animal is Corky? 10 On February 28, 2012, neurobiologists from Duke University did what until then had been science fiction. Like a technique exhibited by Vulcans inStar Trek, they linked two rats together over the Internet, which let them share sensory information and solve problems together. By implanting electrodes, what did they link between a rat in the U.S. and one in Brazil? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33953195.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from a kallbad||Almost exactly a year ago, when countries around the world started going under lockdown one after the other like some sort of uncertain global game of dominoes, there was one among them that resolutely refused to let its chips fall: Sweden. Faced with mounting criticism, the Scandinavian country still managed to flatten its COVID-19 curve rather rapidly and effectively without ever implementing a full-scale lockdown. The health leadership immediately claimed victory, but the cynics were not so impressed with this apparent inaction. And rightly so. With many Swedes choosing the more sensible route of self-quarantine and social distancing, cases of mental unrest and depression saw a remarkable upswing across the country. This was further exacerbated all the while by the long, dark and miserably frigid Nordic winter that sets in as early as late September. It was enough to send the country hurtling down the precipice of a major mental health crisis. Slam Dunk A few members of the Ladies Circle of Sweden club, Gripsholm in south-central Sweden decided to tackle this problem by turning to one of Sweden’s greatest outdoor winter traditions: kallbad , or ice bathing. Earlier this month, on February 7 at exactly 11.30 a.m. , 80 women across the country — led by Anna Lyckström, the club member who’d come up with the idea — plunged simultaneously into the icy waters of lakes, ponds and other semi-frozen waterbodies nearest to them. Some of the ladies living in the high north of the country had to saw through almost 60 cm of ice to get to the water! These ‘simulbaths’ were aired digitally over the club’s Facebook page. The aim of all this was to raise both money and awareness in the fight against mental illness. Together, they managed to amass just over SEK 8,000 ( approximately Rs. 70,000) for the national charity project Fonden För Psykisk hälsa (Foundation of Mental Health). A brutally cold water dip is a Nordic favourite due to a host of health benefits that range from raising feel-good hormones and lowering stress to improving sleep and general mood. Interestingly, a 2004 study conducted by scientists at Oulu University in Finland reinforces the immense benefits of ice bathing for mental health. Shock therapy Apparently, icy water causes the blood vessels to constrict in order to try to retain body heat, and the blood pressure increases to avoid cooling down. In the process, hormones such as endorphins are released to protect the body and act as pain relief (as well as anti-depressants) for a few hours. As a result, ice bathers are known to lead more active lives and are generally happier and more fulfilled people. But the Swedes have cottoned onto this trend and seen method to the madness for centuries. Given their nonchalance towards public nudity, and taking full advantage of the coastline and the multitude of lakes and rivers, skinny dipping in their icy waters is a national obsession come autumn and winter. A session in a scalding hot sauna completes the therapeutic experience. Hot-n-Cold Speaking of saunas, equally popular is the concept of spending a cold winter’s day in one of the many cold bath houses across the country, most of which are open year-round. These serve several purposes. Not only do they prepare one for the invigorating open-air kallbad , they typically house a number of saunas to sweat it out in, both before and after an ice bath. It was during the last quarter of the 19th century that the first few cold bath houses began to surface across Sweden, inspired by the facilities found in health resorts in places like Switzerland. But even before these fully-fledged bath houses emerged, stair-equipped outdoor swimming pools had begun to crop up as early as the 1850s. Keeping up with the times seems to be a mantra for many bath houses that formerly had dedicated areas for men and women, given the nudity aspect. Take for instance Malmö’s Ribersborgs Kallbadhus, which has now acknowledged transgender and non-binary people by making the bath house gender egalitarian. The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-a-kallbad/article33953203.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The needlessly ungenerous||Almost half a century ago, I completed my Plus Two with high marks. Those days, there were no entrance tests for engineering admission and seats were allotted based on marks in the qualifying examination. On the last day for payment of fees, I trudged to the bank in the hot April sun and by the time I filled the challan and submitted, it was cash closing time. The cashier sternly asked, “What is the head of account?” Contemptuously throwing the challan to my face, he said, “You don’t even know the head of account and you want to become an engineer”, and shut the counter. While I was about to leave, a clerk beckoned me, took the challan and the money, went into the cage, pulled out the counterfoil of another application and copied the head account, put the cash in the drawer, stamped the challan, handed my copy back, smiled and walked away. Even today, the question haunts me, “What prevented the cashier from doing what the clerk did?” Travel tantrums While travelling, I carry boiled tap water in several bottles. One night, just after my train left Mysuru, the passenger on the lower berth started coughing violently and needed some water. I quietly handed one of my bottles. The man drank almost half of it and while giving it back, smugly commented, “But it’s not Bisleri!” I replied acidly, “But it saved your life,” and turned away. One Saturday evening, my friend and I went for a movie. We could not find adjacent seats. We requested a man who had vacant seats on either side to move one seat. “No, why should I,” he asked. With the film about to start, a man sitting two rows behind and who had a seat vacant next to him calmly offered, “Come, I will move to the end of the row, you two can sit here.” The next Monday, at my college, a man barged in and sat in the chair opposite to me. It was the person who refused to move. He said his brother, a student in my department, had a shortage of attendance and needed my permission to appear for exams. I coolly asked him, “Why should I do it?” He smiled sheepishly. Of course, in the end, I obliged. I often wonder why some people find it so difficult to help others even if it costs nothing to them. grrao56@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-needlessly-ungenerous/article33953151.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Etched in memory||For a story titled Still Life , there is very little stillness in this graphic novel. Perhaps that is the point writer and artist Anoushka Khan wishes to make in her debut book. Here stillness is that rare moment of clarity people find within and outside themselves in the midst of turbulence. Khan brilliantly captures a range of still moments and emotions — from love and nostalgia to loss and loneliness — through her stunning black-and-white illustrations, enhanced by a few lines of narration. The words are a part of the illustrations rather than a separate textual element. In that sense, the book is more a work of art than a piece of literature.  Still Life is a journey, one that Pinky undertakes to find her missing husband, Pasha. We travel through her memories, thoughts and feelings as she searches for her other half, and a deep sense of longing pervades the novel. The story ebbs through the old mohallas and villages in the foothills of the jagged mountains in Pakistan as Pinky goes about meeting relatives and acquaintances in search of Pasha. En route, she recalls past moments — Pasha’s promise to take her to the mountains one day; a lesson on the tree of life from her biologist mother; on the ruins of Mohenjo-daro from her archaeologist father. All these are prompted by the mundane, which could be an old photograph, a pattern on the bedframe, and so on, forming a stream of experience, memories and emotions. However, the flow of the narrative is broken at times by inconsistencies in the text. There are no page numbers or chapter headings. Instead, empty pages mark the shift between thought, remembrances and conversation. This breaks the story out of the rigid panelled structured of a traditional graphic novel, giving it an organic fluidity and depth. Mixing pencil sketches and watercolour, Khan creates a series of images that are precise yet abstract, much like moments etched in our memory. The reviewer is a freelance journalist and copy editor.  Still Life Anoushka Khan Viking  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/etched-in-memory/article33953159.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The call of one’s roots||A daughter makes it her life’s mission to make her mother return to their beloved home in India. There’s a family secret to unravel and a horrible wrong to set right in the process: the 25-year-old protagonist takes it all upon herself. Radhika, born and brought up in the U.K., hasn’t had much of an exposure to her mother’s hometown of Madras apart from the occasional visits as a child. But the pull of her roots is strong and she soon finds herself chatting up old relatives and long-forgotten acquaintances from Thiruverkadu to Kumbakonam, to find out about an old “curse” that might have caused a couple of untimely deaths in the family. Is the curse the reason behind her mother’s self-imposed exile in a foreign land? As Radhika’s investigation progresses, the reader is drawn into a family mystery. However, one cannot help feeling that the protagonist is driven more by her heightened sense of morality than by any real or perceived danger. Even as those around her seem to be unaffected by any foreboding, Radhika firmly believes it is her life’s purpose to safeguard future generations from the ancient curse. When she succeeds in her mission, we breathe a sigh of relief. It’s as if the author, Prema Srinivasan, is aware of the obsessive nature of her protagonist’s pursuit. “Don’t know what all this fuss is about,” remarks a character sagely at the end, and we agree. At the same time, we do want to indulge Radhika, who is unwavering in her quest. The story moves smoothly through the decades, starting from the pre-Independence years and coming right up to the early 2000s. Woven in are glimpses of life in Tamil Nadu as seen in Radhika’s wealthy ancestral homestead in the hinterlands or in the modern Madras of Conjeevarams and the December music season. The portrait of Radhika’s childhood in the England of the 1950s and 60s is also interesting, untouched by any spectre of tragedy, save for the family’s self-imposed exile. Everything comes together nicely at the end, and the book’s title could not have been more apt.     And Finally, A Blessing! Prema Srinivasan Authors Upfront  Rs. 295||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-call-of-ones-roots/article33953166.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A developmental cul-de-sac in a functioning democracy||In the weekly journal Young India , Mahatma Gandhi wrote in a December 1921 entry, “Let us not push the mandate theory to ridiculous extremes and become slaves to resolutions of majorities.” Unfortunately, our leaders and politicians appear to remember Gandhi when it is convenient and forget him when it is necessary. Or else why do elected leaders often ignore the wellbeing of the citizens once voted to power? In a functioning democracy like India, how are denizens, who have the power to elect a new government every five years, faring? M. Rajshekhar’s deeply researched book, Despite the State, holds a mirror to Indian democracy, and finds several cracks. Expanding on his series for Scroll.in, ‘Ear to the Ground’, beginning 2015, Rajshekhar studied six States, one in the Northeast (Mizoram), one rich in minerals but poor (Odisha), one with irrigated agriculture (Punjab), another with rain-fed farming (Bihar), one relatively industrialised (Gujarat) and another from the south (Tamil Nadu). The book, the size of which belies its exhaustive reportage from the shadows of the States, brings readers face to face with realities far removed from what is expected in or projected for a democracy.  The assignment stretched to 33 months and he found “democracy was malfunctioning” in each of the States. If Mizoram was financially unviable, Odisha had frittered away its iron-ore boom. He found that Punjab was “entirely controlled by the Parkash Singh Badal clan”. In Tamil Nadu, Rajshekhar observed that the State had drifted from “welfarism to messianic populism”. In Bihar, the state was absent and in Gujarat “majoritarianism was writ large”.   “Beneath these differences lurked similarities. All of them struggled to deliver health, education and justice, including Tamil Nadu, venerated for its social justice movements and policies. In all these States there was concentration of political power, and a politically-connected elite had gained much more than everyone else... People fell back on caste and religious identities as they tried to cope.” Some questions Rajshekhar’s ground reports make the reader sit up and ask: Can so much harm be done to society by the state itself? We have elected governments but are they truly representative of the people? Do they cater to the aspirations of the people? He sums it up thus: “In every State, democratic institutions, ripped free of the founding values of a young idealistic democracy and hijacked by power structures, are declining into disorder and unaccountability.” Rajshekhar’s portrait is at variance with the image we are presented of India being a vibrant emerging power.  In Tamil Nadu, for example, he finds that the caste system still rules despite the State’s pronounced social justice movements. In health care, he compares Mizoram (a State that struggles to pay salaries to employees and with a maximum number of HIV patients), Odisha and Punjab, with Tamil Nadu and says while in the former three States health care failed due to administrative incapacity, in Tamil Nadu it was a functional government that ignored systemic improvements by manipulating figures in favour of the ruling governments, at great cost to its people. Rajshekhar establishes that a majority of the people, particularly the poor, in India are struggling, exploited by the very structure that is meant to protect and lead, astutely observing: “I slowly started to see political parties not as emissaries of regional, religious or caste-class interests but as self-interested institutions that sourced electoral power from their constituencies”. If there is one minor quibble, it is that he chooses to fault only the BJP for the failures though the rot had set in much earlier and with all political parties after the first few decades of Independence.  The reviewer is a writer and historian.  Despite the State  M. Rajshekhar  Context/ Westland  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-developmental-cul-de-sac-in-a-functioning-democracy/article33953176.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The easy way||The club’s Saturday night duplicate saw the usual suspects battling it out. Hard Luck Louie won the opening heart lead with dummy’s ace and had to decide whether to play on diamonds or clubs. He was in the wrong hand to play on clubs, he thought, so he cashed the ace of diamonds and led another diamond. The correct technical play, when East plays a low diamond, is the queen. Louie, however, played his 10 and was pleased to see the king from West. West shifted to a spade. Louie won with dummy’s ace, overtook the jack of hearts with his king, and cashed the queen of diamonds. When that failed to drop the jack, Louie was down to hoping for a doubleton queen of clubs with West. He led a club to dummy’s jack and drifted down one when that lost to the queen. Lucky Larry also won the first trick with dummy’s ace of hearts. He continued by leading the king of clubs from dummy! West won with his ace and led another heart, but Larry overtook dummy’s jack with his king, cashed the queen, and led his last club to the jack and queen. He had an easy nine tricks with three clubs, three hearts, two spades, and a diamond. What was that about being in the wrong hand to start clubs?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-easy-way/article33953198.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Some pepper please||The plan to create self-help groups around coffee plantations, which is all set to create a web of economic activities for tribal communities in Koraput, looks likely to ensure that the women will no longer have to migrate to other areas looking for daily wage work. Sunita Khila, 35, from Golur village, used to walk miles to collect non-timber forest produce and fuel wood. Now, with coffee becoming a viable source of income, Sunita’s dependence on the forest has decreased. Coffee, however, is not the only livelihood option that women like Sunita have. Mission Shakti, launched by the State Department of Women and Child Development, is helping these women slowly but surely become economically independent. Sunita says the producers’ group in Golur is considering taking up pepper cultivation as well, using the shade trees to grow pepper climbers, which need little maintenance and give good returns. Mission Shakti works with the Odisha Rural Development and Marketing Society (ORMAS) to create producers’ groups among coffee growers and give working capital of up to Rs. 1 lakh to each group, and Rs. 2.04 lakh for institution and capacity building. ORMAS supports the groups while the Tribal Development Co-operative Corporation of Odisha takes care of training. — SB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/some-pepper-please/article33953153.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Bitter medicine||“The good physician treats the disease; the great physician treats the patient who has the disease.” In the bygone days, there was always the friendly neighbourhood doctor to turn to, who would be the family physician for a generation or two. A friend first, he knew the entire family history and the allergies that afflicted its members. He tracked their symptoms and the habits of the members. He was a trusted aide who understood the root cause and diagnosed for a 360-degree view. A concoction inside his office, essentially a coloured liquid, and some packets of a white powder were offered for a paltry sum, but provided relief. Time and again, the doctor would draw from his vast knowledge and offer prognosis to the head of the family. By by the the mid-1980s, such doctors just vanished. In today’s world, doctors are super-specialists, and finding a neighbourhood physician to treat simple ailments is a struggle. The patient is rushed to the nearby swanky hospital. The doctor spends a quick two minutes per patient — listens to the problem, dives into his knowledge reservoir, and writes a prescription. In his indecipherable handwriting, he hands over the prescription which sends the patient into a labyrinth of diagnostic tests and pin pricks. Meanwhile, he welcomes the next patient. Whoosh, the first patient is back on the road with a blank stare as if he had witnessed a deluge of incantations in a magic show. With an expectation for a total cure, the patient re-enters the doctor’s office with a file folder as large as a shopping bag with a surfeit of medical reports and bills. Doctor has happily noticed his own prescription in the patient’s hand and settles down to enquire about his ailment. Once the formalities are done, the patient is driven to a crossroads — continue the treatment or go for a further diagnosis. That is when it dawns on him to obtain a second opinion and right there is his choice to pick the right card from the magician’s deck of cards. The patient then grapples with a million-dollar question of purchasing the “prescription” or “generic” medicine; branded ones don’t come cheap. When the patient starts the course, there is the onset of unexplained “side effects”. The family tries to manage thm. The rush now is to revisit the doctor. Lo and behold, another doctor appears from behind the screen with the magic wand aka stethoscope. If the doctors of the good old days listened to and empathised with the patients, today’s “smarter” digital tools can enhance the “personalised” profile of patients who but remain confused. p_harihar@hotmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bitter-medicine/article33953149.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Huggosaurus rex||Dear Agony Akka,  I am a nice and polite personwho is also quite popular. But the pandemic might be ruining my image. When I run into friends and acquaintances at the local supermarket or corner shop, they invariably want to hug me or shake hands. Or when I walk my dog, a gorgeous Lab, my neighbours want to pet Scruffy. But I really, really don’t want them to do this because we cannot bathe Scruffy with sanitiser after each walk. How do I avoid these friendly overtures and still keep my status message as Ms. Popular. — Scared About Popularity   Dear SAP,  Welcome to the post-pandemic world. The first thing you must learn is that popularity itself is being redefined. I believe that hostesses now check how many dinners you have not attended in the last four weeks before inviting you over. They also ask about your vaccination status. And I don’t know if you have noticed this, but many people are gifting masks these days, embroidered, hand-spun, woven and what-not, which are not really gifts but polite reminders to ask you to be masked when you visit or stay far away. In fact, I am told that the old tamboolam tray that used to greet visitors has been entirely recast — it has a small sanitiser bottle that the hostess uses to sprinkle you with, then she offers a fresh surgical mask, and finally tops it off by extending a pretty bowl piled high with Vit C pills like orange muttai . So, these friends and acquaintances who want to hug you and shake your hands are definitely relics of an older age — I suspect they will soon wither away and become useless, like dinosaurs and appendixes. But until that happens, how to tackle members of these endangered species? Well, let me share a trick or two that I have been secretly practising. As you must know, I too am very popular in our housing society, and always the men and children are crowding around me for advice and general chit-chat and GK-type information. So, from the very beginning I have developed some manoeuvres. First of all, I have invested in kurtas and tops with pockets so that I can keep my hands firmly in pocket and ignore anything that is stretched out towards me. This handless version of my torso also makes it tough for anyone to try and hug me. But sometimes I like to enjoy wearing my beautiful saris, which everyone admires and goes ooh-aah about my looks. But then what to do about pockets? So, I have developed a separate manoeuvre. As soon as I spy one of these dinosaur-type creatures approaching me showing clear indications of desiring physical contact, I do a little jump with grace and alacrity — I clear the spot by about 3” above sea level and 6” backwards. Then I cry out in a sweet, frightened voice, ‘Oh what was that?! Did you see that insect?’ The approaching party gets very distracted and starts looking around, soon forgetting their initial urge to hug and kiss and what-not kandravi they had in mind. During these times, I have found that it also helps to suddenly become sanskari -type Bharatiya nari . Just keep doing namaskaram to everyone and keep smiling till they put their damn hands away. This can sometimes lead to a crick in the neck and your cheek muscles also start to cramp but these are small sacrifices for the sake of a corona-free life. And let me tell you SAP, I have been doing all this and I am still very much in demand during housing society events and important meetings and all. It is really quite easy. As for Scruffy, sorry but I cannot offer advice for dogs and all. This is too much. — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/huggosaurus-rex/article33953193.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Mission of a career diplomat||Pascal Alan Nazareth’s autobiography, A Ringside Seat to History, bears testimony to his qualities of head and heart which have enabled him to navigate life’s journey with equanimity, humanism and deep faith. Simply but with charm and wit he relates his personal and professional story beginning with his youth in Karnataka and college in Chennai, to his years in the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and thereafter in spreading the message of Mahatma Gandhi. Above all what comes through is his firm commitment to the nation and its traditional culture of inclusivity. Spreading the word A major part of Nazareth’s autobiography is not surprisingly devoted to his diplomatic career. It began in 1959 when he joined the IFS as a probationer and concluded three and a half decades later as India’s ambassador to Mexico. These decades saw him serve in important Indian diplomatic missions and posts in Asia, Africa, North and South America as well as Britain. At the Ministry of External Affairs, he handled work relating to showcasing Indian culture abroad and promoting India’s economic and commercial interests. Nazareth devotes a chapter to each of his assignments. He focuses on his involvement in interesting events and meetings with fascinating people during each of them. Some of these happenings and encounters will remain in a reader’s memory for a long time. These would include his remarkable account in successfully tracking down the notorious Dharam Teja who was perhaps the first mega scamster to flee abroad. They would also include his account of the Jerry Rawlings coups in Ghana and the havoc they wreaked. In 1976, Nazareth was sent to clean up the set-up responsible for procurements of essential defence supplies in the Indian High Commission in London. The manner in which he accomplished that provides a lesson for civil servants and managers to handle such tasks. There are other aspects of his London stay which shed significant light of how that once critical Mission handled the period of the Emergency. Nazareth’s account of the invigoration of India’s cultural diplomacy merits attention. India’s economic diplomacy was in its infancy when Nazareth got involved in its pursuit at a middle-level. Much has changed since but not the difference an active officer can make. Competitive field Above all Nazareth captures the atmosphere of a diplomat’s life in different assignments in different corners of the world and how opportunities can be positively utilised in the highly competitive field of inter-state relations. This involves imagination and initiative and grinding work, not champagne and caviar as Nazareth shows. After retirement Nazareth has devoted himself to spreading Gandhiji’s message of peace and goodwill through the publication of works on his leadership. His books have been translated into numerous languages. These are notable contributions. And they have come in the midst of a great personal loss of a much-loved young daughter and while in service the trauma of a life-threatening illness of his son. His awakened spirituality, nourished through a few contacts with Mother Teresa, enabled him to navigate successfully and constructively through periods of trial and grief.  A Ringside Seat to History is a moving tale leavened with wit of a life fully lived. It provides insights into aspects of diplomatic history even as it often brings smiles and a chuckle, never more than in the exchange of letters between High Commissioner B.K. Nehru and Prime Minister Morarji Desai.  The reviewer is a former diplomat.  A Ringside Seat to History  Pascal Alan Nazareth  Konark Publishers  Rs. 625||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mission-of-a-career-diplomat/article33953181.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Bail for Varavara Rao||The 82-year-old poet-activist, Varavara Rao, who had been in custody since 2018 in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, was granted medical bail for six months by the Bombay High Court. Rao was admitted to Mumbai’s Nanavati hospital for several ailments. “Even if such old-aged prisoners with various health conditions are accused of serious offences, the question is as to whether they can be forced to live a subhuman existence behind bars,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bail-for-varavara-rao/article33953131.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Media mischief||The Centre announced its draft rules for social media, OTT platforms and digital news media. Social media platforms will have to remove unlawful content within 36 hours of being notified. ‘Significant’ intermediaries — a term not precisely defined — will also be required to provide information about the “originators” of “mischievous” messages or tweets within 72 hours, potentially forcing platforms like WhatsApp to break their encryption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/media-mischief/article33953139.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Prez rules||The Union Cabinet and Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan recommended that President’s Rule be imposed in Puducherry. This followed the collapse of the Congress-DMK government, with the opposition unwilling to stake a claim. A spate of resignations by MLAs had reduced the government to a minority, and Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy (above) resigned after walking out of a confidence vote in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/prez-rules/article33953141.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi wicket||The Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad was renamed the Narendra Modi Stadium. President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the revamped venue — the largest cricket ground in the world, with capacity for 1,32,000 spectators — which will host its first international match next week when India takes on England. The two bowling ends are named ‘Reliance’ and ‘Adani’, prompting quips from Rahul Gandhi and other opposition leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/modi-wicket/article33953143.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Grand slammed||Novak Djokovic, tennis’s World No.1, crushed Daniil Medvedev in straight sets (7-5, 6-2, 6-2) to clinch the Australian Open for a record ninth time. This is the Serb’s 18th Grand Slam title, just two short of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, who have 20 each. It secures the 33-year-old’s spot as No.1 until at least March 8 — this means he’ll have at least 311 weeks at the top, surpassing Federer’s record of 310.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/grand-slammed/article33953133.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Disha gets bail||Climate change activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested by Delhi Police for editing a toolkit linked to the farmers’ protests, was granted bail by a Delhi court. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana said: “Citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies.” Co-accused Shantanu Muluk was later granted protection from arrest until March 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/disha-gets-bail/article33953137.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Face-off||Facebook reached a deal with the Australian government and agreed to restore the news pages it had taken down during a globally watched standoff over the country’s media code. The code, which aims to make online platforms pay publishers for sharing their news content, was amended and passed into law. The amendments were criticised for potentially allowing the government to exempt Google and Facebook from the code at its discretion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/face-off/article33953135.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Code Breaker||Walter Isaacson  Simon & Schuster  Rs. 899 Nobel Prize winner Jennifer Doudna and her collaborators turned a curiosity of nature into an invention that is expected to transform the human race: a tool that can edit DNA. Known as CRISPR, it opened up a world of miracles and moral questions. Isaacson profiles Doudna and her team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-code-breaker/article33953187.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Politician: Escaping the Life I Never Chose||Devesh Verma  Penguin Viking Rs. 599 Ram Mohan is an ambitious young man in newly independent India who refuses to be held down by his humble origins. He aims for things usually inaccessible to people of his class and is convinced of the efficacy of violence in helping him reach his aims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-politician-escaping-the-life-i-never-chose/article33953168.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Tainted: An Irish-Indian Love Story||Cauvery Madhavan  Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 The Irish Kildare Regiment is part of the army defending the British empire. In Nandagiri, Rose Twomey, an Irish-Indian, and Michael, a soldier from the Kildare Rangers, fall in love. As mutiny breaks out among Irish soldiers, the lovers are caught in the maelstrom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-tainted-an-irish-indian-love-story/article33953170.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Six and a Third Acres||Fakir Mohan Senapati, trs Leelawati Mohapatra, Paul St-Pierre,   K. K. Mohapatra  Aleph Book Company Rs. 399 Published between 1897-99, this is considered to be the first modern Odia novel. A classic foregrounding village politics, caste oppression, malpractices and land-grabbing under the zamindari system in colonial Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/six-and-a-third-acres/article33953172.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Her Right to Equality||Edited by Nisha Agrawal  Penguin Random House  Rs. 699 The fifth volume in theRethinking Indiaseries looks at gender equality in India. Writers explain why women control only about 10-15% of economic and political resources. One of the main reasons is social norms assign particular roles to men and women that are hard to change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/her-right-to-equality/article33953174.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Raj and Norah||Peter R. Kohli, Shaina Kohli Russo  HarperCollins India  Rs. 699 When World War II broke out in 1939, Rajendra Kohli was studying chemistry in England. He volunteered for the war and joined the army. Badly injured on the front, he found himself in Naples for treatment. There, he met Norah Elizabeth Eggleton, a nurse. This is their story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/raj-and-norah/article33953183.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Automobile: An Indian Love Affair||Gautam Sen  Viking/ Penguin Random House  Rs. 699 The founder ofIndian Automagazine traces the history of the automobile in India and the way it has shaped society for over a century. He also delves into the fascination Indians have for all matters automotive, such as motor racing, bikes and road movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-automobile-an-indian-love-affair/article33953185.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article33953129.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Is India witnessing the beginning of the second wave?||Six months after India witnessed a peak, a spike in daily fresh COVID-19 cases is seen in a handful of States, particularly in Maharashtra. From 10.9 million cases across India as on February 17, the cases shot up to 11 million on February 26, with daily cases staying above 13,000 from February 18 onwards and even almost touching 17,000 on February 24. From below 5%, the test positivity rate has suddenly shot up in Maharashtra – the seven-day average test positivity rate in the State as on February 26 was 9.5%; the national figure stands at 1.9%. Does the sharp rise in numbers suggest the beginning of a second wave in India? “No, the increase in daily cases is only a spike. It cannot be called as the beginning of a second wave, not even in Maharashtra,” says Dr. Giridhara Babu, Epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru and a member of the Karnataka COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. “There’s no strict definition for what a wave is; usually, epidemiologists refer to the second wave as a resurgence of infection in an area where the transmission had decreased to below the outbreak potential but is now continually increasing over a certain period.” Dr. Babu adds that the prerequisites for defining the second wave are that the first wave should have been contained — the reproduction number or R0 is below 1.5 and low rate of infection has been sustained for at least one month. Sharp criterion The cumulative test positivity rate below 5% is generally used as a criterion to decide the end of a wave. Any increase in the cumulative test positivity rate beyond 5% and cases show a steadily increasing trend for over two-three continuous weeks are used to define the beginning of a wave. The Karnataka COVID-19 task force also considered other criteria to define the beginning of a new wave – the seven-day average growth rate should be in excess of normal expectancy and where the test positivity rate doubles in a week despite there being no changes in the testing pattern, and hospitalisations double in the corresponding seven consecutive days. Also, the cases should be increasing steadily after crossing the basic reproduction rate (R0) more than 1.5. “Any of the above conditions that shows a steadily increasing trend for over two-three weeks is to be used to define the beginning of a new wave,” he says. Too early Referring to sudden spurt in daily cases in Maharashtra, he says it is a bit too early to call it as a second wave. “Yes, the number of cases starting to recede around mid-January, but there has been a spike in new cases in the last one week. We need to wait and see if it is sustained over the next one week at least. If there is sustained increase in cases along with either a doubling in hospitalisation or test positivity rate in a week then we can call it a second wave, at least in Maharashtra,” Dr. Babu explains.  Since millions have been infected by the first wave in India, and there have been no large surges in cases even during the festival season, winter and large gatherings, will India ever witness a second wave? “With the currently prevailing strains, I do not think that India, as a nation, will have a second wave bigger than the first wave. If anything, we will have second waves regionally in States, which may occur over a period, depending on compliance to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, testing levels and population movement. For instance, Delhi witnessed not one but three waves. But we may not see a sudden spurt in cases in the entire country all at once,” he adds. Third serosurvey The third serosurvey of ICMR found that only 21.5% of India (around 225 million people) has been exposed to the virus — and hence, a large population is still vulnerable to infection. Dr. Babu is not entirely convinced with the results of the third serosurvey. “There is a lot of uncertainty looming around how long the IgG antibodies can be detected. The evidence suggests that IgG estimation underestimates the overall level of protection in the community. This is corroborated by the higher level of antibodies seen in the serosurveys done in many metros, such as Mumbai and Delhi,” he says. “My own personal assessment is that we have had a greater number of infections in urban areas in the first wave. The threshold for population immunity might have been achieved in the densest settings, responsible for the greater number of cases in the first wave,” Dr. Babu adds. New variant But all these assumptions would prove wrong if a new variant that shows greater transmissibility either arises in India or those circulating in other countries spreads here. Dr. Babu says: “Newer variants, especially those capable of immune escape, can change everything we know, and this is the only way to have a second wave more devastating than the first wave. As of now, we have not seen such trends affecting India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/is-india-witnessing-the-beginning-of-the-second-wave/article33952603.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||IISER Kolkata scientists simulate Mars on the computer, suggest how it lost its atmosphere||A new and exciting field in astronomy to study exoplanets and gauge whether they possess conditions that will favour the presence and sustainability of life. In this quest, an important part is looking at our own celestial backyard to gain insights – hence the many missions to Mars and Venus probing for signs of past life. One thing that astronomers search for in exoplanets, in the so-called Goldilocks zone of habitability, is the existence of liquid water and an atmosphere like that on Earth. In this context it is believed by many that Mars once had such an atmosphere. The mechanism as to why it lost its atmosphere has remained in doubt. Scientists from Indian Institution for Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata suggest that it was the planet’s intrinsic magnetic dynamo which, by shielding its atmosphere from the sun’s solar wind, protected its atmosphere. When the magnetic dynamo switched off, the atmosphere slowly was eroded by the solar wind and eventually vanished, leaving the thin remnant we see today. These results have been published in the journal Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.  Two scenarios In the simulation, the researchers build a computer model of a Mars-like planet interacting with the plasma wind from a Sun-like star. They study two scenarios. In the first one, the planet has a magnetic dynamo and an intrinsic magnetosphere surrounding it. The physics is described by Maxwell’s equations – which describe electro-magnetic fields and their interactions with matter – in the presence of plasma. In a simulation, they mimic the Mars model with an intrinsic magnetosphere and allow a solar-wind like plasma to fall on the dayside of the planet. They run the model to simulate the interactions between the magnetized solar wind and Mars. In the second scenario, they modelled the same system but with no intrinsic magnetic field. The right track To ascertain that they are indeed on the right track, the researchers modelled the present day Mars, with no intrinsic magnetosphere. “We perform a simulation for present day Mars based on which we generate the magnetic environment around the planet. We find that this has good correspondence with observations from NASA Mars Global Surveyor and NASA Maven missions,” says Dibyendu Nandi from Center of Excellence in Space Sciences India (CESSI), in IISER Kolkata, in an email to The Hindu.  From the study, the scientists infer that when Mars had an intrinsic magnetosphere, it enveloped the planet like a shroud and shielded its atmosphere from the stripping effect of the solar wind. When the planet lost its intrinsic magnetosphere, only the imposed one due to the pileup of the solar wind remained. “This imposed magnetosphere was made of the Sun's magnetic fields which slips past Mars when the solar wind flows past it after impacting the day side,” explains Prof. Nandi. “So, there is a continuous slippage of magnetised plasma from the day-side to the night-side of Mars which also strips away the atmosphere of Mars slowly.” The computational models being developed in CESSI, in IISER Kolkata can be used to simulate and predict the space environment around planets, according to Prof. Nandi. “Thus these are particularly important to complement and aid in the interpretation of data from planetary space missions,” he says. “These simulations can also help in understanding how astrophysical space environments determine atmospheric evolution and thus habitability of planets and exoplanets,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iiser-kolkata-scientists-simulate-mars-on-the-computer-suggest-how-it-lost-its-atmosphere/article33952594.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Nanosheets help in the detection of uric acid in urine, alcohol in breath||Mass spectrometry is an importantat tool and has helped win several Nobel Prizes. It provides valuable information about the composition and structure of molecules and has found applications from drug testing to carbon dating. Using this, researchers can ionise or break down the compound into simple ions and then identify the molecules based on their masses. The current process of ionisation requires electrical potential of a few kilo volts, heat or high energy ultraviolet lasers (UV-lasers). But now, researchers have developed a new method of soft ionisation using nanosheets which eliminates the need for external energy sources completely. Sheet-like structures The team used a simple filter paper as a support material and coated this with 2D molybdenum disulphide (MoS2). “The 2D materials are sheet-like structures and graphene is a perfect example. You pull out sheets of carbon and create graphene. Similarly, this molybdenum disulphide was created as a thin sheet and spread on a paper. This modified paper produces an electric current when liquids flow over it,” explains Thalappil Pradeep from the Department of Chemistry at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras. He is the corresponding author of the work published last week in ACS Nano.  The team observed that a flow of pure methanol over the nanosheet generates a record-high current of 1.3 microampere. The sample to be tested can be mixed with this methanol, and the induced current helps make ions of the compound to be tested. The team then tested the device to measure uric acid. By simply flowing raw urine (about 5 microlitre) over the nanostructured surface and measuring the corresponding current (with no other stimulus), the team detected the uric acid in the urine of a healthy individual. They also demonstrated that the device can be used as a self-energised disposable sensor for breath alcohol detection. The device was modified in such a way that the breath of a drunken person can interact directly with the flowing liquid on the MoS2-coated surface. A volunteer who had consumed 650 mL of beer containing 9% (v/v) alcohol blew over the paper, and the corresponding current was measured. While standard breath analysers detect breath alcohol concentration above 5%, this device could detect even less than 3%. Many applications “The device can find many more applications: check glucose in blood, toxic chemicals in any liquid, pesticide or any contaminants in drinking water. The main plus point is that it can even detect very low levels. The current wet chemical or reagent-based methods are lengthy and require skilled labour. The new method is cost-effective, and all you need is simple paper coated with nanostructures. By just flowing the liquid and studying the spectrum, molecular detection has now been made simple and easy,” adds the first author of the paper Pallab Basuri, a PhD scholar at the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/nanosheets-help-in-the-detection-of-uric-acid-in-urine-alcohol-in-breath/article33952591.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||New light on rise of mammals||Scientists have documented the earliest-known fossil evidence of primates, an advance which sheds light on how life on land recovered after the extinction event 66 million years ago that wiped out the dinosaurs and led to the rise of mammals. The researchers, including those from the University of Washington in the US, analysed several fossils of Purgatorius – the oldest genus in a group of the earliest-known primates called plesiadapiforms.  Ancient mammals According to the study, published in the journal Royal Society Open Science, these ancient mammals were small-bodied and ate specialised diets of insects and fruits that varied by species. “This discovery is exciting because it represents the oldest dated occurrence of archaic primates in the fossil record,” said Stephen Chester, co-leader of the study from Brooklyn College in the U.S. “It adds to our understanding of how the earliest primates separated themselves from their competitors following the demise of the dinosaurs,” Chester said. The scientists analysed fossilised teeth found in the Hell Creek area of northeastern Montana in the U.S. which are now part of the collections at the University of California Museum of Paleontology.  Mass extinction event They are estimated to be 65.9 million years old, about 1,05,000 to 1,39,000 years after the mass extinction event. Based on the age of the fossils, the scientists said the ancestor of all primates, including the plesiadapiforms and modern day primates such as lemurs, monkeys and apes, likely lived alongside large dinosaurs. “It's mind blowing to think of our earliest archaic primate ancestors,” said study co-author Wilson Mantilla, a University of Washington (UW) professor of biology.  First to diversify “They were some of the first mammals to diversify in this new post-mass extinction world, taking advantage of the fruits and insects up in the forest canopy,” Mantilla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-light-on-rise-of-mammals/article33952592.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Man’s old friend||Did dogs migrate with humans to the Americas? A bone fragment discovered from southeast Alaska has now answered a few questions on dog migration into the Americas. Researchers found that the thigh bone belonged to a dog that lived in the region about 10,150 years ago. Scientists say the remains represent the oldest confirmed remains of a domestic dog in the Americas. Analysis of the mitochondrial genome revealed that the dog belonged to a lineage of dogs that diverged from Siberian dogs. Researchers (Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences) say in a release that this study provides not only the timing but also a location for the entry of dogs and people into the Americas. The study also supports the theory that this migration occurred just as coastal glaciers retreated during the last Ice Age. The researchers from University of Buffalo, New York, who studied the bone say that canines did not arrive in the Americas all at once. The researchers did not set out to study dogs. They came across the femur fragment while sequencing DNA from a collection of hundreds of bones excavated years before in southeast Alaska by other researchers. The bone fragment, originally thought to come from a bear, was quite small, but when the DNA was studied, the team realised it was from a dog. “Our early dog from southeast Alaska supports the hypothesis that the first dog and human migration occurred through the northwest Pacific coastal route instead of the central continental corridor,” Flavio Augusto da Silva Coelho notes in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/mans-old-friend/article33952593.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Super-spreaders and rise in COVID-19 cases||The story so far: Experts remain divided on the question of whether the slow yet steady rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the country over the last week of February is indicative of the onset of a ‘second wave’. But the Centre and some State governments are on the alert against the rising numbers and are reinforcing aggressive testing and proper social and hygiene protocols. In several States, some restrictions have come back into play, though in a watered-down form. What is happening around the globe? Globally, nations in Europe that witnessed a spike in May 2020 have slowly started emerging out of the grip of COVID-19. As the number of cases dropped, countries also let their guard down, opened up the economy, and resumed travel and near-normal activity. In the summer of 2020, people started travelling across Europe, eager to be released from the confinement and stress of the lockdown. In November, the second wave struck. Experts said every country in Europe that had managed to get away lightly with the first wave was nearly crippled by the second one. Even nations that had suffered badly initially, including Italy, were hit hard again. Hospitals started filling up, beds went scarce again, and the death rate started climbing. Stricter lockdowns were introduced, with curfews and restrictions on gatherings in public places; schools were shut down again, as governments struggled to cope with this new wave. In late 2020, the emergence of newer, mutated strains of the virus in Britain and South Africa meant a faster-spreading variant had established dominance in some countries. However, scientists said there was no evidence to show that the new British strain caused a more severe disease. Are cases growing in India? After infections peaked in September last year, cases across the country had been steadily declining, with the exception of Kerala, an outlier State that continued to see high numbers after having seen initial success in flattening the curve. However, in the last week of February this year, the trend reversed, with some States beginning to report higher numbers. While the overall rise was rather gradual, the average was skewed by high spikes in some districts in the States — particularly in Maharashtra and Punjab. The average increase was around 14,000 new infections per day and the upward trajectory began around the last week of February. Two States, Maharashtra and Punjab, led the increase in the number of cases, even as their testing numbers had dipped over the past few months. The Union Health Ministry said on Saturday nearly 86% of the over 16,400 cases recorded in the previous 24 hours were from six States and one Union Territory. The Cabinet Secretary chaired a review meeting with eight States and UTs that have shown a surge in infections recently, namely Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, West Bengal and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. What is causing the spike? “The spikes in Maharashtra were caused by a series of super-spreader events, or clusters,” said V. Ravi, nodal officer for Genomic Confirmation of SARS-CoV-2, government of Karnataka. He was speaking at a seminar organised recently by Neuberg Diagnostics on “Coronavirus — Variants and Vaccines”. The rise in the number of cases was not due to a variant of the virus with a tendency to transmit faster, but because of select super-spreader events, he said. V. Ramasubramanian, infectious diseases specialist at Apollo Hospitals and part of the Tamil Nadu task force on COVID-19, says, “With common sense, and looking at a little bit of history globally, a second wave could be down the line for India. I don’t see any reason why India shouldn’t have a second wave. However, the severity this time round may be milder.” In general, there seems to be an impression among people that the country is over the worst phase of the pandemic, and hence, many are letting their guard and masks down. During the previous surge, strict regulations imposed by States along with fines and penalties for violating protocols helped ensure compliance. However, with the seeming let-up in virus activity in terms of the number of positive cases being reported daily, safety measures were overlooked, possibly leading to the clusters that have pushed the numbers up again. There are others who believe that a ‘second wave’ is not really a wave, but more of a blip. In an interview to The Hindu , Manindra Agrawal, deputy director at IIT Kanpur and a leading mathematician involved with the National ‘Super Model’ initiative, said India is unlikely to see a second wave. He said based on the model, the cases would “at most rise to 11.3 million or 11.5 million infections by April 2021 — or about 300,000-500,000 new confirmed infections over the next 10 weeks (approximately)”. One reason for this, he said, could be the fact that 60% of India’s population had already been exposed to the virus and the country may have approached herd immunity. But the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), according to the third national serological survey conducted from December 17, 2020 to January 8, 2021, had reported that around 21% of Indians were estimated to have been exposed to COVID-19. Earlier, T. Jacob John, former Professor of Clinical Virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, had cited the consistently low number of cases in Tamil Nadu despite poor compliance and said that fewer people may be susceptible or vulnerable to catching the infection. What is the way ahead? “There are only two ways of getting immunity from the virus, one is getting infected, and the other is via a vaccine,” says Dr. Ravi. It is important to fast track the vaccine programme across the country, but testing is equally important. “Testing is the most powerful tool in our hands,” he says, and adds that contact tracing is key for disrupting the chain of transmission. The number of tests must go up again and contact tracing, ideally 20 persons for every case, should be taken up intently, he recommends. Experts call for a renewed emphasis on following safety protocols, such as wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining physical distance to fend off a possible ‘second wave’ or a sustained hike in the numbers. Draconian total lockdowns are no longer necessary, they add.  There are only two ways of getting immunity from the virus, one is getting infected, and the other is via a vaccine, say experts. Fast-tracking the vaccine programme and increasing the rate of testing are equally important||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/super-spreaders-and-rise-in-covid-19-cases/article33952518.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five municipal corporation wards go to the polls today||The stage is set for bypolls in five municipal wards in Delhi on Sunday with all three contenders -- the Aam Aadmi Party, BJP and the Congress -- exuding confidence of emerging victorious. The bypolls are being seen as the semifinal ahead of the civic body elections for 272 wards of three municipal corporations in early 2022. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday reviewed the law and order situation and security arrangements made for the by-elections.  According to the State Election Commission, around 2.42 lakh people are eligible to cast their votes in these municipal wards - Rohini-C, Shalimar Bagh (North), Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauan Banger. Voting will be held from 7.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The results will be announced on March 3, officials said, adding that there are 327 polling stations. Twenty-six candidates are contesting the elections. Officials said that COVID-19 patients can vote during the last hour of polling. During the crime review meeting, Mr. Shrivastava emphasised on keeping a sharp vigil on border areas in view of the elections and ongoing farmers’ protest.    Main candidates The AAP has claimed that it will make a clean sweep in the bypolls as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had asserted that the party can challenge the BJP while terming the Congress its “B team”. The main candidates in the bypolls are Dhirendra from AAP, Siyaram Kanojia from the BJP and Dharampal Maurya from the Congress in the Kalyanpuri ward. Vijay Kumar from the AAP, Om Prakash Gugarwal from the BJP and Bal Kishan are contesting from Trilokpuri ward. Former AAP MLA Haji Ishraq Khan is pitted against Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad of the Congress and Nazir Ansari of the BJP from Chauhan Bamgar ward. These three wards are under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. The AAP held these wards which were vacated after sitting councillors contested the Assembly polls last year and became MLAs. From the Shalimar Bagh North ward that fell vacant after the death of the BJP councillor, the contest is between Surbhi Jaju of the BJP, Sunita Mishra of the AAP and Mamta of the Congress. The Rohini-C ward will witness a contest between former Bawana MLA Ramchandra of the AAP, Rajesh Goyal of the BJP and Mewati Barwala of the Congress. The AAP and the BJP have been attacking each other over a range of issues, including corruption, during the campaigning. Earlier this week, senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha had alleged that the BJP, ruling the three municipal corporations, has turned the city into a “heap of garbage”. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that the party will win all the five wards. The Congress leaders have already appealed to Delhiites to vote for the party candidates in the by-elections. (With inputs from PTI)  Voting will be held from 7.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The results will be announced on March 3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-municipal-corporation-wards-go-to-the-polls-today/article33952834.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||New rules for social media, OTT platforms||The story so far: On Thursday, in a long-anticipated move, the government notified guidelines that seek to provide a grievance redressal mechanism for users of digital platforms of all kinds — social media sites, messaging apps, over-the-top (OTT) streaming services, and digital news publishers. The Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 also mandate that social media and messaging platforms will have to adhere to new requirements in assisting investigative agencies of the government. Launching the guidelines, Electronics and Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said they were a “soft-touch oversight” mechanism to deal with issues such as the persistent spread of fake news and other misinformation. Broadly, what do the new rules require digital platforms to do? Although there is no single set of rules that uniformly applies to the different kinds of digital platforms, the broad themes of the guidelines revolve around grievance redressal, compliance with the law, and adherence to the media code. Social media platforms like Google or Facebook, or intermediaries, for instance, will now have to appoint a grievance officer to deal with users’ complaints. There are additional requirements on ‘significant’ social media intermediaries — meaning the platforms whose registered users in India are above the threshold notified by the government. Such intermediaries have to appoint a ‘Chief Compliance Officer’, who will have to ensure that the rules are followed; the officer “shall be liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary”. The intermediaries will also have to appoint a nodal contact person for “24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies”. The other key requirement is that such a social media intermediary would have to “enable the identification of the first originator of the information on its computer resource” as may be required by a judicial order. In other words, a problematic message, that is considered “an offence related to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order, or of incitement to an offence relating to the above or in relation with rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material”, will have to be traced to its initiator on messaging applications like WhatsApp and Signal. For digital publishers of news and current affairs as well as video streaming services, an identical three-tier structure for grievance redressal has been mandated. This structure will look into grievances in relation to a Code of Ethics, which is listed in the appendix to the rules. Among other things, the Code of Ethics includes the ‘Norms of Journalistic Conduct’ as prescribed by the Press Council of India, as also content that shall not be published — “content which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force shall not be published or transmitted”, and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995. The guidelines also require streaming services to classify content based on its nature and type. So, for instance, content “for persons aged 16 years and above, and can be viewed by a person under the age of 16 years with parental guidance shall be classified as U/A 16+”. What is the context in which these rules have been framed? The question of stricter regulation of digital media has come up unceasingly in different forms and forums over the last few years. The issue came up last year when the Supreme Court was hearing a case involvingSudarshan TV. In the course of the case, it asked the government for suggestions to improve the self-regulatory mechanism for electronic media. The government, in its affidavit, highlighted the need to regulate web-based media. There has also been a face-off between the government and Twitter in recent weeks over the social media platform’s non-compliance with its order to block several hashtags and handles of journalists, activists and politicians in the backdrop of the ongoing farmers’ protests. Twitter eventually complied, though not fully. Questions about how social media platforms can be made accountable for the spread of fake news and pornographic content have been raised in Parliament and by the Supreme Court in recent years, something that has been highlighted by the government in its release as well. Taking all this into account, it was no surprise that such rules were being envisaged, but critics have said some of these guidelines will lead to restriction of free speech. There have been many controversies involving content on over-the-top platforms. In one such recent incident, two BJP leaders filed a case against the makers ofTandavfor hurting religious sentiments. There have been calls to censor content that appears on digital platforms. What has changed from earlier? The scope of regulation of the digital space has been expanded. The new guidelines not only replace the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011, but go a step further. They also regulate digital news publishers and streaming services, which was not the case earlier. The 2011 rules were a narrower set of guidelines for intermediaries. Under Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, the intermediaries are not liable for user-generated content, provided they adhere to the rules — “an intermediary shall not be liable for any third-party information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by him,” it states. These rules have been tightened now. Why are the rules being criticised? For digital news media, these guidelines will subject it to governmental regulation in a way. The three-tier structure of regulation will entail oversight by a government committee at the highest level. Any grievance that does not get satisfactorily solved at the self-regulatory levels will get escalated to the government panel. The Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), a digital liberties organisation, refers to this as “excessive governmental control over digital news and OTT content”. The other rule that has been criticised by the IFF is the requirement of traceability of the originator of a problematic message. The news guidelines do suggest that this will not be required “where other less intrusive means are effective in identifying the originator of the information”. They also suggest that in identifying the originator, “no significant social media intermediary shall be required to disclose the contents of any electronic message”. But the IFF reckons that the government has powers under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009, to make demands for the content of the messages. The rules have also been criticised for increasing the potential for censorship and surveillance.  There is no single set of rules that uniformly applies to the different kinds of digital platforms, but the broad themes of the guidelines revolve around grievance redressal, compliance with the law, and adherence to the media code||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-rules-for-social-media-ott-platforms/article33952522.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||On-duty Delhi police officer dies by suicide||A 55-year-old Delhi Police Assistant Sub Inspector-rank officer allegedly killed himself on Saturday morning while on duty. The police said that the officer was posted in the Police Control Room unit and was on duty near Zakhira flyover. “An information was received regarding the incident at Moti Nagar police station. When officials reached the hospital, they were informed that the ASI was brought in an unconscious state and there was an entry-exit wound in his body,” a senior officer said. The police said that the ASI was facing some issues at his residence and had also received a call from his house before he allegedly took the step. He had joined Delhi Police in 1986 and was residing in Ghaziabad. The police said that inquest proceedings have been initiated.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.   The ASI was facing some issues at his residence and had also received a call from his house before he allegedly took the step Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-duty-delhi-police-officer-dies-by-suicide/article33952835.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Ensure supply of treated water to public parks’||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to ensure supply of treated water to public parks and to stop extraction of groundwater for gardening purposes. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson, Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, noted that while steps were reported to have been taken, it was to be ensured that freshwater was not used for gardening purposes in public parks by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). “The DJB may ensure supply of such treated water with adequate pressure and wherever piped supply is not available, supply may be ensured by tankers,” the Bench said. The Bench added, “DPCC [Delhi Pollution Control Committee]s may monitor similar action by other agencies in Delhi owning parks and by bulk users, including other municipal corporations for adopting a similar course of action to save drinking water for drinking purposes to fulfil the basic need of maximum people.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a petition, which sought execution of a 2017 order directing the DDA and civic bodies to use treated sewage water for gardening purposes instead of groundwater. The plea had contended that treated water should be used for maintenance of greenery in the Vasant Kunj area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-supply-of-treated-water-to-public-parks/article33952827.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Engine trouble||The story so far: Regulatory moves have come into effect following an “uncontained engine failure” on a United Airlines Boeing 777 during a scheduled domestic flight in the United States. Dozens of Boeing 777 aircraft with a Pratt and Whitney engine variant have been grounded and subjected to further checks. What happened to the United Airlines flight? On February 20, 2021, Flight UA 328, from Denver to Honolulu, with over 200 passengers and 10 crew had just departed and was in the initial climb phase, when the inlet on the right turbofan engine, a Pratt and Whitney PW4077 build, separated in what is technically known as an engine failure event. The crew stopped the climb, levelled off the aircraft, and declared an emergency. The plane touched down safely within 25 minutes of take-off. The engine failure was a dramatic event with many eyewitnesses on the ground, as debris rained down on some neighbourhoods under its flight path. There were police reports of the debris field extending to over one nautical mile. This is being investigated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Some of the passengers also filmed the remains of the engine wobbling on the engine pylon in a fiery blaze. The FAA and the NTSB have determined that there was damage to the engine and the fuselage of the plane (a machine a little over 26 years old) as well as an inflight engine fire. The initial examination has shown up two stressed and fractured blades. How common is engine failure? Given the technological advances made by engine manufacturers, the modern jet engine seldom fails, says a senior Boeing 777 pilot. Nevertheless, there have been events. In recent examples, on February 26, a Rossiya cargo Boeing 777 flight on the Hong Kong-Moscow-Madrid sector had an engine electronic control issue in one of its General Electric (GE) engines while it was about to land. The plane touched down in Moscow without any further eventuality. In 2018, a United Airlines Boeing 777 flight had a fan blade fracture. Some of the blade debris impacted the fuselage, but the aircraft was safe. In 2017, an Air France Airbus A380 had an extreme engine failure that left behind only a metal stub. Experts determined this to be an “uncontained failure”. However, the most dramatic incident occurred in November 2010, when a Qantas Airbus A380 with 459 passengers and crew on a scheduled flight from London to Sydney via Singapore experienced engine failure in one of its four Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines just after leaving Singapore. At that time, it was the first-of-its-kind incident involving the Airbus A380. After the aircraft returned to Singapore safely, inspections showed that a turbine disc in the number two engine had disintegrated, in turn damaging a part of the wing, fuel system, landing gear and destroying some of the flight and engine controls. It was eventually traced to a manufacturing defect in an oil pipe. What are the kinds of engine failure? Engines are designed to handle issues such as damaged blades and bird hits. Engine failure, in general, is classified as contained or uncontained. In the first, even if engine components disintegrate or separate, they remain within the engine, or as designed by the engine manufacturer, exit the engine case. In the second, there is a “random, violent event, and one that is usually beyond the design parameters”. Damaged components can pose a danger to the aircraft, its fuselage, and in some cases, as in a four-engine aircraft, threaten the adjacent engine. They can affect crucial flight and engine control systems and, in turn, passengers and crew and also people on the ground. After the United Airlines incident, what are the regulatory measures now? On February 21, Boeing, the aircraft manufacturer, said it has recommended “suspending operations of the 69 in-service and 59 in-storage 777s powered by Pratt & Whitney 4000-112 engines until the FAA identifies the appropriate inspection protocol”. In an initial statement, FAA administrator Steve Dickson said the FAA had issued an Emergency Airworthiness Directive that would need immediate or enhanced inspections of Boeing 777s with certain Pratt & Whitney PW4000 engine variants. In an Emergency Airworthiness Directive issued on February 24, the FAA now requires U.S. operators to conduct immediate thermal acoustic image (TAI) inspection of the engine blades for the PW4074/D, 4077/D, 4084/D and 4090/-3 engines. It says TAI technology can detect cracks on the interior surfaces of hollow fan blades, or in areas that cannot be seen during a visual inspection. The hollow fan blades are unique to this engine model. Cracks in the blades can be a problem and airlines use technologies such as ultrasound to detect such fissures. So far, Japan, New Zealand and the United Kingdom have stopped operators using the Boeing 777 with this engine variant from entering their airspace. Will the directive affect India? Flag carrier Air India, which is the only Boeing 777 operator in India, uses GE-manufactured engines (GE90). The two new Boeing 777 aircraft for the transportation of India’s VVIPs are also unaffected as they, too, have GE engines.  Air India, which is the only Boeing 777 operator in India, uses General Electric-manufactured engines. The two new Boeing 777 aircraft for the transportation of India’s VVIPs also use GE engines||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/engine-trouble/article33952520.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Raise voice for Shiv Kumar’s release from jail’||A day after she was granted bail, labour rights activist Naudeep Kaur on Saturday urged people to raise voice for the release of Shiv Kumar, who is a co-accused in criminal cases registered against Ms. Kaur. Mr. Kumar, president of Majdoor Adhikar Sanghathan, was held a few days after the arrest of Ms. Kaur. She was arrested on January 12 in connection with a case filed under attempt to murder and some other charges, including allegedly gherao of an industrial unit and demanding money from the company. “Kumar is in jail even today. No one is talking about him. He is innocent. He was severely beaten up by the police and his bones are broken. I request people to raise voice for his bail as well,” Ms. Kaur said during a press conference at Singhu border. A medical examination of Mr. Kumar conducted by a Chandigarh-based hospital has found two fractures on his hand and foot along with some broken nail beds on his toe. Ms. Kaur’s arrest received global attention after Meena Harris, the niece of American Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted saying the activist was arrested and tortured in police custody. Ms. Kaur, who rejoined the farmers’ protest at Singhu border on Saturday, said the movement has space for everyone to contribute, whether it is farmers or workers. Ms. Kaur also accused the police of beating her up in the custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/raise-voice-for-shiv-kumars-release-from-jail/article33952822.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||Poll commission issues show-cause notice to 3 officers over circle rate ad||The State Election Commission has issued a show-cause notice to Principal Secretary (Revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar and two officers of the Directorate of Information and Publicity seeking their reply on an advertisement about 20% reduction in circle rates in the city on the eve of the civic bypolls. In the notice issued to Mr. Khirwar, DIP secretary Padmini Singla and director Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, the panel said that prima facie the advertisement violates the model code of conduct.  On Saturday, an advertisement on the Delhi government’s recent decision on 20% reduction in circle rates appeared in several newspapers. “It has come to the notice of the Commission that an advertisement is published in various national newspapers just before the day of poll at the cost of public exchequer for publicity regarding achievements with a view to furthering the prospects of the party in power,” the notice stated. It also stated, “The Commission is, prima facie, of the view that by the said advertisement, the provision of the Model Code of Conduct has been violated.”  It has come to the notice of the commission that an ad was published on the eve of the bypolls at the cost of the public exchequer for publicity regarding achievements with a view to furthering the prospects of the party in power State Election Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/poll-commission-issues-show-cause-notice-to-3-officers-over-circle-rate-ad/article33952823.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Switch Delhi’ campaign to sensitise Delhi on EVs||The third week of the Delhi government’s ‘Switch Delhi’ electric vehicle campaign focused on sensitising Delhiites on the benefits of electric four-wheelers along with the incentives that EV adopters can avail under the government’s EV policy. According to the Delhi government, since the launch of the Delhi EV policy in August 2020, 465 new EV four-wheelers have been registered and more are being registered every day. Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said, “Incentives of up to Rs. 3 lakh are provided under Delhi EV policy, which includes 1.5 lakh subsidy, registration, and road tax exemption. This is the highest subsidy in India and makes the total cost of ownership of an electric car in Delhi the same as a diesel car.” The government said subsidies provided on electric cars under the Delhi EV policy are reducing the total cost of ownership of electric cars by up to 30%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/switch-delhi-campaign-to-sensitise-delhi-on-evs/article33952825.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 243 new virus cases, 3 deaths||Delhi witnessed 243 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,39,092, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the fourth consecutive day that 200 or more cases have been reported here. Three deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,909. A total of 67,484 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,26,876 people have recovered and there are 1,307 active cases in the city at present. There was no vaccination on Saturday and it will now continue from Monday. Though the Centre has announced that vaccination for general public will start from Monday, the Delhi government is yet to issue any orders on it. The Union Health Department on Saturday said that private hospitals functioning as COVID-19 vaccination centres can charge a maximum of Rs. 250 per person per dose. On January 13, CM Arvind Kejriwal had said that the Delhi government would provide free vaccination to residents of Delhi if the Centre fails to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-reports-243-new-virus-cases-3-deaths/article33952831.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mother-son attacked by group of minors||A 22-year-old youth and his mother were attacked by a group of minors in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh on Friday when the youth’s parents objected to them making noise. A case has been registered, police said. The police said that the victim, Moin, a resident of DDU camp, stated that four minors, all residents of DDU camp, were making noise and when his parents objected, they attacked the mother and the son. Both the injured were taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, the police said, adding that a case has been registered. During probe, it was revealed that all the accused are minors and are absconding. Teams have been formed to nab them, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mother-son-attacked-by-group-of-minors/article33952832.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 hired for Sushil Pandit’s murder held||Two persons, who were allegedly asked to kill human rights activist and noted speaker Sushil Pandit, have been arrested, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said that the accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh (25) and Lakhan (21), both residents of Faridkot. “They were promised Rs. 10 lakh if they assassinate Mr. Pandit, who is a human rights activist and the CEO of Hive Communications India Private Limited. They were also provided four pistols, four live cartridges and Mr. Pandit’s photograph,” Mr. Singh said. The police said that the two were sent to Delhi at the behest of one Prince alias Tutti who is Lakhan’s childhood friend and also facing murder trial in Faridkot. The police said that “considering the nature of the case and that foreign hand may be involved in the case”, it has been transferred to Special Cell unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-hired-for-sushil-pandits-murder-held/article33952833.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police attempt to trace scribe accused in rape case||A Delhi Police team has reached Mumbai to arrest a journalist accused in a rape case reported in central Delhi last week, said a senior officer on Saturday On February 23, a 22-year-old woman alleged that she was raped by a man in a hotel room in Chanakyapuri. The victim is known to the 28-year-old accused from past three years. He allegedly took her to his hotel room where he forced himself on her. Later, the girl managed to escape and reported the incident at Chanakyapuri police station. The team, which arrived in Mumbai three days ago, has been unable to trace the accused so far. He has also switched off his phones, said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-attempt-to-trace-scribe-accused-in-rape-case/article33952919.ece
28 February 2021||New Delhi,||AAP making sensational claims: Bidhuri||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday accused the Aam Aadmi Party of “reducing the level of politics” in the city by allegedly lying about issues on a daily basis. “The AAP is making sensational claims daily despite many of the previous ones falling flat. From allegations about the reduction of his security cover, to the alleged price at which the BJP was allocated land for its State office, the AAP makes one sensational claim after another without any proof,” he alleged. “Not only is the party spoiling its own image but is reducing the level of politics,” Mr. Bidhuri added. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta met the family of a girl who was allegedly kidnapped from her Kalyanpuri residence and murdered earlier this week, to offer condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-making-sensational-claims-bidhuri/article33952828.ece
28 February 2021||February 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Going strong||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/going-strong/article33952830.ece
28 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for killing wife after drunken brawl||A 35-year-old man allegedly killed his wife following a drunken brawl in Rohini’s Budh Vihar on Friday night, the police said, adding that the accused has been arrested. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Jeetender Meena said that the accused has been identified as Chetan Prakash Solanki, a driver by profession, and his wife was identified as Geeta. The police said that a call was received at 10.45 p.m. on Friday regarding a fight between a couple in Budh Vihar Phase-I. When Vijay Vihar police reached the spot, both the husband and the wife were unconscious. “They were both rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital where Geeta was declared brought dead and the husband was admitted,” Mr. Meena said. A senior police officer said that during probe, it was found that the husband had beaten the woman to death and she had also retaliated. “They both used to fight often after the husband would get drunk. He also used to beat her regularly,” the officer said. Based on Geeta’s brother’s statement, a caseunder Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-killing-wife-after-drunken-brawl/article33952836.ece
