01-05-2021||New Delhi||Enough is enough, says Delhi HC after 12 deaths in Batra Hospital||Taking note of 12 deaths at Batra Hospital in the national capital due to lack of oxygen supply, the Delhi High Court on Saturday directed the Centre to supply 490 MT of allocated oxygen to Delhi during the day itself by whatever means or face contempt of court action. “Water has gone over our head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough,” a visibly upset Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said.“We direct the Central Government to ensure that NCT of Delhi receives its allocated supply of 490 MT positively today, by whatever means,” the Bench ordered. As Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma requested deferment of the order till Monday or at least for 30 minutes, the Bench said “Do you mean we will shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi?”It said, “Considering the fact that Delhi is not an industrial state, and does not have availability of cryogenic tankers of its own which could be requisitioned under the Disaster Management Act—like other states have done, it falls upon the central government to arrange the tankers as well, so that the allocation made to Delhi could be fulfilled, lest it remains only a paper allocation.” “The central government shall ensure availability of cryogenic tankers as well for the said supply,” it said, posting the matter for further hearing on Monday.The high court noted that the allocation to Delhi, which was earlier of 480 MT (since April 20), and now was 490 MT has not been fulfilled even for a single day. “In case, this order is not implemented, the concerned officers of the central government viz. Mr. Piyush Goyal and Ms. Sunita Dawra shall remain present during the hearing on 03.05.2021. Looking at the situation, we make it clear that we may even consider initiating Contempt Proceedings in case of non-compliance,” the HC said. Earlier, senior counsel Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi government, submitted that while Delhi’s demand was 700MT, allocated oxygen was 490MT, out of which the suppliers had made a voluntary commitment of supply of 445MT. The quantity on Delhi border, for today, was 312 MT only, a shortfall of over 100 MT, he added.“Our tankers are not given priority. There is no timing or schedule given to us. We are dealing in SOS even today. My officers will have a mental breakdown”, he said.The HC also sought data on daily COVID-19 admissions and discharges from government and private hospitals in the capital since April 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/enough-is-enough-says-delhi-hc-after-12-deaths-in-batra-hospital-246842
01-05-2021||New Delhi||Depleting water level in Yamuna may affect supply, hit hospitals in Delhi: Raghav Chadha to Haryana CM||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha on Saturday said depleting water level in the Yamuna river is leading to a shortage of drinking water in several parts of Delhi and may also affect hospitals in the city in the coming days.He urged Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to release more raw water into the Yamuna so that sufficient drinking water is available for the national capital.The water level at Wazirabad pond has dipped to 667.20 feet from the normal level of 674.5 feet as Haryana has been releasing less raw water into the river, Chadha said.The water from Wazirabad pond is drawn for treatment at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal treatment plants."The water production at the three WTPs has reduced due to depleting water levels in the Yamuna. This is leading to a shortage of water supply in several residential areas. It can also affect hospitals in Delhi in the coming days. Please help Delhi in times of coronavirus," he tweeted in Hindi.    Drinking water supply has been hit in parts of Central Delhi, North Delhi, South Delhi, West Delhi due to decreasing water levels in the river, the DJB said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/depleting-water-level-in-yamuna-may-affect-supply-hit-hospitals-in-delhi-raghav-chadha-to-haryana-cm-246779
01-05-2021||New Delhi||Be  cooperative , Supreme Court tells Delhi||Amid an ongoing blame game between the Centre and Delhi Government over shortage of oxygen for hospitals in the national capital, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the AAP Government to adopt a cooperative attitude in getting essential medicines and oxygen supply to Covid-19 patients.“Please adopt a cooperative attitude at the time of a humanitarian crisis. A spirit of dialogue. Politics is during elections and not at the present situation,” a Bench led by Justice DY Chandrachud told the Delhi Government counsel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/be-cooperative-supreme-court-tells-delhi-246689
