02-05-2021||New Delhi||Ensure medicines, equipment for COVID not sold above MRP: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Sunday directed the Delhi government to ensure that medicines and equipment like oxygen cylinders and concentrators needed for COVID-19 treatment not be sold above the maximum retail price (MRP).A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli directed the government to book those persons found hoarding or black-marketing medicines and equipment related to COVID-19 and be brought before the court for taking independent contempt action against them.The direction was issued after the court was informed by some lawyers that there was rampant overcharging of medicines and equipment. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/ensure-medicines-equipment-for-covid-not-sold-above-mrp-hc-to-delhi-govt-247298
02-05-2021||New Delhi||COVID-19: Delhi University defers final-year exams||Delhi University has decided to defer final year examinations amid rising COVID-19 cases in the city, officials said on Sunday.The final year and final semester exams were supposed to begin from May 15 but will now begin from June 1. They will be in online mode and held in the open book format.“We held a meeting on Saturday with all the heads of the departments and deans. The meeting was chaired by the vice-chancellor. It was decided that the exams be postponed to June 1,” D S Rawat, Dean of Examinations, DU, said.Rawat said the decision on exams for intermediate semesters will be taken later.Teachers and students have been demanding the deferment of exams and even cancellation.The Delhi University Teachers’ Association had written to acting vice-chancellor Professor PC Joshi over the issue.“... the University must take a sensitive view of the situation that students and teachers find themselves in - no one is in a position to write or conduct examinations at this moment.“Hence, we request you to consider cancelling examinations for all students and decide upon alternative means to evaluate students. Deadlines for submission of internal assessment must be extended,” they had said in a letter dated April 30. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-delhi-university-defers-final-year-exams-247289
02-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi health minister’s father succumbs to COVID-19, CM Kejriwal tweets||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain has lost his father to COVID-19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday.“Our health minister Satyendra Jain lost his father today to COVID,” he said, terming it “very very sad”.“Satyendra himself has been working tirelessly round the clock for the people of Delhi. God bless his soul and my heartfelt condolences to the family,” Kejriwal added in his tweet.Our health minister Satyendra Jain lost his father today to COVID. V v sad. Satyendra himself has been working tirelessly round the clock for the people of Delhi.God bless his soul and my heartfelt condolences to the family.  Jain, who himself had tested positive for COVID-19 in June last year, recovered after his treatment at a private hospital in the national capital.Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also expressed his condolences over Jain’s father’s death. “My close friend and colleague in Delhi Govt Satyendr Jain @SatyendarJain has lost his father. It’s a very sad news for all of us in this tough time. May his soul rest in peace. Om shanti,” Sisodia tweeted.                     Delhi recorded its highest 412 COVID-19 fatalities in a day and 25,219 new instances of the infection with a case positivity rate of 31.61 per cent on Saturday, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-health-ministers-father-succumbs-to-covid-19-cm-kejriwal-tweets-247287
02-05-2021||---||Enough is enough, ensure oxygen supply, Delhi High Court directs Centre||New Delhi, May 1Taking note of 12 deaths at Batra Hospital in the capital due to lack of oxygen supply, the Delhi High Court on Saturday directed the Centre to supply 490 MT of allocated oxygen to Delhi by whatever means or face action for contempt of court.“Water has gone over our head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough,” a visibly upset Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said.Oxygen shortage: Delhi's Madhukar Rainbow Children Hospital raises alarm, says 50 lives at risk“We direct the central government to ensure that NCT of Delhi receives its allocated supply of 490 MT during the day itself,” the Bench ordered.As Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma requested deferment of the order till Monday or at least for half-hour, the Bench said “Do you mean we shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi?”12 die as Delhi’s Batra Hospital runs out of oxygen, many criticalIt said, “Considering the fact that Delhi is not an industrial state, and does not have availability of cryogenic tankers of its own which could be requisitioned under the Disaster Management Act – like other states have done, it falls upon the Centre to arrange the tankers as well, so that the allocation made to Delhi could be fulfilled, lest it remains only a paper allocation.” “The Centre shall ensure availability of cryogenic tankers as well for the said supply,” it said, posting the matter for further hearing on Monday.“In case, this order is not implemented, the officers concerned — Piyush Goyal and Sunita Dawra — shall remain present during the hearing on May 3. Looking at the situation, we make it clear that we may even consider initiating contempt proceedings in case of non-compliance,” the HC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/enough-is-enough-ensure-oxygen-supply-delhi-high-court-directs-centre-246903
02-05-2021||---||12 die as Delhi’s Batra Hospital runs out of oxygen, many critical||New Delhi, May 1Tragedy struck Delhi once again on Saturday with 12 critically ill Covid patients dying at Batra Hospital after it ran out of oxygen amid cripplingly grim supply situation.Among those dead was Dr MK Himthani, a senior gastroenterologist and head of department at the health facility. The hospital said many more patients were on the edge as they had remained without oxygen for over 80 minutes today.Hospital executive director Sudhanshu Bankata claimed he had been pleading for oxygen replenishment since 7 am today. He said he wanted this “torture to end”. “Eight patients died for want of oxygen initially. The toll has climbed to 12. Our senior gastroenterologist Dr MK Himthani too succumbed to the virus. I hope this situation does not arise again,” he said.Bankata, in a grim prophecy, said more patients could die as supplies remained weak. “Let’s hope and pray that this torture and trial by fire ends soon. We have 230 patients on high flow oxygen and all of them were without oxygen for over 80 minutes,” he said.Against daily 7 MT oxygen requirement, Batra Hospital has been receiving 4.9 MT. It has faced this situation for the second time in a week.Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown for another week till May 10 (5 am) saying the daily infections were still above 25,000 and this needed to be controlled. The capital has been under lockdown since April 19.Kejriwal again demanded allocated liquid oxygen quota for the state saying the demand was 976 MT daily and the state only received 312 MT yesterday. “How will Delhi breathe with such low supplies,” the CM said even as the Centre raised Delhi’s allocation from 490 to 590 MT a day from today.Another tragedyApril 23, 2021: 25 die at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi due to oxygen shortageApril 24: 20 choked to death at Jaipur Golden Hospital319 MT Delhi’s daily oxygen supply976 MT needed daily, claims Delhi govt657 MT shortageNo PSA plant in a yearDelhi’s oxygen crisis has been building up since last year. The state failed to operationalise any of the 8 pressure swing adsorption plants sanctioned under PM Cares Fund||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/12-die-as-delhis-batra-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-many-critical-246901
02-05-2021||---||35-year-old Delhi doctor ends life, leaves behind ‘wishes’ for friends||New Delhi, May 1In a tragic development on Saturday, a 35-year-old doctor at Max Saket hospital here died by suicide leaving behind a note mentioning good wishes for family and friends amid Covid surge.The suicide note was silent on the cause of the extreme step Vivek Rai took, said the Delhi police, which is continuing further probe as health systems remain stretched to a limit amid an alarming Covid surge.The police said “a suicide note addressed to family and friends was found. In the note the deceased has wished well for all his known persons. No reason for suicide has been mentioned. Further probe continues,” the cops said.The information regarding the suicide was received at police station Malviya Nagar at 11.16 pm last night and the caller said her a friend’s husband was not opening his room door.After receiving the information ASI Jagdish Kumar reached the Malviya Nagar house and found Vivek Rai hanging from a ceiling fan with a saree. The crime team was called at the spot and the scene was inspected.The cops said the suicide notice did not make any allegation against anybody.The body was shifted to AIIMS mortuary and post-mortem of the deceased was done.Some of the deceased doctor’s friends however took to Twitter to say he was under tremendous pressure from looking after Covid patients in the ICU all the time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/35-year-old-delhi-doctor-ends-life-leaves-behind-wishes-for-friends-246849
02-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi CM announces extension of lockdown till May 10||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by another week on Saturday amid a sudden surge in COVID-19 cases as the national capital battles an acute shortage of beds and medical oxygen in its hospitals.“Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one week,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.The lockdown that was scheduled to be in force till 5 am on Monday now stands extended by another week till May 10.Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one week  The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in its order on the extension of the lockdown, stated that a review of the pandemic situation showed that the numbers of positive cases, positivity rate as well as bed occupancy (oxygen-supported or ICU beds) in the dedicated COVID-19 hospitals are very high.“...therefore, in order to contain the spread of the virus and break the transmission chain, the curfew needs to be extended for another week in the territory of NCT of Delhi (except for essential activities and services),” it said.In view of the spiralling number of fresh COVID cases and a high positivity rate, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government imposed the lockdown in Delhi on April 19. It was subsequently extended by a week on April 25.The DDMA has directed to extend the curfew (lockdown) on the movement of individuals (except for essential activities and services) till 5 am on May 10 or further orders, whichever is earlier.The COVID situation in the national capital is extremely grim as the festering crisis due to the shortage of oxygen claimed 12 lives in the Batra hospital on Saturday, even as the Centre and the city government are involved in a blame game.The number of fresh COVID cases is still soaring, despite the lockdown.The number of positive cases in a 24-hour period stood at over 27,000 with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent and 375 deaths, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin on Friday.“We will have to watch the situation for a few more days whether the number of cases decreases or increases,” Kejriwal had said on the first extension of the lockdown.Chamber of Trade and Industry chairman Brijesh Goyal said 65 per cent of the traders are in favour of an extension of the lockdown.Community platform LocalCircles said 75 per cent respondents in a survey conducted by it in the national capital favoured extending the lockdown.Many believe that till Delhi goes back to a daily caseload of 10,000 and a test positivity rate of less than 10 per cent, the lockdown would be needed, LocalCircles chairman Sachin Taparia said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-cm-announces-extension-of-lockdown-till-may-10-246821
