10-05-2021||---||400-bed facility opens at  Rakab Ganj  Sahib today||New Delhi, May 9The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) today said its Covid care facility at the Rakab Ganj Gurdwara would open tomorrow and have 400 beds to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur.The facility will be equipped with oxygen concentrators and also have its own ambulances. No money will be charged from patients for medicines, oxygen or food. “The donations made by the ‘sangat’ (Sikh community) are sufficient,” said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa at a press conference.Big B donates Rs 2 crThe local district magistrate would be the nodal officer for the government while DSGMC general secretary Harmeet Singh Kalka would be coordinator of the facility, which initially planned to have 250 beds. For emergency and ICU care services, the facility will be attached to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.The Bhai Lakhi Shah Vanjara community hall at the historic gurdwara has been converted into a makeshift hospital. Asked if the committee was planning to seek from the Delhi Police the oxygen concentrators seized from hoarders, Sirsa said there was no place in the shrine for goods recovered from black-marketeers.Among several donors, the DSGMC boss thanked Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan for giving an aid of Rs 2 crore for setting up the facility. Bachchan’s mother Tejwant Kaur Suri, known as Teji Bachchan, was born into a Sikh family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/400-bed-facility-opens-at-rakab-ganj-sahib-today-250632
10-05-2021||New Delhi||Traders body CAIT demands financial support to lockdown affected||Domestic traders body CAIT body on Sunday urged the Delhi government to give financial assistance to the traders community which has been hit by Covid-19 induced lockdown.“The shops and markets are closed and there is no inflow of money whereas the outflow of money continues in terms of meeting family and establishment expenses like salary of the employees, electricity bills, water bills, property tax, payment of EMIs, interest on loans etc,” the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said in a statement.It added that since traders are the tax collectors for the government, “we have a right to demand such financial facilities”.The confederation has urged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to give financial assistance to traders. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/traders-body-cait-demands-financial-support-to-lockdown-affected-250386
10-05-2021||New Delhi||400-bed Rakab Ganj COVID facility opens on Monday||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) announced on Sunday that the Covid-care facility at Rakab Ganj Gurdwara opens May 10 and will have 400 beds to mark the 400th anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. It will all facilities, complete with oxygen concentrators, doctors, paramedics and own ambulances. No money will be charged from patients, all medicines, oxygen and food would be free. The donations made by the Sangat (community) are enough, said DSGMC President Manjinder Singh Sirsa at a press conference.The facility was planned for 250 beds, however, the Delhi Government has promised all help. It will now have 400 beds. The local District Magistrate is the nodal officer for the government while DSGMC General Secretary Harmit Singh Kalka will be coordinating the facility.For emergency and ICU care services, the Rakab Ganj facility will be attached to the  Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.On being asked if the DSGMC was planning to seek the oxygen concentrators caught by Delhi police from hoarders, Sirsa said “we don’t want such ill-gotten things of black marketeers in our Gurdwara”.Among several donors, the DSGMC chief thanked movie star Amitabh Bachchan for having donated Rs 2 crore for creation of the facility. Sirsa said Bachchan had been assured him not to worry on money part and asked just to save most number of lives. Bachhan’s mother Tejwant Kaur Suri – known as Teji Bacchan – was born into a Sikh Family.  Yesterday,  Sirsa had tweeted to thank film-maker Rohit Shetty for his donation.Delhi-based philanthropist Vikramjit Singh Sahney of the World Punjabi Organisation has donated 200 oxygen concentrators to the facility, Sirsa thanked him too.  The Bhai Lakhi Shah Vanjara community Hall at historic Gurdwara Rakab Ganj has been converted into a makeshift facility. The Gurdwara is located in central Delhi and stands at the place where Guru Tegh Bahadur was cremated.He often said;“आप पैसों की चिंता मत कीजिए... बस कोशिश करिये कि हम ज़्यादा से ज़्यादा जानें बचा पाएँ!”@SrBachchan Ji contributed a huge Amt & also took the pain to ensure oxygen concentrators get shipped frm abroad & reach on timeHe is not just a REEL Hero but a Real life Hero https://t.co/5NEFgsZid5 pic.twitter.com/DA1onuT4RE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/400-bed-rakab-ganj-covid-facility-opens-on-monday-250362
10-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended by another week||The ongoing lockdown in Delhi will be extended for another week up to May 17 morning and Metro train services will be halted during the period, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday.He said although COVID-19 cases have come down in the last few days, but any slackness would squander the gains achieved so far in the current wave of the pandemic.The Delhi government had been forced to impose lockdown amid a steep rise in COVID-19 cases on April 20. Although, the cases have come down and positivity rate has reduced from the high of 35 per cent on April 26 to around 23 per cent now, but strictness is needed, he said.Also read: The lockdown scheduled to end at 5 am on Monday will now be extended up to May 17 morning.The chief minister also said that oxygen supply in Delhi has improved significantly in the last few days. Vaccination is also going on at a fast pace although there is lack of adequate vaccine stock, Kejriwal said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-lockdown-extended-by-another-week-250328
