13-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi school sets up walk-in ‘oxygen cafes’ for COVID patients||A prominent private school in Delhi has set up walk-in ‘oxygen cafes’ where coronavirus patients can sit for a few hours, get oxygen and go back home only after their condition improves, the dean of the institute, which also has a COVID care centre, said on Thursday.However, if the doctors find the symptoms of the patient to be severe, they are then referred to the COVID care centre on the top floor, he said. A COVID care centre was opened at Mount Carmel School recently by converting its auditorium and classrooms into a 100-bed facility where patients with mild symptoms can be admitted.The centre has been named ‘The Vijay Williams COVID Care Centre’ as a tribute to the founder of the school and Williams’ father, who lost his battle to coronavirus earlier this month.“They (patients) feel positive. They sit, get oxygen for a few hours as doctors monitor them and as soon as their oxygen levels improve, they leave. This makes them much more relaxed,” said Williams.He said four classrooms of the school have been converted into ‘oxygen cafes’, and oxygen concentrators and cylinders are kept there.   “There are lots of patients who need oxygen right away. They walk in, the doctors assess them, they receive the initial burst of oxygen, which helps alleviate mild symptoms.“If the doctors find the symptoms to be severe, the patients are sent to the COVID care centre on the top floor, where they are monitored 24X7,” he said.Williams said they are in talks with all minority Christian schools to set up facilities for COVID patients.“Many of the schools are looking at it. Lots of people from their administration are coming to our school to see. Some of them are trying to send volunteers who can work with us for a few days. We are encouraging all schools. Anybody can send volunteers, so that they can gain some expertise,” he said.The oxygen plants are also likely to be set up inside the school premises over the weekend. Williams said they are hoping that it can be “up and running” by either Monday or Tuesday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-school-sets-up-walk-in-oxygen-cafes-for-covid-patients-252339
13-05-2021||Patna||The Bihar government extended lock down by 10 more days||Keeping in view the 'positive impact' of its imposition, the Nitish Kumar government has decided to extend the state-wide lockdown in Bihar by 10 days.The decision was taken after a meeting of the review committee and senior officials of the health department. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday tweeted about the development."The infection rate has reduced during the lockdown period in Bihar with cases falling below the 10,000 mark in one day. It is helping break the chain of Corona in Bihar. Hence, we have decided to extend the lockdown till May 25," Kumar said in a tweet.Initially the lockdown in Bihar was imposed on May 5 for 10 days.As per data of the health department till Wednesday evening, positive cases had fallen below the 10,000 mark in the state for the first time after 22 days. Besides, cases have been reducing, for the last 9 days consecutively.On Wednesday, the health department said it had conducted 1,11,740 tests in the last 24 hours and 9,863 persons had tested positive. Earlier on April 19, 7,487 cases were registered. During the period of April 19 to May 11, the positive cases were above the 10,000 mark. On some days, the cases reached 15,000 in the state.The positive cases in Patna were 977 on Wednesday. Besides Patna, only two districts—Nalanda and Muzaffarpur—had more than 500 cases in one day. Nalanda recorded 523 cases and Muzaffarpur 506. Apart from these, 35 districts have less than 500 cases. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/the-bihar-government-extended-lock-down-by-10-more-days-252332
13-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police arrests engineering student for duping COVID patients' kin seeking O2, home ICU setup||A 21-year-old engineering student was arrested from Pathankot in Punjab for allegedly duping 47 people on the pretext of providing ICU set up and oxygen cylinders at home for their COVID-19 positive friends and relatives, police said on Thursday.The accused, Aryan Singh alias Dhananjay, is a resident of Noida, Uttar Pradesh and is pursuing B.Tech from a renowned institute there. With the money acquired from cheating people, he stayed at luxury hotels in Gurgaon, Noida and Jammu, police said Fluent in English and a good communicator, he used Instagram to target his victims, police said, adding that he got the idea after receiving overwhelming response to a request for help that he posted on the photo and video sharing app.He also used the name of a well-known foundation to gain trust of the victims and requested them to visit the website for verification, police officials added.His victims are from Delhi, Noida, Faridabad, Mumbai and other cities, they said.The matter came to notice after one of the relatives of a coronavirus patient duped by the accused complained against on the COVID helpline.The complainant alleged that he received a message on a WhatsApp group for setting up ICU facility at home and contacted the given mobile number where the receiver introduced himself as Dhananjay and directed him to deposit Rs 3,950 as advance rent. After he transferred the money to an e-wallet on April 30, the accused stopped responding to the complainant's phone calls, he alleged.Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said a case under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wazirabad Police Station. The cyber crime cell team conducted technical analysis of alleged mobile number and online transactions. "As per technical investigation, the location of the accused was traced in Jammu and his previous transactions revealed that he used to stay in luxurious hotel. His location was traced next to Radisson Hotel in Jammu. When our team reached Jammu, it was found that the suspect had checked out from the hotel," he said.However, Singh was apprehended near Pathankot after a long chase, brought to Delhi and subsequently arrested, he added.The police have recovered mobile phones used by Singh in the offence for contacting victims as well as for operating his online account."During interrogation, it was revealed that he posted a story on Instagram for enquiry about oxygen cylinder and seeing the response of large number of people for his enquiry, he came up with an idea of duping people in name of setting up ICU at home," Alphonse said."He further disclosed that his number got shared on WhatsApp through several groups, and he was contacted by relatives of corona patients, who were looking for ICU bed in hospital. Accused Aryan, with his good communication skills, explained the entire process to victims and provided online wallet account and UPI ID to victims for transferring money," he said.Initially, the accused was using his own e-wallet but switched to a different account later on. He believed that the victims would not approach police over losing a small amount of money, the officer said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-arrests-engineering-student-for-duping-covid-patients-kin-seeking-o2-home-icu-setup-252328
13-05-2021||Lucknow||Govt must be held accountable for 'failing' its people, says Akhilesh after bodies found floating in Ganga||After a number of bodies were seen floating in the Ganga in the past few days, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh must be held accountable for "failing" its people badly.According to Ballia residents, at least 52 bodies were seen floating at the Ujiyar, Kulhadia and Bharauli ghats in the Narahi area.However, the district authorities did not tell the exact number of bodies found there."Bodies found floating in the Ganges are not a statistic, they're someone's father, mother, brother and sister. What has transpired shakes you to your core. There has to be accountability from the very government that has failed its people so badly," Yadav said in a tweet.In a separate tweet, he thanked the British Association of Physicians of India Origin (BAPIO) for providing ventilators and oxygen concentrators to India."I want to thank the British Association of Physicians of India Origin, (BAPIO) for their donation of 122 ventilators and 95 oxygen concentrators. It is yet another reminder we are all in this together. Thank you for leading with your hearts BAPIO!", he tweeted. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/govt-must-be-held-accountable-for-failing-its-people-says-akhilesh-after-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-252319
13-05-2021||New Delhi||No. of fresh COVID cases down to 10,400 in Delhi, O2 requirement 582 MT: Sisodia||Delhi's oxygen requirement has dipped from 700 MT a day to 582 MT and the government has written to the Centre that its surplus oxygen be given to other states, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. He also said the city's positivity rate is down to 14 per cent with 10,400 cases recorded in a 24-hour period."The number of new cases has come down to around 10,400 from a high of around 28,000. The positivity rate has dipped from 35 per cent to 14 per cent. More beds are available in the COVID hospitals now and the demand for oxygen has also dipped," Sisodia said at a virtual press conference.Delhi needed 700 metric tonnes of oxygen per day when the coronavirus cases peaked. In view of the reduced bed occupancy and dip in the number of daily cases, the government has re-calculated the demand, which is 582 MT now, he added.The Centre had recently increased Delhi's quota of oxygen to 590 MT per day."The Delhi government has written to the Centre, urging it to give the surplus oxygen to other states. We are a responsible government," Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for COVID-19 management in the capital, said.He thanked the Centre and the Delhi High Court for coming to the aid of Delhiites when they were in distress due to a surge in the number of coronavirus cases.The number of oxygen-related SOS calls from hospitals has also reduced sharply, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said, adding that only one or two such cases were reported in the last 24 to 48 hours.The national capital reported 13,287 COVID-19 cases and 300 more fatalities due to the viral disease on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 17 per cent.It reported 12,481 cases on Tuesday, 12,651 on Monday, 13,336 on Sunday, 17,364 on Saturday, 19,832 last Friday, 19,133 last Thursday, 20,960 last Wednesday and 19,953 last Tuesday.The positivity rate was 17.8 per cent on Tuesday, 19.10 per cent on Monday, 21.67 per cent on Sunday and 23.34 per cent on Saturday.On April 22, a positivity rate of 36.2 per cent, the highest so far, was recorded. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/no-of-fresh-covid-cases-down-to-10-400-in-delhi-o2-requirement-582-mt-sisodia-252318
13-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police reunite 5-year-old girl with family within 24 hours||Blessings poured in as the dedicated efforts of Delhi Police Sub Inspectors Sohan Lal and Komal reunited a five-year-old girl child with her family within 24 hours after she went missing outside from her house while playing with her siblings.All the staff at South Delhi's Kotla Mubarakpur police station put every possible effort both physically as well as through social media to search the parents of the girl when she was taken there by a woman on Wednesday after she found her abandoned in the area.On Wednesday, one Jyoti, a resident of Kotla Mubarakpur, found the girl in Sewa Nagar Subzi Mandi Market. She tried to search her parents in the nearby area but nothing fruitful came out. Thereafter, the girl was taken to police station, and it was brought into the notice of Inspector Vinay Tyagi,  Station House Officer (SHO) of Kotla Mubarakpur Police Station.Tyagi put all efforts with his staff and girl's photograph was shared with nearby police stations, WhatsApp groups, market committee groups and police mitra group, and all the staff were briefed to search the whereabouts of the girl's parents.Through beat staff, social media group and sincere dedicated teamwork by police team, parents of the baby girl were traced, South Delhi Deputy Commissioner of Police Atul Thakur said.Girl's father Dharambir, a resident of Bapu Park in K.M. Pur, said that her daughter went missing from home while playing with her siblings."Parents of the girl were also searching for her but unable to locate her." The officer said that efforts of Sub Inspectors Sohan Lal and Komal gave result, and the baby girl was united with her family."Police Team of PS KM Pur received a lot of blessings from the family of the baby girl." In view of global pandemic Covid-19, Thakur said crime prevention and patrolling was intensified as per direction of senior officers to prevent any mishappening. "Effective foot patrolling gave us a good result." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-reunite-5-year-old-girl-with-family-within-24-hours-252297
13-05-2021||New Delhi||Govt employees with medical degree can practise: Centre||Keeping in view a massive surge in Covid-19 infection in the country, the Centre has allowed its employees with recognised medical qualification to undertake practice and offer teleconsultation.Issuing an order in this regard, the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) said such practice is to be undertaken “during spare time and on a purely charitable basis”.Referring to a 57-year-old order of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, the order said the DoPT had been receiving “queries/requests from Central government servants for providing teleconsultation services during the current pandemic”.“In view of the unprecedented rise in the numbers of Covid-19 cases and to utilise the in-house capabilities available in the government to contain the spread of the virus and to provide relief to the public, it has been decided that Central government employees holding recognised qualifications in any system of medicine require no permission from the Head of Departments (HoDs) concerned to undertake practice/provide teleconsultation,” the DoPT order read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/govt-employees-with-medical-degree-can-practise-centre-252067
13-05-2021||New Delhi||No vaccines, Delhi shuts 125 centres||India today witnessed a record Covid-19 deaths at 4,205 with daily cases settling below 4 lakh for the fourth day in a row and active cases declining for the second straight day to 37,04,099. Active cases now make up 15.87 per cent of all infections with a decline of 11,122 cases in the active caseload.Vaccine shortages continued to trouble states with over 100 vaccination centres declared closed in the national capital which ran out of Covaxin supplies. Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said close to 125 centres were being shut as Bharat Biotech had told the government it could not provide additional Covaxin supplies.“The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said it cannot provide us vaccines due to unavailability, under instruction of government officials. It means the Centre is controlling vaccine supply,” Sisodia said a day after he spoke of inviting a global tender to import Covid vaccines.This came on a day when sources in the Health Ministry said the Serum Institute had committed to boost monthly production of the vaccine by August.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/no-vaccines-delhi-shuts-125-centres-252052
