14-05-2021||New Delhi||Low-key Eid celebrations in Delhi amid COVID-19 restrictions||The vast expanse of Jama Masjid’s courtyard wore a deserted look and families stayed home on Friday as Eid-ul-Fitr celebrations remained a low-key affair in the city amid the COVID-19 restrictions.The celebrations, marking the end of the holy month of Ramzan, which would have been an opportunity to meet and greet relatives and friends in a different time and year, was limited to a timid affair due to the unrelenting scare of the coronavirus infection.Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid Ahmed Bukhari said the celebrations were affected because of the pandemic.“People were troubled this year. The happiness that comes with Ramzan and Eid was also missing. Some were sick, there were so many deaths. Even if somebody dies in the neighbourhood, a Hindu or Muslim, it affects you personally,” Bukhari told PTI.He said usually people come to his house throughout the day on Eid, but “today we only talked on phone or conference calls”.Delhi-based student Kulsum Jaha rued that there were no guests at her home this time.“Usually there are guests throughout the day. The number of dishes also reduced so much. It’s just not the same this year. And the COVID situation is just so scary,” she said.This was the third time in a row that Eid was celebrated in a subdued manner in the national capital. Last year, Eid-ul-Fitr in May and Eid-ul-Azha in July were celebrated under the shadow of the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic.It was “almost a norm” for Adnan Saifi, manager at a healthcare company, to go out for iftar and host parties in the month of Ramzan, but the pandemic has restricted all such social meetings and Eid was “no different”.“Eid was also no different. No shopping, no congregational prayers, no visits and no elaborate menu at home, Eid seemed like just another weekend with good food and no work. However, being alive and healthy in this COVID era is like an Eid itself,” Saifi said.Delhi reported 8,506 new cases, the lowest since April 10, on Friday with a positivity rate of 12.40 per cent, even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal pointed out that the number of serious patients has not declined much as ICU beds in hospitals are still full.The less number of fresh cases can also be attributed to a smaller number of tests -- 68575 -- conducted on Thursday.Delhi University student Afrida Sneha Wazbee also missed the “fun affair” of getting to meet family and friends, and having “yummy food” to on Eid.“Normally, we used to send people food or we used to receive food during the month of Ramzan but because of the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions and fear of the virus, we weren’t able to do that. Getting to meet relatives, family and friends—visiting them, eating the yummy food, be it Pulao, chicken, etc. It was overall a fun affair,” she said.However, this year Ramzan felt “more spiritual” for her, as “we had a lot of time, and we did end up reading the Quran and offering namaz”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/low-key-eid-celebrations-in-delhi-amid-covid-19-restrictions-252874
14-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi govt will bear cost of education and upbringing of children orphaned by pandemic: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will extend financial help to families which have lost their earning members to the coronavirus and also bear the cost of education and upbringing of children orphaned by the pandemic.He said in the past 24 hours, Delhi has recorded around 8,500 cases as against over 28,000 cases on April 20 and that the positivity rate has come down to 12 per cent as against 36 per cent on April 22.But the fight against the coronavirus has not ended and there is no room for leniency, the chief minister said in an online briefing.“I know many children who have lost both their parents. I want to tell them that I am still there. Do not consider yourself an orphan. The government will take care of their studies and upbringing,” Kejriwal said.“I know elderly citizens who have lost their children. They depended on their earnings. I want to tell them that their son (Kejriwal) is alive. The government will help all such families who have lost their earning members,” the chief minister said.Kejriwal said that such families can be given financial aid but they need care and affection too.“They need empathy. It is my request to all the neighbours and the relatives of such families to take care of them. These families are facing great challenges. Give them love. The two-crore people of Delhi, we are a family. In these times of despair, we need to help each other. On the occasion of the festival of Eid, I pray for the health and happiness of all,” he said.The chief minister said that the lower positivity rate means that a lesser number of people are falling ill in Delhi.The number of people admitted at hospitals has also reduced, he said.“In the past 10 days, the number of patients in hospitals of Delhi has reduced by more than 3,000 patients. Which means that 3,000 beds have become empty. Now, there is no problem being faced to get beds in hospitals, yet one thing to be observed is that the ICU (intensive care unit) beds are still full,” Kejriwal said.While stressing that even till now ICU beds in hospitals of Delhi are almost full, he said that 1,200 new ICU beds have been prepared and are now ready to be utilised by Friday or Saturday.Kejriwal thanked the people of Delhi for following lockdown restrictions. There has been a decline in cases because of the contribution of every person in Delhi, he said.“We imposed a very strict lockdown in Delhi, but the people of Delhi offered their complete support in the same. Everyone adhered to the lockdown completely,” the chief minister said.“Today everyone is talking about how the people of Delhi managed to reduce the number of coronavirus cases. This has been possible only because of the disciplined behaviour of the people of Delhi. But the battle is not won yet. The battle is yet to finish. Even now 8,500 cases have come up. This has to be reduced to zero. We have to end coronavirus entirely,” he said.Kejriwal cautioned Delhiites against any laxity and said that “if we do not take precautions, the cases will increase again”.“Therefore, by no means, we can let loose. The lockdown has to be adhered to strictly and should employ all the ways to ensure protection from the coronavirus. The Delhi government is also not leaving any scope in its arrangements,” he added.The government is preparing more oxygen beds, buying thousands of oxygen cylinders, installing new ICU beds, so that in case the coronavirus cases increase, the national capital is fully prepared, the chief minister said.Delhi had reported 10,489 new cases and 308 more fatalities on Thursday while the positivity rate stood at 14.24 per cent, according to the health department. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-will-bear-cost-of-education-and-upbringing-of-children-orphaned-by-pandemic-kejriwal-252864
14-05-2021||New Delhi||289 Covid deaths, 8506 cases in Delhi; positivity rate 12.40%||Delhi reported 8,506 new cases, the lowest since April 10, on Friday with a positivity rate of 12.40 per cent, even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal pointed out that the number of serious patients has not declined much as ICU beds in hospitals are still full.The less number of fresh cases can also be attributed to a smaller number of tests—68,575—conducted on Thursday.As many as 289 more patients succumbed to the disease, according to a health bulletin.At 12.40 per cent, the positivity rate is the lowest since April 11 when it stood at 9.4 per cent. The number of new infections is the lowest since April 10 when 7,897 people were diagnosed with the disease, according to government data.In a virtual press conference, Kejriwal said the number of new infections reduced to around 8,500 from a high of around 28,000 cases and that the positivity rate dipped to around 12 per cent from a high of 36 per cent on April 22."In the past 10 days, 3,000 beds have become empty, however, ICU beds are still full," he added.Delhi had reported 10,489 cases on Thursday, 13,287 cases on Wednesday, 12,481 on Tuesday, 12,651 on Monday, 13,336 on Sunday, 17,364 on Saturday, 19,832 on last Friday, 19,133 on last Thursday, 20,960 on last Wednesday and 19,953 last Tuesday.The positivity rate was 14.24 per cent on Thursday, 17 per cent on Wednesday, 17.8 per cent on Tuesday, 19.10 per cent on Monday, 21.67 per cent on Sunday and 23.34 per cent on Saturday.On April 22, a positivity rate of 36.2 per cent, the highest so far, was recorded.There were 308 deaths on Thursday, 300 deaths on Wednesday, 347 on Tuesday, 319 on Monday, 273 deaths on Sunday and 332 deaths on Saturday. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/289-covid-deaths-8506-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-12-40-252846
14-05-2021||New Delhi||Kejriwal govt ‘failed’ in oxygen storage & distribution, has ‘criminal liability’ for deaths: BJP||The BJP on Friday alleged that the “criminal liability” for the death of many patients in two Delhi hospitals due to lack of oxygen falls on Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, saying his government “failed” in proper distribution and storage of the life-saving gas.Citing a report by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), a central agency, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said the Delhi government on a few occasions returned the liquid medical oxygen supplied to the national capital because it had no storage capacity and even asked neighbouring states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to keep the additional quota in reserve.All this while Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia kept blaming the Centre and other states for the oxygen crisis and accused the Central government of meting out “step-motherly” treatment to the city, Patra said, adding that it was the chief minister who treated his own people in a “step-motherly” way.“The way you work has been exposed today.... The (oxygen) crisis could have been averted and managed. I am sorry to tell Arvind Kejriwal that the crisis was grossly mismanaged by you. I hope you and Sisodia will answer and apologise too. Your work has been all about spreading confusion,” Patra said at a virtual press conference.Citing one incident, the BJP leader said Linde plant in Faridabad was expected to supply 120 MT liquid medical oxygen to Delhi on May 9 but the local government sent 74 MT back due to non-availability of storage space or less demand in Delhi.The Delhi government could not prepare for the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic despite the Centre’s warnings to all states, and has worked only to spread confusion and do politics over the crisis, he claimed.While it kept seeking more oxygen, it could not make arrangements for storing the gas, he said.“Due to AAP government’s inability to build storage, 20 and 13 patients lost their lives in Jaipur Golden Hospital and Batra Hospital. Both hospitals had tried to contact the Aam Aadmi Party government but it did nothing. The criminal liability is on you, Arvind Kejriwal,” Patra alleged. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/kejriwal-govt-failed-in-oxygen-storage-distribution-has-criminal-liability-for-deaths-bjp-252827
14-05-2021||New Delhi||No interim protection from arrest to Kalra till May 18 in oxygen black marketing case: HC||The Delhi High Court Friday declined to grant interim protection from arrest to Navneet Kalra, seeking anticipatory bail in connection with alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators, agreeing with the reasons given by the trial court while denying him the relief.A sessions court had on Thursday dismissed Kalra's anticipatory bail plea, saying the allegations against him were serious and his custodial interrogation was required to "unearth the entire conspiracy". "I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now," Justice Subramonium Prasad said while listing the matter for hearing on May 18.The observation came after Kalra's lawyers -- senior advocates Abhishek M Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa -- urged the court to grant some interim protection if the matter was going to be adjourned till May 18 on the request of Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S V Raju. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/no-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-kalra-till-may-18-in-oxygen-black-marketing-case-hc-252799
14-05-2021||New Delhi||Blind parents lose only child to virus; couple mourn death of 5-month-old 'Pari' in Delhi||Nine-month-old Krishu, the only child to his blind parents, succumbed to COVID-19 at a Delhi government-run hospital, while his father, battled the deadly virus at another hospital.On Thursday evening, Jitender Singh 'Shunty', a former BJP MLA, buried Krishu in a corner of the Old Seemapuri cremation ground.This was the second time in two days that Singh was burying a child so young.The 59-year-old humanitarian, who has given dignified cremations to over 2,000 strangers during the second wave of COVID-19, buried five-month-old Pari on Wednesday evening, near the spot where Krishu now rests.A relative of Krishu told PTI that the boy was the only child to his parents who live in Dilshad Garden in East Delhi."Both the parents are blind," he said, choking on his tears.Krishu's mother contracted the infection around 18 days ago and since she breastfed the child, he also became ill, the relative said.A few days ago, Krishu was admitted to the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, where he died in the early hours of Thursday.His father, Shashank Shekar, 26, is battling for his life in the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur."He doesn't know he lost his beloved Krishu today. Please do not tell him. Now, I don't want to lose him too," the mother, Jyoti, said, as she broke down over the phone.Pari's father, Prahlad, 30, a resident of Nand Nagri in northeast Delhi, said his 'Laali' had been running high fever for some days."We took her to a private clinic nearby. When her condition deteriorated, we rushed her to Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya in Geeta Colony, where doctors conducted an RT-PCR test, which came out positive," he said.The family was sent to the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital where Pari was put on ventilator support on May 6.Her mother, Reema, would spend the entire day at the hospital burning incense sticks and praying continuously, the father said."I spent every penny I had, but could not save her," Prahlad rued. Pari succumbed to the infection around 11.30 am."This broke our heart. I had never imagined that I would have to bury such small children here. I won't be able to forget it easily," Singh, the ex-BJP MLA, said, adding that no parent should have to bury their child.Children so young don't even know how to express to their parents what they feel, he said.Asked if he had to bury a child earlier too, Singh said, "Never before had I heard or seen anyone of this age dying due to COVID-19. This is the first I believe. The situation is really scary." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/blind-parents-lose-only-child-to-virus-couple-mourn-death-of-5-month-old-pari%C2%A0in-delhi-252779
14-05-2021||New Delhi||Provide food, ration for stranded migrants, Supreme Court tells Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to open community kitchens in the NCR for stranded migrant workers amid the current wave of Covid-19 and facilitate transportation for labourers who want to return home.Passing a slew of interim directions to ameliorate the miseries of migrant workers facing difficulties in the wake of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases and restrictions imposed in several parts of India, the apex court directed that dry ration be provided to them in the national capital region (NCR) under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Scheme’ or any other scheme by the Centre and governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah said the Centre may also issue instructions to the Ministry of Railways to take necessary and adequate measures to cater to the needs of migrant workers.The top court passed the order on an application filed by three activists who sought directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers, transport facilities and other welfare measures for migrant workers who are facing distress due to the curbs clamped in several parts of the country amid the pandemic. “NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana (for the districts included in the NCR) shall open community kitchen at well-advertised places (in the NCR) for stranded migrant labourers so that they and their family members who are stranded could get two meals a day,” the Bench said.“NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana (for the districts included in the NCR) shall ensure that adequate transport is provided to stranded migrant labourers (in the NCR) who want to return to their home,” it said.“Dry ration to migrant workers in the NCR under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Scheme or any other scheme be provided by the Union of India, NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana utilising the public distribution system prevalent in each state with effect from May 2021,” the Bench said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/provide-food-ration-for-stranded-migrants-supreme-court-tells-delhi-uttar-pradesh-and-haryana-252534
