16-05-2021||New Delhi||Confusion, anger over changed Covishield-dose duration||Ram Avtar Tyagi stood in a queue for an hour at a vaccination centre in north Delhi, only to be turned away and asked to return almost two months later.“I was told that second dose cannot be given now as new guidelines have come into effect,” the 55-year-old, who visited the Burari centre on Saturday, said.Also read: Already booked online appointments for second Covishield dose to remain valid: GovtWhile some like Tyagi were turned away from the vaccination centre, others were left confused after the Centre’s directive came into effect to extend the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12-16 weeks.The Centre had on Thursday approved the extension following a recommendation from a government panel, saying it was a “science-based decision”.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, however, suggested no change for the dosage interval for Covaxin, the Health Ministry said.Tyagi did not receive any message informing him about the new date.“Authorities should send message to those who are scheduled to get their second jab this month so that people don’t have to face unnecessary problem,” he added.The Health Ministry has conveyed it to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories to instruct officials “to undertake necessary steps to widely disseminate the message of revised dosing interval amongst programme managers, vaccinators and recipients of COVISHIELD vaccine and ensure adherence of revised dosing interval”.Gurgaon-based media professional Nikitha Phyllis, who is a patient of an autoimmune condition, expressed shock when she found out about the revised date.“My doctor had put off my medication till I have taken both the Covishield vaccines. But with the increased gap, I simply cannot do without my medication for so long,” Phyllis told PTI.Earlier, the date for her second jab was on June 23, now she has to wait till August.Delhi-based lawyer Mishika Singh was also in for a surprise when she logged in to the CoWIN portal to find slots for vaccination.“My Covishield vaccination booking date has been revised (automatically) on the site itself. From 5th June to 27th July,” Singh said.Some also took to Twitter to vent their anger over the revised timeline.Kumud Ranjan Choubey wondered if there were new guidelines, then why had the CoWIN portal allowed people to book slots.The ministry had said “requisite changes are being carried out in the Co-WIN platform and would be separately communicated to the states/UTs”.The platform started showing rescheduled dates from Saturday night.Another Twitter user, Sahil Arora, said: “I got 1 dose of covishield on 8 May. My masters start in US in July-21 (sic). Now that the gap is 12-16 weeks, I will not be able to get a second dose.”Tagging the official handle of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Arora asked: “Can you please suggest the workaround for students in the same situation as me?”A government official said those people whose vaccination was due this month would not be administered the vaccine and only be given the dose according to the new guidelines. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/confusion-anger-over-changed-covishield-dose-duration-253780
16-05-2021||New Delhi||2 African nationals held for cheating people on pretext of oxygen cylinders||Two African nationals have been arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing them oxygen cylinders, police said on Sunday.  The accused have been identified as Cheema Benneth (42), a native of Nigeria and Jonathan Kojo (44), a resident of Ghana, they said. On May 5, a man told the police that he was in need of an oxygen cylinder for his relative who was suffering from COVID-19 and after finding a phone number on the social media, he contacted the accused who told him to pay Rs 16,000 for an oxygen cylinder and Rs 4,000 as transportation charge, following which the complainant transferred Rs 20,000 to their account, officials said. The accused assured him that the cylinder would reach his address. However, the victim did not receive any cylinder and when he tried to contact the accused, they blocked his number, a senior police officer said. "During investigation, it was found that foreign nationals were involved in the cheating racket spread across India. On Thursday, police apprehended Benneth from Green Park in south Delhi. Based on his disclosure, his associate Kojo was also nabbed on Saturday," Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said. Police recovered 163 SIM cards, 19 mobile phones, five laptops, four debit cards and other articles from their possession. During interrogation, Benneth told the police that he along with his associates in India and abroad were cheating people via different modes. After seeing the rising demand for oxygen cylinders in Delhi, they planned to cheat people via this mode. They flashed their mobile numbers on different social media platforms, promising to provide oxygen cylinders to needy people, police said. The accused disclosed that he collected phone numbers of the needy people from the social media and along with his associates started sending messages to them regarding availability of oxygen cylinders, they said. One of his associates in Bangalore provided the bank accounts to receive the cheated money. After withdrawing the money, their share was deposited in their respective bank accounts. Their other associates in Africa also assisted in this fraud, police said. Police found that they were using more than 20 bank accounts for cheating, and they have duped more than 1,000 people across India of over Rs 2 crore, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/2-african-nationals-held-for-cheating-people-on-pretext-of-oxygen-cylinders-253767
16-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi govt will take all necessary steps to check black fungus cases: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Delhi government will take all necessary steps and precautions to check cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in the city.The fungal infection is caused by a group of moulds known as mucormycetes present naturally in the environment.Recently, several states, including Delhi, have reported a rise in the number of black fungus cases among people recovering from COVID-19.“For the black fungus (cases), the Delhi government will take all the steps and precautions necessary,” Kejriwal said in a statement.In an advisory released on May 9, the Centre had said that mucormycosis may turn fatal if it is not taken care of. The fungal infection mainly affects people who are on medication that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens.Dr Ajay Swaroop, chairman of the ENT department at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here, said the use of steroids in the treatment of COVID-19 coupled with the fact that many coronavirus patients have diabetes could be one of the reasons for the rise in the number of black fungus cases again.He said the infection is commonly seen in patients who have recovered from COVID-19 but have comorbidities such as diabetes, kidney or heart failure, or cancer. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-will-take-all-necessary-steps-to-check-black-fungus-cases-kejriwal-253746
16-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi registers 6,456 new COVID-19 cases, 262 more deaths||The National Capital recorded 6,456 fresh COVID-19 cases and 262 fatalities on Sunday while the positivity rate dropped to 10.40 per cent, the lowest since April 11, according to a Delhi government health bulletin.This is the third consecutive day when Delhi has recorded less than 10,000 cases.However, the smaller number of new cases was due to relatively fewer tests, 62,059, conducted on Saturday.Delhi had reported 6,430 cases on Saturday, the lowest since April 7, with medical experts attributing the lockdown as the main factor behind the dip. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-registers-6-456-new-covid-19-cases-262-more-deaths-253730
16-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police arrests 25 people, lodges 25 FIRs over posters critical of PM Modi||The Delhi Police has registered 25 FIRs and arrested as many people for allegedly pasting posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in connection with the vaccination drive against COVID-19, officials said on Saturday.The posters reading “Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyu bhej diya (PM why did you send vaccines of our children to foreign countries?)” were plastered in several parts of the city, they said.On Thursday, police received information about the posters following which senior officers of the districts were alerted.Based on further complaints, 25 FIRs were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections, including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, across various districts of the Delhi Police, officials said.A senior police officer said, “More FIRs are likely to be registered if further complaints are received in this regard. As of now, investigation is underway to ascertain on whose behalf these posters were being put up at various places across the city and accordingly further action will be taken”.Elaborating further about the FIRs and arrests, the police said three FIRs were registered in northeast Delhi and two people were arrested from there.Three FIRs were registered in west and five people were arrested while another three FIRs were registered in outer Delhi and three more people were nabbed from there. In northwest part of the national capital, four FIRs were registered after which two were arrested, police said.They said two FIRs were registered in the central part of the city and four people were arrested while two FIRs were registered in Rohini and another two FIRs in south were also registered.The police said one FIR was registered in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri and four people were nabbed while another FIR was registered in New Friends Colony police station of the southeast district, police said.Police officials said one FIR was registered in Dwarka from where two people were arrested while another FIR was registered in north Delhi and one person was arrested from there. The person claimed that he had been given Rs 500 to paste these posters, police said.Police said one more FIR was registered in southwest Delhi from two people were held.Another case was registered in Shahadra. The police have recovered the CCTV footage of the act and are trying to nab the person involved in it, officials added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-arrests-25-people-lodges-25-firs-over-posters-critical-of-pm-modi-253697
16-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi extends lockdown by a week||Delhi government announced on Sunday that it was extending lockdown in the national capital by a week—a development that comes as Delhi continues to show a significant decline in the national capital.Delhi reported 6,430 new Covid-19 cases and 337 fatalities on Saturday. Positivity rate in Delhi dropped to 11 per cent, the lowest in a month.    Helpline for the elderlyThe Delhi government has deployed staff from its Department of Social Welfare to attend to distress calls and other queries from senior citizens impacted by the pandemic.A team of four officials has been sent to the office of the divisional commissioner to support helpline number 1077 that is run under the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the department said in an official order.Section officer G C Meena, senior assistant Kumar Gandharva, welfare officers Kuldeep Saini and Vijay have been deployed for the task, it said."These officials will also coordinate with HelpAge India, Qutub Institutional Area to utilise the manpower engaged for the new elderly helpline for which the Department of Social Welfare has entered into an MoU with HelpAge India as a project supported by the Ministry of Social Justice and the National Institute of Social Defence," the order stated.The duties of these officials will involve attending telephone calls from senior citizens, providing guidance regarding the online process of applying for senior citizen pension and answering queries pertaining to the non-receipt of pension. New Delhi: A Health worker inspects a Covid-19 patient at a newly constructed 500 ICU beds Covid-19 care centre at Ramlila maidan opposite LNJP hospital in New Delhi on May 15, 2021. PTI photoThe officials will also "provide guidance and linkage with DDMA services or NGO services with respect to food distribution, shelter, medicines, making available COVID-related items such as masks, sanitisers, etc., to the senior citizens".The team will also help senior citizens connect with government and NGO resources with respect to education and health and counsel them to protect themselves against the Covid-19 pandemic, the order said."The helpline staff shall at all times be cordial and polite, and handle the queries with patience. They shall follow up with each caller to ensure complete resolution of his or her problem/issue," it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-extends-lockdown-by-a-week-253688
16-05-2021||New Delhi||PIL in HC seeks COVID-19 isolation centres for poor, children||A PIL in the Delhi High Court has urged it to direct the Centre and Delhi government to set up isolation centres equipped with medical facilities for the poor and children at government schools in the national capital.The petition seeks an amendment to the current home isolation policy, claiming it was proving to be a failure for the majority of the population as not everyone has a separate room to spare to isolate a family member infected by COVID-19.“Under the home isolation policy, the infected person ought to be given a separate room with an attached toilet so as to avoid minimal physical contact with other members. There should also be a caretaker for the infected person.“But in reality, how many of the lower middle class homes can afford to have a separate room with attached toilet and a caretaker for the infected person. Resultantly, more and more family members are getting infected creating patient load on city hospitals and problems for family members at large,” the petition said.                    The plea also sought healthcare management facilities and isolation centres for children on grounds that several medical experts were of the opinion that when the third wave of the pandemic comes, children could be affected more by it. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/pil-in-hc-seeks-covid-19-isolation-centres-for-poor-children-253685
16-05-2021||New Delhi||Nation was lax after 1st wave, says RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said today that amid these testing times of the Covid pandemic, society must remain hopeful.Taking part in a webinar — “Positivity Unlimited” — organised in the context of the pandemic, Bhagwat said, “The pandemic is testing our patience and character. We will come out triumphant.” He said India had come out of many difficult situations in the past. “We should forget our differences. It is not the time for fault-finding,” said the Sangh chief. Pitching for helping the needy, he said, “We have to ensure poor people get food.” Bhagwat called for caution and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. He said the present situation arose as “we took things lightly after the first wave”. “Experts had cautioned about the second wave, but we became lax,” he said. On experts predicting a third wave, he urged people to be prepared for a good fight. “We have to win,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/nation-was-lax-after-1st-wave-says-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-253383
16-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police arrest 15 people, lodge 17 FIRs over posters critical of PM Modi||Delhi Police have registered 17 FIRs and arrested 15 people for allegedly pasting posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in connection with the vaccination drive against COVID-19, officials said on Saturday.The posters reading "Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyu bhej diya (PM why did you send vaccines of our children to foreign countries?)" were pasted in several parts of the city, they said.On Thursday, police received information about the posters following which senior officers of the districts were alerted. And based on further complaints, as many as 17 FIRs were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act across various districts of the Delhi Police, the officials said.A senior police officer said, "More FIRs are likely to be registered if further complaints are received in this regard. As of now, an investigation is underway to ascertain as to on whose behalf these posters were being put up at various places across the city and accordingly further action will be taken in the matter."Giving details, police said three FIRs were registered in northeast Delhi and two persons were arrested from there. Three FIRs were registered in west and another three FIRs in outer Delhi, they added.Two FIRs were registered in Central part of the city and four persons were arrested.Two FIRs were registered in Rohini and two persons were arrested, while one FIR was registered in east Delhi and four persons arrested. One FIR was registered in Dwarka and two persons were arrested, police said.One FIR was registered in north Delhi and one person was arrested. He claimed that he was given Rs 500 to paste these posters, they said. Another case was registered in Shahadra wherein police have recovered the CCTV footage of the incident and are trying to nab the person involved in the act, police added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-arrest-15-people-lodge-17-firs-over-posters-critical-of-pm-modi-253245
