21-05-2021||New Delhi||Renowned road safety expert Dinesh Mohan succumbs to Covid-19||Renowned road safety and injury prevention expert Dinesh Mohan succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection on Friday, according to IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao.“Dinesh Mohan was under treatment at St Stephen’s Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. He passed away this morning due to a cardiac arrest. He was a stalwart in areas of road safety and transportation, and made immense contributions to research in the area,” Rao told PTI.Mohan, 75, was an Honorary Professor at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi. He was also the founder of Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Programme (TRIPP) at the institute.Noted historian Irfan Habib took to Twitter to express his condolences.“Extremely sad to know that Professor Dinesh Mohan, dear friend and former IIT Delhi faculty succumbed to Covid. Lots of memories of serious discussions on history and science. My sincere condolences to his wife Peggy Mohan,” he said.Congress MP and former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “Deeply saddened. Had known him for over 40 years. Passionately devoted to S&T in India including scientific temper which is all but vanishing”.Mohan, who was one of the world’s leading experts on traffic safety issues and human tolerance to injury, is known for his work in areas of advancing motorcycle helmet design.Pedestrian and bicyclist safety and child restraint regulations, vehicle crashworthiness and road safety research, design of safer truck fronts, analysis of highway crashes, analysis of tractor driver vibrations and interaction between safety and environmental policies and developing safer ways for various modes of transportation to safely share the roadways, are among the noteworthy researches by him.An alumnus of IIT Bombay and University of Michigan, Mohan is also credited with publishing some of the earliest studies on the limited role of hard shells in motorcycle helmets, mechanical properties of human soft tissues at very high strain rates, head injury criteria for children, safety of three-wheeled scooter taxis, bringing national attention to burn injuries caused by fireworks during Diwali festival in India and agricultural injuries due to farm machines.“Deeply shocked to learn about the passing of a giant of #injury prevention. Dinesh Mohan was an innovate, driven and fun leader in the field. Co-founder of the series of World Conferences and visionary #roadsafety champion. He leaves a huge legacy. Rest in peace my friend,” Etienne Krug, Director, Social Determinants of Health at World Health Organisation, said in a tweet.IIT Delhi said in a statement, “it is a huge loss for all the faculty, students and staff at TRIPP, IIT Delhi and all those known to him at the institute and the traffic safety community in India and the rest of the world. We all pray the almighty to give his family the strength to overcome this huge loss”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/renowned-road-safety-expert-dinesh-mohan-succumbs-to-covid-19-256358
21-05-2021||New Delhi||MHA appoints Srivastava as regular Delhi CP 40 days ahead of his retirement||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday announced its decision to appoint Sachidanand Srivastava, a 1985-batch UT cadre IPS officer as the regular Commissioner of Police, Delhi.Srivastava is scheduled to superannuate on June 30, 2021.In its order, the MHA said, “SN Shrivastava, presently holding the additional charge of Commissioner of Police, Delhi is hereby appointed to the post of Commissioner of Police.”It further said that he would hold the post until further orders.Before being shifted to his home cadre in Delhi Police in the last week of February 2020, Srivastava was Special DG (Training) in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).He was drafted as Special Commissioner of Police (law and order) in the Delhi Police on February 26, 2020 and two days later (February 28, 2020) he got the command of Delhi Police as an ad-hoc arrangement.It is to be noted here that following the completion of Amulya Patnaik’s month-long extension as the Commissioner of Police on February 28, 2020 Srivastava was assigned the additional charge to head the police force in the national capital.It took Srivastava almost 15 months to prove himself and bag the position as regular CP of Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/mha-appoints-srivastava-as-regular-delhi-cp-40-days-ahead-of-his-retirement-256356
21-05-2021||New Delhi||Covid: Delhi tech students develop Telegram bot to notify available slots to get vaccine||Two engineering students here have developed an application that sends a notification to the user about slots available on the CoWIN portal for coronavirus vaccination. The Telegram bot—"CoWIN alerts"—developed by students of Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) in Delhi was launched in May and has amassed more than 40,000 users since.Paras Mehan, a third year student of Computer Science Engineering (CSE), who is one of the developers, claimed that the bot has a user-friendly interface and is quite simple to operate. "The person who wants to book a slot has to provide their district name or pincode and their age group -- 18-44 years or 45 years and above. The bot currently provides information for 5,002 pincodes and 594 districts," he said. "The bot then updates the person via notification once the slot is made available on the CoWIN portal. The message has information on which centre has the available slots, the number of slots available, and the date of availability," he added. India opened registrations for its vaccination program for adults between 18 and 44 years of age on April 28. Unlike for adults above the age of 45 years, walk-in vaccination was not allowed. "The people who wanted to get vaccinated needed to book their slot on the CoWIN portal in advance. However, the portal ran into several technical difficulties. The slots often opened without intimation and people had to keep refreshing the website for updates, which was quite bothersome," said Rohan Rajpal, a fourth year CSE student. "As soon as the registrations for all adults opened up, authorities also opened up the CoWIN Application Programming Interface (API) to all developers. This is by far the most impactful project we have ever worked on. We are taking user feedback into consideration and improving it every single day. It would encourage more people to get vaccinated and hopefully help us tighten the leash on the spread of coronavirus," he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-delhi-tech-students-develop-telegram-bot-to-notify-available-slots-to-get-vaccine-256328
21-05-2021||New Delhi||HC restrains WhatsApp, Telegram, individuals from illegally sharing e-papers of ToI, NBT||The Delhi High Court on Friday passed an interim order restraining social networking platforms WhatsApp and Telegram and certain individuals from allegedly illegally circulating e-papers of Bennett, Coleman and Company Ltd on their respective platforms.Justice Jayant Nath said prima facie the act of illegally circulating the e-papers of plaintiff on the defendants’ platforms is violative of its copyright and ad-interim injunction is granted in the favour of Bennett, Coleman and Company Ltd.The court also issued notices to WhatsApp and Telegram, which are instant messaging platforms on which photos, documents and videos are also shared, and certain individuals, who are administrators of various groups on the platforms.The court asked them to respond to the suit and comply with the order.The court, which listed the matter for further hearing on August 18, also issued notice to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for its response on the suit.The counsel for the media house contended that e-papers of Times of India and Nav Bharat Times are being circulated on various WhatsApp groups and Telegram without any authority and this amounts to infringement of its copyright.He said the issue cropped up since lockdown was imposed in 2020 to contain the spread of Covid-19 and individuals started downloading the e-papers and circulated it on other groups, which was not permissible.The counsel said in June 2020, the media house came to know about illegal usage of its copyright on WhatsApp which was providing free usage of its e-papers and notice was issued to the platform but to no avail. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/hc-restrains-whatsapp-telegram-individuals-from-illegally-sharing-e-papers-of-toi-nbt-256326
21-05-2021||New Delhi||Nigerian national arrested for cheating people on pretext of supplying Remdesivir in Delhi||A 41-year-old Nigerian national was arrested from south Delhi’s Khanpur area for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of supplying them Remdesivir injections meant for treatment of Covid-19 patients at a higher rate, police said on Friday.Accused Chieuikem Daniel P.E was arrested from his rented house on the complaint of a victim who alleged that he did not deliver the ordered injections despite making an advance payment, they said.According to the complainant, he was in urgent need of three Remdesivir injections as his acquaintance was suffering from Covid-19 and doctor had advised him to arrange the injections.After he failed to get it, he contacted a number received through social media. The accused agreed to provide the injection for Rs 25,000 each and also asked for Rs 10,000 in advance, which he paid but did not receive the delivery.A case was registered under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code at Mohan Garden police station on Wednesday, police said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said call detail records of the accused was analysed and based on a secret information received, the accused was arrested on Wednesday from south Delhi.“During interrogation, the accused disclosed that he is from Nigeria, and came to India three-four years ago on a medical visa. His visa has expired but he along with his other associates indulged in cheating people on the pretext of custom clearance. They made friends on Facebook and offered them costly gifts. After that, they requested them to deposit money in their account number in the name of customs clearance of those gifts,” he said.They used many mobile phones, forged SIM cads and bank accounts for this purpose. During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, they also started allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing medicines and injections required for treatment of Covid-19 patients, the DCP said.The police have recovered two laptops, eight android phones, 25 keypad mobile phones, 18 mobile SIM cards, seven ATM cards, two pen drives and Rs 50,500 cash from his possession.Efforts are being made to arrest the co-accused, police said, adding that many other victims across India have been contacted to register complaints in this regard for further probe. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/nigerian-national-arrested-for-cheating-people-on-pretext-of-supplying-remdesivir-in-delhi-256301
21-05-2021||New Delhi||Oxygen concentrators hoarding case: ED raids premises linked to Navneet Kalra, others||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said its personnel have conducted raids at seven places in Delhi-NCR, including businessman Navneet Kalra’s residence, in connection with the hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators racket busted by Delhi Police earlier this month.Noting that the raids were being conducted with an aim to gather additional evidence, officials in the agency said, the ED on Thursday booked Kalra and others under the Prevention of Money-laundering Act (PMLA), while taking cognisance of a Delhi Police FIR filed on May 5 after policemen raided restaurants and premises owned and linked to Kalra.Kalra, the owner of restaurants like Khan Chacha, Nege and Ju, Town Hall, was produced in Saket court on Thursday at the end of his three-day police custody and was remanded to a 14-day judicial remand.The police have claimed that they were in possession of evidence that shows concentrators, which were bought for Rs 4,000-Rs 15,000, were being sold at an inflated price of R 75,000 and more.Five other accused, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO), and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were also arrested but all five were later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/oxygen-concentrators-hoarding-case-ed-raids-premises-linked-to-navneet-kalra-others-256293
21-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi records 3,009 Covid-19 cases, 252 deaths; positivity rate dips to 4.76 pc||Delhi recorded 3,009 Covid-19 cases and 252 fatalities on Friday, with the city's positivity rate slipping to 4.76 per cent, data shared by the health department showed.As per the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the Covid-19 death toll in the national capital to 22,831.This is the third consecutive day when Delhi's count of daily new cases has remained below 4,000.The positivity rate in the city stood at 5.5 per cent on Thursday.Medical experts have held the lockdown as the main factor behind the dip in the daily cases amid the second wave of the pandemic.On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 3,846 cases of the infection and 235 deaths. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-records-3-009-covid-19-cases-252-deaths-positivity-rate-dips-to-4-76-pc-256292
21-05-2021||New Delhi||Nearly 200 cases of black fungus in Delhi hospitals||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said there were 197 cases of black fungus in hospitals across Delhi till Wednesday night, including non-residents who have come to the city for treatment.The minister also said many inoculation centres for the 18-44 age group are being shut in Delhi from Friday as the city has run out of vaccine for this age group.“Delhi had exhausted its Covaxin stock many days ago. Covishield doses, too, have been consumed. Many centres are being shut today,” Jain said.      “There were 197 cases of black fungus across all hospitals in Delhi till Wednesday night. These included patients who have come from other states for treatment,” he told reporters.Jain said there is an acute shortage of Amphotericin-B injections used in the treatment of black fungus or mucormycosis in the entire country. The Centre is likely to provide 2,000 injections to Delhi, which will then be given to hospitals.He cautioned Covid-19 patients against taking steroids without doctor's advice.“This is very dangerous. A patient's immunity becomes zero when he/she takes steroids. Black fungus, which is found in soil or decaying matter inside homes, doesn't affect healthy people. Chances of infection are more in those with low immunity,” he said.     People who have been on steroids should take care of these things. They should exercise caution, not get out of home or meet people for at least a week, the minister said.     It is imperative to control blood sugar levels. Any virus, fungus or bacteria multiplies rapidly when blood sugar level increases in the body, he said.     It is better to take precautions because black fungus is hard to cure, Jain added.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Thursday said the city government will declare black fungus an epidemic if need arises. He had also said dedicated centres will be set up for treatment of mucormycosis at three city government-run hospitals, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.     The combination of steroids and sugar is leading to a rise in the number of black fungus cases, the chief minister had said.     The Union Health Ministry has urged states and Union territories to make black fungus or mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality among COVID-19 patients. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/nearly-200-cases-of-black-fungus-in-delhi-hospitals-256275
