24-05-2021||New Delhi||Around 500 cases of black fungus in Delhi, injections in short supply: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said there are around 500 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in Delhi and the city has been grappling with a shortage of Amphotericin-B injection used in its treatment.“We have set up dedicated centres for the treatment of black fungus at Lok Nayak Hospital, GTB Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital but we do not have drugs.... We did not get the injections on Sunday,” he told reporters.Four to five injections per patient per day are used in the treatment of the fungal infection. There are around 500 cases of black fungus in Delhi at present, he said, adding Delhi has been receiving around 400 to 500 injections per day.The Central government has been distributing the injection among states. There is a severe shortage of this drug in the market and its production should be ramped up, the chief minister said.Mucormycosis or black fungus is more common among people whose immunity has lowered due to Covid, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues, or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis.If such patients are administered steroids, their immunity reduces further, allowing the fungus to thrive. And, steroids should be administered very judiciously after proper clinical examination by a doctor.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Saturday cautioned Covid-19 patients against taking steroids without doctor’s advice.“This is very dangerous. A patient’s immunity becomes zero when he/she takes steroids. Black fungus, which is found in soil or decaying matter inside homes, doesn’t affect healthy people. Chances of infection are more in those with low immunity,” he had said.It is imperative to control blood sugar levels. Any virus, fungus or bacteria multiplies rapidly when blood sugar level increases in the body, he had said.About 15 hospitals in the city are treating patients of mucormycosis. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/around-500-cases-of-black-fungus-in-delhi-injections-in-short-supply-kejriwal-257747
24-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi records 1,550 Covid cases, 207 deaths; positivity rate 2.52 pc||Delhi recorded 1,550 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest single-day tally since March 27, and 207 fatalities on Monday, while the positivity rate stood at 2.52 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here.The infection count was below the 2,000-mark for the second consecutive day and the lowest since March 27 when 1,558 cases were reported.According to the latest health bulletin, the new fatalities pushed the death toll from Covid-19 here to 23,409.On Sunday, 1,649 cases and 189 deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate had dipped to 2.42 per cent.On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 3,846 cases and 235 deaths, and 3,231 cases and 233 deaths on Thursday, while the tally on Friday was 3,009 with 252 deaths. On Saturday, it fell further to 2,260 cases. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-records-1-550-covid-cases-207-deaths-positivity-rate-2-52-pc-257741
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Delhi High Court directs WhatsApp to suspend services of users pirating 'Radhe'||On the basis of a suit filed by Zee, the Delhi High Court has ordered WhatsApp users to stop circulating Salman Khan's latest film "Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai". This comes after the distributor alleged that the film has been a victim of rampant piracy through social media platforms.The High Court has directed WhatsApp to suspend services to numbers that are being used to sell pirated copies of the film.The court has also directed the country's leading telecom operators—Airtel, Jio and Vodafone—to disclose subscriber details of the offenders, with Zee to initiate further legal action against them.The Delhi High Court order mentions: "The Plaintiff has filed the instant suit for permanent injunction, rendition of accounts and damages for the infringement of Plaintiff's exclusive license and exploitation rights in the cinematograph film 'Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai' (in short 'the film'). As stated in the plaint, the Plaintiff is the exclusive licensee and holder of various exploitation rights including Theatrical Rights, Satellite Rights, On Demand Rights, etc. in and to the film, including, inter alia, the exclusive right to distribute/exhibit/release the film and/or make the film available to the public through theatrical, internet, digital and online streaming platforms/OTT platforms, Transactional Video On Demand (TVOD) etc."Talking about piracy, it further says: "The film was released on 13th May, 2021 on the Plaintiff's digital entertainment streaming service 'Zee 5' for public viewing on a pay-per view basis. The Plaintiff received information that the film was victim to rampant piracy through social media platforms, including the messaging service 'WhatsApp'. The Plaintiff became aware that several infringing/illegal copies of the film and also various video clips thereof have been made/created/stored and are being unlawfully copied, stored, reproduced, transmitted, circulated, shared, sold and/or being made available for illegal and unauthorised viewing, download and storage to public at large by individuals on several social media platforms, including 'WhatsApp'."— IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-high-court-directs-whatsapp-to-suspend-services-of-users-pirating-radhe-257740
24-05-2021||New Delhi||After Punjab, Moderna Inc refuses to supply Covid vaccines to Delhi||A day after Covid vaccine manufacturer Moderna allegedly refused to send vaccines directly to the Punjab government, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday informed that Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell vaccines directly to the Delhi government and claimed they will only deal with the Central government."We have spoken to Pfizer and Moderna for vaccines, and both the companies have refused to sell vaccines directly to us. They have said that they will deal with the Government of India alone," Kejriwal said after visiting the oxygen cylinder depot in Delhi's Mayapuri area."I appeal to the Centre to import vaccines and distribute them to the states. We have lost a lot of time. We need vaccines at war footing," he said.Punjab Nodal Officer for vaccination Vikas Garg, had on Sunday, Covid vaccine manufacturer Moderna has refused to send vaccines directly to the Punjab government stating that according to their policy, they only deal with the Government of India and not with any state government or private parties.Citing a media report, Kejriwal further said that there are sixteen companies across the country that can manufacture COVAXIN and Biotech has signed an agreement with two such companies."The Centre should hold a meeting with all 16 companies and order them to manufacture COVAXIN. UK and USA are examples that vaccination is the only way to prevent Covid," he added.Kejriwal also claimed that the Delhi government does not have medicines and injections for black fungus treatment."We have made dedicated centers for Black fungus at various hospitals. But we do not have medicines and injections. We need at least four injections per day per patient. The Centre is providing us with injections used for treating black fungus, but there is still a shortage. We require 2000 vials per day. But we receive 400-500 vials per day," he said."We have imported 6000 oxygen cylinders from China. We can now provide 3000 more oxygen beds. These cylinders have been donated by the HCL and Give India to the Delhi government. We thank the Ministry of External Affairs for helping us to import these cylinders," he added. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/after-punjab-moderna-inc-refuses-to-supply-covid-vaccines-to-delhi-257733
24-05-2021||New Delhi||Vaccination halted at all 400 sites for 18-44 age group in Delhi: Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell coronavirus vaccines directly to the national capital and have said that they will only talk to the Centre.In an online briefing, Sisodia said all the 400 vaccination sites for the 18-44 age group have been closed in Delhi after the vaccine stock was over, while the centres administering Covaxin to the 45+ age group, healthcare workers and frontline workers too have been shut due to unavailability of jabs.Stressing that vaccination is the need of the hour to protect people against the coronavirus, Sisodia said they have spoken to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson for vaccines."Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell us directly, saying they are talking to the Centre. The Centre has not approved Pfizer and Moderna whereas the world over they have been approved and bought by countries," he said.Sisodia said some countries bought vaccines in advance while these were in trial stage but India did not take any step in that direction."We refused approval to Sputnik in 2020 and approved it only last month. Or us it's just a game...," he said.The deputy chief minister urged the Centre to approve Pfizer and Moderna on war footing."I urge the Centre not to make this vaccination programme a joke. Approve Pfizer and Moderna on war footing, rather than asking states to approach these companies. It should not happen that by the time we get vaccines, the time comes that even the antibodies of those who have been vaccinated are finished, and they will again require vaccination," he said. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also urged the Centre to procure Pfizer and Moderna vaccines and distribute them to states. On Sunday, a senior Punjab official said the US-based COVID-19 vaccine manufacturer Moderna had refused to send vaccines directly to the state government, stating that it only deals with the Centre. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/vaccination-halted-at-all-400-sites-for-18-44-age-group-in-delhi-sisodia-257723
24-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi: 2 held for black marketing anti-fungal drug||A 46-year-old man and his driver was arrested for allegedly selling anti-fungal drug amphotericin, used for treatment of mucormycosis, at an exorbitant rate, police said on Monday.The suspect, Rajnish Shrivastava, whose firm 'AmbuSmith Inc.' deals in trading of medical equipments and ambulance modification, brought these injections from Lucknow and sold them in Delhi at a higher price. His driver, Murtaza Khan (36), also helped him in this business, police said.In a complaint at the Saket police station, two students stated that while they were trying to arrange Amphotericin-B for a patient, they came in contact with Shrivastava, who was selling it at Rs 11,300 per injection, about 36 times the MRP.The complainants, who are members of a WhatsApp group that help in arranging medicines for patients suffering from Covid and black fungus, informed police that Shrivastava had agreed to deliver 20 injections for Rs 2.26 lakh.A police team waited near the Max Hospital at Saket and around 2 pm, two persons in a car, called the complainants at Hauz Rani traffic signal near the hospital for delivery of the injections,  Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said.They tried to run away, but the team apprehended the two, the DCP said.Twenty injections were recovered from the car and an investigation is on to ascertain the source of the drug, the officer added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-2-held-for-black-marketing-anti-fungal-drug-257722
24-05-2021||---||Delhi curbs extended by 1 week||New Delhi, May 23Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today extended the Delhi lockdown till 5 am on May 31, saying a gradual unlock process could start if the number of cases went down.“I consulted several people and the general opinion was in favour of lockdown extension for one more week. The Delhi Government has decided that the lockdown will be extended till 5 am on May 31,” he said in an online address as Delhi’s daily caseload came down to 1,600 from a peak of 28,000 in late April.Read also: Fleecing patients‘Project Madad’A group of doctors from the diaspora in the US have launched ‘Project Madad’ to provide time-sensitive information to health workers in rural areas on treating patients.The positivity rate has declined to 2.5 per cent over the past 24 hours from 36 per cent at the peak of the second wave.Covid cases The CM said vaccinating everybody in Delhi was his government’s priority and the state was willing to procure vaccine at “any cost, if someone was supplying”.Inoculation of people in the age group of 18 to 44 years was halted on Sunday due to unavailability of vaccine doses.“If the current decline in cases continues over the next week and people adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour, as they have done so far, we will start the unlocking process from May 31. It is not advisable to unlock in one go. The process will be gradual and only limited activities will be allowed initially,” he said. “It is being said that the third wave of Covid-19 will arrive, but if everyone gets vaccinated, it may not arrive,” the CM said.Out of Delhi’s 11 districts, only two, as of Sunday, have a case positivity rate of over 10%.Antonio Guterres, UN Secy-genNote of cautionThe pandemic is still very much with us, thriving and mutating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-curbs-extended-by-1-week-257544
24-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi govt not in favour of CBSE exploring options to conduct Class 12 exams: Sisodia||The Delhi government is not in favour of the CBSE exploring options to conduct the Class 12 board examinations and going ahead with the process without vaccinating the students will prove to be a big mistake, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday.He said this during a high-level meeting called by the Ministry of Education to decide the fate of the pending Class 12 board exams and the subsequent entrance exams, which were postponed in view of the second wave of Covid-19."Two options were discussed at the meeting. The first was conducting the exams in the present format for the major subjects and marking for the rest of the subjects on the basis of the performance in these papers."The second was having the exams in the students' home schools, reducing the duration and changing the exam pattern. The Delhi government is not in favour of these options. We cannot play with the safety of students just to fulfil our stubborn wishes," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader told a press conference.Sisodia, who is also the education minister of Delhi, said the education system has its own compulsions but considering the extreme circumstances, they can be put aside.Also read:"Conducting the examination by toying with students' safety will prove to be a big mistake. First vaccine, then exams. There are over 1.5 crore Class-12 students across the country and 95 per cent of them are above the age of seventeen-and-a-half years. The Centre should talk to experts if they can be given the Covishield or Covaxin vaccines."The Centre should also talk to Pfizer to explore vaccination for the Class 12 students. It is a must to vaccinate students, especially with experts indicating that the third wave of the coronavirus will be more dangerous for children," he added.The meeting was chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar also attended the meeting, besides the education ministers and secretaries of various states and Union territories.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had, on April 14, announced the cancellation of the Class 10 exams and postponed the Class 12 exams in view of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-not-in-favour-of-cbse-exploring-options-to-conduct-class-12-exams-sisodia-257271
24-05-2021||New Delhi||Lockdown in Delhi extended by another week||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by another week, saying the process of unlock will start from May 31 in a phased manner if the number of Covid-19 cases continue to decline.Kejriwal said the top priority of his government is to vaccinate people of the city at the earliest to prevent the third wave, and added that he was in talks with vaccine companies for required doses and is ready to buy vaccines at any cost.Vaccination of people aged 18-44 years has been stopped in Delhi on Sunday as the city has run out of stocks.In the past 24 hours, Delhi recorded around 1600 positive cases and the positivity rate went further down to below 2.5 percent, the chief minister said in an online briefing."I consulted many people and the general opinion favoured lockdown extension for one week. So, Delhi government has decided that lockdown will be extended to 5 AM on May 31," he said.Kejriwal said if the lockdown is lifted now the gains made in the last one month through a lot of struggles, hard work and sacrifice may be lost."If the current downward trend in number of cases sustains in next one week and people follow precautions against COVID with strict discipline as they have done so far, we will start the process of unlock from May 31," he said.It will not be correct to unlock in one go. The unlock process will happen gradually by allowing certain activities from May 31, he stated.The Delhi government has made arrangements to vaccinate all people in Delhi within three months but there is shortage of vaccines in the country, the chief minister said.It is being said that a third wave of Covid-19 will arrive. If everyone get vaccine, perhaps the third wave may not arrive, he said.Also read:"We are preparing to vaccinate everyone at the earliest. We are talking to the Centre and the vaccine companies. I am myself talking to vaccine companies, foreign and Indian ones, about how to vaccinate maximum people. We are ready to spend any amount of budget to get the vaccines for Delhi people," he said.Kejriwal on Saturday said 50 lakh people were vaccinated in Delhi and 2.5 crore more doses were required to cover all residents of the city. He said, 80 lakh doses per month are required to vaccinate all people in Delhi within three months.The chief minister said the Delhi government besides arranging vaccines is simultaneously making other preparations like increasing hospital beds, ICUs, oxygen tankers and storage capacity to combat the third wave.He said at the height of the ongoing second surge in April, the cases had crossed 28000 mark and positivity rate soared over 36 percent. "But now the second wave is seen to be weakening, and we appear to be overcoming it. It has, however, yet not ended and the war is still on and more than 1000 cases are still being reported," he said  Delhi people, he said, worked hard like a family and displayed immense discipline to fight the second wave despite many challenges.The city received support from all quarters including courts even as it faced many problems like shortage of oxygen he added.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) in its order stated the ongoing lockdown scheduled to end at 5 AM on Monday, May 24 will now be extended up to 5 AM on May 31.In the wake of the surging second wave, lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19. With the fifth extension, the city will complete nearly one-and-a-half month under restrictions to break the chain of infection. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/lockdown-in-delhi-extended-by-another-week-257230
