01-09-2021||THE fresh surge in Covid cases reported from 67 districts in the country amid predictions of a third wave is worrying. The danger of the situation getting out of hand because of the rapid transmission of the disease remains||Spike in Covid cases||In Kerala, a number of reasons have been attributed for the increase in cases, such as relaxation in lockdown measures, targeted testing of symptomatic people and a low seroprevalence rate that estimates the percentage of people in a population who have antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The state claims that the low seroprevalence rate proves that it managed to curb the spread of the infection that helped in keeping the death rate low and the health infrastructure free from pressure and is now mulling measures like institutional quarantine for visitors from other states, besides other precautionary steps.The last time around, the government had zeroed in on micro management of the pandemic, calling for localised efforts. A similar focused approach is needed even now. There is also a need for clarity with different agencies like the ICMR, a team from the IIT-Kanpur and the Niti Aayog involved in the task of analysing the probability of another wave. It is for the Health Ministry to take a call on the situation to prevent confusion. The claims of the vaccination drive doing well, overcoming odds like the shortage of jabs come amid reports that new Covid variants may escape vaccine protection. While a plurality of views is welcome, the confusion that it creates is in no small measure responsible for the lives lost during the second wave. The government should not permit a sense of drift and act responsibly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/spike-in-covid-cases-304766
01-09-2021||A TURBULENT month that witnessed the Taliban takeover of Kabul and the completion of the US troop withdrawal amid chaos and bloodshed has come to an end||Kabul on tenterhooks||It was also in August that India held the presidency of the UN Security Council, which adopted a resolution on Monday demanding that Afghanistan’s territory not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists, besides calling on all parties concerned to seek an inclusive, negotiated political settlement to sustain and build on the gains over the past 20 years. Thirteen Council members voted in favour of the resolution — drafted by France, the UK and the US — while permanent veto-wielding members China and Russia abstained. Significantly, these two countries, along with Pakistan and the US, had taken part in talks in Qatar’s capital Doha on August 11, four days before Kabul fell, while India was kept out.India’s wait-and-watch approach needs to factor in the China-Russia-Pakistan troika, which intends to use the platform of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation to further its economic and strategic interests in Afghanistan. Being a major stakeholder in Afghanistan for decades, India has a crucial role to play in the rebuilding of the beleaguered country. For the time being, New Delhi can gain a foothold by re-establishing its diplomatic presence in Kabul and responding positively to the Taliban’s overtures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/kabul-on-tenterhooks-304764
