03-09-2021||A study by an American research group has put into stark numbers what we always knew — air pollution is a killer. The study||Need urgent pollution policy||Last year, a study by the medical journal Lancet concluded that between 1990 and 2019, life expectancy in India rose from 59.6 years to 70.8 years, a gain of 11.2 years, or 18.7%. This study, however, noted that more years to live did not necessarily lead to a better life, as “people are living more years with illness and disability”. United Nations projections show that India’s life expectancy would rise to over 81 years by the year 2100 — but what would be the quality of lives of Indians then if the problem of air pollution is not immediately tackled? Interestingly, the Lancet study recorded a wide variance in life expectancy among states, ranging from 77.3 years in Kerala to 66.9 years in Uttar Pradesh. It also noted that air pollution — contributing to an estimated 1.67 million deaths — was the top risk factor for death in India. From these two facts, it can be concluded that air pollution is a big factor in the life expectancy of people in Kerala being 15.5% higher than those in Uttar Pradesh.The University of Chicago study points out the benefits of urgent government interventions, as seen in China, where an effective policy has led to a reduction in the country’s air particulate production by 29% since 2013. In the interest of the people — and to reduce the burden on India’s crumbling public healthcare infrastructure — the Central and state governments must take similar measures to reduce air pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/need-urgent-pollution-policy-305673
03-09-2021||For far too long||Tackling honour killing||Young couples or friends being killed by or at the behest of members of the family is a gloomy but inescapable reflection of the perpetrators’ orientation, and the social pressures and taboos prevalent in the community that fuel such dreadful criminality. The foot soldiers of the government machinery, who are called upon to deal with honour killing cases, too, are not immune to the social mores. For the state and UT committees to be tasked with formulating recommendations to ensure compliance with the Supreme Court and High Court directions, the reorientation of minds is as much important as taking the killers and the abettors to task.Police chiefs have been asked to create a special cell in each district to prepare a database of couples seeking protection and 24-hour helplines to register protection pleas, with quick followup action such as providing security or removal to a safe house. A key High Court direction is immediate registration of an FIR in case of a report on violence against inter-caste, inter-religion couples or honour killing. The higher judiciary has seldom been found wanting on the issue, but the situation on the ground is complex and change, sadly, has been slow in coming. Close monitoring could be an effective step.Also read: Directions on honour killings ignored by police: Punjab and Haryana High Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tackling-honour-killing-305664
