04-09-2021||THE recent news of a mother and son being attacked and ‘morally policed’ while they were having food inside their car is particularly shocking because it comes from Kerala||Moral policing in Kerala||Patriarchal attitudes are alive and thriving in Kerala. This should alarm us, because the state has very good developmental numbers: For instance, Kerala ranks No. 1 in India on the Human Development Index, and its literacy rate is the highest in the country at over 96%, as are life expectancy of 77-plus years and the sex ratio of 1,084 women for every 1,000 men. But these numbers paper over serious issues — a large segment of the society is deeply conservative and many people consider girls a ‘burden’, as in most other parts of the country. Marriages often turn into an ostentatious display of wealth; dowries are seen as a status symbol, undermining the bride’s worth and education. In recent months, the unnatural deaths of three young women in two days, allegedly over dowry, caused an outrage because they were ostensibly privileged and empowered. Since then, many more cases of harassment or deaths over dowry have been reported.Kerala is often romanticised as a state with a matriarchal society. It’s true that some communities did have a matrilineal inheritance system, but even in them it was the patriarchs, not matriarchs, who wielded power. Patriarchy tends to work closely with religion, and competing patriarchal interests of different communities mean that misogyny and male supremacy have societal and religious sanction. Rather cynically, politicians exploit the situation for electoral gains. This, then, is the situation in a state considered a model for others — this is a sad commentary on the overall situation of women in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/moral-policing-in-kerala-306163
04-09-2021||THE SC has rightly pulled up a section of the media||Weeding out fake news||The outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic early last year triggered an infodemic, with consumers being inundated by misinformation on online platforms. The entire Muslim community found itself vilified after the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March 2020 turned out to be a coronavirus superspreader. The apex court’s latest observations have come during the hearing of a petition seeking directions to the Centre to stop the dissemination of fake news related to the religious gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin.The Centre has repeatedly argued that it cannot issue a gag order in such cases as the move would ‘effectively destroy the freedom of the citizenry to know and the right of journalists to ensure an informed society’. The middle path lies in effective monitoring and regulation through regular advisories and warnings. If the electronic media’s self-correction mechanism does not produce the desired results, it is imperative for the government to make a judicious intervention. The spreaders of fake news have to be named and shamed. Supreme Court judge DY Chandrachud said recently that in a country as diverse as India, there was a need to not only acknowledge the plurality of opinions, but also to celebrate it. News circulated or broadcast with a divisive agenda curtails democratic space and poses a threat to law and order. Such content has to be identified and weeded out forcefully.Also read: Fake, communal news on social media, portals may bring bad name to India: SC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/weeding-out-fake-news-306129
