06-09-2021||For an organisation that concealed the death of its previous chief for two years||The new men in Kabul||But the prospects of a broad-based government are not too bright. The Taliban chose the military option with the Panjshiris after a mere three hours of negotiations. Their discussions with Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah have also withered. The visit of the ISI chief along with unnamed Pakistani officials to Kabul suggests that the Taliban may even be battling divisions in their ranks over power-sharing. Or that Rawalpindi has been sufficiently pressured by global powers to make a direct intercession for an inclusive government. For, times have changed since the days of the previous Taliban rule from 1996 to 2001.Pakistan will be doing the Afghans a great disservice if they replicate another ‘Col Imam’, like the last time, to act as the virtual vice regent. Afghanistan needs all the help it can from overseas. The US, Europe and India will have to be convinced that the country does not have pockets of deep discontent. China may recall that Rashid Dostum’s dissonance with Kabul forced it to shutter the oil wells. The Tajik President, whose kin are the second largest group in Afghanistan, has openly expressed his disquiet at the Taliban’s victory. Afghanistan’s hopes of economic sustainability rest on earnings from transit fees of gas pipelines and fair use of natural resources. To gain the global community’s confidence, the men controlling Kabul must demonstrate their accommodation of women in governance and public life. Mere nomination of ethnic minorities from its Rehbar Shura as ministers will not convince the global community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-new-men-in-kabul-307217
06-09-2021||Jolted by the widespread devastation witnessed during the Covid-19 pandemic||Eat right, stay fit||With 6.8 crore diabetic patients, as per a 2016 study, India accounts for the second highest such figure in the world. Dishearteningly, the country is placed similarly for heart-related diseases, with an estimated 5.45 crore patients. One in four deaths is because of a cardiovascular disease (CVD). And, alarmingly, CVDs tend to affect people in their most productive years, causing an upheaval in the social and economic lives of the affected families. Compounding the problem is the cumulative effect of our poor health infrastructure, marked by a huge disparity in access to hospitals among the haves and the have-nots and urban and rural areas. It is not surprising that the rate of those succumbing to such diseases in India is much higher than in the rich countries.Given these constraints, the focus must, undoubtedly, be on prevention. The key to disease prevention and fitness lies in a nutritious and balanced diet. Ramping up awareness drives can alert more middle/lower-class people about the health hazards of taking too much salt, sugar, transfats, alcohol and tobacco and the benefits that accrue from consuming fruits, nuts, cereals and vegetables rich in essential and immunity-boosting vitamins and minerals. Food policies must be geared towards this end. Special care is needed to approve and label eatables for food allergy patients. It’s equally essential for individuals to check their dietary habits, exercise routines and weight with the twin aims of overcoming or preventing diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/eat-right-stay-fit-307215
