08-09-2021||The Supreme Court’s outburst over inordinate delay in filling up around 250 vacancies in various tribunals has given rise to apprehensions about a face-off between the government and the judiciary. Even though the SC maintained that it didn’t want a confrontation||Toying with tribunals||Dispute resolution is one of the core functions of the State, discharged mainly through a three-tier court system. Tribunals — which are quasi-judicial bodies — were not envisaged under the Constitution. They came into existence via the 42nd Amendment to the Constitution which added Article 323-A for the establishment of administrative tribunals and Article 323-B for other tribunals. Unlike courts, tribunals have both judicial and expert members as they deal with specialised areas. Some of the tribunals, such as Central Administrative Tribunal, National Green Tribunal, Armed Forces Tribunal, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal and GST Appellate Tribunal, perform a vital role in justice dispensation. By the Finance Act, 2017, seven tribunals were abolished or merged based on functional similarity and their total number was reduced from 26 to 19. The idea was to close down tribunals which were not necessary and merge tribunals with similar functions. An analysis of data of the last three years has shown that tribunals in several sectors have not necessarily led to faster justice delivery and they are at a considerable expense to the exchequer.It was for this purpose that the government promulgated the Tribunal Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, modifying some of the provisions of the 2017 Finance Act. In July, the SC reversed many of the changes, saying that security of tenure, remuneration and conditions of service were necessary to ensure independent functioning of tribunals. Now, the top court is furious about the same provisions being reintroduced in the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021. The court has already issued notice to the Centre on petitions challenging the Act. The petitions would be decided in due course. But in the meantime, the government must expedite the process to fill vacancies in tribunals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/toying-with-tribunals-308077
08-09-2021||Drug addiction remains an unresolved issue in Punjab||Drug deaths in Punjab||There will be an announcement soon of a crackdown in the district. Since it is the election year, the action taken report is bound to be more substantive and text-heavy. The deaths of these young people would in all likelihood be used to train guns at those in power, indulge in disparaging verbal crossfire, let the matter hog news space for a few days and then allow a quiet burial before another tragedy strikes. Politics casts its shadow over the drug abuse crisis in the state, with little or no space for any admission of failure of policy, discussions of the ground reality, or constructive inputs on how to go forward. An issue layered with social, economic, administrative and mental health factors is reduced to and seen only through the political prism, with the result that no one is the wiser, or held accountable.The distraught father, who had no inkling that his now deceased boys had been taking drugs, has a message that could not be more clear in content and intent: ‘I do not want any compensation. I just want that no other parent should bear such loss due to drugs. Just curb this menace.’ There are no quick-fix solutions, but if the governments have let Punjab down, its people, too, do not have much to show by way of their involvement or interest in dealing with the crisis. Public pressure rides on the back of community participation. That’s what drives change, and has been missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/drug-deaths-in-punjab-308076
08-09-2021||INDIA had won only 12 medals overall in the Paralympics prior to the just-concluded Tokyo games. In this edition alone||Incredible success||Devendra Jhajharia was a relatively obscure javelin thrower till a month ago. It was only after Neeraj Chopra won a historic gold in the Tokyo Olympics that most people got to know about Jhajharia, who had bagged gold medals in the 2004 and 2016 Paralympics. He was tipped to win the yellow metal this time too, but ended up with a silver. The javelin throw event proved to be a happy hunting ground for India, with Sumit Antil (gold) and Sundar Singh Gurjar (bronze) making their presence felt in separate categories. Sumit shattered his own world record five times en route to victory, drawing effusive praise from Neeraj.India’s para athletes have for long remained in the shadow of their able-bodied counterparts. But the winds of change seem to have started blowing, thanks to their superb show in Tokyo. The Paralympics may never match the Olympic Games in terms of popularity, but the growing interest in this sporting spectacle involving the differently abled is an encouraging sign. With the spotlight now on sports in India, our para athletes deserve a level playing field where they are treated on a par with other players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/incredible-success-307752
08-09-2021||WITH the deadly Nipah virus ascertained as the cause of the death of a 12-year-old boy of Kozhikode||Double blow for Kerala||Given that the fatality rate of Nipah-infected patients is a steep 70 per cent, and there is no cure yet, it is essential that the spread of the virus is nipped in the bud. And Kerala has shown that it is possible. The fact that Nipah is mainly a localised outbreak and, with a reproductive rate (RO) of 0.48, less transmissible (than Covid), contributes to a more effective containment strategy. The last time when a Nipah case was reported in the state, in 2019, the health authorities commendably conquered the virus, with no death reported. Prompt Nipah diagnosis of the first patient exhibiting symptoms and putting infection-control protocol in place — learnt from experience — ensured this feat. In the previous year, when Kerala had been struck by this virus, it had suffered a loss of 17 lives out of the 18 cases of infection. It had then equipped itself with a better response for future.An advantage this time is the heightened awareness levels of pandemic-preventive measures among both the public and authorities concerned and the state of readiness (mask-wearing, social distancing) to combat the transmission of Covid-19. Tamil Nadu has — as it should — been quick to ramp up border vigil and is monitoring all people entering its districts bordering Kerala for fever and other signs. While not getting panicky, the other states must also be on guard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/double-blow-for-kerala-307750
