09-09-2021||The Taliban’s moderate façade has crumbled overnight with their announcement of a hardline interim government in Afghanistan. The all-male Cabinet features UN-designated terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani||Taliban’s true colours||The HQN’s ties with the Pakistani security establishment are an open secret. The group is counted among the major proxies that are backed by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in the Af-Pak region. Sirajuddin’s elevation has clearly revealed Pakistan’s influence on the Taliban’s decision-making. The government formation has ruffled many feathers in America, with the Republican Study Committee, the largest conservative caucus in the US House of Representatives, calling it ‘a government of terrorists, by the terrorists, and for the terrorists.’The developments make it imperative for India to up the ante against Pakistan’s interference in Afghanistan and engage more cautiously with the unreliable Taliban. The upcoming summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in Tajikistan offers New Delhi an opportunity to call out Islamabad for its machinations that threaten to destabilise the entire region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/talibans-true-colours-308585
09-09-2021||The takeover notices issued by banks to several Dharamsala hotels due to non-repayment of loans are a harbinger of severest distress for the tourism industry of Himachal Pradesh. Tourism contributes roughly 10% to the hill state’s GDP — but if you do the math by including tourism-dependant industries such as public and private transport||Keep Himachal tourism alive||Since the Economic Survey was presented in March, the situation has taken a turn for the worse. Cold numbers fail to reveal the human cost of the Covid-caused recession in the tourism industry: Thousands of hotels are locked and face foreclosure, and their staff has been reduced drastically or dismissed; thousands of taxi owners are unable to pay loan instalments and are seeking buyers for their vehicles; small eateries are on the edge of economic doom. The second wave of the pandemic has knocked out the most vulnerable segments in the industry. It’s estimated that over two lakh persons employed in the hotel industry have lost their jobs — and the fear of the third wave looms large.PM Modi recently lauded Himachal Pradesh for becoming the ‘champion’ in the fight against the pandemic by achieving the target of 100% first dose vaccination against Covid-19. However, the state and the Centre need to chalk out a comprehensive plan to prop up the tourism sector. The hotel and transport sectors seek relaxation in loan repayment terms — for the sake of keeping the driver of the state’s economy alive, the government must look at the issue sympathetically and provide relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/keep-himachal-tourism-alive-308581
