10-09-2021||As its worst fears of the suppression of Afghan women’s rights are coming true||Afghan women repressed||However, the government formation has left little to the imagination: women are conspicuous by their absence from the newly formed Pashtun-dominated interim cabinet. Equally noteworthy are the intimidation and bans on the sports and work fronts, threatening to pull the women further down the social and economic order. The beating up of a couple of male journalists covering protests by some gritty women in Kabul sends a chilling message of intolerance. At the same time, encouragingly, the defiance by the women holds out hope.As of now, the Taliban have been forced to call healthcare women staff to work as the sector is crisis-ridden. With the exodus of thousands of workers and their evacuation to safer shores, the beleaguered rulers may yet have to concede more space as they get down to the job of running the country. The international community has a delicate task cut out and must employ all diplomatic pressure points at its disposal in negotiations with the new regime. It would be a shame if the huge strides made by the Afghan women since 2001 are allowed to be so ruthlessly trampled upon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/afghan-women-repressed-308951
10-09-2021||The Centre’s scheme aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing of the in-demand man-made fibres||Focus on new-age textiles||Man-made fibres, such as viscose, polyester and acrylic, are made from chemicals. Technical textiles are used for the production of personal protective equipment, airbags, bulletproof vests, and in the aviation, defence and infrastructure sectors. The shift from the primary focus on cotton is being attributed to the fact that two-thirds of the international trade today is of synthetic and specialty textiles. However, man-made fibre apparel accounts for only a fifth of India’s overall exports. The production-linked incentives are focused on enlarging and upgrading the new-age textile value chain, and not missing the bus in the changed dynamics of global trade.The budgetary outlay may prove to be inadequate as the scheme gathers steam, but the intended positives are many, such as increasing women’s participation in the formal economy since they are the predominant workforce in the textile industry. The realignment of the export strategy seeks to make Indian companies more competitive after ceding ground to countries such as Bangladesh and Vietnam. The success depends on simplified procedures to claim benefits and having an open outlook on roping in smaller units and incentivising their role in enhancing the quality and quantity of production lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/focus-on-new-age-textiles-308950
