11-09-2021||WITH the paddy harvesting season slated to begin shortly||Checking stubble burning||That the problem is acute in the region has been pointed out by several studies conducted over the years in the region which confirm the impact of burning crop residue and solid biomass on air quality. Checking air pollution should also be a priority because stubble burning leads to a host of respiratory ailments, a fatal combination in times of Covid-19, when many patients have died because of a crippling shortage of oxygen.Using technology to harness agricultural waste can be a good start. Punjab has taken to the direct seeding of rice (DSR) method that yields less residue, utilises less water and makes do with labour shortage. A staggered sowing of paddy also gives the farmers more time to manage the crop residue. Delhi has installed smog towers and is pitching for the use of electric vehicles, considering that construction activities and vehicular emissions are a major factor behind pollution there. In Himachal Pradesh, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture & Forestry has come up with a technique to convert pine needles, a prime reason behind forest fires, into ethanol, a biofuel. The Commission for Air Quality has asked Delhi and neighbouring states to adopt satellite data from ISRO to chalk out an action plan in this regard. More such application of technology should be undertaken to reduce pollution and achieve the aim of clean air for blue skies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/checking-stubble-burning-309388
11-09-2021||THE Covid-19 tracker data cited by the Centre on Thursday leaves no room for doubt about the life-saving capability of vaccines. According to the tracker||Life-saving vaccines||The second wave that peaked in May could have caused far less devastation, had more people been protected against the worst outcomes. Worryingly, less than 20 per cent of India’s adult population has been fully vaccinated so far, almost nine months after the inoculation programme was launched nationwide. More than 1 crore doses need to be given on a daily basis to achieve the stiff target of completely vaccinating all adults by the year-end. With the festive season coming up and India’s most populous state (Uttar Pradesh) going to the polls along with four others early next year, the pace of vaccination must be accelerated to ensure that the third wave is not a repeat of the second one. Considering the risk of breakthrough infection, the importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination cannot be overemphasised.India can take a cue from the US, where desperate measures are being initiated to make about 25 per cent of eligible Americans – nearly 8 crore people – see reason. US President Joe Biden has asserted that this significant proportion — which is still unvaccinated — poses a threat to the gains made in the fight against Covid-19. He has directed the Labour Department to make it mandatory for all businesses with 100 or more employees to ensure that their workers are either vaccinated or tested once a week. Companies face the prospect of paying thousands of dollars in fines per employee if they don’t comply. America’s daily caseload has crossed 1.5 lakh, almost five times India’s current figure, but we can’t afford to let the virus wreak havoc all over again. Also read: Biden slams anti-vax movement, mandates widespread shots, tests71 cr vaccinated across country: Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/life-saving-vaccines-309387
