13-09-2021||With a seriously injured woman breathing her last in a hospital a day after being raped and assaulted on her private parts with an iron rod on a Mumbai road||Yet another Nirbhaya||The Nirbhaya case of 2012 did stir the country’s conscience and trigger widespread outrage, leading to stricter laws and fast-tracking of justice. The government pulled out all the stops to ensure severest punishment. But it seems that things are back to square one, marked by a cynical lack of empathy, even as the unfortunate victims’ family members run from pillar to post to see the rapist-killers punished. That little progress has been made on this score is reflected in the staggeringly alarming figures of sexual crimes.Nothing reveals this mindset more than the initial reactions to rape of most ‘custodians’ of society. Ranging from outright disbelief to pinning the blame on the victim and her ‘provocative’ clothes rather than the perpetrator, they serve to cement the idea of toxic masculinity. Take the Hathras and Unnao cases. Unless the media raises a hue and cry or an outraged civil society protests, the tendency is to downplay the gruesome crime. Last month’s Mysuru gang-rape is the latest example of a minister caught pointing fingers at the victim. Sadly, few people on seats of authority assert themselves to lessen the victims’ pain or quicken the pace of investigation or justice. They are all accountable, for they cumulatively serve to embolden the criminal elements. Also read: NCW team visits Maharashtra crime site||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/yet-another-nirbhaya-310279
13-09-2021||The chaotic and confused way in which the fifth and final match of the India-England Test series was called off||Fifth Test fiasco||In this confusion, a few important points were relegated to the background. How did the infection hit the Indian camp? The needle of suspicion points at an event to release a book by Shastri right before the fourth Test in London — it was after this that Shastri and two fellow coaches developed symptoms and tested positive. The head coach’s act of indulging in a personal commercial activity by promoting his book in the midst of a pandemic needs to be investigated. Endangering the welfare of his team right in the middle of an important series by appearing maskless at a personal event held in public — in which the guests didn’t wear masks, too — is a serious breach of Covid guidelines issued by BCCI.Another aspect that needs to be looked at is the greed of the authorities: ECB was insisting on considering it a forfeiture by India because it feared losing insurance money; BCCI was insisting on postponing or cancelling the match because it feared that its cash cow, the IPL — scheduled to resume in Dubai on September 19 — could take a hit if star Indian players were infected and forced to skip it. Finally, it seems impossible to find an empty window to reschedule this match — cricketers are being made to play too much by their boards and T20 teams. Greed, on the part of Shastri and the boards, has been laid bare by the Manchester fiasco.Also read: Indian players refused to play fifth Test due to Covid, IPL played no part in it: Sourav Ganguly||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fifth-test-fiasco-310278
