14-09-2021||SADLY||Fast-track food labelling||Particularly impacted by the inordinate delays in the enforcement of such guidelines are the estimated 1-3 per cent of the population dependent on information warnings of food allergens such as gluten (a protein present in wheat, rye, barley), milk, soybean, egg, nuts, seafood etc. The intake of even minuscule quantities of the allergen may be enough to trigger a flare-up and cause huge misery to the patients and their families. Food allergies cause nearly 30,000 emergency treatments and 100 to 200 deaths per year in India.There is much to learn from some western countries that have imposed food labelling rules for over 15 years now. Equally impressive are the high awareness levels there, ensuring allergen-sensitive hospitality by hotels and restaurants. Another related field begging for our government’s consideration is the compensation doled out by Italy to celiac disease patients for their life-long medically prescribed dependence on expensive gluten-free diet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fast-track-food-labelling-310757
14-09-2021||The replacement of chief ministers is becoming par for the course in BJP-ruled states||BJP’s CM stratagems||The BJP’s stakes in Gujarat are obviously very high, being the home state of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The party has handpicked a leader of the Patidar community, an influential vote bank which calls the shots in education, realty and cooperative sectors in the state. Deputy CM Nitin Patel, who was considered a front-runner for the top post, seems to have stoically accepted the party’s decision. Rupani, too, has managed to put a brave face on his unceremonious exit. However, the fact that the BJP is resorting to course correction in one state after another indicates rumblings of discontent and infighting. The top brass is in no mood to give a long rope to underperformers or non-performers, even as it’s apparent that some state governments are being remote-controlled by the central leadership.The BJP’s drastic and desperate moves are driven by electoral considerations, but the top-heavy party has to ensure that all the chopping and changing do not impact governance and the respective state government’s stability. The revolving-door policy is a double-edged sword: it keeps the high command in the driver’s seat and at the same time enfeebles the state leadership. It’s up to the top brass to consider the larger picture — strengthening the party at the grassroots level by grooming prospective leaders — or to simply concentrate on winning one election after another at any cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bjps-cm-stratagems-310753
