15-09-2021||IS there a case made out for an over-the-counter (OTC) sale of some anti-anxiety and anti-depressant drugs in the country? The number of patients afflicted with mental health disorders||Tackling mental health||The state of affairs definitely reflects a serious public health concern. It calls for a discussion by medical experts on whether some non-prescriptive remedial pills could be allowed for certain patients to pop if it aids in reversing this disturbing trend. The risk of misdiagnosis and adverse side effects would have to be weighed against its possible benefits. That a big chunk of the sufferers and victims constitute teenagers and youth underscores the need for a more proactive intervention. The high-profile case of suicide by Sushant Singh Rajput in 2020 did serve to highlight and spread awareness about mental health issues being as important to address as physical diseases.But the grim statistics show that a lot more effort that focuses on helping prevent the vulnerable lot from taking the extreme step is needed. As per last year’s WHO estimates, 56 million Indians suffer from depression and 38 million from anxiety illnesses. It fears that from the present prevalence of 7.5 per cent mentally ailing population, the rate would soar to 20 per cent as millions grapple with Covid-triggered fear, anxiety and emotional distress. The National Crime Records Bureau data reveals an average of 381 deaths by suicide daily in 2019, with a yearly increasing pattern. Clearly, millions are in need of help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tackling-mental-health-311237
15-09-2021||JUST being generous to the needs of the Afghan people won’t be enough||UN in Afghanistan||New Delhi has expressed its desire to stand by the Afghan people, as in the past, amid the UNDP’s assessment of an imminent threat of poverty levels rising from 72 per cent to 97 per cent. It did not, however, shy away from drawing attention to the changed realities on the ground while reiterating India’s historic ties with the Afghan people, borne out by the fact that it has had development activities running in all the provinces. The international community, hopefully, would pay heed to the message to come together to create the ‘best possible, enabling environment’.As Prime Minister Modi travels to the US to attend the first in-person Quad leaders’ summit on September 24, followed by an address to the UN General Assembly, ramifications of the Taliban takeover would be high on the agenda. He ought to be ensuring sufficient checks on any misadventure by Pakistan, which has been less than discreet in leaving its footprint in the new Kabul. Secretary of State Blinken’s remark that the US would reassess its relationship with Pakistan to formulate the kind of role it would want Islamabad to play in Afghanistan may sound reasonable, but how much leverage Washington has, and to what extent and under what conditions it is willing to use that remains an imponderable question.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/un-in-afghanistan-311235
