17-09-2021||Over six years after the launch of the Digital India programme||Telecom reforms||The government has claimed that the reforms package is adequate for the survival of the existing players and will ensure robust competition, besides paving the way for the entry of new players. This is easier said than done as a duopoly has become well-entrenched in the industry in recent years. What’s needed is a level playing field that can attract new firms and encourage investment, along with a sustainable tariff regime. From the consumer’s point of view, the more choices he has the merrier.India’s telecom sector has the potential to spearhead an economic turnaround. The nation accounts for the world’s second-largest telecommunication market (after China) with a subscriber base of over 115 crore. It is estimated that over the next five years, the rise in mobile phone penetration and the drop in data costs will add 50 crore new Internet users. The disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic over the past year and a half have driven more people towards digital platforms. Still, the digital divide persists and the government has a key role to play in making digital resources universally accessible. Much will depend on how transparently and effectively the reforms are implemented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/telecom-reforms-312145
17-09-2021||The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data for 2020 assumes significance as it is a reflection of the crime rate of the time when the country was under a pandemic-induced lockdown for almost three months||Crime in Covid time||Interestingly, the survey has introduced the column of charge-sheeting to better indicate the police performance in dealing with the cases registered, No doubt, strict enforcement of rules and efficient follow-up of cases has a direct bearing on building confidence among the citizens to report crime as also acting as a strong deterrent for criminals. Worrisomely, Haryana fares poorly on this score, necessitating introspection. Against the national average of 82.5 per cent chargesheeting rate, Haryana’s 39.7 per cent puts it among the bottom three states. For a state that has one of the highest crime rates in India, this gaping hole in the investigation process — the pivot on which delivery of justice rests — is a sad commentary on its law and order. The NCRB-2020 figures pointing to Haryana recording the most number of cases of abetment to suicide and Dalit murders, and the second highest dowry deaths corroborate the gravity of the situation.Neighbouring Punjab, though commendably better placed with82 per cent chargesheeting rate, continues to be bogged down by the drug menace. The 40 per cent decline in FIRs under the NDPS Act is offset by the fact that the state still has the second highest number of cases, after UP. That the amount of heroin seized surpassed the previous year’s haul shows that it remains a major transit point for drug traffickers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/crime-in-covid-time-312146
17-09-2021||A special Vidhan Sabha committee has reaffirmed that unceasing groundwater depletion is pushing Punjab towards desertification||Punjab’s water crisis||Punjab’s groundwater crisis has been red-flagged repeatedly over the years, but successive state governments have desisted from taking drastic measures that could antagonise the farming community — a decisive vote bank that has become even more assertive and restless of late, especially amid the ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws brought in by the Centre last year. With the state going to the polls early next year, the Congress government is expected to tread warily on the committee’s recommendations. There is no denying that lack of political will has brought things to such a pass. The situation on the ground is unlikely to improve as long as political parties keep viewing the problem through the prism of electoral gains or losses.The silver lining is that the state government is banking on Israeli know-how to curb groundwater depletion and give a fillip to replenishment. Once a water-deficient country, Israel has established itself as a global leader in the water sector in recent decades, thanks largely to recycling and reuse of treated wastewater for agricultural irrigation. Israel’s holistic approach to water consumption and management can benefit Punjab in the long run. For a start, various categories of users — agricultural, domestic and industrial — need to be sensitised to their collective responsibility towards preventing the not-too-distant disaster. Taking all stakeholders along holds the key to effective water conservation. It’s time to make every drop count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjabs-water-crisis-311795
