20-09-2021||Capt Amarinder Singh’s unceremonious exit as the Punjab Chief Minister is a new low for the self-destructive Congress. It’s inexplicable that a party with an ever-dwindling national footprint is bent on frittering away its few gains in the states. Sheer mishandling of the situation by the high command has destabilised the state government and triggered chaos in Punjab||Congress fiasco||The party stirred a hornets’ nest two months ago when it elevated Navjot Singh Sidhu as the PPCC chief, overruling objections by Capt Amarinder. If the top brass had wanted Sidhu to be the CM face, it should have made things clear right from the outset. Giving Sidhu carte blanche to take potshots at the CM was an invitation to disaster. The feeble, unconvincing attempts to bring about a patch-up between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu only made things worse.The high command’s lackadaisical approach can be gauged from the fact that it set up the election manifesto implementation committee in Punjab as late as January 2020, almost three years after Capt Amarinder led the party to a thumping victory in 2017. If misgovernance and the failure to fulfil poll promises were the all-important issues, course correction should have been done much earlier, not at the eleventh hour when the party needs all hands on deck. Now, it would be naive of the Congress to consider Punjab as a low-hanging fruit. The party will have to go back to the drawing board to gear up for the 2022 elections. The state leaders have already expended too much time and energy on political intrigue and one-upmanship. With the Congress’ credibility in tatters, it will be an uphill task for the grand old party to retain power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/congress-fiasco-313499
20-09-2021||Prime Minister Modi’s appeal to the global community to not rush into recognising the Taliban government in Afghanistan||No rush to recognise Taliban||The call to member-countries for a code of conduct to stop terror financing and cross-border terrorism is a timely reminder of what an unstable Afghanistan and a fiddling Pakistan could portend for not only the region, but also countries across the world. The suggestion to formulate a collective template to deal with the challenges of extremism and radicalisation may not find ready acceptance, but the need to confront the trust deficit could, and that’s where India must pull out all stops. The assurance to increase connectivity with Central Asia is an encouraging step on the journey, and needs to be pursued with renewed vigour.The fallout of the uncontrolled flow of drugs, illegal weapons and human trafficking as a consequence of the deepening economic woes of the Afghan people poses another serious challenge. India has expressed commitment to be a part of any global effort to provide urgent humanitarian aid for Afghanistan, but in an unhindered manner, and for that, it has reiterated support for a central role of the United Nations. Not only for ensuring that the assistance reaches all sections of Afghan society without any discrimination, but also for global deliberation regarding the current system in Afghanistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-rush-to-recognise-taliban-313496
