21-09-2021||With the Covid-19 situation easing significantly in India and the country back to near normalcy as most sectors have been gradually opened||Welcoming foreign guests||However, with the threat of a third Covid-19 wave looming large, a lot more than just giving the green signal is required to lure tourists. While waiving the visa fees for the first five lakh foreigners is an attractive offer, it can work only in tandem with ensuring a robust medical infrastructure. An urgent sprucing up of the facilities is needed to win the confidence of the coveted guests on this crucial score. Tie-ups of hotels, tourist spots and other stakeholders with hospitals assuring prompt medical attention could be a good selling point.It is time to take action so as to bring this stressed industry, tottering on the brink of collapse, back on track. Riding on it are multi-billion-dollar implications for India’s economy. The statistics are grim. A massive 97 per cent fall in foreign tourist arrivals was recorded from March to December 2020 in comparison with the same period the previous year. This, in turn, became the main trigger for the 76 per cent decline in Foreign Exchange Earnings in 2020 vis-a-vis 2019. A study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research has found that almost 22 million jobs were lost in the three quarters of 2020-21 after the lockdown. The stimulus packages announced by the government have given little succour to the dented incomes of these millions of workers. A lot is definitely at stake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/welcoming-foreign-guests-313925
21-09-2021||In what is probably the Congress’ last roll of the dice before the Punjab Assembly elections||Congress’ Dalit card||Referring emotionally to his humble origins, Channi is already busy projecting himself as the ‘aam aadmi’ a la AAP, a radical departure from what was perceived to be the overly bureaucratic functioning of his predecessor’s government. He doesn’t have much time to fulfil the pending poll promises, with the model code of conduct expected to be enforced by the year-end. More importantly, Channi’s job is to consolidate the SC vote — to the detriment of the rival parties’ poll prospects.The key question is whether a Dalit CM is just a stop-gap arrangement for the Congress or a long-term commitment. The Opposition pounced on AICC general secretary Harish Rawat’s statement that the party’s election campaign would be spearheaded by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. BSP president Mayawati dubbed Channi’s elevation as an election stunt, claiming that the Congress was keen on a non-Dalit as the future CM. Even senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar, who missed out on becoming the chief minister, stated that Rawat’s ‘baffling’ remark was likely to undermine the CM’s authority, forcing the high command to do some damage control. It will no doubt be a tightrope walk for the Congress, which is striving to fight anti-incumbency with a last-ditch change of guard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/congress-dalit-card-313926
