22-09-2021||NEWS of heaps of biomedical waste being dumped in the open by hospitals in Hisar is shocking but not surprising — if you go around any large town or city in India||Biomedical waste dumping||Covid-19 has caused a big increase in the biomedical waste production. Before the pandemic struck, India produced around 600 tonnes of biomedical waste a day. In May, when the second wave was at its peak, the country produced 203 tonnes of Covid-related waste per day, ie, a 33% increase over the pre-pandemic figures. The surge in the number of cases has led to a corresponding surge in the generation of hazardous material — all medical gear and safety devices used in the identification of infected persons and their treatment are treated as extremely hazardous.On paper, India should be able to handle the additional burden of Covid-related waste: Early this year, the Central Pollution Control Board said the country’s 198 biomedical waste treatment facilities — plus such facilities in hospitals — can treat 826 tonnes of biomedical waste per day, which is more than the May peak of 800 tonnes. The dumping of biomedical waste in the open, however, suggests that such figures could be inaccurate and all waste is not accounted for. Moreover, 22 of the 35 states and UTs generate more biomedical waste than they are equipped to treat. The solution lies in creating new biomedical waste treatment facilities in regions where they’re needed desperately, and using a carrot-and-stick policy to make hospitals follow the guidelines on waste disposal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/biomedical-waste-dumping-314391
22-09-2021||WITH the second wave of Covid-19 having ebbed considerably and the vaccination rate nearing a healthy average of 1 crore doses daily||Vaccine diplomacy||Though the government has assured that vaccinating India’s citizens remains its top priority, it’s vital to get the supply arithmetic right this time to prevent a shortfall in anticipation of the third wave. So far, less than one-fourth of the country’s eligible population has received both doses. With the upcoming festival season set to witness overcrowding in public places and blatant disregard for Covid-appropriate behaviour, the focus should be on fully vaccinating as many citizens as possible at the earliest.Even as India is keen to help the global community by contributing to the Covax vaccine pool, the UK has struck a discordant note with its discriminatory travel rules under which Indians inoculated with Covishield would be treated as unvaccinated and would have to quarantine themselves for 10 days. Manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute, the world’s leading Covid vaccine producer, Covishield is simply a brand name of the AstraZeneca vaccine developed by Oxford University. Ironically, travellers from several countries who have received AstraZeneca shots can enter Britain without quarantine curbs if they meet certain conditions. There is no place for vaccine ‘racism’ in the global battle against the pandemic. After all, no one on the planet is safe until everyone is safe. The UK needs to do course correction on this count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-diplomacy-314339
