23-09-2021||AT times||A village is sensitised||So, the story goes thus: the child’s father takes him to pray at a temple in their village (Miyapur in Karnataka’s Koppal district) to celebrate his second birthday on September 4. Not realising that being a member of the SC community, he is allowed to pray only from outside, the excited boy runs inside the temple. Some elders are horrified. They impose a fine of Rs 23,000 on the family for the transgression. This amount is needed for the ‘purification rituals’ to clean the temple. Perhaps, that was the standard procedure. But not this time! Many villagers from across the social strata supported the family as it pleaded for help. The authorities too were alerted. Officials from the police, revenue and social welfare departments swooped on the village and admonished the accused. They were warned of legal action if this practice reeking of bigotry and outlawed untouchability was repeated. Accepting the apology of the high caste accused, the family too refused to lodge any complaint. By September 21, Miyapur was a picture of perfect harmony and equality among its residents.If every village is transformed thus, the country would be rid of its abhorrent caste-based divide that is exploited by the political class.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-village-is-sensitised-314876
23-09-2021||THE death of Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput — both young pilots of the Army’s Aviation Corps — in a Cheetah helicopter crash-landing during a training sortie in Udhampur district has underlined the dire need to fix accountability for such apparently avoidable mishaps. Major Rajput had turned 27 on September 18 and got engaged recently||Chopper casualties||Both Cheetah and Rudra helicopters are built by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), the state-owned company that is spearheading the ‘Make in India’ initiative in the defence sector. The Cheetahs are modelled on France’s Alouette Aérospatiale 315B Lama, which was designed over half a century ago. These choppers are ill-equipped in terms of modern avionics, heightening the risk for pilots in bad weather conditions. The inordinate delay in replacing the entire fleet of some 400 of them continues to claim precious lives. A $2-billion project under which Russia’s Kamov 226-T light utility helicopters were to be manufactured by HAL is nowhere near the production stage.A court of inquiry might suffice to ascertain why a particular mishap took place, but what’s needed is a comprehensive safety audit that can pinpoint lapses and expedite the phaseout of obsolete flying machines. It has to be conclusively established whether the buck stops with HAL or the original equipment manufacturers. Making scathing observations in its report tabled in Parliament last year, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has stated that the upgrade of 90 medium lift Mi-17 helicopters, proposed in 2002, had not been completed even after 18 years. ‘Make in India’ would remain a job half-done unless there is zero tolerance to this business-as-usual approach that is compromising operational preparedness and snuffing out lives.Also read: Major Anuj Rajput cremated with military honours in Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chopper-casualties-314874
