24-09-2021||THE mysterious death of Mahant Narendra Giri||Death of a mahant||In May this year, Narendra Giri had expelled Anand Giri from Baghambari Math and Akhara Parishad. Following this, Anand Giri wrote to the President, Prime Minister and Home Minister, seeking an inquiry against his guru of 20 years — he alleged misuse of the funds raised after sale of land belonging to the Baghambari Math, and also complained to the CBI regarding property belonging to the Math and Niranjana Akhara being sold off. Narendra Giri later forgave his disciple, but did not allow him to return to the Math. Anand Giri, who has been arrested, is a man with a past — he was arrested in Australia two years ago after two women accused him of ‘indecent assault’ against them. The case against him was dropped after they chose not to proceed with their complaints.Religious figures, enjoying unparalleled respect and devotion of their congregations, and the economic benefits that come along with heading religious centres, are often tempted by the ultimate sins of greed and lust. In recent past, we have seen this in the cases of Gurmeet Ram Rahim, Asaram Bapu and Franco Mulakkal, the former Jalandhar Bishop who was accused of rape or sexual misconduct by multiple women. Investigation and assured punishment in this world, rather than the next one, may deter criminals in holy robes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/death-of-a-mahant-315332
24-09-2021||RED-FLAGGING air pollution as a global health risk that contributes to 70 lakh deaths worldwide every year||Raising the air bar||The WHO’s recommendations came on the day India’s Commission for Air Quality Management directed the governments of Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to strictly implement monitorable action plans to prevent and control stubble burning, the seasonal menace that drastically worsens air quality in most parts of north India every October-November. With foodgrain production estimated to set a new record of 150 million tonnes during the 2021-22 kharif season, it is inevitable that the amount of crop residue generated — particularly paddy stubble — will also be enormous.Plans are afoot to use PUSA biodecomposer, a microbial solution that turns stubble into manure, on 6 lakh acres in UP, 1 lakh acres in Haryana and over 7,400 acres in Punjab. Another eco-friendly method involves the utilisation of paddy straw pellets and briquettes in biomass and power generation plants. The challenge is to encourage farmers to sell stubble to the industry instead of setting it aflame and aggravating air pollution. The respective state governments need to proactively act as a facilitator for the farmers, who can supplement their income by supplying crop residue for optimum use as biofuel — and at the same time do their bit for the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/raising-the-air-bar-315330
