25-09-2021||Over eight months after the launch of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme||Covid jabs at home||It’s a cause for concern that one-third of India’s adult population is yet to receive even a single vaccine dose. These unprotected people are at high risk of suffering the worst outcomes in case they get infected. A sizeable proportion of them might be differently abled, elderly in general or particularly those with old age-related infirmities. It’s not only difficult but also hazardous for them to visit vaccination centres, especially when these places are overcrowded. The Centre has directed all states and UTs to initiate identification and listing of citizens falling in these groups so that doorstep vaccination can be started forthwith. The exercise will be carried out by mobile teams which will visit one house/locality after another. The logistics — manpower requirement, supply of doses, maintaining the prescribed temperature of vaccines — would have to be worked out with precision. It is also important to ensure that the allocation of resources for this special drive does not impact the overall vaccination campaign, which has gained considerable momentum in recent weeks.A dedicated helpline for these vulnerable groups, apart from the CoWIN portal, can be useful for hassle-free scheduling of vaccination. The standard operating procedures need to be rigorously followed so that the beneficiaries’ safety is not compromised. Success on this front will make India’s inoculation programme inspiringly inclusive and comprehensive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-jabs-at-home-315776
25-09-2021||An element of macabre being added to an eviction drive gone horribly wrong in Sipajhar area of Assam’s Darrang district is a clear instance of what execution of political decisions without suitable administrative groundwork can lead to. Especially since Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had visited the area in June and promised to free 77||Assam violence||An inquiry has been ordered, but whatever the provocation, it would be hard to justify the horrifying visuals of bullets flying at unseen targets, lathis being wielded randomly and a photographer hired by the authorities stomping on and punching a wounded man moments before he became motionless. On Monday, the Assam government announced having ‘reclaimed’ a chunk of land from 800 families, mostly Bengali-speaking, but Thursday saw resistance building up, with those affected demanding rehabilitation and adequate time to move out. For his supporters, the Chief Minister’s assertion that the eviction would not stop is an indication of his firm resolve, but relying primarily on harsh tactics as the line of action is flawed.The government should pay heed to voices within the state calling for rehabilitation and alternative housing. The Opposition’s observation that a government’s job is to work for the welfare of people, and not create problems by making them homeless, deserves contemplation. The issue of illegal settlers is a tricky subject in the state, which is already struggling with the complexities and human suffering as a consequence of the National Register of Citizens. Stoking tensions in a surcharged atmosphere is an avoidable exercise. A touch of pragmatism and consideration would do no harm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/assam-violence-315770
