27-09-2021||The strategic reverberations of Narendra Modi’s September 24 double bill in Washington will be felt for long — a meeting with US President Joe Biden||The White House & Quad||However, the simultaneous presence of the Quad spy chiefs in Washington, and Quad’s commencement of joint work in emerging technology indicates China was the elephant in the room. The growing proximity of common purpose may help India access the currencies of tomorrow such as military drones, 6G, semiconductors and specialised solar panels. It was almost a decade back that South Block had ruled out Russia as an across-the-board partner in frontier areas. But it is also noteworthy that even during the UNGA address Biden did not name China. Biden also broke a long-running China-US stalemate by facilitating the release of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou, and Beijing reciprocated by freeing two Canadians.The challenge before India is to lean on the West to attain global standards in technological and military fields. Yet it must avoid being used as a proxy diplomatic weapon, for there is the risk of being left in the lurch if America’s priorities change. The Biden bilateral and the Quad Summit have promised much in regional infrastructure and co-development in frontier areas. But on the ground, India is yet to recover the trade concessions rescinded by Trump and the PM's expectation of a generous immigration quota was merely acknowledged by Biden. India also can ill-afford to close all communications with two of its neighbours. In these fast-changing global realignments, India should steadfastly secure its own interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-white-house-quad-316574
27-09-2021||The broad-daylight shootout at the Rohini court complex in New Delhi on Friday has again highlighted the poor security arrangements at courts||Making courts secure||Clearly, lessons haven’t been learnt. The security of court complexes is the responsibility of the state police force. But the manner in which it has been handled by various state police forces doesn’t inspire much confidence. Following violent clashes between lawyers and Delhi Police personnel in the Tis Hazari Court Complex in Delhi, the Supreme Court had in January 2020 asked the Centre to explore the possibility of deploying a separate cadre of the Central Industrial Security Force in some courts for better security. But last month the Centre turned down the suggestion, saying it was neither ‘feasible’ nor ‘advisable’ to have such a national security force to guard judges/courts.The issue of security of courts/judges is already under the consideration of the top court, which is likely to take it up shortly. A lawyer has filed a fresh plea on the issue as well. People go to courts to get justice and not to fall prey to criminal activities of the worst kind. The top court should issue necessary directions to ensure that the ‘temples of justice’ — the last ray of hope for the common man — remain safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/making-courts-secure-316559
