28-09-2021||With the Supreme Court expected to get its first woman chief justice||CJI’s call for women’s quota||Matters are not helped either by the fact that the qualification for appointment as a judge only lists the criteria — either from judicial service or from the Bar — and is not specific about the gender of candidates. The aspiring candidates also have to be clear about their career choice for there are lawyers who prefer having a lucrative practice over appointment as a judge. Individual choices apart, the road ahead will not be easy for women in judiciary, considering that laws to ensure the representation of women in legislative bodies have met with stiff resistance. The working of the judges is also not easy because of the workload and the need for security.With law education becoming more accessible to women, the scope for their representation, not just in the apex court but also in high courts and the lower judiciary, has to expand correspondingly. The idea of giving preference to women is also guided by the need to check gender discrimination in the dispensation of justice. More women in the judicial service may help instill confidence among the litigants and bring sensitivity to the handling of cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cjis-call-for-womens-quota-317055
28-09-2021||New Delhi has rightly called out Beijing for adopting an unscientific approach to a humanitarian issue — the plight of thousands of Indian students||China’s high-handedness||The Ladakh standoff has undoubtedly cast a long shadow on Indo-China ties, but India deserves credit for attempting to keep the bilateral ‘trade and commercial relationship insulated from current differences’, as stated by the Ambassador to China, Vikram Misri. China owes an explanation to India and the international community at large about whether its move to prolong the travel restrictions is based on scientific evidence or other considerations.Importantly, the US will reopen in November for fully vaccinated air travellers from 33 countries, including China, India, Brazil and most European nations. America’s decision to ease stringent pandemic-induced curbs, which were first imposed early last year, is a major step towards restoring normalcy in tourism, trade and education sectors. It will provide a much-needed fillip to US economy and also spur global economic recovery. China should take a cue from the US and shed its isolationist attitude. For a start, it must facilitate the return of Indians who are contributing to the growth of Chinese economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinas-high-handedness-317057
