29-09-2021||With the nationwide launch of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission||Digital health ID||The Covid pandemic woefully exposed the inadequacies of India’s health infrastructure, particularly during the destructive second wave in April-May this year. The entire medical edifice almost crumbled as lakhs of cases and thousands of deaths were reported every day. Telemedicine has emerged in a big way over the past year and a half amid the lockdowns and other restrictions, though it can’t replace in-person interaction between the doctor and the patient. Even as the third wave looms large, the government’s digital push is welcome, but technology alone can’t bring about revolutionary changes in the health sector.Just two days before PM Modi launched the mission, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu flagged the shortage of trained human resources in the health sector and called for addressing the issue on a war footing. India’s doctor-to-population ratio (1:1,511) is nowhere near the WHO norm of 1:1,000; the nurse-to-population ratio is 1:670, far less than the WHO-prescribed 1:300. The staff shortage is all the more stark in rural areas, forcing villagers to throng urban centres that are already overburdened. Much work needs to be done to achieve the lofty goal of setting up one medical college and hospital in every district of the country. It’s also important to bridge the digital divide that is preventing millions of people from making the most of technology-based public services. A holistic approach is the way forward to give a new lease of life to the health sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/digital-health-id-317602
29-09-2021||There is no let-up in the worrying trend of a declining proportion of women workers in the country’s organised sector over the past decade or so. The latest statistics show that their space has shrunk further. Compared to 31 per cent in 2013-14||Women workers waning||Making matters worse is the pay gulf (unadjusted for hours or education) between the genders. In rural areas, a male salaried employee earns nearly 1.4 to 1.7 times more than a female employee, while an urban salaried man’s wages are 1.2 to 1.3 times higher. A major chunk of the better-paid white-collar jobs is, unjustly, the reserve of the man. Unsurprisingly, when it comes to a partner sacrificing the job for domestic duties, including looking after children, the axe usually falls on the wife.More amenable work environments and better opportunities must be created to retain as well as attract more women across the spectrum of employment. Small steps can significantly help bridge the gender divide. Tamil Nadu’s recent move on the ‘right to sit’ in the retail sector — that has a sizeable female strength — is worth emulating. The state is set for mandatory seating provision for the sales staff. Expected to stand for long hours at present, they run the risk of developing debilitating varicose veins. Kerala, commendably, first enacted a law in this regard in 2019 following protests by women textile workers against harsh working conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/women-workers-waning-317589
