30-09-2021||The Congress party and its leaders are on a self-destructive path||Punjab Congress tangle||The central leadership of the Congress party has to be squarely blamed for this crisis. Punjab is just one of the three states where the party has a government of its own. While letting the government drift for over four years with no checks or balances or an audit of all the election promises — action against the sacrilege accused, political patronage of drug rackets, illegal sand mining, liquor mafia, et al — the high command brought in Sidhu as PCC president after months of ugly, open infighting. Instead of effecting the change in government and the party at one go, if at all it had to be done, the leadership allowed the political situation to fester further to finally push Capt Amarinder Singh out in a cavalier gesture that betrayed lack of grace.The high command was publicly seen to be micromanaging the new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevation, choice of his Cabinet with the inclusion of a tainted minister and even the appointment of officers including that of the Advocate General; most of which have now become a bone of contention between Sidhu and Channi. Such micromanagement can only be counterproductive as it does not leave space for the high command to remain an unbiased appellate authority. The jury is still out on Sidhu’s resignation: is it just another of his tantrums or a shrewd political move to fulfil his chief ministerial ambitions? This tangle is of the high command’s own making and it has to resolve it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjab-congress-tangle-318069
30-09-2021||The death of two trekkers near Khemenger Glacier in Lahaul and Spiti of Himachal Pradesh is a morbid addition to the list of fatalities related to adventure tourism in the state. The deceased were part of a group of six from West Bengal — supported by 11 porters and one guide — who were stranded in the middle of nowhere after the weather took a sudden turn for the worse. The previous week||Death in the mountains||Risk is an enticing element of adventure tourism and on remote glaciers, mountains and swift rivers, risk can never really be eliminated. However, it’s the duty of the government, tourism department and local authorities to make sure that the risk is minimised, and also ensure that tourists are deeply aware about the perils they are exposing themselves to when crossing glaciers, rafting in rivers, climbing mountains or jumping off a cliff on a paraglider. If the government is allowing tourists to engage in risky adventures in the state, it must also ensure that if something untoward happens, help is never too far.Unfortunately, reports of past accidents suggest that in many cases, guides are not adequately trained and some camping outfits are run by unscrupulous individuals out to fleece tourists. Specifically on paragliding, the government has failed to implement the extremely high safety standards the sport requires. On their part, the tourists must understand that while their fitness levels may be good for a walk in the park, they could end up getting physically and mentally overwhelmed by the challenge of navigating a high mountain pass low on oxygen. Risks could be thrilling, but taking unexamined risks amounts to madness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/death-in-the-mountains-318065
