30-10-2021||North East||High Court of Tripura seeks strife affidavits||The High Court of Tripura on Friday initiated a suo motu PIL based on newspaper reports about violence in three districts on Tuesday in “repercussion” to attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. According to Tripura advocate-general S.S. Dey, a division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice S. Talapatra has ordered the state government to file multiple affidavits by November 10. One affidavit should detail the preventive measures that have been taken or its plan to scuttle “the design of stoking communal passion or to perpetrate violence”, the court said. Another affidavit should list the status of the investigation into the cases filed and whether any arrests had been made. The court took note of a declaration by chief minister and BJP leader Biplab Kumar Deb that appropriate compensation would be paid to those affected. “We direct the state to take urgent action in this regard so that the livelihood of persons who have lost their source of income can be restored at the earliest,” the court said. It said appropriate action should be initiated against social media platforms to ensure removal of false, fictitious and fabricated articles and images. The bench appreciated the positive role played by the “media at large, in particular the print media”, in restoring peace. It suggested that peace committees may be set up, including at the panchayat level, by including members of all political parties so that confidence of the people of the state can be restored. The high court will hear the case again on November 12. The court intervention came after vandalism took place during a rally taken out by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Tuesday in North Tripura’s Panisagar sub-division in protest against the attacks on Hindus in the neighbouring country. Media reports spoke of violence in two more districts, Unakoti and Sipahijala. “Five cases have been registered, including in Panisagar and Unakoti. There has been no injury, casualty and desecration of religious places. No mosque has been burnt in Panisagar as reported. There has been no alleged widespread disturbances and violence in Muslim areas of the state as repercussion to attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh,” Dey said. Police have provided security in and around mosques in all the eight districts. The police also tweeted the images of the masjid in Panisagar, saying it is safe and secure. The state Jamiat had moved the government on Friday seeking security for masjids and Muslims. Tripura has a population of over 40 lakh, of whom around four lakh are Muslims. A ruling BJP delegation visited the affected areas in Panisagar and appealed for peace while condemning the incident. CPM state secretary Jitendra Choudhary said Tuesday’s incident was unfortunate. “It is really baffling why there is so much tension in Tripura when a proactive Bangladesh government has acted against those involved and arrested the main accused. The state government here should also be proactive and take appropriate measures to maintain peace,” Choudhary said. Tripura State Jamiat Ulama (Hind), Tripura’s royal scion Pradyot Bikram Manikya Debbarma and the Trinamul Congress have appealed for peace. Tripura State Jamiat Ulama (Hind) president Mufti Tayebur Rahman urged the government to take appropriate and strong steps against those involved, irrespective of religion, to maintain peace. “Bangladesh has controlled the situation. Tripura should also take appropriate steps to control the situation. Our appeal is that nobody should be disturbed and all should live peacefully. Peace and brotherhood should be maintained,” Rahman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
