01-06-2021||India||3 men bury Covid positive father’s body in field, probe ordered||The police on Monday ordered an inquiry after a video clip that was widely shared on social media on Sunday showed three men burying the body of their Covid-positive father in an open field in state’s Sant Kabirnagar district, an official said.Superintendent of police Dr Kaustubh said after taking cognisance of the video, an inquiry had been ordered.A district administration officer said Ram Lalit, 62, complained of breathing difficulty on May 22 . His sons took him to a private hospital in Gorakhpurwhere he tested positive for Covid-19 but the sons got Lalit discharged on May 23 and he died. In the purported video, the three were seen carrying the body to the field in an excavator along with the cot on which their father had died. “Action will be taken against those who flouted the...order to cremate the bodies of Covid -19 patients according to the protocol,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-men-bury-covid-positive-father-s-body-in-field-probe-ordered-101622494263896.html
01-06-2021||India||Firestorm over Mehul Choksi spills over to Dominica, PM Skerrit is new target||Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit on Monday came under a sharp attack from the Caribbean nation’s main opposition party over businessman Mehul Choksi, accusing the prime minister of being “part of a plot against the rule of law” to send the fugitive diamantaire to India.Lennox Linton, leader of the opposition in Dominica’s House of Assembly, also demanded a “full investigation” into the circumstances under which Choksi was brought to Dominica and into what he described as the “obvious collaboration between Dominica, Antigua and India” and the officials who instructed or influenced the police to facilitate the inhumane transfer of Mehul Choksi to Dominica.Indian-born Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, last Sunday, but was detained by Dominican police on Tuesday night on charges of illegally entering the island. The two islands are roughly 100 nautical miles apart.PM Skerrit is the second leader in the region to be targeted by the opposition over the tussle over Mehul Choksi. Antigua PM Gaston Browne has been severely criticised by the opposition who allege his government played a role in Choksi’s disappearance from the country. He has, on several occasions, suggested that Dominica shouldn’t send Choksi back to Antigua but deport him to India.Monday’s statement by Dominica’s lead opposition party accused PM Skerrit of playing along with Antigua PM.“We demand urgent remedial action to remove the stain from this unfortunate incident on the image of Dominica and restore our country’s reputation as a responsible member of the family of nations, diligently carrying out the rule of law responsibilities of international development,” Lennox Linton said.Choksi’s legal team has claimed that he was abducted from Antigua and taken to Dominica by Indian and Antiguan officials. On Monday, his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal suggested that Choksi may have been honey-trapped by a woman he had known for six months. Choksi had gone to her house when he was abducted and taken on a yacht to Dominica.The Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court is currently hearing a petition on Choksi’s fate. The court will hear the matter on Wednesday when India is set to seek his deportation directly to New Delhi.UWP leader Linton’s statement on Monday demanded an immediate end to what it called “no law, no constitution” governance conduct that disgraces Dominica as a rogue element in the family of nations and endangers the rule of law foundation for the advancement of civility in the global community.“The presence of Indian born Antigua and Barbuda citizen Mehul Choksi in Dominica following allegations that he was kidnapped in Antigua, beaten, ferried to Dominica, and taken into the country against his will highlights once again the extent to which departments of government are involved in organized crime under the influence and/or direction of the regime of Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit,” he said.Asserting that Choksi’s citizenship issue is already pending in the High Court of Antigua and Barbuda, Linton said: “State actors under the leadership of the Prime Minister of Dominica appear to be part of plot against the rule of law protection guaranteed to citizens that is effectively undermining the judiciary in the jurisdiction of the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court for the benefit of a foreign power.”The removal of Choksi from Antigua and Barbuda, (where according to Prime Minister Gaston Browne, he enjoys the constitutional privileges of citizenship) to Dominica, was intended to facilitate his transfer to India without having to wait on the outcome of the ongoing extradition proceedings scheduled for hearing in November 2021. To that extent, Dominica has been conscripted to unlawfully violate the constitutional rights of an Antiguan citizen for crass political purposes, the opposition leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dominicas-oppn-also-targets-its-pm-alleges-connivance-with-india-and-antigua-101622491322603.html
01-06-2021||India||Language used in order naming Jaiswal as CBI chief violates SC directive: Activist||Vineet Narain, the central protagonist in a landmark judgment that set the precedent for appointment of the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), claims that the language used by the Centre in its order last week appointing Subodh Kumar Jaiswal to the post is a violation of the Supreme Court directive.In its order issued on May 25, the appointments committee of cabinet (ACC) stated that it has approved the appointment of 1985 batch IPS officer, Jaiswal, as director, CBI for a period of two years from the date of assumption of charge of the office or until further orders, whichever is earlier.Narain said the last line of this order is in violation of the SC order as it leaves a window open for government to make changes. Such language (especially the part “... until further orders...” ) was never used in appointment of previous CBI directors, including Rishi Kumar Shukla and Alok Verma .The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) declined comment on the matter.“Neither in the SC directive nor the CVC act, it is mentioned that the two-year tenure can be altered. The SC judgment in Vineet Narain & Others vs Union of India was to insulate the CBI Director from any executive interference but this kind of language shows some ulterior motive,” Narain said. “This is contemptuous of the apex court’s decision and Hon’ble Chief Justice of India (N V Ramana) should take cognizance of the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/language-used-in-order-naming-jaiswal-as-cbi-chief-violates-sc-directive-activist-101622489869777.html
01-06-2021||India||Covid-19: ICMR plans 4th nationwide sero survey||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is planning to conduct a fourth serological survey across the country to assess the prevalence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, following the massive second wave in the country, said experts familiar with the plan.“It is currently being discussed and will be announced formally by the director general of ICMR,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, ICMR.Experts say sero surveys are the key to knowing disease prevalence and taking countermeasures. In the current scenario, a fresh sero survey can help the government decide when to ease restrictions on movement. “Quick rounds of sero surveys can be conducted to know the antibody prevalence that will help in opening up accordingly. I suspect that the positivity rate, which has gone down, is largely due to natural infection,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.Experts also say that the fourth survey will be different from the other three surveys as apart from a sudden, massive surge, a section of the population has also been vaccinated in the past four months. “What we look for in a sero survey is the presence of antibodies against the virus, and at this stage the antibodies seen could be because of not only infection but also vaccination,” Dr Panda said.He also pointed out that among the infected are those who were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and some who got seriously sick. “It will be a mixed kind that we will get this time, while earlier there was infection/disease transmission dynamics,” Panda said.Also read| Second wave left 1 crore Indians jobless; 97% households' incomes dipped: ReportBlood samples in a sero survey are tested for the presence of IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies that determine a past infection due to the virus. Sero surveys are also important in determining whether the disease has entered the community transmission stage or not.ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai has been the nodal agency for all past surveys and will most likely supervise the fourth one as well.The earlier sero surveys suggested that a significant size of the population was still susceptible to catching the viral infection, and India was far from achieving herd immunity. The first one was designed as a cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or more from 21 states, where the districts were categorised into four strata according to the reported Covid-19 cases per million population.the second and third rounds, all other parameters were the same except for the age bracket — samples were taken from people aged 10 and above.The third sero survey, conducted between December 17, 2020, and January 8, 2021, found 21.4% of those aged 10 and above infected with the virus.In the second round, nearly one in 15 (6.6%) people above the age of 10 was found to be exposed to the virus till August 2020.The first survey conducted in May last year had found the infection rate to be 0.73% nationally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plans-4th-nationwide-sero-survey-101622489809721.html
01-06-2021||India||6-yr-old girl’s adorable video message to Modi moves J&K govt. L-G orders review||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday took note of an 'adorable complaint' from a six-year-old girl regarding bounteous school work and directed the school education department to form a policy within 48 hours to reduce the burden.The L-G instructed the department in a response to a viral video on Twitter, in which the girl is seen complaining about the load of her school work. In the video, the innocent child is seen referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Modi Saab as she asked why do the teachers give so much work to small kids."Very adorable complaint. Have directed the school education department to come out with a policy within 48 hours to lighten the burden of homework on school kids. Childhood innocence is gift of God and their days should be lively, full of joy and bliss," responded Sinha to the tweet.Very adorable complaint. Have directed the school education department to come out with a policy within 48 hours to lighten burden of homework on school kids. Childhood innocence is gift of God and their days should be lively, full of joy and bliss. https://t.co/8H6rWEGlDaThe young girl was heard complaining about her online class schedule from 10am to 2pm. She also listed all the subjects taught to her in an attempt to list the miseries of homework assigned to kids of her age. "There is one class of English, one of Maths, followed by one of EVS and one of the computers," she can be heard saying.The appeal to reduce school work for small children won several hearts on the internet Monday evening. Many Twitter users also commended the prompt efforts taken by the L-G to reduce the burden of homework.Schools in most parts of the country are closed amid the raging coronavirus pandemic that has taken more than 329,000 lives since it hit the country last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6yrold-girl-s-video-message-about-school-work-wins-twitter-lt-guv-vows-action-101622484574398.html
01-06-2021||India||Madras HC orders inspection of Renault-Nissan unit over Covid-19 norms compliance||The Madras High Court on Monday requested a senior government official to visit the Sriperumbudur factory of Renault-Nissan in Tamil Nadu on June 1 to ascertain if Covid-19 norms are being followed at their vehicle manufacturing facility.The first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the order in response to petitioners in the case-workers of Renault. They had approached the court against the employer availing an exemption from the state government from the ongoing lockdown without complying with Covid-19 protocols, particularly social distancing.According to the workmen, the distancing norms cannot be maintained in the production procedure adopted by this employer, particularly in the assembly line, the court said in its orders on Monday.The workers did not turn up to work on Monday in protest. The employer, however, maintained that all precautionary steps are followed and was open to any surprise inspection.The court requested state advocate general R Shunmugasundaram to arrange for a senior official from the Directorate of Industrial Safety to visit the Sriperumbudur factory of Renault-Nissan by 10 am on June 1.“It is hoped that after the day off today, the workmen will resume their duties tomorrow, so that the inspection may be made and representatives of the workmen may interact with the concerned government official, along with the representatives of the management, to check the relevant parameters and arrive at some form of a solution,” the court said in its order. The official could also mediate between the management and the workers if required, the court said.The workers have suggested that social distancing norms can be followed between two cars in an assembly line by allowing three or four workmen to work on the vehicle at a time, instead of six or eight. They also suggested that a study that the management is undertaking to ensure that distancing norms are maintained at all times, should be completed expeditiously and corrective measures must be adopted, the court said.The court adjourned the case to June 4 hoping to hear an amicable solution and directed the employer to submit the number of workmen infected by Covid-19, how many are in the hospital and the ones getting treated at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-inspection-of-renault-nissan-unit-over-covid-19-norms-compliance-101622489090277.html
01-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports 27,936 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload remains above 300,000-mark||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported 27,936 new coronavirus cases and the state capitals daily count is 2,596, according to the Health Department. With the death of 478 people -- 220 in private hospitals and 258 in government-run ones --the tally rose to 24,232. The total number of people testing positive till date increased to 20,96,516 and the number of active cases, including isolation, as on today remains at 3,01,781. The number of patients discharged today after treatment stands at 31,223, and the total recoveries rose to 17,70,503. Chennai accounted for 2,596 new cases, 3,990 recoveries and 91 fatalities. The metro's overall tally is 5,04,502 cases, with the active cases/those under treatment remaining at 33,922. The total recoveries in the city stood at 4,63,489 while the fatalities were 7,091. Coimbatore tops among the districts in reporting 3,488 new cases followed by Chennai 2,596, Erode 1,742, Tiruppur 1,373, Salem 1,157, Chengalpattu 1,138 and Tiruchirapalli 1,119. Deeply concerned over the non-replenishment of vaccine doses by the Centre, State Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian claimed that the present stock would be used up inthe next two days. Tamil Nadu has only 5 lakh vaccines left, which will be enough for inoculation in the next two days, Subramanian told reporters today. The State was expected to receive 25 lakh vaccines from the Centre for vaccinating the 18-plus age group but got only 13 lakh doses, he said. Certain districts like Thanjavur and Tiruvarur have no vaccines, he said after inspecting the largest Covid care centre established at the Chennai Trade Centre with 864 beds. About 504 beds were added to the 360-bedded facility, with oxygen lines. In addition to 13 lakh doses, the State had earlier obtained 83 lakh doses from the Centre. So far about 87 lakh people have been vaccinated till Sunday and there was a wastage during the vaccination drive in the first coronavirus wave, he said. The Union government was informed about the current situation and that fresh stocks were expected, the Minister, who earlier inaugurated a Yoga and Naturopathy Covid care centre here, said. As on Monday, about 89,32,852 people were given both the Covishield and Covaxin shots, a release from the health department said. They include 12,85,159 in the 18 to 44 years age group and 32,23,935 people in the 45-60 age group besides 8,29,288 healthcare workers, 10,40,680 frontline workers and 25,53,790 senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-27-936-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-remains-above-300000mark-101622486469056.html
01-06-2021||India||Vijayan writes to 11 states, seeks support on jabs||HT Correspondent  Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday wrote to all his non-BJP counterparts asking them to come together and put up a joint effort to get vaccines from the union government. The letter has been sent to 11 chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Delhi and Punjab.. “It is important that vaccine should be provided free of cost considering it as a public good, the access to which shall be denied to none due to lack of financial wherewithal,” his letter said. He said if the burden on vaccines is left entirely on states their fiscal situation will be affected. His letter assumes much significance in the light of the Supreme Court’s latest observation that there should be only one price for Covid-19 vaccines across the nation. Earlier, the Centre had proposed a three-tier price structure for vaccines. “It is learnt that the union government has taken a stand that the states should resort to their own measures to procure vaccines. The supply of the vaccines is scarce as compared to the demand for the same,” he said asking all his counterparts to jointly pursue the need of the hour. He said vaccine manufacturers were unwilling to enter into an agreement with states for procurement and that herd immunity will be effective only if a substantial chunk of the population is vaccinated. Vijayan also pointed out that the state had placed order for 10 million vaccines last month but it received only 8, 84,000 doses. After assuming power for the second time as chief minister he had sent at least four letters to PM Narendra Modi seeking more vaccines and oxygen. “When the nation is passing through the second surge, it is unfortunate the Centre is absolving itself of its bounder duty to provide adequate supply of vaccine. The impact of the second surge has been unprecedented, putting all of us in a state of alarm. Experts have warned about a third wave also. This necessitates our heightened preparation and vigil to meet that eventuality too,” he reminded his counterparts. Earlier, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh had written to the Prime Minister Modi requesting him to ensure that the Centre procures vaccines for all age groups and distribute it to the states. “We can pay the Centre for vaccination of 18-45 age group. But, instead of each state buying vaccines, the Centre should buy vaccines centrally and give to all states,” Gehlot had said in a letter to PM last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-writes-to-11-states-seeks-support-on-jabs-101622487889659.html
01-06-2021||India||Vaccine stock left for just two days, waiting for allocation: TN govt||Tamil Nadu has vaccine stock remaining only for two more days, health officials told the media on Monday. The vaccination drive will be on hold unless the Centre either supplies 0.174 million doses pending in the May allocation or when the first consignment for June’s allocation arrives on the sixth. “We have directed officials in Chennai and other districts to complete administering of whatever vaccines are left. We will have to stop when there is zero stock, and we can only restart when we get the next supply,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. As of Monday morning, after wastage, Tamil Nadu had around 0.493 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines in hand. Out of this, 0.269 million doses are for the 18-45 age group, and 0.224 million doses are for those above 45 years. The state has informed the Centre of the shortage. “The Union government has allocated 2.043 million doses for May, and we have received 1.868 million doses,” Radhakrishnan said. “As of Monday, we are yet to receive a balance of 0.174 million doses from the allotment for May. We are not sure when it will reach Tamil Nadu, whether tomorrow or the day after. They (the Centre) have said that they will inform us in a couple of days. If we receive this soon, we will be able to continue vaccinating.”For June, the Union government on Monday informed the state that 4.258 million doses will be allocated. “The only catch in this is that the first consignment in this allotment will reach Tamil Nadu only by June 6. The next supply will reach by June 9,” Radhakrishnan said, adding that due to supply issues across the country, they can only make allotments step-by-step despite doubling the allocation for Tamil Nadu. Three lakh doses are expected to arrive on June 6.Tamil Nadu has received 9.618 million doses of vaccines to date, which were used to vaccinate 8.770 million people across age groups until May 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-stock-left-for-just-two-days-waiting-for-allocationtngovt-101622487715888.html
01-06-2021||India||‘Cycle girl’ Jyoti’s father dies of cardiac arrest||This time last year, an injured Mohan Paswan was riding pillion as his daughter, Jyoti Kumari, pedalled across the breadth of north India to bring him home from Gurugram to rural Bihar.On Monday, Paswan died of a cardiac arrest in Darbhanga, roughly a year after the 1,200-km journey made Kumari a household name and the ‘cycle girl’ became the face of migrant workers’ plight,Confirming the death, Darbhanga district magistrate SM Tyagarajan said a block development officer was sent to the village to visit the family.Also read: Covid orphaned 1,700 children, another 7,400 lost one parent, Supreme Court toldAn e-rickshaw driver, Paswan and his daughter were left stranded in Gurugram and ran out of money after the nationwide lockdown was announced last year. Since no transport was available, Kumari bought a bicycle and pedalled with her incapacitated father on the carrier seat, from Gurugram to their village Sirhulli -- a distance they covered in 12 days.In January this year, Kumari was selected as the brand ambassador for an anti-drug abuse programme in Bihar. She also received the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for her courage, and had a virtual interaction with Prime minister Narendra Modi on January 25.Kumari’s feat drew worldwide admiration, including a tweet from Ivanka Trump, daughter of then US president Donald Trump.She also signed a film titled, Aatmanirbhar, in which she will play herself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cycle-girl-jyoti-s-father-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-101622487715342.html
01-06-2021||India||US President looks to rebuild, expand legal immigration||US President Joe Biden plans to rebuild and expand legal immigration by cutting processing time, costs and security hoops, clearing backlogs, and fixing the H-1B visa programme that allows US companies to hire foreign employees, which have been overwhelmingly from India, the New York Times has reported, citing a blueprint.This effort will run parallel to the White House-backed ambitious immigration reform legislation before the US congress, and the blueprint, titled “DHS Plan to Restore Trust in Our Legal Immigration System” — DHS is the Department of homeland Security, which oversees immigration, is only at a draft stage and will go through several versions before finalisation.Biden ran for the White House on the promise of “building a fair and humane immigration system” and undoing some of President Donald Trump’s “cruel” policies reflected in his obsession of a wall along the border with Mexico. Since taking office, Biden has undone some of his predecessor’s policies such as the Muslim immigration curbs.The central element, as the New York Times reported, of the new plan is to address backlogs in the immigration system, which had been building over the years and were only exacerbated by President Trump’ restrictive policies.It wasn’t clear from the report what specific backlogs will be targeted but the one that impacts applicants from India the most is the one for Green Cards. The US granted one million Green Cards in 2019, and that has been the general turnover annually. But because of a per-country limit of 7%, the queue of Indian applicants has kept growing over the year, with one conservative-leaning think tank estimating it to be more than 150 years.More than 300,000 applicants are currently in line, according to the US Citizenship and Immigration Services; but Immigration Voice, an advocacy group, says the number is as high as 1.5 million.The news report was not clear about plans for the H-1B visas — largest beneficiaries are Indian, accounting for more than 70% of the 85,000 granted annually — but the programme came in for harsh scrutiny and treatment from the Trump administration, which loaded it with restrictive measures, most of whom are either lapsed or rescinded.The blueprint will fast-track immigration applications by expanding virtual interviews and electronic filing, as well as limiting the requests for evidence from applicants, according to the New York Times. Domestic violence will because grounds for seeking asylum.Immigration opportunities will be expanded for LGBTQ refugees fleeing countries where they are persecuted or where same-sex marriage is not recognised.The blueprint proposes a revamp of a programme that allows undocumented immigrants to seek citizenship if they help law enforcement, and also allow protection to those who cooperate with police even before they make it to the official waiting list for immigrant visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-prez-looks-to-rebuild-expand-legal-immigration-101622487590701.html
01-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre panel to study mixing doses, Covishield single shot||Government scientists will study various combinations of doses for coronavirus vaccines to see if the use of a different brands leads to better efficacy and look at how well they work if given only in a single dose or even as a shot after the booster dose to further aid the immunity of fully vaccinated people, a top official said on Monday.The vaccines India uses at present have a two-dose regimen. Similar studies have been carried out in other countries but independent experts said the one-dose approach, particularly for Covishield, should be made with caution since current evidence suggests it may not provide adequate protection.“We will be looking at the feasibility of testing two dose Covid-19 vaccine regimen but with different vaccines, for which testing may start in few weeks. Dosing interval will also be examined, that includes whether a single dose or a dose followed by a booster shot or so on works better, said Dr NK Arora, chairman, Covid-19 working group, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), Delhi.Arora said the exercise could be expanded to other vaccines like Covaxin or Zydus Cadilla’s ZyCov-D, which is in the trials phase at present. “The idea is to study and find the most appropriate dosing interval that provides maximum protection with the number of variants circulating around,” Arora said, adding that a single dose could be worked out too, “but that’s definitely not the only focus”.“Different type of beneficiary mix is currently available for us to examine in the form of what is called is the real-world data,” he added.Vaccine experts have welcomed the news but have reservations about testing a single-dose Covishield regimen. “For mixed doses testing, it is a good move. But for the single dose testing, it should not be tried outside a very careful evaluation where people can be closely monitored, and sequencing can be done quickly. I am encouraged by the Johnson & Johnson vaccine but wary of the B1.617.2 virus variant,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, physician-scientist at Christian Medical College, Vellore.Also read| 'Kappa' and 'Delta': WHO gives names to Covid-19 variants found in IndiaRecently, about 20 people in Uttar Pradesh’s Siddharth Nagar district were accidentally given Covaxin shots as second dose after being given Covishield jabs. Experts have been following up with them, and so far, there seem to be no safety concerns.In the UK, an analysis of infections among people infected with the Delta variant, which was first found in India, showed a sharp drop in vaccine efficacy. The reduction was particularly stark among groups that had only one shot of Oxford-AstraZeneca (the same as Covishield) or Pfizer dose.A single dose of either vaccine, this data suggested, led to a mere 30% protection, down from 60% efficacy after two doses of AstraZeneca and 80% efficacy after two shots of the Pfizer vaccine.Dr Arora said that the county will have 200-300 million vaccines per month in the coming weeks as vaccine manufacturers are ramping up production. “By the end of July, we will have 200 million doses per month, and from August, we should get overall 250-300 million doses per month that would give us the capacity to inoculate close to 10 million people a day,” he said.The Union health ministry has said that efforts are on to increase the production capacity of Covaxin to 60-70 million vaccines in July-August. By September, the country expects to produce nearly 100 million doses a day of Covaxin.Production of Covishield that comprises almost 90% of the jabs given under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme so far is also being ramped up.Serum Institute of India’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, had said earlier that the monthly output will be raised to 100-120 million Covishield vaccines by July-August.SII locally manufactures Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine under the brand name Covishield. Covaxin, on the other hand, is co-developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-panel-to-study-mixing-doses-covishield-single-shot-101622487530874.html
01-06-2021||India||Find out if Covid norms followed at Renault unit, HC tells official||Chennai: The Madras high court on Monday requested a senior government official to visit the Sriperumbudur factory of Renault-Nissan on June 1 to ascertain if Covid-19 norms are being followed in their vehicle manufacturing facility. The first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed this order in response to petitioners in the case--workers of Renault. They had approached the court against the employer availing an exemption from the state government from the ongoing lockdown without complying with Covid-19 protocols particularly social distancing. According to the workmen, the distancing norms cannot be maintained in the production procedure adopted by this employer, particularly in the assembly line, the court said in its orders on Monday.The workers had not turned up to work on Monday in protest. The employer, however, maintained that all precautionary steps are followed and are open to any surprise inspection. The court requested the state advocate general R Shunmugasundaram to arrange for a senior official from the Directorate of Industrial Safety to visit the Sriperumbudur factory of Renault-Nissan by 10 am on June 1. “It is hoped that after the day off today, the workmen will resume their duties tomorrow, so that the inspection may be made and representatives of the workmen may interact with the concerned government official, along with the representatives of the Management, to check the relevant parameters and arrive at some form of solution,” the court said in its orders. The official could also mediate between the management and the workers if required, the court said.The workers have suggested that social distancing norms can be followed between two cars in an assembly line by allowing three or four workmen to work on the vehicle at a time, instead of six or eight. They also suggested that a study that the management is undertaking to ensure that distancing norms are maintained at all times, should be completed expeditiously and corrective measures adopted, the court said. The court adjourned the case to June 4 hoping to hear an amicable solution and directed the employer to submit the number of workmen infected and how many are in the hospital and at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/find-out-if-covid-norms-followed-at-renault-unit-hc-tells-official-101622487529652.html
01-06-2021||India||Maharashtra extends EWS quota to Marathas||Maharashtra on Monday allowed Marathas to avail reservation under the Economically Weak Section (EWS) category to accommodate around 6,000 people from the community in government service, roughly three weeks after the Supreme Court scrapped a separate quota for the influential group.The government said Marathas with annual family income of less than ₹8 lakh could avail the EWS quota, set up in 2019. The resolution also clarified that the EWS quota benefits will be applied with retrospective effect.The quota will be applicable from the period of interim stay (on Maratha reservation) on September 9 last year to the final Supreme Court verdict on May 5, the government order said.At present, a 10% EWS quota in jobs and education is given to sections of society not covered by any reservation. As Marathas no longer have quota, the government issued a fresh order making the community eligible.Also read| Battle for Maratha reservation to be fought in Delhi: Shiv SenaIn its May 5 order, the top court had said that admissions and appointments made under the 2018 Maratha quota law till September 9, 2020 (when the Supreme Court stayed the operation of the law), won't be disturbed but the candidates will not be able to avail any further benefit. But this didn’t help around 6,000 young men and women who completed various stages of government recruitment before September 9 but were not given appointment letters, said a state official on condition of anonymity.“The SC order does not give protection to the employees not recruited before September 9 last year. Though state government had taken the decision of accommodating community in EWS on September 22 but the order was issued only on December 23 because of the resistance of the community. There are people recruited during this period. With the help of this order, we can now consider accommodating such youth in EWS quota. Some of the candidates from EWS quota may get thrown out of the reservation, but we are considering to accommodate them by creating extra posts,” said the official.The law was passed in 2018 after months of violent agitation by Marathas, which makes up 32%of the state. The 2018 law was based on a state backward commission report and the window of “extraordinary situations” cited in the 1992 Indra Sawhney case. It provided 16% reservation in jobs and educational institutions to Marathas, taking the quantum of caste-based quota in the state to 68%.In 2019, the Bombay high court reduced the quota to 12% in admissions and 13% in jobs, prompting students and others to move the Supreme Court.On May 5, the SC scrapped the quota and called it unconstitutional. A five-judge bench lamented that the state government opted to give reservation to a class that was “socially dominant”, “politically dominant” and “in the mainstream of national life,” and thus, there was no justification to breach the 50% ceiling for a class that also had adequate representation in public employment.After the verdict, the state appointed a high-level committee under retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the court order. On Monday, the panel was given seven more days submit its report. “Besides the legal recourse to find out the way out to get the reservation back, the committee is also expected to recommend alternative to safeguards the jobs of youth who could not be recruited in due time. The decision over it will be taken in days after the submission of the report,” the official quoted above said.Maratha leaders said they were unhappy with the decision. “We would not get even 4% share of the EWS quota as many other community from open category already have been getting these benefits,” said Rajendra Kondhare, general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Maratha Mahasangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-extends-ews-quota-to-marathas-101622487530290.html
01-06-2021||India||In a 1st, K’taka HC live streams trials||Bengaluru: For the first time in the state, Karnataka high court live-streamed trials of two Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petitions presided by a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj were telecasted via YouTube on Monday. “Today, we have live proceedings of two petitions….It is being done on an experimental basis. It is our duty to put members of the Bar to notice,” remarked the bench after the live stream began. With this, Karnataka high court has become the second high court in the country to experiment with live streaming of court proceedings, the first being Gujarat high court. The HC plans to live stream another proceeding if the pilot streaming with the court hall-1 is successful. The cases live-streamed were final hearing proceedings of two PIL petitions filed Baithkol Bandaru Nirashrithara Yantrikrut Dhoni Meenugarara Sahakara Sangha Niyamitha, and the Uttara Kannada District Fishermen Association. Various issues related to environmental impact and alleged violation of environmental laws in approval of the proposed second stage development of Commercial Karwar Port at Baithkol village. The Supreme Court is actively considering pleas of live streaming of some of the proceedings of its proceedings as well as some proceedings of high courts. A PIL seeking live streaming of all the courts in Karnataka is pending before the high court. Supreme Court judge and chairperson of its e-committee, Justice DY Chandrachud, had recently indicated that live-streaming of court proceedings was on the brink of becoming a reality. The Allahabad high court and the Madhya Pradesh HC are also set to hear pleas by journalists who have asked permission for the live-streaming and live-reporting of proceedings. Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases and the subsequent lockdown imposed by the Karnataka government, the High Court of Karnataka had issued guidelines to hold hearings only through videoconference. Meanwhile, on Monday, a public interest litigation hearing on the CBI probe into the case of sex for job controversy involving former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi was submitted before the court on Monday. The HC adjourned the matter to June 18, asking the SIT to submit a report. The SIT also submitted a report on the probe into the abduction case by the father of the woman allegedly involved in a CD scandal with a former minister. In his complaint stating that his daughter was kidnapped from Bengaluru and was being harassed filed with the APMC police station in Belagavi and it was later transferred to R T Nagar police station in Bengaluru. The report was submitted in a sealed envelope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-1st-k-taka-hc-live-streams-trials-101622487469557.html
01-06-2021||India||Kerala assembly passes resolution against Lakshadweep administrator||The Kerala legislative assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution condemning the controversial policies of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel and demanded their withdrawal as well as Patel’s recall.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tabled the resolution, and said the UT has become the latest laboratory of Sangh Parivar outfits. All democratic forces should oppose this, he said.The resolution said that the people of Lakshadweep are in a tight spot. “Their culture and tradition are under threat following dictatorial measures being taken by the administrator ignoring local protests. Even their food habits and livelihood are under threat,” the resolution read.The original resolution had no direct attack against the Centre, but it was later incorporated after the Opposition sought amendments. “The administrator is taking many measures to alienate them. In the name of development their livelihood was threatened. Even coconut trees are painted with saffron colour in the name of beautification,” the resolution said.Lakshadweep has been on the boil for the last two weeks after UT administrator Patel, the former home minister of Gujarat and a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, brought in a new set of rules that include a proposed cow slaughter ban, a preventive detention law and sweeping changes in land development regulations.“Steps are being taken to eliminate beef which is an important part of the staple food... The administrator is taking the lead in gradually destroying the life and culture of the people of Lakshadweep,” the resolution read.The BJP shot back. “We condemn the resolution. Earlier the assembly had passed a resolution to free cleric Abdul Nassar Madani, accused in a bomb blast case. Later he was re-arrested and now he’s languishing in a jail in Karnataka,” said party’s Kerala president K Surendran.The BJP has said that people with vested interests have been spreading misinformation. It said that the administration was trying to develop the islands as a major tourism hub like the Maldives and had the full support of the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-row-kerala-resolution-hits-out-at-new-rules-administrator-101622487409600.html
01-06-2021||India||Bed allocation scam: ‘No common link’ says Bengaluru police, accused worked solo||Close to a month into the investigation into the controversial bed allocation scam in Bengaluru, the city police have arrested 14 persons including a doctor so far. While it was alleged that the scam was carried out by an organized syndicate, the investigation has revealed most of the arrested people were operating on their own.Out of these 14 arrested, 11 were made by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) and three by the central division police. The arrested were made under three different FIRs, two of which are handled by the CCB and one by the central division.The arrested suspects include a doctor, war room call attenders, a politician’s aide, private hospital staff and a contractor employed by the government. While the modus operandi of the arrested people has been the same, police have not been able to find a common link between all the arrests. In each arrest, either one person or a group of three, who had access to the bed booking system tried to sell beds.The common modus operandi was to call up the Covid-19 patients with BU number to find out if they are asymptomatic and in-home isolation. The beds are then booked against that particular BU number. This blocked bed automatically got unblocked if the patient does not turn up at the hospital within 12 hours. This bed is now manually re-allocated to the patients referred by the agents. Police say in the case, they had figured the loophole on their own.The first arrest in the case related to Covid war rooms in the Bengaluru was made on May 4. According to the CCB, the arrested suspects during the initial phase of the probe – Dr Rehan and Shashi Kumar – were working in the bed allotment section of the south war room and Bommanahalli war room respectively.During the initial investigation, the name of one Dr Suresh was on the suspect list of the police, however, he is currently not part of the 11 people under CCB custody.The next set of arrests were also made on May 4 but in the second FIR. The arrests were made by Jayanagar police, and the case was handed over to the CCB. The arrested persons were identified as Netravati, a social worker, and Rohith Kumar, her nephew. According to CCB, they were caught charging ₹20,000 to ₹40,000 for each bed.It was in connection with this case, on May 25, the CCB arrested Babu, who is alleged to be the aide of BJP MLA Satish Reddy. A senior CCB officer said that during the interrogation of Netravathi and Rohit, they got leads on Babu. The probe showed that using his links with doctors and telephone operators in the Bengaluru South war room, he got bed blocked and sold them to the aunt-nephew duo for a price.“Babu gained access to the war room claiming to be Reddy’s close aide. Since he was seen with the MLA at the centre before, it helped him” the officer said.Even though his name was available to cops as soon as the duo was arrested, but since he was Covid-19 positive, he could not be arrested, said the officer.Meanwhile, all other arrests were made in the first FIR. On May 9, CCB arrested Shashidhar, a contract employee with Arogya Mitra, which comes under the health department. “He was one of the many liaison officers deployed at various hospitals to oversee the allocation of bed. Using his influence in the hospital, he reserved some beds. He used the help of private hospital employees Uma Rani and Venkoba Rao for this. “Rao and Rani were working as staff members at Sparsh Hospital (RR Nagar) and Punya Hospital (Basaveshwar Nagar),” said the officer.Days after this arrest, on May 26, CCB arrested a marketing executive of Sapthagiri Hospital identified as Anthony after he took money for providing a bed in private hospitals. He has no associates as per the investigation.A day later, CCB arrested Varun S, a call attender at the south war room and his associate Yashwant Kumar. “Varun on a call promised a bed in a private hospital to those calling the BBMP helpline for bed. He could provide them Yashwant’s number and ask them to contact him for a bed,” the officer added.While the CCB probe was underway, based on a tip-off, the Central Division of Bengaluru City Police had earlier arrested three people, who were offering a bed for a price. MN Anuchet (DCP, Central) said that the arrested allegedly extorted ₹1.2 lakh from a person for an ICU bed. The complainant, whose father was admitted to Ramaiah Hospital, transferred ₹50,000 via Google Pay and handed another ₹70,000 in cash. Police identified those arrested as Venkata Subba Rao, Manjunath and Punith.Sandeep Patil, the head of CCB said that their teams have been arresting those people based on the information that is available to them. “So far, there is nothing connecting all those who have been arrested so far, except for the modus operandi. We can’t say at this point in time that all of them were operating for the kingpin, rather these are individual cases. We are continuing our probe,” Patil said.The CCB officer who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that they have not found any links or instances of the people for the different cases interacting with each other. “They are from different parts of the city. I think as the bed demand increases, those who knew how to rig the system tried to make some quick money is what we have learnt so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bed-allocation-scam-no-common-link-b-luru-police-rule-out-organised-crime-say-accused-worked-solo-101622487410204.html
01-06-2021||India||Govt bans import of 108 defence items to boost self-reliance||The central government on Monday notified a second list banning 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces in order to promote self-reliance in the defence sector. The list, called ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025, the defence ministry said in a statement.This is the second such list to be notified by the government in less than a year.In August 2020, the government prepared a list 101 items on which there would be an embargo on import to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-Reliant India Movement). The embargo for items in the first list, then called ‘negative import list’, kicks in for different items between 2020 and 2025.Also read: US business honchos express confidence in IndiaThe second list consists of several military systems including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and Control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles, the ministry said in statement on Monday.“This will give further boost to indigenisation with active participation of public and private sector for fulfilling the twin objectives of achieving self-reliance and promoting defence exports. All the 108 items will now be procured from indigenous sources as per provisions given in Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) 2020,” the statement said.The second list lays special focus on weapons/systems which are currently under development/trials and are likely to translate into firm orders in the future, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-import-of-108-defence-items-to-boost-selfreliance-101622486811296.html
01-06-2021||India||‘Part of Didi’s core team’: Man at centre of face-off||The 60-year-old bureaucrat at the centre of a face-off between West Bengal and the Union government first made a splash in the state when he ranked third in the Class 10 state board exams in 1976.Bandopadhyay was born in a small village in the Asansol area of then undivided Burdwan district in 1960. A student of the Ramakrishna Mission in Narendrapur, Bandopadhyay later excelled in Presidency College and Calcutta University, where he studied political science. He briefly worked as a journalist before passing Civil Service examination in 1987.“Alapan was always very studious and became the topper from our school in 1976. He regularly took part in debates and extemporary speech sessions. He was loved by all,” said Sunil Pattanayak, who taught Bandopadhyay at Ramakrishna Mission.Also read: Bengal CS resigns, to serve as CM’s adviser as Centre-state row growsAs a bureaucrat, Bandopadhyay made himself indispensable. During the Left Front regime, he was known to be close to Buddhadeb Bhattacharya when the latter served as information and cultural affairs minister and chief minister.After Mamata Banerjee came to power, the bureaucrat became part of the CM’s core team. “He is an honest and brave officer,” Banerjee said on Monday.“He always followed rules to the last line and gave his instructions in detail,” said a junior bureaucrat who did not wish to be named.Before becoming chief secretary in October 2020, Bandopadhay served in a number of important positions. He served as DM of Howrah, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas. Later, he was made commissioner of Kolkata Municipal Corporation. He subsequently served in the departments of transport, information, and home as principal secretary.He was also state election commissioner for a brief period in 2015. Bandyopadhyay is married to Sonali Chakrabarty, an academic and vice-chancellor of Calcutta University. His younger brother, Anjan Bandyopadhyay, was a popular television anchor who recently died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/part-of-didi-s-core-team-man-at-centre-of-faceoff-101622486629549.html
01-06-2021||India||Bengal CS resigns, to serve as CM’s adviser as Centre-state row grows||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee appointed chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay as her chief adviser after allowing him to retire on Monday, ratcheting up a confrontation with the Centre by refusing to release the bureaucrat, and attacking PM Narendra Modi over his transfer.Banerjee announced that she permitted Bandopadhyay to retire on his last working day after he expressed the desire, and added that he will serve as her chief adviser for three years. She also named the state’s new chief secretary, HK Dwivedi, and home secretary, BP Gopalika.“A bold officer cannot be victimised like this. The Centre did vindictive politics,” a visibly agitated Banerjee said. “I have never seen such a heartless Prime Minister and home minister,” she added.Late on Monday, the Centre issued a show-cause notice to Bandopadhyay, indicating that the bitter face-off was not over. An official aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity that “suitable action is being contemplated by the department against the official for defying the DoPT (department of personnel and training) order”.The controversy began last Friday after Banerjee skipped a scheduled meeting on Cyclone Yaas with Modi. Hours later, the Centre ordered Bandopadhyay, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Services officer, to report to DoPT by 10am Monday.Also read: Vista project essential, says HC, junks plea to halt workOn Saturday, Banerjee refused to release him and urged the Centre to reconsider. On Monday, she wrote a five-page letter to Modi, questioning the legality of the transfer order, asking if it was linked to Friday’s meeting, saying she took permission from Modi before leaving the meeting, and objecting to the presence of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition who defeated her in Nandigram. Bandopadhyay, too, didn’t go to Delhi.Later in the day, Banerjee said the Centre again asked Bandopadhyay to report to North Block on Tuesday, but added that an officer cannot join a new office without the state’s permission.“I wrote the letter to the Prime Minister but the reply came to him (Bandopadhyay) and not me. The Centre did not even mention why it needs him. You (Centre) have added insult to injury. I see only political vendetta. Why? Is it because you do not like Mamata Banerjee? Is it because you lost the elections? Don’t you think you should respect the people’s mandate?” Banerjee asked, referring to recently held assembly polls in which her party routed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Bandopadhyay was scheduled to retire on Monday but was granted a three-month extension by the Centre on May 24 after the state made the request on May 10. The CM’s statement indicated that the state had decided to not grant the extension.“This is a blunder by the Central government. They want to bulldoze the state government. This is a political conspiracy. What message does the Modi government want to give to the country?” Banerjee said. “I could have easily asked him (Bandopadhyay) to continue for three months since the Centre gave permission. But he told me that he wants to retire.”“Do you want to scare the bureaucracy?... I am asking all opposition CMs to stay together...” she said.the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, mention: “In case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government or state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government.”But in her letter, Banerjee alleged that the Centre’s order was issued without any prior consultation with the state government or meeting...”Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh criticised Banerjee “This is an administrative decision. Let people see politics in this if they want to. The ruling party treats IAS and IPS officers as its cadres. Banerjee cannot hide her failure in combating the pandemic...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cs-resigns-to-serve-as-cm-s-adviser-as-centre-state-row-grows-101622486509565.html
01-06-2021||India||Woman planted to trap and abduct Choksi, claims lawyer||The Mehul Choksi saga took a sensational turn on Monday with people familiar with the matter as well as the fugitive businessman’s lawyer claiming that a woman, who had become friendly with him over the past six months, played a part in his disappearance from Antigua and reappearance in Dominica.Photographs of the woman, identified as Barbara Jarabica, were released by Antiguan media, with details of her education and employment, but HT could not verify the existence of such a person. News of the woman first emerged on Saturday, when Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne claimed that Choksi fled the island for Dominica last Sunday along with his “girlfriend”.Choksi, wanted in India in a fraud and money laundering case, fled to Antigua in January 2018 and became its citizen. He has been engaged in a legal battle with the Caribbean nation which wants to revoke his citizenship. Choksi went missing from Antigua last Sunday and later appeared in Dominica, where he has no rights since he is not a citizen. His lawyers are trying to have him sent back to Antigua -- Browne has already said he wants Choksi to be extradited to India -- while India has made a claim for him in Dominica, on the grounds that its citizenship law requires the state to accept his renunciation of citizenship and this never happened.Choksi’s legal team has claimed he was abducted from Antigua and taken to Dominica by Indian and Antiguan officials. On Monday, his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal suggested that Choksi may have been honey trapped.Also read: Firestorm over Mehul Choksi spills over to Dominica, PM Skerrit is new target“I have been informed that there was some lady who was the part of the team deployed to trap and abduct Mehul Choksi. Initially, she was staying near the residence of Mr Choksi. She got friendly with the whole family during her evening walks . Later, she shifted the residence and invited Mr Choksi to her house for a short while. There were other members of the team waiting (at her house) deployed to pick Mr Choksi. They grabbed him, threw him in a yacht and took him to Dominica. As Mehul Choksi was not carrying his passport and that lady has vanished, this is sufficient to vindicate the stand that he was abducted,” he said in a statement.Meanwhile, the fugitive diamantaire has been shifted to a hospital in Roseau , but tested negative for Covid-19, reports in local media said. The Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, on Friday, ordered that Choksi will not be removed from the island till next hearing on Wednesday and that he should be provided medical aid.Browne also confirmed that India sent a private jet to ferry Choksi back to the country.One of the key opposition parties in Antigua, United Progressive Party (UPP) has claimed that Browne’s statement that Choksi would not be taken back in Antigua is against constitutional and legal values; in turn, Browne has alleged that UPP is funded by Choksi. Indian agencies have taken all the documentary evidence available against Choksi including charge sheets filed by Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate, witness statements and papers showing his complicity in defrauding Punjab National Bank (PNB) of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi.Officials HT spoke to said they have a “strong case to put before Dominica’s authorities and the court that Choksi is one of the most wanted persons in India and siphoned off public money over the years to create assets in India and abroad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-planted-to-trap-and-abduct-choksi-claims-lawyer-101622486389547.html
01-06-2021||India||It’s time we define what is and is not sedition: SC||Concerned over the misuse of India’s sedition law, the Supreme Court on Monday said that it will define the contours of the colonial era penal provision to indicate what does and does not constitute sedition.“Everything cannot be seditious. It is time we define what is sedition and what is not,” said a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud as it restrained the Andhra Pradesh government from taking adverse action against two Telugu news channels booked under Section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“We are of the view that the ambit and parameters of the provisions of Sections 124A, 153A (promoting enmity between classes) and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity) of the IPC would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation,” said the court in its order.News channels TV5 and ABN Andhrajyothi have been named accused, along with rebel YSR Congress member of Parliament Raghurama Krishnam Raju, for aiding him in an alleged hate speech to promote disaffection against the government and commit seditious activities.The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, went through the transcripts of the speech given by Raju, who was granted bail by a different bench of the Supreme Court on May 21.“Is this seditious? This (FIR) is nothing but muzzling the media,” remarked the bench, as senior counsel Shyam Divan, appearing for TV5, read out Raju’s speech, while pointing out that the attempt was to silence a part of the local media which criticised the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government in the state for handling of the pandemic. He added that there were several other channels and news portals that telecast this speech, but only a select few were named in the first information report (FIR) by invoking section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC.Representing ABN Andhrajyothi, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra said that it was high time the apex court lay down the contours of section 124A since several states were invariably slapping sedition cases against the media and other individuals.At this, justice Chandrachud recounted a comment made by him a few minutes ago, when the bench was hearing the suo motu (on its own) case on supply of essential medicines and vaccines during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.Referring to images on a TV channel of two persons throwing a Covid-positive body into a river in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur, justice Chandrachud had sarcastically said: “I don’t know whether a complaint has been filed against the news channel or not under the sedition charge for publishing and broadcasting these photographs.”The judge added that he made this comment earlier as an aside since he had in mind this matter in which news channels were made co-accused in the sedition case. The bench then issued notices to the state government, seeking replies within four weeks while making it clear that there shall be no coercive action against the employees or staff of the news channels in connection with the case.Also read: Child rights body alleges Pocso breach on Twitter, lodges FIROn April 30, another bench of the top court agreed to examine constitutional validity of the penal law on sedition in India, while seeking assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal in the wake of the significance of the matter and issues of constitutional interpretation involved.That bench issued notices to the Centre and states while hearing a petition filed jointly by journalists Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla, challenging the validity of Section 124 A, which penalises sedition as punishable with either imprisonment ranging from three years to a lifetime, a fine, or both. This case will be heard next in July.History of the lawIndia’s sedition law has an interesting past -- it was introduced by the British in 1870, and almost dropped from the Constitution in 1948 after discussions of the Constituent Assembly. The word “sedition” disappeared from the Constitution on November 26, 1949 and Article 19 (1)(a) gave absolute freedom of speech and expression. However, Section 124A continued to stay in IPC.In 1951, Jawaharlal Nehru brought in the first amendment of the Constitution to limit the freedom under Article 19(1)(a) and enacted Article 19(2) to empower the State to put curbs in the form of “reasonable restrictions” on right to free speech. In its judgment in the Kedar Nath case in 1962, a Constitution bench upheld the validity of the sedition law under IPC and also defined the scope of it. It held that Section 124A only penalised words that reveal an intent or tendency to disturb law and order or that seem to incite violence. This definition has been taken as precedent for all matters pertaining to section 124A ever since.According to the data from the National Crime Records Bureau, uploaded on its website, cases of sedition and under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act showed a rise in 2019, but only 3% of the sedition cases resulted in convictions. A total of 93 cases of sedition were reported in 2019, with 96 arrests and charge sheets filed in 76 cases, as against 70 cases, 56 arrests, and 27 charge sheets the previous year. The ministry of home affairs, in a written reply in February, informed the Rajya Sabha that out of the 96 people arrested for sedition in 2019, only two were convicted for the crime, while 29 were acquitted. Investigations and trials are ongoing in the case of the rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-time-we-define-what-is-and-is-not-sedition-sc-101622486269556.html
01-06-2021||India||Vista project essential, says HC, junks plea to halt work||The Delhi high court on Monday said the revamp of the city’s Central Vista was an “essential project of national importance” and dismissed, with a penalty of ₹1 lakh, a petition that sought to halt part of the redevelopment work during the pandemic.The Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment project is a part of the larger Central Vista project, which includes a new Parliament building, the refurbishment of North and South Blocks, and the construction of new Central government offices, including a common Central Secretariat, and central conference facilities, among others.“This work is part and parcel of Central Vista Project and of vital public importance. The construction of Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project cannot be seen in isolation. In fact, the whole Central Vista Project is an essential project of national importance, where the sovereign functions of Parliament are also to be conducted. Public is vitally interested in this project,” a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said.Calling the petition “motivated”, the court imposed a cost of ₹1 lakh on the petitioners -- Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker -- who sought to halt the ongoing redevelopment work on the Central Vista avenue, which includes both sides of Rajpath, on the grounds that the work could become a superspreader event. The petitioners contended that the project was not an essential activity and, therefore, could be put on hold during the coronavirus pandemic.While holding that the petitioners selectively chose only one project though several other agencies -- such as the CPWD, NBCC, DMRC, PWD, IICC and DDA -- were undertaking construction projects in Delhi, the bench said the legality of the project has already been upheld by the Supreme Court on January 5. It also said that “time is of the essence” and the work has to be completed by November 2021.“It is obvious that petitioners have selectively chosen only one project which is of national importance... and parcel of the larger project, namely, Central Vista Project, legality whereof has already been upheld by the Supreme Court in the judgment dated Jan 5th... We are of the view that this is a motivated petition preferred by the petitioners,” the bench said in a 23-page judgment, adding that the petitioners have not been able to substantiate the allegations or the alleged breach or violation of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) orders.Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, had contended that exceptions were made for this project and permission was also sought for ferrying the workers during the peak of the pandemic’s second wave in April.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, argued that the plea was a “facade of PIL created to disguise something which they wanted to stop under one pretext or the other”.On Monday, the bench said that “since the workers who are working at the project are staying on site, there is no question of issuing directions to suspend the work of Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project”.“We completely disagree with the senior counsel appearing for the petitioners that the project is not an essential activity. The project in question is of vital importance and essential,” the court said.In orders issued on April 8 and April 19, DDMA allowed construction activities if the workers were residing on site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vista-project-of-essential-importance-says-delhi-hc-junks-plea-to-halt-work-101622485489526.html
01-06-2021||India||Covid orphaned 1,700 children, another 7,400 lost one parent, Supreme Court told||The Covid-19 pandemic, which has devastated families across the country, has orphaned over 1,700 children, led to 140 children being abandoned while more than 7,400 children lost one of their parents, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) told the Supreme Court in an affidavit submitted on Monday.The NCPCR’s affidavit was filed in response to a query by the Supreme Court last week during a hearing a suo moto petition on the protection of children from Covid-19 in child care homes. A note presented to the top court by amicus curiae (friend of the court) Gaurav Agarwal highlighted the emerging problem of children orphaned during the pandemic and the urgent need to provide them food, ration, shelter and clothing.In response, NCPCR counsel Swarupama Chaturvedi informed the court that the child rights body launched a web portal “Bal Swaraj” that allowed each district to upload information about children who were abandoned, orphaned or lost one parent during the pandemic. The court had directed all states to upload data beginning March 2020 by May 29 and allowed the NCPCR to file an affidavit in this regard.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose is expected to hear the matter on Tuesday.As per the data collected by the NCPCR, beginning March 2020, a total of 1,742 children became orphans while 140 were abandoned. Children who lost either of their parents were 7,464. This data was uploaded on the web portal by 25 states and five union territories. This data alone adds up to 9,346. Among the states, Madhya Pradesh has reported 318 orphans, followed by Bihar (292) and Uttar Pradesh (270). The states of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh reported more than 100 orphans during the period from March 2020 till May 29, 2021.Explaining the purpose behind collecting the data, the NCPCR in its affidavit said, “The portal aims to track the children affected by COVID-19 right from the production of children before the Child Welfare Committee to the restoration of the children to their parent/ guardian/ relative and its subsequent follow-up.”Once the data is uploaded by the respective district child protection officers, the commission tracks whether the children have received the entitled benefits and monetary support.According to the data submitted by the NCPCR, Uttar Pradesh reported 2,110 children who were orphaned, lost one parent or were abandoned, followed by Bihar at 1,327 and Kerala at 952. Delhi reported two instances where children became orphans and three cases where they lost one parent adding up to five.The Commission urged the court that the children who lost either of their parents to Covid-19 should also be provided with financial assistance. Amicus curiae Gaurav Agarwal has also filed a note where he has supported the suggestion of adding children who lost the earning member of the family as eligible for monetary assistance besides other welfare schemes.“The financial assistance would ensure that the child continues his or her education while continuing to live in the same environment, which is essential for the mental health of the child, who is already trying to cope up with that loss of a parent,” the NCPCR stated in its affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-orphaned-1-700-children-another-7-400-lost-one-parent-supreme-court-told-101622476669678.html
