02-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 22 million doses administered so far, says govt||India has achieved a significant milestone as the cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed the 22 crore-mark, according to the 7 pm provisional report, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday.The ministry said 11,37,597 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose and 19,523 beneficiaries of the same age group received their second dose of the Covid vaccine on Wednesday. Cumulatively, 2,25,40,803 persons across 37 states and UTs have received their first dose and 59,052 have received their second dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive.Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years, the ministry said.The total of 22,08,62,449 beneficiaries include 99,11,519 healthcare workers (HCWs), who have taken the first dose, and 68,14,165 HCWs, who have taken the second dose, 1,58,39,812 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 85,76,750 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 2,25,40,803 and 59,052 individuals in the 18-44 years age group who have received the first and second dose, respectively. Besides, 6,78,25,793 and 1,09,67,786 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,93,85,071  and 1,89,41,698 beneficiaries above 60 years have received the first and second dose.As on day 138 of the vaccination drive (June 2), a total of 22,45,112 vaccine doses were given. The ministry said 20,28,867 beneficiaries were given the first dose and 2,16,245 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine, according to the provisional report till 7 pm. Final reports would be completed for the day by late Wednesday night.The vaccination exercise, as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19, continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-over-22-million-doses-administered-so-far-says-govt-101622656984086.html
02-06-2021||India||Kashmir BJP leader Rakesh Pandita shot dead by terrorists in Pulwama’s Tral||BJP leader Rakesh Pandita was shot dead by militants late on Wednesday evening in south Kashmir’s Tral area. Pandit, a municipal chairman of Tral in Pulwama district, was visiting a friend, Mushtaq Ahmad, when three terrorists opened fire at them. His friend’s daughter, Asifa Mushtaq, was also hit and is battling for life.“Pandita succumbed to injuries whereas the daughter of his friend is seriously wounded,” Vikay Kumar, Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) said. Police said Pandita was living in a secure accommodation at Srinagar and was provided with two personal security officers. But they were not accompanying him when he went to visit his friend.“The councillor was not accompanied by the PSOs during his visit to Tral. Police and security forces have cordoned the area and a massive search operation has been launched to nab the assailants,” a police officer said.BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur condemned the killing. “Such attacks won’t stop BJP leaders from serving the people. He said that attacking unarmed people is not bravery and the police must track down the culprits and punish them accordingly,” said Thakur.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha condemned the terror attack.“Terrorists will never succeed in their nefarious designs, and those responsible for such heinous acts shall be brought to justice,” he said on Twitter.Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti said she was shocked. “These senseless acts of violence have brought only misery to J&K,” she tweeted.People’s Conference chairman, Sajjad Lone condemned the killing of another civilian.“Yet again gunmen attack a non combatant. This gun is a curse. Just ponder. Since the day this menace came into Kashmir. What have we seen. In a nutshell total disempowerment of the Kashmiri. Dear gunmen. Can u (you) please go back where u (you) came from. We have had enough,” tweeted Sajjad Lone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-bjp-leader-rakesh-pandit-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-pulwama-s-tral-101622658007994.html
02-06-2021||India||Nearly 600 doctors died of Covid-19 in India’s deadly second wave||Nearly 600 doctors across India have died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the second wave of the pandemic, according to data compiled by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Over a sixth of the total 594 deaths so far have happened in Delhi, which experienced one of the worst surges of the viral infection with as many as 28,000 cases being reported in a day at the peak of the second wave. The toll has increased by 174 in two weeks to a total of 594 till Tuesday. This, despite 89% of the healthcare workers receiving at least one shot of the vaccine against Covid-19 so far. In the last wave of the pandemic, 753 doctors had lost their lives, according to the registry maintained by IMA. The highest number of deaths among doctors has been reported in Delhi-NCR, where 107 doctors have succumbed to the infection. The toll includes the deaths of eminent cardiologist Dr KK Agarwal and the senior gastroenterologist who died due to lack of oxygen at Batra Hospital-- Dr RK Himthani. Delhi is followed by Bihar where 96 doctors have died and Uttar Pradesh where 67 doctors have died. Only 17 doctors have died in Maharashtra, which has been consistently reporting a high number of cases, according to the IMA data. The data comes amidst the ongoing controversy with self-styled yoga guru Ramdev calling allopathy a “stupid science”, claiming that 10,000 doctors died despite receiving the shot, and stating that he did not need the Covid-19 shot as he had the dual protection of Ayurveda and Yoga. The doctors have been protesting stating that it insults those who died in the line of duty and creates vaccine hesitancy. “Indian doctors, nurses and healthcare workers have fought tirelessly. 1300 doctors have sacrificed their lives for the nation. Countless children and family members of doctors have been infected. To trivialise these martyrs and warriors is a sacrilege,” said IMA in an open letter to Indians on June 1, which the doctors termed as Black Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-600-doctors-died-of-covid-19-in-india-s-deadly-second-wave-101622657106876.html
02-06-2021||India||Delhi court sends olympian Sushil Kumar to judicial custody, rejects police plea for extending custodial interrogation||A Delhi court on Wednesday rejected a plea by the Delhi Police for the custodial interrogation of arrested wrestler Sushil Kumar in the alleged murder of a young wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium, news agency PTI reported. The court has also sent him to nine days of judicial custody, rejecting the police’s plea for three more days of custodial interrogation.The two-time Olympic medalist was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Rashmi Gupta at the end of his four-day police custody and was ordered to be sent to judicial custody for nine days. “As per the settled law, PC [police custody] remand should not be granted in a mechanical manner. It should be granted only when the situation warrants and it is justified,” PTI quoted magistrate Gupta as saying.Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, the co-accused in the case, has also been sent to nine-day judicial custody by the court.Meanwhile, additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, representing the Delhi Police, told the court that Kumar was not cooperating in the investigation. He further said that the police custody was needed to recover his mobile phone and weapon of offence. The prosecutor also asked for the CCTV camera recordings at Kumar’s residence, his clothes during the incident need to be recovered and Kumar to be confronted with his associates, who were also arrested.However, Sushil Kumar’s advocate Pradeep Rana said that he had already been taken to Bhatinda for the recovery of the mobile phone and to Haridwar for the recovery of the video and his clothes.Kumar was arrested earlier on May 23 after which the court ordered six-day police custody and further extended it by four more days. He is currently facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping, for the assault of Sagar Dhankar and his friends Sonu Mahal and Amit Kumar regarding a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, eventually succumbed to his injuries. The police have termed Kumar as the ‘mastermind’ of the alleged murder. Police have also said that electronic evidence is available of Kumar and his associates assaulting Dhankar with sticks.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-sends-olympian-sushil-kumar-to-judicial-custody-rejects-police-plea-for-extending-custodial-interrogation-101622655169638.html
02-06-2021||India||Mucormycosis no more rare disease in Nagpur, ensure supply of medicines: Bombay HC to Maharashtra government||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said mucormycosis is no more a rare disease in Nagpur, and directed the Centre and the state government to take all steps to ensure adequate supply of medicines used in the treatment.Justices S B Shukre and A G Gharote of the Nagpur bench of the high court made the observation while hearing a bunch of petitions pertaining to Covid-19 pandemic.It said that as per the figures mentioned in the affidavit filed by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) it appears that Mucormycosis is no longer a rare fungal infection in Nagpur city and assumed the form of an epidemic.It then asked the Centre and state government to take immediate steps to ramp up the production capacity of Indian drug manufacturers that are involved in producing Amphotericin, a key drug in mucormycosis treatment.Now, it is well known that raw materials used for manufacturing drugs- Amphotericin B (Lipid Complex) and amphotericin (Liposomal)- are imported for their bigger part, if effective steps are taken by the Centre for their import, it would amount to valuable service rendered to Indian society, the court said."We urge the Central government as well as the state government to take immediate steps for increasing the production capacity of Indian manufacturers that are involved in producing these drugs. Whatever help is needed by them, must be made available forthwith," it said.As on May 29 this year, the number of patients suffering from mucormycosis in Nagpur city was 1,584 and out of these patients 830 have been operated upon so far, the court said, adding that it means that more than 50 per cent of the affected patients have undergone surgery as part of the treatment given to them.The data further shows that out of 1,584 patients, surgical removal of eyeball has taken place in 74 cases and so far 69 patients have succumbed to the disease, it said."It appears from these figures that in Nagpur city this is no longer a rare fungal infection, that it has already become common, and it has assumed a form of an epidemic," it said.The court said that the Centre as well as the state government has to ensure at all cost that Amphotericin B (Lipid Complex) and Amphotericin B (Liposomal) and Echinocandian, which are presently considered to be effective in mucormycosis treatment, remain in adequate supply.The court was informed by the Centre that the expected production of Amphotericin B from the existing five manufacturers is likely to increase in June to 2,55,114 vials, and 1,02,000 more vials are expected to be produced in June."However, it is not known as to how many and how these allocations have been made, whether randomly or by considering the caseload in Maharashtra," the court said.Whatever be the method adopted for making allocations, the fact remains that Maharashtra, in particular Nagpur city, having very high prevalence of mucormycosis infection remain in crying state for Amphotericin B.In spite of having so many patients in the state, major part of it is in Nagpur, patients are not getting enough number of vials per day for the treatment because of deficit allocation and short supply of Amphotericin B to Maharashtra, it said."We hope that these entreaties would be positively answered by the Central government and if not, further loss of lives of a few more patients, unfortunate as it may be, may be a fait accompli," court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mucormycosis-no-more-rare-disease-in-nagpur-ensure-supply-of-medicines-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra-government-101622651657550.html
02-06-2021||India||Telangana sees 2,384 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload remains over 33,000||Telangana on Wednesday reported 2,384 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to over 5.84 lakh, while the toll rose to 3,313 with 17 more deaths, a government bulletin said.Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 307, followed by Nalgonda (170) and Khammam (167), the bulletin said.The state has 33,379 active cases and over 1.08 lakh samples were tested.The total number of cumulative cases in the state stood at 5,83,228 while with 2,242 being cured, the total recoveries were at 5,46,536.Cumulatively, over 1.53 crore samples have been tested.The samples tested per million population were over 4.13 lakh, the bulletin said.The case fatality and recovery rates of the state were at 0.56 per cent and 93.70 per cent,respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-sees-2-384-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-remains-over-33000-101622649625714.html
02-06-2021||India||‘Severely dented IAS’: Govt sources on former Bengal chief secretary Bandyopadhyay||Central government sources said on Wednesday that former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s conduct has severely dented the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the “steel frame of India” as envisioned by Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel.Giving a reference to the foundation of the IAS and other all-India services, they asked if Bandyopadhyay, the then topmost bureaucrat of West Bengal, did what he was expected to do during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the state on May 28 to review the extent of damage and loss due to Cyclone Yaas.Also Read | Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucratsThe ongoing controversy over the now retired 1987-batch IAS officer began on May 28 when he is said to have kept Prime Minister Modi waiting, and then left the meeting venue without making a presentation to the PM. “He arrived late at the venue accompanying chief minister Mamata Banerjee and left in a haste accompanying her,” sources said, adding that questions over his conduct are significant as a chief secretary “can’t be working like a personal staff” of the chief minister.“Even if he was really occupied and couldn’t have avoided his pre-scheduled engagements, why didn’t he depute a senior officer to attend the meeting on his behalf?” they asked.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to cancel bureaucrat’s Central deputation“What would’ve happened if central government officers refused to attend meetings called by the chief secretary? Wouldn’t that amount to institutional breakdown?” the sources questioned further.Citing India’s three-tier structure of centre, state and panchayati raj, sources said there would be “anarchy” if district magistrates or other officers in a district or block where a rival party is heading the district council or the panchayat refuse to coordinate with the chief secretary or other designated officers.Also Read | Centre stuns Mamata Banerjee, transfers top Bengal official to Delhi after rowJust hours after the May 28 episode, the Centre’s department of personnel and training (DoPT) transferred Bandyopadhyay to Delhi, asking him to report to duty at 10am on May 31. However, the West Bengal government refused to relieve him. Bandyopadhyay retired as chief secretary on May 31 and was appointed by CM Mamata Banerjee as her special advisor. Bandyopadhyay, who was scheduled to retire on this date but was on a three-month extension, was issued a show-cause notice for not reporting to duty as directed by the DoPT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caused-severe-dent-to-ias-govt-sources-on-former-bengal-chief-secretary-bandyopadhyay-101622649129269.html
02-06-2021||India||SC says constitution doesn't envisage courts to be silent spectators when citizens' rights infringed||The Indian Constitution does not envisage courts to be silent spectators when rights of citizens are infringed upon by executive policies, the Supreme Court has said while dealing with the Centre's submission that courts should not interfere with its decisions on management of Covid-19.The apex court said that in grappling with the second wave of the Covid pandemic, it does not intend to second-guess the wisdom of the executive when it chooses between two competing and efficacious policy measures.The court said it will however continue to exercise jurisdiction to determine "if the chosen policy conforms to the standards of reasonableness, militates against manifest arbitrariness and protects the right to life of all persons".A special bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said that it is trite to state that separation of powers is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution and policy-making continues to be in the sole domain of the executive.“Our Constitution does not envisage courts to be silent spectators when constitutional rights of citizens are infringed by executive policies. Judicial review and soliciting constitutional justification for policies formulated by the executive is an essential function, which the courts are entrusted to perform”, the bench said in its May 31 order uploaded on Wednesday.The top court said that it is presently assuming a dialogic jurisdiction where various stakeholders are provided a forum to raise constitutional grievances with respect to the management of the pandemic. “Hence, this Court would, under the auspices of an open court judicial process, conduct deliberations with the executive where justifications for existing policies would be elicited and evaluated to assess whether they survive constitutional scrutiny”, it said.The bench, which passed its order in the suo motu case on Covid management, said that it had clarified in its order of April 30, 2021, that in the context of the public health emergency with which the country is currently grappling, this Court appreciates the dynamic nature of the measures. “The judiciary does not possess the authority or competence to assume the role of the executive, which is democratically accountable for its actions and has access to the resources which are instrumental to policy formulation. However, this separation of powers does not result in courts lacking jurisdiction in conducting a judicial review of these policies”, the bench said.It said that across the globe, the executive has been given a wider margin in enacting measures which ordinarily may have violated the liberty of individuals, but are now incumbent to curb the pandemic.“Historically, the judiciary has also recognized that constitutional scrutiny is transformed during such public health emergencies, where the executive functions in rapid consultation with scientists and other experts,” the bench said and referred to a 1905 verdict of US Supreme Court on the issue.The bench said that similarly, courts across the globe have responded to Constitutional challenges to executive policies that have directly or indirectly violated rights and liberties of citizens.“Courts have often reiterated the expertise of the executive in managing a public health crisis, but have also warned against arbitrary and irrational policies being excused in the garb of the “wide latitude” to the executive that is necessitated to battle a pandemic,” it said.On May 9, in an affidavit filed in the top court, the Centre had justified its Covid-19 vaccination policy saying that its response and strategy is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion which leaves little room for judicial interference and emphasised that citizens of all age groups will get free vaccination throughout the country.In view of the unprecedented and peculiar circumstances under which vaccination drive is devised as an executive policy, the “wisdom of the executive should be trusted”, it had said.In a global pandemic, where the response and strategy of the nation is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion, "any overzealous, though well-meaning judicial intervention, may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences", the government had said.In 218-page affidavit filed in the top court's suo motu case on Covid-19 management, the Centre had said, this policy "conforms to mandate of Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution of India and is made after several rounds of consultation and discussion with experts, state government and vaccine manufacturers requiring no interference by this Court as while dealing with a pandemic of this magnitude, the executive does have a room for free play in the joints, in larger public interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-constitution-doesn-t-envisage-courts-to-be-silent-spectators-when-citizens-rights-infringed-101622647866959.html
02-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi’s wife Priti says his life may be in danger if he is sent to India||Priti Choksi, fugitive Mehul Choksi’s wife, in an interview to Hindustan Times, has said that her husband is being treated like a criminal in Antigua because of the statements given by the island’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne in the past and that she fears for his life if he is sent back to India. Calling her husband’s disappearance a ‘hostage situation’, Priti Choksi said the Antiguan government should be focussing on bringing its citizen back. “We, as a family, are deeply anguished by PM Gaston Browne’s statements. My husband is treated as a criminal here (in Antigua) because of the statements that Mr Gaston Browne has made in the past of calling him a ‘crook’, etc. etc; and on what basis I have no idea. A man who was trying to live his life quietly is being targeted in this manner,” Priti Choksi said over the phone from Saint John’s. She also discarded Browne’s statements that Mehul Choksi had political connections within the opposition parties and had bribed them. “My husband is not in touch with any political party.” Asked about the sequence of events from May 23, Priti Choksi said that her husband had gone for dinner and met this woman, Barbara. “When he reached her house to pick her up, she asked him to come inside saying she wanted to show him something. It was daytime so my husband went inside. As soon as he entered, he was accosted by men with Indian and Antiguan accents, they tased him, gagged his mouth, tied him in a wheelchair and put him in a boat. Then he was transferred to another boat. His last seen image is from 5.11 pm on Sunday (May 23) and his phone was last on at 5.16 pm.” She added that all the CCTV cameras of Jolly Harbour were off around that time. Choksi went missing on May 23 and was taken into custody by Dominica police two days later. His lawyers have filed a habeas corpus in Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court at Roseau, which has stayed his removal from Dominica for now. Indian government officials have reached there to seek his deportation. Priti Choksi said – “A crime has been committed. My husband has been taken hostage. It’s an international crime and Interpol should take note of it. And I think that the entire focus of the Antiguan government should be to bring its citizen back. I also want to ask why the Dominican police hasn’t registered an offence of kidnapping.” On Indian officials’ claim that Choksi continues to be an Indian citizen, she said – “The Indian Constitution says that the moment you take citizenship of another country, you cease to be an Indian citizen. And his Indian passport was suspended in February. So there is no question of dual nationality.” She said that if the Indian government gets custody of Mehul Choksi, he will become a hostage there. “After seeing the pictures of his torture, don’t you think we have every right to fear for his life if he is sent to India?” she asked. She added that Indian agencies till date have refused to take statements from him even though he has offered to give his statement many times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-s-wife-priti-says-his-life-may-be-in-danger-if-he-is-sent-to-india-101622648166221.html
02-06-2021||India||Not to restrict: Govt clarifies new rules for retired intel, security officers||The Centre on Wednesday clarified that the amendments to the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 is not meant, in any way, to bar retired intelligence or security-related officials from expressing their views. "In fact, it makes it easier for them to do so, given that they can now contact the head of their former employer organisation and seek clarification on whether the proposed material is sensitive or non-sensitive," government sources said.Several reports are trying to create an erroneous and misleading narrative, the government said adding that the intention is to safeguard the national interest, always."In the past, a few intelligence and government officials, who have worked in Intelligence or Security-related organisations, have publicly expressed themselves, by means of writing or speaking, revealing specific knowledge and sensitive information gained by virtue of having worked in that organisation," it said.The Central Civil Services (Pension) Amendment Rules, 2021, dated May 31 and notified late Tuesday, states if a retired official of the intelligence department wants to publish something, then they will have to take prior permission from the “head of the organisation”, while in the earlier 2007 rules, permission from the head of the department was adequate.“No government servant, who, having worked in any intelligence or security-related organization…shall, without prior clearance from the head of the organisation, make any publication after retirement, of any material relating to and including the domain of the organisation, including any reference or information about any personnel and his designation, and expertise or knowledge gained by virtue of working in that organization," the amended rule said.The rules apply to ex-employees of Intelligence Bureau (IB), Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Central Economic Intelligence Bureau, Directorate of Enforcement (ED), Aviation Research Centre, Border Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force, National Security Guards, Central Industrial Security Force and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police among others.The Narcotics Control Bureau, Special Frontier Force, Special Protection Group and Financial Intelligence Unit also come under the purview of these rules.The CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, which have been amended to make way for 2007 and 2021 rules, however, don’t apply to officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFoS) among others. The CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972 apply to those appointed on or before December 31, 2003, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-to-restrict-govt-clarifies-new-rules-for-retired-intel-security-officers-101622646946268.html
02-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Choksi's wife breaks silence on husband's 'rumoured girlfriend' Barbara and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mehul Choksi's wife breaks silence on husband's 'rumoured girlfriend' BarbaraAs a Dominica court is hearing the case of Indian-born fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, who was apprehended by Dominical police last week, Choksi's wife Priti Choksi on Wednesday said the woman who is rumoured to be Mehul's girlfriend is known to her husband and to his other acquaintances. Read moreWTC Final - ‘We are on equal terms’: Virat Kohli responds to playing New Zealand in English conditionsIndia captain Virat Kohli said conditions in Southampton being more or less similar to what New Zealand have at home, won’t have any bearings in the World Test Championship final between the two sides, beginning on June 18. Read moreKRK deletes pics of Disha Patani, her rumoured ex Parth Samthaan after backlash for calling him her ‘brother’Kamaal R Khan aka KRK explained his tweet on Wednesday morning, in which he shared pictures of Disha Patani with her rumoured ex-boyfriend Parth Samthaan, and referred to him as her ‘brother’. Read moreHow to apply to get verified on TwitterTwitter restarted its verification process for the first time on May 21 after discontinuing it in 2017. However, the platform abruptly paused it a few days later stating that they were not taking any requests till they reviewed the applications they have already received. Read moreLouis Vuitton blasted for ‘disgraceful’ keffiyeh with Israel flag coloursWorn throughout the Middle East region as a traditional Arabian headdress, the thick black and white chequered cloth or keffiyeh has become a symbol of resistance and solidarity in the Arab countries, particularly in Palestine. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-choksi-s-wife-breaks-silence-on-husband-s-rumoured-girlfriend-barbara-and-all-the-latest-news-101622646560669.html
02-06-2021||India||Madras HC upholds nomination of three BJP members in Puducherry Assembly||The Madras High Court on Wednesday upheld the nomination of three BJP MLAs to the Puducherry Assembly, with a bench finding no merit in a petition against their appointment.Justices Anita Sumanth and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy upheld the May 2021 notifications of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Puducherry Chief Secretary nominating K Venkatesan, V P Ramalingam and R B Ashok as members of the territorial assembly."On all fronts, we find no merit in this writ petition," the bench said and dismissed it.The public interest writ petition was filed by G A Jegannathan, former president of Karikalampakkam village, seeking quashing of the notification dated May 10."At the risk of repetition, we may state that the only grievance of the petitioner appears to be that the nominees are members of the BJP. This can hardly be a relevant consideration," the judges said.The AINRC-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of which the BJP is a part, had won the April 6 Assembly polls in the union territory, securing majority in the 30-member House. With the nominated members, the strength goes up to 33.Among other things, the petitioner contended that the three BJP candidates were not suitable for the post and found fault with the timing of their nomination.Turning it down, the bench observed that unless the allegation of unsuitability goes to the very fundamentals of the matter and the candidate nominated is shown to be ex-facie and patently unsuitable, such that his/her nomination would rebel against one's conscience, the question of the court reviewing their suitability does not arise.The term 'suitability' is difficult of precise definition and there is an element of subjectivity that is involved in assessing the same.In the present case, the bench pointed out, the nominees admittedly do not attract the specific statutory disqualifications and their alleged unsuitability is in general and non-specific terms.Undue haste has been ascribed to the nomination, seeing as the Chief Minister N Rangasamy had tested positive for Covid-19 and had been admitted in the hospital and the Legislative Assembly and cabinet had not been sworn in/constituted at the time when the nominations were made.This contention is more a challenge to the propriety rather than one of law, the judges said."In law, we do not find any specification in the statute stipulating the timing of the nomination and the candidates, once nominated, would take their seats in the Legislative Assembly as and when the Assembly is sworn-in."On all fronts, therefore, we find no merit in this writ petition and dismiss the same," the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-upholds-nomination-of-three-bjp-members-in-puducherry-assembly-101622642064384.html
02-06-2021||India||'Come to consensus': Naveen Patnaik writes to chief ministers, says vaccine procurement can't be state vs state battle||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday wrote a letter to the chief ministers of other states and pitched for the central procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. He called for other states to execute the vaccination on “war footing” and also commented that states needed more flexibility to ensure universal vaccination.“Wrote to all CMs for a consensus on centralised procurement of vaccines by GOI in view of the challenges faced by states. Spoke to some CMs who shared my views,” the chief minister tweeted earlier in the day, along with his letter.Wrote to all CMs for a consensus on centralised procurement of vaccines by GOI in view of the challenges faced by states. Spoke to some CMs who shared my views. No State is safe unless all States adopt vaccination as a top priority & execute it on war-footing. pic.twitter.com/lMkpjDeYRgIn his letter, Patnaik argued that the global manufacturers of the vaccine are looking forward to the Union government for “clearances and assurances” and the local manufacturers have supply constraints. Hence, the states couldn’t get any response on the global tenders they have floated. Based on this, he urged the Union government to procure the vaccines centrally and distribute them among the states. He also mentioned that the Odisha government had already written to the centre in this regard.“No state is safe unless all the states adopt vaccination as the topmost priority and execute it on war-footing. But this cannot be a battle among the states to compete against each other to procure vaccines,” Patnaik wrote to the chief ministers.Also read | ‘Unite. Centre trying to absolve itself’: Vijayan to 11 non-NDA CMs on vaccineHe said that the states needed more flexibility to determine their own mechanism to ensure universal vaccination and called for the process to be more decentralised. He urged his counterparts in the other states to reach a consensus soon on the issue to avoid the advent of the third wave of Covid-19 in the country.“I am sure that we will set aside whatever differences we have either political or otherwise and come together in the true spirit of Cooperative Federalism for saving precious lives and hard-earned livelihoods. I look forward to a productive way forward to pull our country out of this unprecedented crisis and we as a team owe it to our citizens,” he further wrote.Meanwhile, the Union government has been facing a lot of requests lately for the centralised procurement of the vaccine. Among others, the supreme court on Monday called for the centre to procure vaccines and distribute them. “There is a vital issue. Article 1 of the Constitution says that India, that is Bharat, is a Union of States. When the Constitution says that, we have to follow the federal rule. Then Government of India has to procure vaccines and distribute them. Individual states cannot be left in a lurch,” news agency PTI quoted a special bench of the apex court headed by Justice DY Chandrachud as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-to-consensus-naveen-patnaik-writes-to-chief-ministers-says-vaccine-procurement-can-t-be-state-vs-state-battle-101622642840404.html
02-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi's wife breaks silence on husband's 'rumoured girlfriend' Barbara||As a Dominica court is hearing the case of Indian-born fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, who was apprehended by Dominical police last week, Choksi's wife Priti Choksi on Wednesday said the woman who is rumoured to be Mehul's girlfriend is known to her husband and to his other acquaintances. "The woman was known to my husband and to his other acquaintances. She walked with my husband periodically when she was visiting Antigua. From what I have understood from people who have met her, the woman shown on media channels is not the same woman that they knew as Barbara," Priti Choksi said to news agency ANI.Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne last week claimed that Mehul Choksi may have taken his girlfriend on a romantic trip to Dominica, from where he was apprehended.Mehul Choksi: What happens today and what we know so farAntiguan media released photographs of the woman, identified as Barbara Jarabica, with details of her education and employment. Choksi's lawyer in India Vijay Aggarwal issued a statement on Tuesday and said the woman in question was part of the team deployed to abduct him. Since the beginning, Choksi's lawyers have been claiming that what was being projected as an attempt to flee Antigua might be a case of kidnapping as Choksi was also beaten up. Aggarwal on Tuesday said that woman got friendly with the whole family and also shifted to a house near Choksi's residence in Antigua. On May 23, when Choksi disappeared, he was called by the woman at her house and was thrown in a yacht by a group of men, Aggarwal said earlier.Choksi's wife Priti expressed anguish over the reports of physical torture and said, "If someone really wanted him back alive, why did they need to torture and abuse him physically and mentally? My husband has many health issues."Meanwhile, the issue of Choksi's extradition has kicked up a political storm in Antigua where Choksi has been staying for the last three years as a legal citizen. Antiguan Prime Minister who has been pitching for Choksi's extradition straight to India from Dominica accused Antigua's opposition party of receiving fund from Choksi. The prime minister told ANI that Choksi changed his lawyer to a "well-known member" of the United Progressive Party (UPP), the opposition party.According to local media reports, Mehul Choksi's brother Chetan Chinu Bhai Choksi met Dominica's Leader of the Opposition Lennox Linton on May 30 where some sort of agreement has been reached that Linton, in exchange for election funding, will press the matter in Parliament and push the kidnap theory. Reports also said that Linton received a token amount of US$ 200,000.Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal refuted the reports though he confirmed that his brother has arrived in Dominica, but only to meet him and take care of him.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-s-wife-breaks-silence-on-husband-s-rumoured-girlfriend-barbara-101622640726224.html
02-06-2021||India||Explained: What is indemnity for vaccine makers? What Pfizer, Govt say about it||Amid reports that the Indian government may grant indemnity to Pfizer and Moderna so that they export their vaccines to India, Pfizer on Wednesday said consultations with the Indian government is going on and the US pharma company will not be able to divulge more details at this point."Pfizer continues to remain engaged with the Government of India towards making its COVID-19 vaccine available for use in the Government immunisation programme in the country. As these discussions are ongoing, we are unable to share any additional details at this time," a Pfizer spokesperson told ANI.What is indemnity?Indemnity is protection to vaccine-makers from legal proceedings, which means that they can't be sued in India. No other vaccine maker in India enjoys this clause. But Pfizer said it will export to India only if the transaction is with the central government and the company will be protected from legal cases.Can GOI grant indemnity to Pfizer?Since no vaccine maker in India has this immunity, others may also raise the demand if the government of India grants indemnity to Pfizer and Moderna. Pfizer has indemnity in all the countries it has exported its vaccines. So the government of India can extend indemnity on the lines of what other countries did, reports said.Foreign-approved vaccines no longer need bridging trials in India: DCGI"They have requested indemnity to all the nations, including the country of origin. We are examining this request and will take a decision in the larger interest of people and on merit. This is under discussion and there is no decision as of now," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said in May. While reports on Wednesday indicated progress on that front and a likely development that the government is expected to extend the indemnity to Pfizer, the final decision has not been yet taken.'Be assured, everyone will get Covid-19 vaccine', says Union ministerWaiver for foreign vaccinesVaccines which have been approved by the appropriate agencies in the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan will not require bridging trials in India, the Drug Controller General of India has said. vaccines listed in the emergency use listing of the World Health Organization too are exempt from the bridging trials, it said. Earlier, foreign vaccines needed to undergo specific trial in India so that the effect on the Indian population could be understood. For example, Dr Reddy's Laboratories conducted a trial for Sputnik V in India.Pfizer has indicated that it has five crore vaccine doses which it can send to India in several phases — one crore in July, one crore in August, two crore in September and 1 crore in October. Moderna, on the other hand, said it won't be able to supply vaccines to India this year even if an agreement is reached as it does not have surplus stock.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-indemnity-for-vaccine-makers-what-pfizer-govt-say-about-it-101622638336579.html
02-06-2021||India||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee released from hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 77, who was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata on May 25 with Covid-19, was released on Wednesday afternoon. CEO of Woodlands Hospital Dr Rupali Basu said Bhattacharjee’s condition improved during treatment and he was asked to stay in isolation for a week. “He is on oral medications and oral steroids in limited doses and other supportive measures. His cough has reduced,” said Dr Basu. Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders said since Bhattacharjee lives in a small two-room government apartment it would be difficult to keep him in isolation there. He was taken to a private nursing home at CIT Road in central Kolkata so that he can be kept under observation. His wife and daughter will also stay with him. Bhattacharjee was on intermittent BiPAP support and required less oxygen than before. The oxygen saturation level in his blood stood at 96% on Wednesday. Bhattacharjee, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI(M), is a patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). He could rarely leave home in the last few years. “He is conscious, alert and talking sensibly. His blood pressure is stable. He is taking food orally and his blood sugar levels are normal,” Woodlands Hospital said in a bulletin. The former chief minister and his wife Mira Bhattacharjee, 71, tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. Mira Bhattacharya was admitted at Woodlands Hospital on that day but her husband was treated at home till his oxygen saturation level dropped below 90%. A panel of seven doctors was formed for his treatment. In October last year, Bhattacharjee was in the same hospital for six days. He was admitted in a critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in blood. However, his condition improved in less than a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-released-from-hospital-101622639225550.html
02-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh achieves milestone of 5 crore Covid-19 tests||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday crossed a significant milestone of testing five crore samples for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a release, the state government said that Uttar Pradesh is the first state to cross the milestone.It also said that on an average, three lakh Covid-19 tests are being conducted across the state daily.The state government said that 3,31,511 said were tested in the last 24 hours, out of which nearly 1,500 tested positive. The share of RT-PCR test - considered the gold standard - in the testing is 1.5 lakh every day, the UP government further said.The state credited its aggressive ‘Test, Trace and Treat’ strategy for achieving the milestone. "A widely deployed and efficient testing strategy in Uttar Pradesh has helped in limiting the spread of new cases as it significantly reduced the chance of individuals with undetected virus exposure from roaming freely among unexposed individuals," the government said in the release.Further, the state government said that the number of active cases of Covid-19 has come down by 93 per cent from its peak on April 30. In a state with population of 240 million, the count of active cases stands at 28,694, said the release. In April, this number had reached 3,10,783.The state's recovery rate is above 97 per cent, and number of containment zones are down to 13,702, according to government data.The daily positivity rate - the number of positive cases against the total tests done - on Tuesday dipped to 0.45 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. It has been below 1 per cent for more than a week now, according to the government.This rate was at its highest at 16.84 per cent on April 24.On Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh government launched an ambitious vaccination campaign, in which the administration aims to inoculate 1 crore people in a month. Claimed by a government's spokesman as the world's biggest vaccination campaign, two special vaccination centres have been set up in rural areas and three in urban areas for vaccinating the age group of 18 to 44 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-achieves-milestone-of-5-crore-covid-19-tests-101622637372287.html
02-06-2021||India||India has administered 218 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 218 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Tuesday, June 1, the day the Centre decided to scrap CBSE class 12 examinations, and CISCE followed suit, ending months of uncertainty for millions of students across the country. Elsewhere, the Delhi high court told the Centre to prioritise younger people over older ones to be given Amphotericin-B, the drug used to treat mucormycosis or black fungus what is in shortage due to a spike in cases.Meanwhile, by Tuesday 7pm, 218,358,591 vaccine doses had been given in India. During the day, 950,401 beneficiaries of the 18-45 age group received their first dose and 15,467 beneficiaries of the same age group received their second dose. Cumulatively, 21,301,448 persons across 37 States/UTs have received their first dose and 39,282 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec targetIn this age group, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to over a million beneficiaries each. Even as India continues to recover from a second wave of Covid-19 with a decline in fresh infections reported daily, deaths continue to be an area of concern for the government and health experts. A day after the daily deaths dipped below the 3,000-mark after 36 days, the country on Wednesday reported 3,207 fatalities. A total of 335,102 people died due to the viral contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-218-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101622637485392.html
02-06-2021||India||Show complete data on procurement of Covid-19 vaccines, Supreme Court directs Centre||The Supreme Court has asked the central government to produce “complete” data on its purchase history of three Covid-19 vaccines, which are being used in the nationwide inoculation drive, as it continued its suo-moto hearing on the Covid-19 crisis management in the country. The three vaccines are: Oxford University-AstraZeneca's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin (both with two-dose regimen), and Russia-made Sputnik V (which is administered in single dose).Also Read | Haffkine Biopharma to produce 228 million Covaxin doses annually“The data should clarify the dates of all procurement orders placed by the central government for all three vaccines, the quality of vaccines as ordered on each date, and the projected date of supply,” a three-judge bench, comprising Justices DY Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said, passing its orders.The top court also sought to know from the Centre the percentage of population that has been vaccinated with a single dose, as well both the doses (of Covishield and Covaxin), as against eligible beneficiaries in the first three phases of the nationwide vaccination drive. While Covishield and Covaxin were given approval by India's drugs regulator in January, Sputnik V was granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) in April.Also Read | Third Covid wave could be as severe as second, but deaths to be less: SBI reportAdditionally, the bench directed the Union government to outline how it plans to vaccinate the remainder of the population from phases 1, 2 and 3. It also directed the Centre to list steps being taken to ensure availability of the drug to treat mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, which has been seen in several patients who have recovered from Covid-19.An affidavit with all these details should be filed by the Union of India within two weeks, the bench said, listing June 30 as the next date of hearing.“We also note that the Union of India’s stated position in its affidavit dated 9 May 2021 is that every state/UT government shall provide vaccination free of cost to its population,” the court observed further, directing central and state governments to file an affidavit, also within two weeks, to clarify their position and put on record their individual policies over providing vaccination free of cost to the beneficiaries.These orders were passed by the Supreme Court on May 31 but were put up on its website only on June 2.The hearing on the central government’s vaccination policy comes at a time when several states have complained of a shortage of vaccine doses. However, Union minister Prakash Javadekar claimed on May 28 “all citizens will be vaccinated by December 2021,” a claim reiterated on Tuesday by his ministerial colleague G Kishan Reddy and ICMR's chief Dr Balram Bhargava.Also Read | 'Hoax': Mamata Banerjee on ICMR chief's 'Covid-19 doses to all by December' remarkSince the beginning of the vaccination drive on January 16, the number of vaccine doses administered across the country stands at 218,546,667, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) updated data showed at 8am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/show-complete-data-on-procurement-of-covid-19-vaccines-supreme-court-directs-centre-101622632430941.html
02-06-2021||India||Third Covid wave could be as severe as second, but deaths to be less: SBI report||The impact of any possible third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic could be significantly minimised by rigorous vaccination and providing better health infrastructure, according to a State Bank of India (SBI) research document. India’s largest public sector bank, in its five-page-long report, said that the average duration of the third wave of the pandemic in the worst-hit countries is 98 days as against 108 days during the second wave. Citing international experience, the report further suggested that the intensity of the third wave has been as severe as the second wave.“However it is also observed that in third wave, if we are better prepared, the decline in serious case rate will lead to less number of deaths,” SBI research document read.As per the official data, around 162,000 people in India had lost their lives to Covid-19 till March-end. Within two months, the death toll more than doubled, taking the total number of Covid-related fatalities to over 330,000. The exponential rise in Covid cases during the second wave overwhelmed the country's health infrastructure, leading to massive oxygen shortage in hospitals.Also Read | India lost 594 doctors during Covid second wave; most deaths in Delhi: IMAWhile the daily new coronavirus cases have been on a decline for the past few weeks, experts have warned about a possible third wave, given that only around 3.2 per cent of the Indian population has been fully vaccinated against the infection so far. According to the SBI report, better health infrastructure and rigorous vaccination could lead to a decline in serious Covid cases from 20 per cent to five per cent during the third wave, subsequently reducing coronavirus-related deaths to 40,000 “as compared to current deaths of more than 1.7 lakh.”“So vaccination should be the key priority, especially for the children who could be the next vulnerable group. With around 15-17 crore children in the 12-18 age bracket, India should go for an advanced procurement strategy like that adopted by developed nations to inoculate this age-group," the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-could-be-as-severe-as-second-but-deaths-to-be-less-sbi-report-101622633572523.html
02-06-2021||India||Over 8,700 people died on railway tracks during lockdown, many of them migrants||Over 8,700 people were mowed down on railway tracks in 2020 even though passenger train services were severely curtailed due to the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, with officials saying many of the victims were migrant workers.The Railway Board shared the data on such deaths for the period between January and December 2020 in its reply to a question by Madhya Pradesh-based activist Chandra Shekhar Gaur under the Right to Information Act."Based on the information received from the State Police, 805 people suffered injuries and 8,733 people died on the railway track between January 2020 and December 2020," the Railway Board has said.Officials separately said that many of those dead were migrant workers who chose to walk home along the tracks because train routes are considered shorter than roads or highways.They said these workers also chose the tracks as this way they could evade police for violating lockdown norms, and also had the belief they would not get lost midway."They also assumed that no trains would be running because of the lockdown," one of the officials said.While the fatalities during 2020 were fewer compared to four years immediately before that, the numbers are still significant given the fact that the passenger services were restricted after the coronavirus lockdown was announced on March 25.Only freight trains were in operation during the lockdown and before the railways started Shramik Special trains from May 1 to ferry migrant workers home.The passenger services have been reopening in phases, and by December, around 1,100 special trains were in operation along with 110 regular passenger trains.The services have now been restored to 70 per cent of the pre-Covid period.While many fatalities on tracks last year could not be registered for some reason or the other, the deaths of 16 migrant workers after being run over by a freight train in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad last May rattled many as they were killed while resting on the tracks thinking no train would be coming due to the Covid suspension.According to Railways figures, compiled from state governments, 56,271 people died and 5,938 were injured in such incidents between 2016 and 2019, registering an increasing trend, with 2017 being an exception.As many 14,032 people died in such accidents in 2016, 12,838 in 2017, 14,197 in 2018 and 15,204 in 2019, the figures showed.However, the Railways do not consider these deaths "railway accidents".Railway’s death statistics are maintained in three forms --consequential accidents, trespassing and untoward incidents.These deaths come under the category of "untoward incidents" or "trespassing", and are investigated by state police and the victims are also compensated by state governments concerned.The Railways has carried out massive campaigns to reduce such deaths and also paid ex gratia to the kin of the victim on sympathetic grounds in some cases.The measures taken by the Railways include elimination of unmanned-level crossings over the broad gauge network, signal modernisation, the use of modern machines in maintenance, among others. PTI ASG TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-700-people-died-on-railway-tracks-during-lockdown-many-of-them-migrants-101622633196423.html
02-06-2021||India||'Ostrich reading economic data': Anurag Thakur replies to Chidambaram on GDP||Giving a point-by-point reply to senior Congress leader P Chidambaram's statement that 2020-2021 is the darkest year of the economy in four decades, finance minister of state Anurag Thakur on Wednesday issued a statement and said he is not surprised that the former Congress leader chose to "ignore hard data and went ahead with whataboutery". "Consistent reforms and strong fundamentals have ensured India had a swift rebound from a contraction of 24.4 % in the 1st quarter of FY 2020-21 to a growth of 1.6 per cent in the 4th quarter of FY 2020-21," Thakur said."While you doubt the resilience of Indian entrepreneurs, small businesses, traders and MSMEs to revive themselves; various international agencies project India to grow by 12.5% in FY 2021-22 making us the only major economy to have a projected double-digit growth," the minister said.Only an Ostrich would deny this graph is V shaped. pic.twitter.com/2njNojUsGkChidambaram on Tuesday said most Indians are poorer than they were two years ago and for this, the government must admit its "errors of commission and omission, reverse its policies and heed the advice of economists and the opposition".In a reply, Anurag Thakur asked whether all other major economies of the world remained insulated from the impact of the pandemic. "Is the Indian economy an island in isolation; have other major economies not faced a GDP contraction? Are you not aware that France, Germany, Italy, UK contracted by 8.2%, 4.9%, 8.9% and 9.9% respectively? Canada, Russia, South Africa, USA too have seen a contraction in their GDP in the past year. Despite the disruptions in the globalised world, India has remained resilient," he said.Rebutting Chidambaram's claim that not much progress has been made on the issue of ash transfers, Anurag Thakur said the Congress misled the farmers on the issue of agri laws and engaged in protests. " Today the farmers are happy and have differentiated the truth from the false narrative of congress leaders," he said."The NDA government procured 306.9 million tonnes of paddy and 162.7 million tonnes of wheat in last 5 years Vs the period 2009-13 during the UPA tenure wherein only 176.8 million tonnes of paddy and 139.5 million tonnes of wheat was procured," he said.Chidambaram on Tuesday said the predictions of the V-shaped economic recovery was a false story. "When the first wave of the pandemic appeared to subside last year, the Finance Minister and her Chief Economic Adviser began to sell the story of a recovery. They saw 'green shoots' when no one else did. They predicted a V-shaped recovery. It was a false story and we had expressed our strong reservations and warned there were no signs of a recovery. We had pointed out that what the economy needed was a strong dose of stimulus, including increased government expenditure, direct transfers of cash to the poor and liberal distribution of free rations. Our pleas fell on deaf ears, and the result is a negative growth of (-) 7.3 per cent," he said.Citing the graph of the Central Statistics Office, the finance minister said only an ostrich would deny the shape of the graph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ostrich-reading-economic-data-anurag-thakur-replies-to-chidambaram-on-gdp-101622633517911.html
02-06-2021||India||'Hoax': Mamata Banerjee on ICMR chief's 'Covid-19 doses to all by December' remark||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that the statement made by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Dr Balram Bhargava about giving Covid-19 vaccine to the whole country by December is a hoax. Banerjee lashed out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre, saying it only finds temporary solution to a problem."That (vaccinating all citizens before December 2021) is just a hoax. They just say baseless things," Banerjee said at a press conference in Kolkata while replying to a question.Also Read: 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec target"If we try to vaccinate all the people of the country, it will automatically take six months to one year. India has a population of 140 crore, it is not a small matter to give vaccine to everyone," she further said.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief then highlighted the procedural issues involved in inoculating the people."There are other factors too. If someone recovers form Covid-19, he/she will have to wait for getting a vaccine shot. Also, there is a gap between two doses of the vaccine. So, it is not possible to inoculate everyone by December," said Banerjee.Targeting the BJP, she said, "They promised before Bihar elections that they will give free vaccines to everyone after the elections. But they still haven't done anything."The Bengal chief minister said that the Centre should procure Covid-19 vaccines and provide them to states for free."State governments cannot do it. The central government should send the vaccine to the states for free," said Banerjee, adding, "The state government don't have enough vaccines, and the Centre supplies very less shots. West Bengal has a popoulation of 10 crore. Our government spent ₹150 crore from its own funds for the vaccine and got 1.4 crore shots.""If you don't have commitment, you only raise the issue to satisfy the people temporarily. But temporary solution is not the solution, it's pollution. It is easy for bhashan," said the TMC chief.Banerjee said many chief ministers like Arvind Kejriwal, Navin Patnaik and Pinarayin Vijayan have raised similar issues.On Tuesday, Dr Balram Bhargava said India's vaccination is being ramped up. He mentioned that India is one of the five countries which are producing vaccines and asserted that "there is no shortage of vaccines"."Shortage is what you feel if you want to vaccinate the country within a month. The total number of vaccinations done in the country is nearly equivalent to the total number done in the United States and our population is four times the population of the USA. We have to have some patience," he said at a press conference.Dr Bhargava said by mid-July or early August, India will have more than enough doses to vaccinate up to 1 crore people per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hoax-mamata-on-icmr-chief-s-covid-19-doses-to-all-by-december-remark-101622633030714.html
02-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Navjot Singh Sidhu 'missing' posters surface in Amritsar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘missing’ posters surface in AmritsarA day after Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Punjab Congress MLA from Amritsar East, appeared in Delhi before the party’s three-member committee, constituted to resolve infighting in the state unit ahead of the assembly elections, posters announcing that he had gone missing surfaced in his constituency.Read MoreHaffkine Biopharma to produce 228 million Covaxin doses annuallyAs part of measures to increase coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine production in the country, Mumbai-based Haffkine Biopharma will produce 228 million doses per annum of Covaxin as part of a technology transfer arrangement with its maker Bharat Biotech. Read MorePlease mute, says judge as someone sings 'Ghoonghat ki..' seeing Juhi ChawlaThe online hearing on the 5G wireless network on Wednesday got disrupted thrice as actor-turned-environmentalist Juhi Chawla, who had approached the Delhi high court against the setting up of the 5G network in the country, joined the online hearing. Read More‘Our society is totally nuts’: Fauci emails on public fascination with himIn the early days of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci was seen by many as a reassuring voice of reason when the Trump administration’s response to the pandemic was deemed chaotic. Read MoreDaunting task ahead for India in WC qualifying round match against mighty QatarTheir preparation was far from ideal but India would take inspiration from the draw against Asian champions Qatar in 2019 when they face the same opponents in the second-leg match of the joint World Cup and Asian Cup qualifiers, here on Thursday. Read MoreYou can now watch your favourite Apple TV shows on any Android TVThere is a lot of video content available for Android TV owners in the form of subscription services – from Netflix to Hotstar and from Discovery to Amazon Prime Video. Read MoreKashmera Shah changes stance on Karan Mehra-Nisha Rawal controversy after saying he used to hit herActor Kashmera Shah has changed her stance on the Karan Mehra and Nisha Rawal domestic violence controversy. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-missing-posters-of-navjot-singh-sidhu-surface-in-amritsar-and-all-the-latest-news-101622631760215.html
02-06-2021||India||Conditions ripe for onset of monsoon over Kerela on June 3: IMD||Conditions are ripe for the southwest monsoon to make an onset over Kerala on June 3 after missing its normal onset date, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.It said spatial rainfall distribution has increased over Kerala and the westerly winds have strengthened in the lower levels over the south Arabian Sea.According to the satellite imagery, there is an increase in cloudiness over the Kerala coast and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea."The conditions are likely to favour in further enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala during next 24 hours. Hence, the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place during the same period," the IMD said.The normal date for arrival for monsoon over Kerala is June 1. The IMD had predicted that monsoon would hit Kerala on May 31 with an error margin of plus or minus four days. But on May 30, it said conditions were not ripe for the monsoon to hit Kerala the next day.Monsoon is expected to be normal this year, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-ripe-for-onset-of-monsoon-over-kerela-on-june-3-imd-101622630836890.html
02-06-2021||India||Please mute, says judge as man sings 'Ghoonghat ki..' seeing Juhi Chawla at 5G hearing||The online hearing on the 5G wireless network on Wednesday got disrupted thrice as actor-turned-environmentalist Juhi Chawla, who had approached the Delhi high court against the setting up of the 5G network in the country, joined the online hearing. As soon as the actor joined, someone started humming Ghoonghat ki aad se Dilbar ka, a popular song of the actor's 1993 movie Hum Hain Rahi Pyar Ke.As the "courtroom" singer was not identified, Justice J R Midha said, "Please mute", while advocate Deepak Khosla, appearing for Juhi Chawla, said, "I hope this is not being dropped by some respondent."The court was hearing the issue of court fees to be submitted by the plaintiff, while it was interrupted again by someone singing another Bollywood song.Watch | Juhi Chawla moves High Court against 5G technology: All you need to knowIn the second instance, some anonymous participant again sang-- Lal Lal hoton pe Gori kiska naam hai-- only to be removed from the hearing.But this did not stop here where again someone sang- Meri Banno ki ayegi ki baarat.The court got agitated and said, "Please identify the person and issue a contempt notice".The court also asked the IT Department of the Delhi HC to identify the person and convey it to Delhi Police for necessary action.Justice Midha also asked the court master to share the details of the disrupter with the Delhi Police.During the online hearing, some participant also flashed a mobile phone with a photo of Juhi Chawla.On Monday, the actor approached the Delhi high court against the setting up of the 5G wireless networks in the country, as it would impact citizens, animals, flora and fauna. If the 5G network plan comes into effect, no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are 10x to 100x times greater than what exists today, the suit filed by Chawla and two others said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/please-mute-says-judge-as-someone-sings-ghoonghat-ki-seeing-juhi-chawla-at-5g-hearing-101622630137921.html
02-06-2021||India||Brands take an innovative route to raise vaccine awareness||In a bid to create awareness and encourage people to get inoculated, brands are focusing on how the jab is cool. While 2020 was all about ‘stay home, stay safe’ and social distancing campaigns, in 2021 the focus is on Covid-19 vaccination, especially for the 18-44 age group. And brands are taking an innovative route, opting for social media campaigns to remove vaccine hesitancy.From food and hospitality, automobile and apparel to consumer goods, brands such as OYO Rooms, Domino’s Pizza, Hero MotoCorp, Durex and many more are actively promoting the drive to increase confidence in masses and support the campaigns. Explaining the strategy behind the narrative, brand specialist Harish Bijoor says it’s called moment marketing. “This kind of marketing makes the best of the moment. And the moment of time is vaccination. There’s a craving for it and there’s a shortage. And everybody understands that when the entire nation is vaccinated it is a safe nation. In a way, these campaigns also hint at subliminal promotion to show what the brand offers,” he says.Echoing similar sentiments and pinning the hope on vaccine for a ‘new normal’ once again, ad film director Sudip Bandyopadhyay says, “Scenario is such that vaccine is a hope and brands are coming up with creatives to encourage masses.” However, he also points out that it’s not only companies that are referred to as brands. Celebrities too make for a ‘brand’ and when they post pictures of a getting a jab, that is in a way inspiration as well. “Brand is a name – it could be an eminent personality and they’re are also taking vaccine and showing which sends the message that it is a necessity to go and get vaccinated,” he says adding that it’s not only the responsibility of government to spread awareness on these initiatives but also of large organisations, advertising and production houses.Catchy and creative ads can go a long way in clearing out vaccine hesitancy. Brand guru, Jagdeep Kapoor says, “Ever since the vaccination drive kicked off for 18+, brands jumped on the bandwagon and have been trying to represent trendy, fashionable voices by sending out the message that ‘vaccine is in’ because the younger generation follows the trends. These messages can help overcome the resistance.” He also points out that not many brands took the initiative to come up with digital campaigns when the vaccination started for people above 60 years of age and those over 45 with comorbidities.This highlights the fact that specific group of consumer plays a key role for deciding campaigns as for many brands, 18-44 is the age bracket for their target audience, which is also most active on social media platforms. Advertising veteran Ajay Gahlaut says, “18-44 is a sweet spot for most brands. And social media is the right territory for the brands to get in and build their messaging around it. Also, in today’s time, it is a powerful tool for communication that needs to be lot more real-time, based on on-ground events, which is the case for vaccination encouragement.”Compared to television, it’s easier to find the target audience on social media as, Gahlaut highlights, “The cost of a television campaign is expensive, so brands go for the space where major bulk of audience is going to watch it and get more eyeballs.”Ad film director Prahlad Kakkar believes that a lot of brands took advantage of being the ‘good guy’ and are inspired from the move of the Biden administration partnering with McDonald’s and introducing We Can Do This campaign. He says, “There was a lot resistance to vaccine in America and it [campaign] became very successful and it all kicked off from there. Brands thought if a fast-food chain which is a great family place can promote, why can’t we? It was a reaction to American campaign.” However, he says for brands to encourage the masses here is ‘too little, too late’ as he states, “There was some resistance earlier [in March], but the momentum picked up when the second wave hit us. Masses registered, queued up at centers to get the jab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brands-take-an-innovative-route-to-raise-vaccine-awareness-101622629804775.html
02-06-2021||India||Why start vaccination centres if you can't provide 2nd dose of Covaxin: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government why it started vaccination centres "with so much pomp and splendour" when it knew that it could not provide the second dose of Covaxin, which is to be administered within a gap of four to six weeks.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing two pleas where the petitioners had not got the second dose of vaccine despite efforts, issued notice to the Centre and the Delhi government.The court asked the Delhi government whether it was ready to make a statement that it would stick to the time frame.The court also issued a notice to the Centre on two pleas to make the second dose of both vaccines - Covaxin and Covishield — available in Delhi.The petitioners had said that several people are travelling to Meerut or other places to get the vaccine dose as Delhi has exhausted its stock. This is an issue is of general importance and therefore requires serious consideration, the court noted and posted the matter to be heard again on June 4."When Maharashtra did not have the vaccine, they stopped the process because they knew that it would not have the second dose and the vaccine will lose its effect," the judge noted.Additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, advocate Anuj Aggarwal, told that he would seek instructions on the matter and urged that the matter be taken up on Friday.In the instant petition, in which both the Delhi government and the Centre have been made parties, the petitioner mentioned that while Covaxin is made available in other states, Delhi is being deprived of Covaxin doses. Hence, people who got their first shot in Delhi have to travel to other cities to get the second doses. No steps were taken to ensure that the second doses are administered on time while the first doses were given to beneficiaries in Delhi.The plea said that while Covaxin is made available in other states, Delhi is being deprived of Covaxin doses."Hence, people who got their first shot in Delhi have to travel to other cities to get the second doses. No steps were taken to ensure that the second doses are administered on time while the first doses were given to beneficiaries in Delhi, " the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-start-vaccination-centres-if-you-can-t-provide-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-hc-to-delhi-govt-101622625446565.html
02-06-2021||India||Union Cabinet approves Model Tenancy Act: All you need to know||The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday approved the Model Tenancy Act. the government has asked for its circulation to all states/union territories for adaptation by way of enacting fresh legislation or amending existing rental laws suitably.The government had first released the draft of the act in 2019. It aims to bridge the trust deficit between tenants and landlords by clearly delineating their obligations.In a release, the central government said that the Model Tenancy Act will facilitate unlocking of vacant houses for rental housing purposes. It is expected to give a fillip to private participation in rental housing as a business model for addressing the huge housing shortage, the government further said.Here are the salient features of the act:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-approves-model-tenancy-act-all-you-need-to-know-101622626018640.html
02-06-2021||India||The politics of Twitter: Why did Rahul Gandhi stop following his aides?||Former Congress president and Wayanad member of Parliament Rahul Gandhi unfollowed all his core team members on Twitter on Tuesday, in what appears to be a signal to the broader party, and also the latest episode in a long-running young-vs-old feud.Hindustan Times has learnt that this action was in response to certain party members complaining that Gandhi was following people selectively, and not all party leaders.The persons that Gandhi with 18.8 million followers unfollowed on Tuesday, include his key aides KB Byju, Nikhil and Nivedith Alva, Kaushal Vidyarthee and Alankar Sawai. While Gandhi followed 281 persons till Tuesday, by the end of the day the number was reduced to 228. On Wednesday morning, this further dipped to 219.Among the accounts he still follows are those of fellow MPs Manickam Tagore and key office bearers such as Shaktisinh Gohil and Oomen Chandy; important spokespersons of the party including Abhishek Manusinghvi and Pawan Khera; and opposition leaders such as the Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s Derek O’Brien and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)’s Kanimozhi.Also Read | It is not just WhatsApp. Digital media rules face multiple legal challenges“I am not aware why Mr Gandhi has done this or whether it is genuine or not,” said KC Venugopal. However, at least two members of his office who are no longer followed by Gandhi confirmed that they were aware of the development.“Many people were unhappy that he was following us. So he decided that he won’t follow anyone in his office. They are also trying to have a uniform policy on who Rahul Gandhi will follow,’’ said one member of his office who asked not to be named. Gandhi also unfollowed some journalists and fact checkers who he previously followed on twitter.“It’s only fair. Does Prime Minister Modi follow the people who run his account like Hiren Joshi?” asked a second Congress leader who too asked not to be named. However, that comparison may not stand because Joshi who heads communications and IT in the Prime Minister's office, does not have a Twitter account. Gandhi’s Twitter account used to be handled by Nikhil Alva but is now handled by Alankar Sawai. HT reached out to Sawai for a comment but there was no response.While some in the party called it a non-issue, social media norms now dictate that a public person is judged by who they follow. As of Wednesday morning, Gandhi was following 219 people and being followed by 18.8 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-politics-of-twitter-why-did-rahul-gandhi-stop-following-his-aides-101622625484445.html
02-06-2021||India||Niti Aayog to launch 3rd edition of Sustainable Development Goals index today||Government think tank Niti Aayog will on Wednesday launch the third edition of the index of India’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) such as eradication of poverty and inequality. The index was scheduled to be launched in March. The launch was postponed due to the election code that came into effect with the announcement of assembly polls in four states and a Union territory.“The Index measures the progress at the national and sub-national level in the country’s journey towards meeting the Global Goals and targets and has been successful as an advocacy tool to propagate the messages of sustainability, resilience, and partnerships, as well,” Niti Aayog said in a statement.Niti Aayog launched the first and second editions of the index in December 2018 and December 2019.Also Read | No use debating over allopathy, ayurveda: NITI Aayog memberKerala, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Telangana were top performers in the race to achieve the SDGs as per the second index released in 2019. Bihar, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, and Meghalaya ranked last.HT on January 12, 2020, reported about India’s plans, for the first time, to include marginalised groups as key focus areas in assessing the impact of SDGs ahead of the presentation of the country’s second Voluntary National Review (VNR) on the implementation of the goals before the United Nations (UN).VNR, which serves as a basis for an international review of the SDGs progress, was sent to the UN in July 2020. India is a signatory to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and participates in the international review. The VNRs are presented at the UN’s High-Level Political Forums, which have met annually since 2016. India submitted its first VNR in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-to-launch-3rd-edition-of-sustainable-development-goals-index-today-101622625426465.html
02-06-2021||India||Odisha high court orders state buildings to be converted into jails||Odisha high court on Wednesday said there was an urgent need to decongest jails in the state and suggested upgrading other government-owned buildings to house inmates amid a rapid spread of Covid-19 infection in prisons.The court felt that at least six jails in the state were overcrowded. “This includes the district jail in Phulbani, the special sub-jail in Bhadrak and the sub-jails in Jajpur, Nayagarh, Parlakhemundi and Malkangiri. The situation in the Bhadrak special sub-jail is particularly acute where against the capacity of 166 there are over 430 prisoners. In a time of Covid-19 Pandemic, this can also pose a serious risk to the health and safety of the prisoners as well as the jail staff,” the court said.As per the high power committee of Odisha State Legal Service Authority, formed to look into release of inmates from jails owing to Covid-19, at least 816 inmates were found to be positive in May and 71 other inmates and 4 employees of Gunupur sub-jail in Koraput district tested positive for the disease on Tuesday.A decongestion drive was recently carried out in state’s prisons which reduced the number of inmates in the state’s 87 jails to 18,580 against the full capacity of 19,824. The director general (DG) of prisons Santosh Upadhyay said the capacity of jails was being raised by 3,000. However, 53 of the 87 jails in the state are yet to report any Covid cases.The court order by the division bench of chief justice Dr S Muralidhar and justice Savitri Ratho comes at a time when former Biju Janata Dal (BJD) minister and Gopalpur MLA Pradip Panigrahi and former Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Abhay Pathak, arrested in Tata Motor job scam and disproportionate assets cases, tested Covid positive in Jharpada special jail of Bhubaneswar. Both Panigrahi and Pathak are yet to get bail.The court said prisoners in excess of the holding capacity of jails should be shifted in a phased manner in other safe and secure premises. “This could be [done] by upgrading other state buildings/facilities to meet the requirements of prisons,” the HC said. It also directed the state government to submit a detailed action plan for dealing with the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-high-court-orders-state-buildings-to-be-converted-into-jails-101622625424602.html
02-06-2021||India||'Be assured, everyone will get Covid-19 vaccine', says Union minister||Union minister G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday said that the Centre has made plans to vaccinate all the people of the country against Covid-19 by December after speaking to pharmaceutical companies. He also assured that everyone will get vaccine."The government has made action plans to vaccinate all by end of December (2021) and for production of 250 crore vaccine doses after speaking to several pharma companies. Sputnik arrived in Hyderabad yesterday, discussions are on to get Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson too," Reddy, the minister of state for home, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: Aarogya Setu app to now show vaccination status"India stands third compared to other countries, in terms of vaccinating its citizens. We have simplified import rules so private hospitals can import vaccines. Vaccination drive will run for the next 7-8 months. Be assured that everyone will get vaccine," he added.The minister's statement came on a day when the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) said it has done away with specific trials of Covid-19 vaccines that have been approved by other international regulatory bodies. The big move is likely to clear the way for foreign vaccines like Pfizer and Moderna for the country's urgent requirement.In a letter, DCGI chief VG Somani said that this will be applicable for vaccines that have already been approved for restricted use by the US FDA, EMA, UK MHRA, PMDA Japan or listed for Emergency Use by the World Health Organisation.Top government official had said on Tuesday that India will vaccinate 10 million (1 crore) people every day by July of early August, rubbishing reports that there is a shortage of vaccines in the country. Dr Balram Bhargava, the director general of Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR), said that the total number of vaccinations done in the country is nearly equivalent to the total number done in the United States despite India's population being four times the population of the US."We have to have some patience. By the mid of year, mid-July or early August, we will have more than enough doses to vaccinate up to a crore (10 million) per day," he said at a press conference.But the government's ambitious plan will require 1.88 billion doses to be administered by the end of this year. An analysis of the data of ongoing vaccination drive and supply of jabs by Hindustan shows that 1.67 billion or 89% of these expected doses are yet to be administered.This means that the country needs to deliver 238 million doses every month from June or risk falling behind target.In May, India delivered an average of 1.93 million doses a day and several states ran out of supplies by the fourth week of the month for at least some groups of recipients. For June alone, the number of doses required has been pegged at 120 million.The government, meanwhile, said the reports about consumption of Covid-19 vaccine doses in various media reports are "incorrect and without any basis". The reports said that only around 58 million doses were administered of the 79 million doses available in May.According to Union health ministry's data at 7am on June 1, between May 1-31, a total of 61.06 million vaccine doses were administered by the states and Union territories.A total of 16.22 million balance and unutilised doses were available with the states. The total number of vaccine shots available from May 1-31 was 79.45 million, the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-assured-everyone-will-get-covid-19-vaccine-says-union-minister-101622624539176.html
02-06-2021||India||Know how Centre's X-Ray Setu on WhatsApp can detect Covid-19||A new AI-driven platform will now help early intervention through rapid screening of coronavirus disease cases with the help of chest X-ray interpretation over WhatsApp for doctors who have access to X-ray machines. The solution called X-Ray Setu can work with low-resolution images sent via mobiles, is quick and easy to use, and can facilitate detection in rural areas.Artificial intelligence-based X-Ray Setu, which operates through Whatsapp, plans to onboard 10,000 doctors in small towns and rural areas where RT-PCR tests and CT-scans are not available to detect the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a senior official of AI and robotics foundation Artpark said on Tuesday.Click here for latest updates on Covid-19Non-profit organisation Artpark CEO Umakant Soni told news agency PTI that X-Ray Setu, developed in collaboration with start-up Niramai and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), detects Covid-19 with the help of simple X-ray which is processed using an AI system in the backend without charging any fee at present.The chest X-ray of a person is uploaded by the doctor or radiologist on WhatsApp bot of X-Ray Setu which analyses the image and generates a report in 10-15 minutes.How to conduct the test?To conduct the health check, any doctor simply needs to visit www.xraysetu.com and click on the ‘Try the Free X-Ray Setu Beta’ button. The platform will then redirect the person to another page, wherein he or she can choose to engage with the WhatsApp-based chatbot via web or smartphone application. Or the doctor can simply send a WhatsApp message to the phone number +91 8046163838 to start the X-Ray Setu service.Then they just need to click the picture of the patient’s X-ray and obtain the 2-page automated diagnostics with annotated images in a few minutes. While extending the probability of the Covid-19 contraction, the report also highlights a localised heatmap for a quick perusal of the doctor.Tested and validated with over 1,25 000 X-ray images from National Institute of Health, UK, as well as over 1000+ Indian coronavirus patients from, X-Ray Setu, has shown excellent performance with Sensitivity: 98.86%, and Specificity: 74.74%Soni said that the technology has been operational since last one week and 500 doctors have come on board to use it."We are planning to create a strong network of 10,000 doctors in the next 15 days who are trained in leveraging XraySetu, so that when the third COVID wave comes, we are ready with solutions that can reach doctors in rural areas," Soni said.ALSO READ: India lost 594 doctors during Covid second wave; most deaths in Delhi: IMAHe said that India had 5,335 rural community health centres as of March 31, 2019 that can be used and private estimates indicate that two-third of them have a working X-Ray machine and a technician to operate it."We are making our best effort to reach all places where X-ray machines are installed. We will not charge any fee for the next 6-8 months. Even on a paid basis, it will be less than ₹100 per test," Soni said.IISc promoted Artpark has received support of ₹230 crore from department of science and technology under National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems and the Karnataka government, to develop AI and robotics facilities to support technology innovations.Niramai founder, CEO and CTO Geetha Manjunath said X-Ray Setu aims at creating an ecosystem for affordable and rapid screening in rural areas, for lung infections like coronavirus, pneumonia, tuberculosis etc."We believe X-Ray Setu can play an important role to address the delays and false negatives in the RT PCR test. CT Scan leads to heavy exposure to radiation compared to an X-Ray. X-Ray Setu can be a supplement to RT PCR and CT Scan," Manjunath said.ALSO READ: Only one strain of Covid-19 variant found in India now of concern, says WHOArtpark (AI and Robotics Technologies Park) co-founder and chief information officer Subhashis Banerjee said X-Ray Setu intervention can help in early treatment of patients which in case of an RT-PCR test takes over 24 hours and in some cases it has been 3-4 days long wait."Release of patients from hospitals has been on the basis of quantitative parameters. With X-Ray Setu we can add some qualitative parameters because it is harmful to expose a person to CT Scan radiation in a short time," Banerjee said.As Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc across the rural heartlands of India, it has become critical to drive rapid testing, contact tracing, and create dedicated containment zones. At a time when such tests are taking more than a week across some cities, the challenge is even more for rural areas. Easy alternative tests are necessary as RT-PCR tests also give a ‘false negative’ for some variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/know-how-centre-s-x-ray-setu-on-whatsapp-can-detect-covid19-101622624422305.html
02-06-2021||India||Google says India's new IT rules not applicable to its search engine; Centre to respond by July 25||American technology giant Google Inc on Wednesday contended that India's information technology rules for digital media are not applicable to its search engine and asked the Delhi high court to set aside an earlier order, passed by a single-judge bench, which applied to the company in relation to certain offending content posted on an internet pornography website. Google said that the judge had "mischaracterised" its search engine as a 'social media intermediary' or 'significant social media intermediary' as provided under the new rules.Also Read: Standoff on IT rules as Twitter flags concernsWhat is the case about?The case in question relates to a matter in which a woman's photographs were uploaded on the pornography website without her consent by a few "unknow persons". Despite court orders instructing the removal of the content, the photograph could not completely be removed in its entirety from the internet. Moreover, some "errant parties merrily continued" to repost and redirect the content to other sites, the court noted.What did the court say?In light of these observations, the single-judge bench of the Delhi high court had on April 20 framed a template wherein it said that an appropriate direction may be issued to the website where the objectional material is hosted to remove the same forthwith and maximum within 24 hours of receiving the judicial order.The court also said that additional directions must be issued to the search engine to disable access to the offending content by 'de-indexing' and 'dereferencing'' it in their listed search results. Considering Google's search engine to be an intermediary, the court said that it must "endeavour to employ pro-active monitoring by using automated tools, to identify and remove or disable access to any content which is exactly identical to the offending content that is the subject matter of the court order."The search engine must also block search results across the world pertaining to the content, the order said, since a direction to remove or disable access to an offending content will hardly be effective even within India if it has no realistic prospect of preventing irreparable harm to a litigant.If the intermediary fails to meet these conditions, it was liable to forfeit its privilege of exemption under the Information Technology (IT) Act, the court noted.Google's objection to the court orderGoogle noted that although it was an intermediary, the Delhi high court judge had "mischaracterised" its search engine as a 'social media intermediary' or 'significant social media intermediary' as provided under the new rules.Also Read: Google respects legislative processes but pushes back when needed: Sundar Pichai on new social media rules"Additionally, the single judge has conflated various sections of the IT Act and separate rules prescribed thereunder, and has passed template orders combining all such offences and provisions, which is bad in law," Google said in its appeal against the April 20 judgement.In view of this, Google contended that the new IT rules framed under these guidelines are not applicable to its search engine and sought the removal of the observation by the judge that it was a 'social media intermediary'. With the aforementioned plea, Google further sought protection against any coercive action for non-compliance with the template or guidelines laid down by the single judge.Where does the case stand now?Following Google's plea, a Delhi high court bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said that any interim order will not be issued at this stage.The court has issued a notice to the central government, the Delhi government, the Internet Service Providers Association of India, Facebook, the pornographic site and the woman, on whose plea the single judge's ruling had come, to submit their responses to Google's plea by July 25.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-says-india-s-new-it-rules-not-applicable-to-its-search-engine-centre-to-respond-by-july-25-101622619717281.html
02-06-2021||India||Academicians sign joint letter seeking probe into post-poll 'violence' in Bengal||More 600 academicians from across the country on Wednesday signed a joint statement against the alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal in the aftermath of the assembly elections.The signatories appealed to various agencies such as the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), and the National Commission for Women (NCW) to conduct probes into what they claimed as “unprecedented violence” in Bengal.Last week the Supreme Court agrred to hear petitions seeking the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the alleged violence and took cognisance of the accusations that the state government was complicit and overlooked these incidents.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) of "targeted killings", the Mamata Banerjee-led party said the BJP was spreading fake news on social media.ALSO READ: In Bengal’s post-poll political violence, a battle of narratives“Those who voted against the TMC in recent elections in Bengal are being victimised. Many of them are under attack from the TMC-supported stormtroopers - their properties vandalised and livelihoods destroyed,” the statement read.The signatories, mostly comprising professors, vie-chancellors, directors and deans of various universities, said quoted reports to highlight that dozens of people, including women, have been killed in post-poll violence in Bengal while thousand others have migrated to the adjoining states of Assam, Odisha and Jharkhand fearing persecution by the ruling Trinamool Congress. They accused the police, local administration, civil society and the media of being “hand in gloves with the perpetrators.”“We are deeply anxious and worried about the people who exercised their democratic right to free and fair vote, thus incurring the wrath of the ruling party in Bengal. We are deeply concerned about the weak and vulnerable sections of the society whose rights as citizens of India are being suppressed by the state government merely for exercising their right to freedom of expression and association,” the statement further read.The Calcutta high court had on Monday ordered the setting up of a three-member panel to ensure that those displaced by the post-poll violence in the state are able to return to their houses.Meanwhile, the BJP said it will hold public programmes between June 1 and June 3 to discuss upon the prevalent issues pertaining to the alleged post-poll violence. It will be the party's first outreach programme after the assembly elections the state.Stressing the acts of violence and politics of terror undermine the constitution and destroy the basic building blocks of democracy, the signatories of the petition also sought for the formation of a SIT to probe into the alleged violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/academicians-sign-joint-letter-seeking-probe-into-post-poll-violence-in-bengal-101622621155972.html
02-06-2021||India||Gujarat secondary and higher secondary education board cancels Class 12 exam||The Gujarat government on Wednesday announced the cancellation of Class 12 board examination, news agency quoted state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama as saying. This comes a day after the Centre cancelled the Class 12 exam of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The state government had announced on May 25 that the Class 12 board exam will be held from July 1, but the decision was rescinded on Wednesday.The decision to cancel CBSE Class 12 exam was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which it was decided that the CBSE will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.Many state governments had welcomed the Centre's decision to cancel Class 12 examination. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the announcement has come as a big relief."I am glad 12th exams have been cancelled. All of us were very worried about the health of our children. A big relief," he tweeted on Tuesday.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the decision, a statement issued by the state's communications department said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said it was an important step to ensure the health and safety of students.After the announcement about CBSE board exams, the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) also decided to cancel Class 12 board examinations this year in view of the Covid-19 situation."In view of the present situation of the Covid- 19 Pandemic in the country, the CISCE has decided to CANCEL the ISC (Class 12) Year 2021 examination. The safety, health and wellbeing of our students, teaching faculty and all stakeholders is our topmost priority and of paramount interest," the CISCE said in a statement."The results will be processed on a mechanism which will also include the internal examinations conducted by the schools. The schools will be informed in due course of time, of this mechanism," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-secondary-and-higher-secondary-education-board-cancels-class-12-exam-101622621420323.html
02-06-2021||India||Six states account for more than 70% of India's Covid-19 deaths||Even as India continues to recover from a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with a decline in fresh infections reported daily, the deaths continue to be an area of concern for the government and health experts. A day after India's daily deaths dipped below the 3,000-mark after 36 days, the country on Wednesday reported 3,207 fatalities. A total of 3,35,102 people died due to the viral contagion.According to data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, more than 70% of India's cases are being traced back to six states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.In the last 24 hours, India reported 3,207 new fatalities out of which 854 are from Maharashtra, 490 from Tamil Nadu, 464 from Karnataka, 194 from Kerala, 175 from Uttar Pradesh, 137 from West Bengal and 104 from Andhra Pradesh.Also read | Covid vaccination drive: 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec targetThe top six contributors account for 72.2% of the cumulative deaths recorded in India on Wednesday.Maharashtra, which remains the worst-affected state in the country in months now, has seen the highest deaths in the country in total. A total of 335,102 deaths have been reported so far in the country. Out of these 96,198 come from Maharashtra, 29,554 from Karnataka, 24,722 from Tamil Nadu, 24,299 from Delhi, 20,672 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,678 from West Bengal, 14,649 from Punjab and 13,077 from Chhattisgarh.India on Wednesday added 1,32,788 new coronavirus infections to its tally of Covid-19 cases which now stands at 28.3 million, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday.The active cases in the country were recorded below 20 lakh for the second consecutive day, the data updated at 8am showed.The number of recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 20th consecutive day.In a bid to ward off the looming threat of increasing the spread of infection, the government on Tuesday cancelled the CBSE class 12 examinations, ending months of uncertainty for roughly 1.4 million students who were to appear for the school-leaving tests.Also read: 9,346 kids orphaned by pandemic, Supreme Court toldThe PM said Covid-19 affected the academic calendar and the issue of board exams caused immense anxiety among students, parents and teachers, which must be put to an end. “Students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation,” Modi said, according to the PMO statement.Nearly 1.4 million students were scheduled to take the CBSE class 12 examinations, which serve as a crucial barometer for college admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-states-account-for-more-than-70-of-india-s-covid-19-deaths-101622617249066.html
02-06-2021||India||Govt recommends work from home for nursing mothers||The Union government has issued an advisory to all states and Union Territories to encourage work from home for nursing mothers for at least a year, keeping in mind their vulnerability and that of their babies during the Covid-19 pandemic.The recommendation has been made under Section 5(5) of the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017. The Act provides that where the work assigned to a woman is of such nature that she may work from home, the employer may allow her to do so after she avails of the maternity benefit for such period and on such conditions as the employer and the woman may mutually agree.Also Read | New govt rules ‘gag’ officers retired from intel, security departmentsThe states and UTs have also been asked to issue advisories to the employers for allowing more and more nursing mothers to work from home. “The employers may be advised to allow work from home, wherever nature of work so allows, for nursing mothers at least for a period of one year from the date of birth of the child,” the letter states. “In addition to protecting the nursing mothers during Covid, giving the flexibility to work from home shall enable them to continue to remain in employment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-recommends-work-from-home-for-nursing-mothers-101622619304234.html
02-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi: What happens today and what we know so far||The Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (ECSC) will on Wednesday hear the habeas corpus petition filed by Mehul Choksi’s attorneys last week seeking answers from Dominica on the circumstances under which the fugitive reached or was found in the country on May 23. Choksi’s lawyers have alleged the businessman was abducted from Antigua and Barbuda, where he is a citizen, and brought to Dominica in a vessel and then tortured in custody.People familiar with the matter told HT that the Dominica government and police have filed multiple affidavits in the court, detailing how Choksi was found inside their territory. The court has jurisdiction over six independent states including Antigua and Barbuda and DominicaIndia, not a party yetIndia is not a party to the ECSC proceedings in the habeas corpus, or writ that seeks to bring a prisoner or other detainee before the court to determine if the person’s imprisonment or detention is lawful. Legal experts said for India to seek Choksi’s deportation directly, a separate plea will have to be filed through Dominican prosecutors. Indian officials have travelled to Dominica to seek his deportation on the grounds that Choksi is still an Indian citizen and he cheated public sector banks of $2 billion and needs to face the courts of India. But the process may take time and it is believed that Choksi may have to stay in Dominica for a few weeks.What has Dominica said so farIn a statement last week, the country’s interior ministry said it will repatriate Choksi to Antigua once details on his citizenship are ascertained. Dominican authorities have been tight-lipped about any backchannel or diplomatic talks with India.Vocal Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston BrowneBrowne has maintained he will not accept Choksi back in his country. He has spoken about how an Indian plane reached Dominica to get Choksi. On Monday, he said that “Choksi left the island [Antigua] on May 23 with his girlfriend” and in doing so, “made a monumental error”. Browne has denied allegations of Choksi’s lawyers and opposition parties that the fugitive was abducted by the country’s police along with Indian agents. Antigua and Barbuda’s opposition United Progressive Party (UPP) has accused Browne of disregarding the law of the land by saying that Choksi should be sent directly to India because “he enjoys constitutional and legal protection in Antigua”. “The alleged abduction and beating of Mr. Choksi already paints an unflattering picture of the country. Browne’s deliberate attempt to subvert and corrupt the rule of law makes us look even worse,” the UPP said in a statement.Also Read | ‘Choksi still Indian citizen’: ED’s likely line of argument in courtBrowne has accused UPP of taking campaign funds from Choksi.Politics in DominicaOn Tuesday, Dominica’s leader of the opposition, Lennox Linton, in an interview with HT, targeted Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit over the alleged abduction of Choksi. He accused Skerrit of being part of a plot that undermines the protections guaranteed to citizens of the region under the ECSC’s jurisdiction.Bribery allegationsAssociates Times, a Caribbean news portal, reported on Tuesday that Choksi’s brother, Chetan, flew in from Antwerp to Dominica, Linton and allegedly gave him $200,000 for the election campaign and making statements in the Parliament in favour of the fugitive.Also Watch | Mehul Choksi’s mystery woman, abduction claims spark Caribbean controversyThe jet and the Indian silenceAuthorities in New Delhi have been silent over reports of a private jet sent last Friday along with a team of 7-8 officials and case files and documents to prove that Choksi is one of the top white-collar criminals wanted in India. India has not also denied allegations that he was abducted by Indian and Antiguan officials.The mystery womanBrowne said on Monday that Choksi left the country with his girlfriend, who has not been traced since. The media in Antigua reported that the woman had been meeting Choksi for a long time. Choksi’s lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, said the mystery woman got friendly with the Choksis during her evening walks. He added later on she even invited Choksi to her house. Aggarwal has claimed other members of the alleged abduction team were waiting at her house to pick Choksi.“They grabbed him, threw him in a yacht, and took him to Dominica. As Mehul Choksi was not carrying his passport and that lady has vanished, this is sufficient to vindicate the stand that he was abducted,” Aggarwal said.What nextAfter India applies for Choksi’s deportation, the matter will be heard in the court during which it will be decided whether he should be sent to India or Antigua. A lot will depend on Dominica’s stand and whether it is keen to send him to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-what-happens-today-and-what-we-know-so-far-101622619064166.html
02-06-2021||India||Peak crossed; Covid transmission stabilising, says Centre||Nearly half of India is reporting a less than 5% test positivity rate, the Centre said on Tuesday, suggesting the peak of the second Covid-19 wave has been crossed, and the disease transmission has largely stabilised.“Today, at least 350 districts, which is nearly half of India, has less than 5% case positivity rate; and 145 districts are currently hovering on between 5 and 10% positivity rate. However, there are still 239 districts with more than 10% positivity,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Test positivity is the percentage of total positive tests from all Covid-19 tests that have been conducted. It helps determine the levels of disease transmission within the community. As per the World Health Organisation recommendations, transmission during an infectious disease outbreak can be said to be stabilizing if the test positivity rate remains under 5% for at least two weeks consecutively.Also Read | Aarogya Setu to display vaccination statusThe Centre has said the data in the first week of April showed India had less than 200 districts with more than 10% positivity. By the end of April, the number had jumped to nearly 600 districts. “...we are moving in the right direction... testing that has been ramped up as well as containment that has worked at the district level... However, it is not a sustainable solution; we have to find a mechanism for how we ease our containment, the lockdown, and that has to be done very gradually, and very slowly,” Bhargava said.VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said the peak went up beyond estimates driven by very highly transmissible variants. “But now it has been a few weeks since we crossed the peak, and there is an overall downward trend. However, we cannot afford to drop our guard and have to continue taking precautions including wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing and other Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peak-crossed-covid-transmission-stabilising-says-centre-101622618284672.html
02-06-2021||India||Aarogya Setu app to now show vaccination status||New Delhi: Contact tracing mobile application Aarogya Setu will now display the users’ vaccination status with a blue shield for those, who have been fully vaccinated, the ministry of electronics and information technology has said.“Those who are fully Vaccinated will get a Blue Shield on the home page of Aarogya Setu App with double blue ticks on the Aarogya Setu Logo – 14 days after the second dose,” the ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. “This is done after verification of Vaccination Status from the CoWIN portal.”Those, who have got a single dose, will get a “single blue border with vaccination status on their home screen along with Aarogya Setu logo with a single tick”.Also Read | Foreign-approved vaccines no longer need bridging trials in India: DCGI“With the second dose, the home screen will have a double border and Aarogya Setu logo will have [a] double tick. 14 days after the second dose, Aarogya Setu will have a blue shield,” the statement said. “This would make easy check of Vaccination Status possible for travel and access to various premises.”Aarogya Setu is the largest contact tracing mobile app globally. It had nearly 100 million users barely a month and a half after its launch on April 2 last year. The application currently has over 180 million users. HT on April 30 reported that Aarogya Setu faded into the background as the second wave of the pandemic gripped the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-to-display-vaccination-status-101622617264296.html
02-06-2021||India||Foreign-approved vaccines no longer need bridging trials in India: DCGI||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Dr VG Soman on Wednesday announced that vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) approved by specific countries and the World Health Organisation (WHO) no longer require post-approval bridging trials and batch testing in India. If the vaccine has been certified and released by the national control laboratory of certain countries or if it is listed in the WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL), it can be exempted from the aforementioned requirement, stated a letter issued by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).Also Read: Covid vaccination drive: 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec target'Bridging trials', so called because they "bridge" the gap between studies conducted in several regions, are localised clinical trials that generate data in an India-specific context, thereby assessing the efficacy of a certain vaccine in Indian participants. This is important since certain pharmaceutical products react differently to Indian genetic makeup than how they might in American or European populations.Also Read: 'Will have enough Covid-19 vaccines by July to inoculate 1 crore people a day': ICMR chiefThe decision, it was said, had been taken because of the "huge vaccination requirements in India in the wake of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases". The drug regulatory body noted that although the "domestic manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines is getting augmented", the earlier order was being partially modified "to meet the national requirements".India's national drug regulatory body, the CDSCO, functions under the Directorate General of Health Services of the central government and, in essence, serves a similar function to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States, the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices (PMDA) of Japan, the European Medicines Agency (EMA), or the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom.Also Read: WHO approves China's Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine for global useThe letter issued by the DCGI on Wednesday modified its earlier guidelines regarding restricted emergency use approval in India of Covid-19 vaccines already approved for restricted use by the US FDA, the UK MHRA, the EMA, or the PMDA Japan. If the vaccine has been approved by the aforementioned top regulatory authorities in these specified foreign countries or if it has been listed in WHO EUL, the vaccine can be exempted from the requirement of conducting post-approval bridging clinical trials and the requirement of testing every batch of the vaccine by the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) in Kasauli, the letter noted.The DCGI has also made an exemption from the requirements for "well-established vaccines from the standpoint that millions of individuals have already been vaccinated with the said vaccines".However, additional scrutiny and review shall continue, the DCGI said, and further analysis of the Covid-19 vaccines shall be undertaken by CDL Kasauli for batch release as per the standard procedures. Before the vaccine is rolled out for further immunisation programmes, the first 100 beneficiaries shall also be assessed for seven days for safety outcomes, along with other procedures for the filing of applications and timelines, it was said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreignapproved-vaccines-no-longer-need-bridging-trials-in-india-dcgi-101622611412866.html
02-06-2021||India||Explained: As Dominican top court hears Choksi’s extradition case, India faces legal issues in bringing fugitive home||The Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court is set to hear fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi's extradition case on Wednesday. The jeweller mysteriously disappeared from Antigua and Barbuda, of which he is a citizen, and was arrested from Dominica last week on charges of illegally entering the island. Choksi's lawyer claimed that he did not flee Antigua, but was 'abducted' from the islands and honey-trapped by a woman.Choksi faces multiple charges of embezzling funds from the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in India to the tune of ₹13,500 crore. He had acquired citizenship of Antigua under its Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017, weeks before investigations by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the PNB scam started.After he was arrested, India, which has no extradition arrangements with Dominica, sent a team of eight officials to the Caribbean country in an attempt to bring him back to the country. The Eastern Caribbean SC stayed the businessman's movement out of the country based on his lawyers’ appeal, and scheduled the hearing for Wednesday.A team of four seasoned lawyers from London that would represent Choksi in the court to prevent his deportation in court alleged that the businessman was honey-trapped by a woman he had known for six months and was abducted from her house, where she had called him for a meeting, by a group of men and taken on a yacht to Dominica. The legal team also claims that Choksi is not an Indian citizen anymore and has surrendered his Indian passport.An official familiar with the developments told HT that Choksi’s Indian citizenship had not been cancelled yet, even after he acquired Antigua's, and this could help India's case as it seeks his deportation from Dominica. India has not issued a certificate of surrender of passport to Choksi yet. However, India does not allow dual citizenship. According to Section 9 of the Indian Citizenship Act, 1955, after Choksi was granted the citizenship of Antigua, he ceased to be an Indian citizen.“Any citizen of India who by naturalisation, registration, otherwise voluntarily acquires, or has at any time between the 26th January, 1950 and the commencement of this Act, voluntarily acquired the citizenship of another country shall, upon such acquisition or, as the case may be, such commencement, cease to be a citizen of India,” Section 9 says.However, the Interpol has issued a Red Notice against Choksi for financial crimes committed in India, and this could help India's case. For this to work, India would need to convince the Dominican court that he is a fugitive and the country has a strong legal case against him."As per Interpol Red Corner Notice, Dominica can deport Mehul Choksi at any time as he has no legal rights there. But, If Dominican court found that Choksi was kidnapped and forcibly taken to Dominica, he'd be deported to Antigua as his country of origin," former CBI director AP Singh told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-as-dominican-top-court-hears-choksi-s-extradition-case-india-faces-legal-issues-in-bringing-fugitive-home-101622613236559.html
02-06-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel questions absence of Congress state minister in a GST panel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has accused the Centre of violating the principle of cooperative federalism by not including any minister from a Congress-ruled state in the panel formed to consider Goods and Services Tax (GST) exemptions and concessions on essentials needed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.The (GST) Council on Saturday constituted an eight-member panel led by Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma. The other members are state ministers from Goa, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala, Odisha, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. While Kerala, Odisha and Telangana are ruled by opposition parties such as the Left, the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Maharashtra is ruled by a coalition of Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress.Baghel has argued that ministers from Congress-ruled states, who are part of the GST Council, should be included in the Group of Ministers (GoM) formed to discuss the GST rates on Covid relief material, as their exclusion is against the spirit of cooperative federalism. For the last several days, opposition-ruled states including Congress-ruled Punjab were demanding GST exemption on vaccines, medicines and other devices used to fight the pandemic. Baghel alleged that Congress was deliberately left out of the panel to ignore this demand.The panel will consider GST exemptions or concessions for Covid vaccines, drugs, testing kits, medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy instruments including concentrators, generators and ventilators, PPE kits, N95 masks, surgical masks, thermometers and any other items required for Covid relief. Currently, vaccines and cotton masks attract 5% GST, but most other items fall in the 12% tax slab, while alcohol-based sanitisers, hand wash gels, disinfectants and thermometers attract 18% GST.The GoM, which includes Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma, Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar, Goa transport minister Mauvin Godinho, Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari, Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao and UP finance minister Suresh Kr Khanna, will submit its recommendations to the GST Council on or before June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-questions-absence-of-congress-state-minister-in-a-gst-panel-101622610663561.html
02-06-2021||India||Telangana formation day: PM Modi, chief minister KCR extend greetings||On the occasion of the eighth Telangana state formation day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted the people of the state and said that Telangana is blessed with a unique culture and hardworking people who have excelled in many areas. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao also greeted the people on the Telangana Formation Day and said that the state has excelled in all the sectors within a short span of time.Telangana was carved out of Andhra Pradesh and officially accorded statehood on this day in 2014."Best wishes to the people of Telangana on the state's Formation Day. The state is blessed with a unique culture and hardworking people who have excelled in many areas. Praying for the good health and wellbeing of the people of Telangana," Prime Minister Modi tweeted. Best wishes to the people of Telangana on the state’s Formation Day. The state is blessed with a unique culture and hardworking people who have excelled in many areas. Praying for the good health and well-being of the people of Telangana.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu greeted the people of the state and noted that Telangana is home to age-old traditions and is known for its rich history, diverse cultural heritage, and architectural grandeur."The state and its able people have contributed immensely towards the development of the nation. My best wishes for the progress and prosperity of the state and the wellbeing of its people," Naidu said.The state and its able people have contributed immensely towards the development of the nation.My best wishes for the progress & prosperity of the state and the well being of its people. #TelanganaFormationDay2021 #TelanganaIn an official press note issued on the occasion of the eighth Telangana state formation day, the state's chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao said, "With many battles, sacrifices, martyrdom, we have achieved the Telangana state in a parliamentary democratic way. Telangana has excelled in all the sectors within a short span of seven years, and laid strong foundations and offered stability."According to Rao, the state is fulfilling the demands of the separate Telangana statehood movement one by one. "Water for the irrigation and drinking, power, medical and health, roads and all other infrastructure facilities are being provided, reaching short term and long term aims," he said.He further said that he felt proud to announce that the newly formed 29th Telangana state has made rapid strides in the development and welfare sectors and became a role model for the other states of the country as well."Each and every sector was being neglected under the then united Andhra Pradesh rule. It is now being corrected under self-rule and progress is being attained. As Telangana society represents 90% of SC's, STs, BScs, and minorities, the state government has been working for the welfare of these deprived sections. Development is a part of commitment and dedication of the government, to fulfill the aspirations of Telangana people, and to pay rich tributes to the martyrs," said the Chief Minister.Highlighting the situation of the economic distress that the Covid-19 pandemic caused, Rao said that with people's support, the state is marching forward."Though there is a great economic loss incurred by the Covid-19 pandemic, with the people's support the state is marching forward. The faith and confidence of the people is a rock of support to me," he said.As per the state health department, Telangana has 33,254 active Covid-19 cases. As many as 5,80,844 cases and 3,296 related deaths have been registered in the state so far.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-state-formation-day-pm-modi-chief-minister-kcr-extend-greetings-101622608793249.html
02-06-2021||India||New govt rules ‘gag’ officers retired from intel, security departments||The Centre has amended the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, to bar officials, who have retired after serving in intelligence and other security-related organisations, from publishing materials related to their former departments or any “sensitive information” post-retirement without prior permission.“No Government servant, who, having worked in any Intelligence or Security-related organisation included in the Second Schedule of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (22 of 2005), shall, without prior clearance from the Head of the Organisation, make any publication after retirement, of any material relating to and including the domain of the organisation, including any reference or information about any personnel and his designation, and expertise or knowledge gained by virtue of working in that organisation,” said a gazette notification dated May 31.Also Read | Bombay HC to hear Goa govt’s appeal challenging Tarun Tejpal’s acquittalIt bars the retired officials from disclosing “sensitive information”, which “would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, or relation with a foreign State or which would lead to incitement of an offence”.“The Head of the Organisation shall vest with the authority to decide as to whether the proposed material for publication is sensitive or non-sensitive, and whether it falls in the domain of the organization,” the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bars-publishing-of-sensitive-info-by-ex-security-officials-without-prior-permission-101622607603386.html
02-06-2021||India||India clocks 132,788 lakh new Covid-19 cases, sees rise in single-day infection and deaths||India on Wednesday recorded 132,788 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the past 24 hours, a marked increase from Tuesday's single-day spike, showed data shared by the Union health ministry at 8am on Wednesday. With this, the country's cumulative infection tally has crossed 28.3 million, mounting to 28,307,832. As many as 3,207 new deaths were also recorded in this duration, which took the nationwide fatality toll to 335,102.Also Read: Covid vaccination drive: 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec targetIndia's daily Covid-19 cases had been witnessing a sharp dip for a while. It decreased gradually in the last four weeks as the measured lockdowns in parts of the country churned out results. On Tuesday, the country reported a single-day spike of 127,510 Covid-19 cases, the lowest in nearly two months. Less than 3,000 new deaths — 2,795, to be exact — were also reported yesterday for the first time in 36 days.The country's Covid-19 recovery rate has been improving, though, with the number of cured patients per day continuing to outnumber new infections for nearly three weeks now. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, as many as 25,947,629 patients in India have recovered from Covid-19 till now, which accounts for a 92.09% recovery rate nationwide.Also Read: Here's a list of states that are under Covid-19 lockdown till June 7The number of active Covid-19 patients in India is currently at 1,793,645, a marked decrease from the 1,895,520 active cases yesterday. The nationwide mortality rate from Covid-19 is 1.18%, according to the health ministry.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that a total of 350,057,330 samples had been tested for Covid-19 till Tuesday, of which 2,019,773 were tested in the last 24 hours. The cumulative nationwide vaccine coverage, on the other hand, has crossed 21.83 crore. According to the central government, of the 218,358,591 vaccines that have been administered till now, 173,239,527 were of the first dose while the rest 45,119,064 were of the second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clocks-132-788-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-sees-rise-in-single-day-infection-and-deaths-101622604031876.html
02-06-2021||India||Kharge expresses dismay over rejection of proposals related to NHRC appointments||Mallikarjun Kharge, the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing his dismay over the rejection of his proposal to have at least one person from minority castes or tribes appointed as Chairperson or a member of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Kharge has argued that the presence of one representative from these communities was important as most of the complaints addressed to the panel related to them.“Since the Committee did not accept any of my proposals, I express my disagreement with the recommendations made by the Committee in regard to appointments to the posts of Chairperson and Members of NHRC,” Kharge wrote in the letter on Monday.Also Read | Darkest year in four decades: Chidambaram on economyHe said a meeting was held by the Committee for Appointments for the posts of NHRC and fresh names for the post of the chairperson or members of the commission were not considered. Kharge added the committee instead recommended the already shortlisted names. He said the names included former Supreme Court judge Arun Kumar Mishra, “who revered Modi as a visionary who could think globally and act locally”, referring to the latter’s comments at a conference in February 2020.Kharge said he proposed the meeting should at least be postponed for a week and convened again after names of some candidates from minority castes or tribes are brought before the Selection Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharge-expresses-dismay-over-rejection-of-proposals-related-to-nhrcappointments-101622606763209.html
02-06-2021||India||After mother applies for mercy killing, child dies of rare blood disease||A nine-year-old boy died of a rare blood disease just within two hours after his mother had applied for his mercy killing in court on Tuesday, said police sources.The couple's nine-year-old son Harshavardhan was detected with a rare blood disease. The family lives in Birjepalli village in Chowdepalli Mandal of Chittoor district.When Harshavardhan was four years old, the poor couple got to know that their son had a rare disease related to blood. Despite receiving treatment his health did not improve. The couple also had to seek loans of ₹4 lakh for the treatment, police sources added.With no choice left to them, Aruna made an application to Punganur Court on Tuesday requesting either the government should take care of her son or the court should allow for his mercy killing, they said.Unfortunately, hardly within two hours of filing the plea, the boy breathed his last on the way to the village from the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-mother-applies-for-mercy-killing-child-dies-of-rare-blood-disease-101622603798388.html
02-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: India needs to administer 238 million doses per month to meet vaccine goal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am on Wednesday (June 02, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid vaccination drive: 238 million doses per month needed to meet December targetFor India to meet its target of vaccinating its entire adult population by the end of 2021, the country needs to administer 1.88 billion doses in total, of which 1.67 billion or 89% are yet to be administered. This means that the country needs to deliver 238 million doses every month from June or risk falling behind target, shows data analysed by HT. Read MoreChina must hand over the keys to Wuhan lab for Covid-19 origins and global goodThe ongoing debates on the possible origins of the pandemic are important in their own right. But, no matter where the needle eventually points the debate needs to acknowledge the dragon in the room. No objective, de-politicised discussion on the subject is feasible because of the depth and reach of China’s influence. Read More15.33 million Indians lose jobs in MayAt least 15.33 million Indians lost their jobs in May, erasing gains achieved since July 2020, a situation that may adversely affect consumer spending and economic revival. Read More'It took 10 days to convince Ganguly to let Dhoni keep wickets': Ex-chief selector recalls 2003-04 Duleep Trophy storyFormer India chairman of selectors Kiran More, whose selection committee is often credited for spotting MS Dhoni, said he had to convince the then-India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Ganguly to let Dhoni keep wickets in a Duleep Trophy final in 2003-04 against North Zone, instead of the regular East Zone keeper Deep Dasgupta. Read MoreWATCH: His 73-year-old neighbour came out, he did this to celebrate. Watch super sweet videoIf you are a regular user of the Internet, there is a possibility that you have come across posts detailing how people's loved ones reacted when they came out as a member of the LGBTQ+ community. There is now a newest addition to that list. It’s a video shared on Instagram which shows a man’s reaction to his neighbour’s coming out news. Watch here'He can take game away from opposition': R Ashwin lauds India's 'special player' ahead of WTC final against New ZealandIt has been a miracle of a turnaround for Rishabh Pant's career. Just over a year ago, there were questions on whether Pant should be given another chance in the team. But a tour to Australia in late 2020 changed all of that. Pant emerged as the hero of India's memorable Test series win in Australia. Read MoreOn Ilayaraja's birthday, some lesser-known facts about the music maestroIlayaraja turned a year older on June 2, and many celebrities and fans are extending their best wishes on social media. Ilayaraja is best known to Hindi music buffs for his work in Kamal Hassan, Sridevi-starrer Sadma. He is best known for integrating Indian folk music and traditional Indian instrumentation with western classical music techniques. Read MoreNisha Rawal accepts she has bipolar disorder: 'But I am not a psycho. I am not ashamed about it'Actor Nisha Rawal held a press conference on Tuesday evening to share her side of things amid reports of domestic violence. Her husband, actor Karan Mehra was arrested and later released on bail after she filed a complaint of physical assault against him on Monday. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-needs-to-administer-238-million-doses-per-month-to-meet-december-vaccine-goal-and-all-the-latest-news-101622602209961.html
02-06-2021||India||Maha records 14K Covid cases, Mumbai daily tally lowest since March||Maharashtra recorded 14,123 new Covid-19 cases and 477 deaths on Tuesday even as Mumbai reported its lowest tally in 89 days with 830 cases. The last time the city reported under-900 cases was on March 2 with 849 cases. The state’s positivity rate, which is the proportion of cases showing up positive out of the total tested, stands at 6.34%.The total number of tests conducted was 222,599 while the number of recoveries was 35,949. The state currently has 230,681 active cases while the total number of people affected by Covid-19 to date has reached 5,761,015. Pune tops the list of active cases with 30,092 followed by Satara with 20,777. The death toll has now reached 96,198, with Mumbai leading with 14,849 casualties followed by Pune with 12,569.Also Read | Lockdown in Karnataka should continue till Covid cases drop below 5K: MinistersMumbai’s Covid tally stands at 706,118. According to state health department data, the ​city’s recovery rate is 94% with 668,976 recoveries. Its fatality rate is 2.10% and there are 20,147 active cases. Dharavi -- the city’s former hot spot -- also recorded only three cases on Tuesday.Though the number of new Covid-19 cases dropped in May in comparison to April, there was a higher number of deaths that month. There were 20,140 deaths in May compared to 13,835 in April.Subhash Salunke, Maharashtra government’s advisor on Covid-19 management, said the deaths in May are cumulative figures from April onwards. “The deaths which occurred in May are mainly of those who were affected by Covid-19 in April. The cases peaked in April and many of these deaths occurred in May. Hence, the number of deaths in May is higher than that of April,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-records-14k-covid-cases-mumbai-daily-tally-lowest-since-march-101622604003292.html
02-06-2021||India||India lost 594 doctors during Covid second wave; most deaths in Delhi: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday said that 594 doctors died during the more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country. A chart showing the state-wise distribution of the fatalities in India was published by the organisation, and shared by news agency ANI on social media.Of the 594 doctors who died of Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic, the most were in the national capital, Delhi, which became one of the worst-hit hotspots in India during this phase, the data showed. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Jharkhand were close on their heels, with all of these states witnessing the deaths of scores of doctors during the second wave of Covid-19.The data shared by IMA showed that as many as 107 doctors had died in Delhi during the second wave. Bihar saw the deaths of 96 doctors, while 67 died in Uttar Pradesh, 43 in Rajasthan, and 39 in Jharkhand, too. However, the IMA being a voluntary organisation of physicians in India, it is possible that the actual number of fatalities far exceeds these statistics, since the association only keeps a record of its 3.5 lakh members, out of the 12-lakh-odd doctors in the country.The IMA data, however, provides a reliable approximation of the physician community's plight in India, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The five states which saw the highest number of deaths of doctors during this phase, according to the IMA, are:1. Delhi (107)2. Bihar (96)3. Uttar Pradesh (67)4. Jharkhand (39)5. Andhra Pradesh (32)The entire IMA Covid registry pertaining to the doctors' deaths can be found here:On a related note, the IMA has also recently raised its voice against violent incidents directed against doctors, healthcare staff, and healthcare establishments with or without reason. These incidents of healthcare violence have increased over the years and have become widespread and pose threat to the medical practice, it said.The IMA has urged Union home minister Amit Shah to consider its appeal on an emergency basis and implement an effective and strong law "against healthcare violence", to safeguard the healthcare professionals of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lost-594-doctors-during-covid-19-second-wave-most-deaths-in-delhi-ima-101622600603549.html
02-06-2021||India||Will begin distributing Nellore medicine in 4 days: Andhra govt||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh government will take up the decentralised distribution of Krishnapatnam medicine prepared by ayurveda practitioner Bonige Anandaiah for Covid-19 treatment in another four to five days, officials said on Tuesday. Nellore district collector K V Chakradhar Babu held a meeting with Anandaiah along with superintendent of police Bhaskar Bhushan and YSR Congress Party MLA from Sarvepalli Kakani Goverdhan Reddy at his camp office in the afternoon to discuss the distribution of the herbal medicine. Last week, the state government had declared the medicine as “safe and harmless” and on Monday, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy allowed the distribution of the same in the form of oral supplements. The government, however, did not permit Anandaiah to administer the eye drops that were found to enhance the oxygen levels within a few minutes. After the meeting on Tuesday, the collector told reporters that the medicine would be distributed at different centres, instead of at Krishnapatnam alone, to avoid the gathering of a large number of people. “There is no need for the people to come in large numbers to Krishnapatnam. We shall send the medicine wherever it is required. We are also contemplating distribution of the medicine online,” he said. Babu added that Anandaiah required four to five days for the preparation of the medicine on a large scale as he had to collect the ingredients. “We shall follow all Covid-19 guidelines and take up the distribution of medicine in the places suggested by the revenue and police department,” the collector said. Anandaiah also appealed to the people not to come to Krishnapatnam immediately, as it would take some time for the preparation of the medicine. “We shall make an announcement well in advance over the distribution of the medicine,” he said. YSRCP MLA Kakani Goverdhan Reddy said authorities were planning to create a mobile application so that people from faraway places could place an order for the medicine without any trouble. On Monday, the chief minister gave his nod for the distribution of Krishnapatnam medicine by Anandaiah as a remedy for Covid-19. The decision was taken following a report by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), Department of Ayush, Government of India. Jagan, however, refused permission for the eye drops since the reports on its efficacy were still awaited. “All the other reports of various labs revealed that there is no harm with the medicine being distributed by Anandaiah,” an official release from the CMO said. The officials told the chief minister that CCRAS had conducted trials to know whether these supplements cure Covid-19 and had not found any such evidence. No other lab or committee had given any certification that Krishnapatnam medicine is an effective cure for Covid-19, the CMO release said. “However, the CCRAS report confirmed that there is no harm with the ingredients used in the herbal preparations, but these cannot be recognized as Ayurvedic. If Anandaiah applies for its recognition as an Ayurvedic preparation, we shall consider it,” state Ayush commissioner Ramulu said. The official release also clarified that just because a person uses the Nellore medicine, he should not stop taking other Allopathic medicines prescribed for Covid-19. “One has to continue the medicines prescribed by the doctors for the virus. Taking Anandaiah’s medicine is only optional,” it said. Anandaiah said he did not intend to sell the drug, developed by him, commercially and would only distribute it to the public free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-begin-distributing-nellore-medicine-in-4-days-andhra-govt-101622576699965.html
02-06-2021||India||Man-animal conflicts claim 14 lives in Kerala this year||Thiruvananthapuram: Last week, a herd of wild elephants had strayed into the land of a small farmer P Vijayan in Kanjikode (Palakkad) town and it took authorities nearly three hours to force the jumbos back into the forests. But a lot of damage was already done by then as the farmer lost at least 500 fully-grown bananas among other plants. On Monday, Vijayan lost his cow in a leopard attack, prompting forest officials to set a cage to trap the strayed animal. At least 15 kms away from the farm, a tribal woman, Anjala Devi (42), was trampled to death on Friday while she had gone to the fringe areas of the forest to collect firewood. While 20 people were killed in various elephant attacks in the state last year, 14 were killed in a period of five months this year, forest officials said, admitting that the man-animal conflict was on the rise amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Thousands of farmers, especially those living close to the forest areas, have quit farming in the last five years due to frequent raids by elephants, wild boars, monkeys and other animals. During the lockdown, the absence of humans has only made the fields a favourite ground of the wild animals. “What is really heart-breaking is that they attack the farm when it is ready for harvest. Every year, we face huge losses and finally, we decided to stop farming,” one P Velayudhan in Wayanad in north Kerala said, adding that old techniques to ward off wild animals are no longer fruitful and that they have to abide by instructions from forest officials too. “There are conflicting reports about wild elephants but only a few of them are trouble makers. Animals in musth will be aggressive. Rogue ones... we radio collar them and track their movement quite often,” Palakkad divisional forest officer Kurra Srinivas said, adding that a healthy co-existence is must for both animals and humans for a healthy environment. In the hill destination of Munnar in Idukki district, a herd of jumbos often raid closed vegetable shops among others every evening. Feeling hassled, locals have started keeping bananas and other vegetables outside their shops to avert any damage to their shops. Keeping in mind that these jumbos have started freely moving around the town, even in the urban pockets during the lockdown, authorities have begun deploying forest guards as a precautionary measure to avoid any conflict with humans.These guards, however, admitted that fire crackers or fire balls are not enough to scare the animals.Officials also admitted that measures such as building trenches, solar fences and rail segregations have failed to prevent these animals from crossing over to areas of human settlement. Elephants often use dry branches to break solar fences, they added. According to wildlife experts, jumbo straying can be contained by keeping the elephant corridors intact. They believe that one of the main reasons for elephant attack in Idukki district is encroachment along the Anamalai-Periyar tiger reserve elephant corridor. Shrinking of their habitat and corridors force these jumbos to stray into human settlements, they said.“We need a healthy co-existence of both. If we respect the needs of both, we can lower the tension between them,” Dr P S Esa, a leading wildlife expert, said. Kerala has a robust forest cover of 29% of the total area and also has a healthy wildlife population with 190 tigers and 5,706 elephants. However, increasing forest encroachment in several parts of the state is becoming a source of concern for forest officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mananimal-conflicts-claim-14-lives-in-kerala-this-year-101622576640601.html
02-06-2021||India||Senior TRS minister set to join BJP||Hyderabad: Senior Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) legislator and former health minister Eatala Rajender, who was sacked form the state cabinet on May 2 following allegations of land encroachments, is all set to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in a day or two, a person aware of the development said. Rajender, who left for New Delhi on Sunday evening, met BJP national president JP Nadda along with state BJP president Bandi Sanjay and party in-charge of Telangana affairs Tarun Chugh on Monday night. The 57-year-old leader held discussions with Nadda for more than an hour over the recent developments in the state. “Rajender raised certain clarifications from the BJP chief, who assured him that he would get the due respect and recognition in the BJP. Nadda asked him to take an early decision on joining the party,” a senior BJP leader familiar with the development said. In the meeting, Rajender reportedly expressed doubts over the possibility of the BJP adopting a soft corner towards the TRS, citing TRS president and chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao’s friendly relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “However, Nadda told Rajender that the BJP would go all out against the TRS in the state as it had done in West Bengal. Our aim is to capture power in Telangana in the next elections and there is no doubt about it,” the BJP leader said. Rajender is expected to return to Hyderabad on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning and announce his decision to join the BJP. But before that, he will have to resign from the primary membership of the TRS and also his assembly seat. Another senior TRS leader and former MLA Enugu Ravinder Reddy, who also accompanied Rajender to Delhi, is likely to join the BJP, the person cited above said. Senior TRS leader and member of legislative council Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said Rajender has “dug his own grave” by deciding to join the BJP. “He came from a Communist background. Now, he is mortgaging his Communism with the saffron party,” Reddy criticised. Stating that the TRS had groomed several leaders in the last 20 years, Reddy said nobody in the party enjoyed so many positions like Rajender. “He was never without any position or post. He has betrayed the party and ridiculed the government schemes. You will pay heavy penalty for the same,” the TRS leader said. Rajender, who represents Huzurabad assembly constituency in northern Telangana, has been associated with the TRS since 2003 and held several important positions including party floor leader in the assembly, besides being the first finance minister of Telangana. During the second term of the TRS, Rajender was given the medical and health portfolio. According to political analysts, though Rajender has been loyal to the party for the last 18 years, there have been reports of serious differences between him and the party leadership on several issues. On multiple occasions, Rajender expressed his displeasure over the alleged humiliation meted out to him and other ministers by the chief minister. The cold war between Rajender and the TRS leadership culminated in stripping of his medical and health portfolio on May 1, when reports of his alleged land grabbing in Medak district surfaced in a section of local media. A day later, Rajender was sacked from the cabinet, following a report submitted by Medak collector confirming the allegations. Rajender has alleged that the TRS leadership unleashed a smear campaign against him and resorted to his character assassination. He said he was ready to face an investigation by a sitting judge or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In the last few weeks, Rajender met several leaders from different parties, including working chief of state Congress A Revanth Reddy and Congress Legislature Party floor leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, besides former MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, who was formerly with the Congress and is now an Independent, and Telangana Jana Samithi leader M Kodandaram, seeking their support to fight against the KCR government. He also met state BJP president Bandi Sanjay, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and others to discuss his future options.Union minister G Kishan Reddy said all party leaders will welcome Rajender’s entry into the BJP. “He had gone to Delhi only after consulting me and other senior BJP leaders. We shall hold a meeting with all the state BJP leaders and take them into confidence before Rajender joins the BJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-trs-minister-set-to-join-bjp-101622576639975.html
02-06-2021||India||TN promotes Class 1 to 8 students without exams||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu directorate of elementary education on Tuesday promoted students of classes 1 to 8 in state board schools without the conduction of final exams. The decision was taken in view of the Covid-19 situation in the state. A circular to this effect was passed by the directorate on Tuesday, instructing chief educational officers of all districts to inform government, government-aided and private state board schools to declare classes 1 to 8 students all pass. Director of elementary education M Palanisamy in the circular said the decision was taken based on clause 2, Section 16 of the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009. “As per section 16 of the RTE Act, no student should be held back or expelled till the completion of elementary education. All students should be declared pass,” the circular said. Students of classes 9 to 11 had already been declared ‘all pass’ due to the pandemic situation. However, exams will be conducted for class 12 students. The circular added that the date of reopening of schools will be announced after the end of the ongoing lockdown. Chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday held a review meeting with school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and other officials on class 12 board exam. “We will take a decision based on CBSE’s announcement on conducting class 12 examinations, which is expected soon,” Poyyamozhi told reporters after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-promotes-class-1-to-8-students-without-exams-101622576579939.html
02-06-2021||India||Illegal assets case: Did not threaten or influence any witnesses, Jagan tells CBI court||Hyderabad: Andhra Pradesh chief minister and YSR Congress Party president Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday told a special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Hyderabad that he had not threatened or influenced any witness directly or indirectly in an alleged disproportionate assets case being probed against him. Jagan’s remarks were in response to a petition filed by rebel YSR Congress Party MP K Raghurama Krishnam Raju on April 29, seeking cancellation of the bail granted to Reddy in 2013.In a 98-page counter affidavit filed in the CBI court, the chief minister asserted that he had never violated the conditions imposed by the court nor did he, in any manner, threaten or influence any witness directly or indirectly. All the allegations made by the petitioner are baseless and do not warrant any consideration by the court, he added. Jagan said the petition seeking his bail cancellation was purportedly filed by Raju in the capacity of a third party. “It was misconceived in law and not maintainable, as Raju was trying to bring in personal political issues and personal vendetta into the criminal justice administration,” he said. The YSR Congress Party chief pointed out that the CBI, a central government agency, was investigating the case and Raju, being a third party, had no locus standi in seeking cancellation of his bail. Raju did not show any overwhelming circumstances to review the procedure of granting bail, he argued. “The Supreme Court has stated in several cases that any criminal process is between the state and the accused and no third party can intervene in such a process,” he said.Jagan alleged that Raju had filed a false affidavit before the court, stating that the rebel MP had no questionable antecedents whatsoever in nature. Raju is an accused in two crimes registered by the CBI in relation to fraudulent dealings with banks and siphoning of over ₹900 crore. Both the cases are under investigation. Jagan pointed out that his party had already made an appeal to the Lok Sabha Speaker, seeking disqualification of Raju from the Lower House for various misdeeds and acts of misconduct. “Raju’s petition clearly shows he is seeking to use criminal justice machinery for personal abusive purposes,” he said, and requested the court to dismiss the petition in the interest of justice. Responding to Jagan’s remarks, Raju told reporters in Delhi that the counter affidavit filed by Jagan in the CBI court lacked substance. “The allegations levelled by him against me are all baseless. I am confident that the court will go by the merit of the arguments,” he said. Meanwhile, the CBI also filed a separate counter affidavit, saying that it was leaving it to the court to decide on whether to continue or revoke the bail granted to Jagan. The court posted the next hearing for June 14. The YSR Congress Party chief, who has been facing the CBI case since 2011, had been in jail for 16 months between May 2012 to September 2013 before coming out on bail in 2013.The CBI has accused Jagan of getting investments running into several crores from various individuals and firms into his businesses as “quid pro quo” for favours bestowed on them during the tenure of his father Y S Rajasekhara Reddy as chief minister between 2004 and 2009.The CBI had filed a total of 11 chargesheet against Jagan and 12 others accused in the disproportionate assets and quid pro quo cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-assets-case-did-not-threaten-or-influence-any-witnesses-jagan-tells-cbi-court-101622576520427.html
02-06-2021||India||No law for husbands to act against wives in marital cases: Madras HC||Chennai: There is no law like the Domestic Violence Act which allows a husband to proceed against a wife in cases relating to marital disputes, the Madras high court has said.Justice S Vaidyanathan made this observation while hearing a case on a plea moved by a government veterinarian, Dr P Sasikumar, against the criminal proceedings initiated against him by his wife. Sasikumar had sought reinstatement in his job from which he was suspended based on a domestic violence complaint filed by his wife four days prior to the grant of divorce by a family court. The court observed that it appeared as though the respondent (wife) was unnecessarily harassing the petitioner anticipating a divorce order. In its order dated March 21, which was made available on Tuesday, the court quashed the suspension and ordered that the petitioner be reinstated in service. “Unfortunately, there is no provision like the Domestic Violence Act, to proceed against the wife by the husband,” the court said in its orders. Besides this, the court observed that it is important that such couples leave their ‘ego’ and ‘intolerance’ like footwear outside the house to ensure a child does not lead a miserable life. “The present generation must understand that marriage is not a contract, but a sacramental one. Of course, the word ‘sacrament’ has no meaning after coming into effect of the Domestic Violence Act, 2005, that, approves live-in-relationship,” the court said. In this case, the petitioner in 2015 had moved a divorce petition contending cruelty and voluntary desertion by his wife, which was accepted by a family court. The court added that whether the petitioner is guilty or not of the allegations made against him by the wife in her complaint would have to be decided by the appropriate forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-law-for-husbands-to-act-against-wives-in-marital-cases-madras-hc-101622576459905.html
02-06-2021||India||Black fungus toll in Karnataka jumps to 51||Bengaluru As many as 51 people have died due to Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, so far in Karnataka. The state has so far reported 1,370 cases of black fungus, of which 27 patients have been discharged, while 1,292 are undergoing treatment, according to data shared by the state health department on Tuesday. Dharwad, about 430 km from Bengaluru, accounted for 14 deaths so far, according to data, indicating that the disease has spread to most districts in Karnataka, which continues to remain in the grip of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The Karnataka government has formed a task force for black fungus besides initiating a death audit to determine the cause of the spike in infections. However, there is a shortage of medicines to treat the disease, which has so far claimed 51 lives and infected hundreds more, including a 14-year-old and an 11-year-old in the mineral-rich district of Ballari, about 320 km from Bengaluru, news agency PTI reported. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said though the state is getting supply of medicines (Amphotericin–B), but it is not adequate. “We are getting medicines, but it is not in proportion to our needs. Today also they have given us 1,400 vials but that is not enough,” Sudhakar added. He said a multi-disciplinary approach is required to treat the ailment. According to doctors and experts, a patient requires anywhere between 20-80 vials of this medicine. “With sudden rise in demand for #Amphotericin–B, used in the treatment of #Mucormycosis, domestic production was ramped up immediately. Over 1.63 lakh vials are available from existing domestic manufacturers in May which is about 260% higher than production in April,” DV Sadananada Gowda, Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers said in a post on Twitter. In another post on Twitter, he said over 270,000 vials of Amphotericin B have been allocated to states, union territories and central institutions from May 11-30. He added this was in addition to the supplies of 81,651 vials to states in the first week of May. Bengaluru accounted for 557 of the total 1,370 cases of black fungus in the state followed by Dharwad (156 cases) and Kalabuargi with 104 infections, state health department data shows. The Covid-19 pandemic has been accompanied by an increasing number of black fungus cases in several states of the country, adding to the challenges of spiralling health crisis in India. The cause of white and black fungus, both distinguished by their pigmentation, has been attributed, among other reasons, to the possibility of contamination either due to low-quality cylinders or low-quality piping systems at intensive care units of the hospital. Authorities are even trying to see if there has been contamination at the industry level from where the oxygen is being supplied due to improper sterilisation or any other reasons. According to officials, the usage of ordinary tap water in ventilators could also be a possible reason for improper sterilisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-toll-in-karnataka-jumps-to-51-101622576341345.html
02-06-2021||India||Karnataka minister signals at extending lockdown||Bengaluru: Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday said stringent measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 would remain in place in the state till daily new cases fall below the 5,000 mark or the case positivity rate drops below 5%. Sudhakar’s statement comes a day after the state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) made a similar recommendation to the government. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, the health minister said: “I have submitted the report (to chief minister B S Yediyurappa). He (chief minister) has said that it (positivity rate) has to come down to 5% and (new cases) 5,000 cases per day, only then we can relax (the lockdown). Until then, it would be good to continue with these stringent restrictions. Whenever we unlock, we have to do it in a phased manner. It (daily cases) has come down as much as TAC wanted. We have to be cautious.” On Monday, TAC in its recommendation to the government had said that the lockdown should continue till the test positivity rate falls below 5%. The committee prepared a report in which it suggested that the lockdown should be observed for two more weeks after June 7 until the daily new cases fall below 5,000 and the case fatality rate falls below 1%. The committee unanimously drafted the recommendations with its chairman M K Sudarshan saying that the panel is “placing lives before livelihoods”. The daily Covid-19 case count in Karnataka fell to less than 20,000 in the state and to less than 5,000 in Bengaluru Urban district on Monday with around 1.2 lakh to 1.3 lakh tests being conducted every day. The test positivity rate recorded on Monday was 13.57% and the case fatality rate was 2.47%.Deputy chief minister and state Covid task force head Dr Ashwath Narayan also echoed similar views as the health minister, saying that the government would take a feasible decision with regard to the continuation or easing of lockdown restrictions based on experts’ opinion and facts and figures. “There is a possibility of the positivity rate dropping down if testing is done in 1:10 ratio (for each positive case, 10 contacts to be tested). But whatever the case, the decision with regard to lockdown will be taken by the government after considering experts’ opinions and thorough discussion,” he said. Meanwhile, left-wing parties in Karnataka organised a state-wide protest on Tuesday, demanding better policies from the state government to ensure the livelihood of the unorganised sector is not hampered in case of an extension of the lockdown. “The state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee on Monday had recommended that Karnataka continue the lockdown in a stricter form, thus ‘placing lives before livelihoods’. While the state government has to strengthen public health systems and ensure the people of Karnataka overcome the toll that the pandemic is having, it is also equally important that livelihoods are protected. People should not be left at the mercy of the state and their dignity must be upheld,” read a statement by CPI(M) Liberation. Workers from the unorganised sector, including street vendors, construction workers, pourakarmikas, sanitation workers and rural landless labourers, participated in the protest across Karnataka, including Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Ballari. The CPI(M) statement also demanded that treatment and medicines for Covid-19 patients and vaccination be made free for workers in the unorganised sector. They also demanded a direct cash transfer of ₹10,000 and free rations and “special protection for frontline and healthcare workers” and an employment guarantee for 200 days in the cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-signals-at-extending-lockdown-101622576220519.html
02-06-2021||India||10 million jabs a day by July-Aug: Centre||India will be in a position to vaccinate 10 million people every day by July or August, top officials said on Tuesday, backing statements made by the government’s representative in the Supreme Court that the country will deliver doses to all eligible individuals by the end of the year -- although it wasn’t immediately clear where the doses would come from.In May, India delivered an average of 1.93 million doses a day and several states ran out of supplies by the fourth week of the month for at least some groups of recipients. Experts say the government’s target will depend on availability of doses, which for June has been pegged at 120 million.“Shortage is what you feel if you want to vaccinate the country within a month. The total number of vaccinations done in the country is nearly equivalent to the total number done in the United States and our population is four times the population of the US. We have to have some patience. By the mid of year, mid-July or early August, we will have more than enough doses to vaccinate up to a crore (10 million) per day,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, the director general of Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR).“By December we hope to have the whole country vaccinated,” he said, while asserting that “there is no shortage”.The highest number of doses administered in a single day across the country was a little under 4 million in the second week of April. As on June 1, India has delivered 214.2 million of the 1.9 billion doses it needs to give to 940 million adults who are eligible for vaccines at present.Bhargava’s comments are in line with the government’s projections that it will have supplies of 2.16 billion vaccines between August and December alone. But 710 million of these are vaccines that are yet to be approved in India. Reuters said in a report that Serum Institute of India will likely miss its target of 750 million doses in these five months by 27% (or 200 million), and Bharat Biotech’s scale-up to 550 million doses is clouded in ambiguity with the company saying last week that there is a lag between production and availability, which means doses made in April will only be availablein July.Bhargava was speaking at the government’s routine briefing on Covid-19, where he also said states should follow a yardstick including test positivity rate and vaccination coverage to determine if they should lift lockdowns.“The opening up revolves on three pillars, the test positivity rate in that particular district has to be less than 5% for over a week, at least 70% of vulnerable population should be vaccinated, and ownership for Covid-19-appropriate behaviour as well as care should be taken up by the community in a big way,” he said.Vulnerable population includes anyone above the age of 60 or people older than 45 but with some existing illnesses that raise their susceptibility to severe Covid-19.Bhargava said that India was among few countries globally that are producing Covid-19 vaccines. “There’s Pfizer and Moderna being produced by the USA, Sputnik V produced by Russia, Covishield produced by the UK and India, Sinovac by China, and Covaxin produced from India. So, India is one of the five countries which are producing Covid vaccines. Imagine where we would be, if we were not producing vaccines. There is no shortage of vaccine; shortage is what you feel if you want to vaccinate the whole country within a month,” Bhargava said. To be sure, India will likely miss its original target of vaccinating 300 million people by the end of July, one set before the vaccine drive was expanded and opened up.Experts said it is possible to vaccinate all adults within that time provided the supplies are ramped up and more focus is put on states with weak health care delivery system.“It is doable to vaccinate adults by the end of this year if the supplies increase. However, more focus would be needed on states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh etc where health infrastructure is not as good as the southern or western states. In such states it could take longer to vaccinate people,” said Dr Sakthivel Selvaraj, director, health economics, financing and policy, Public Health Foundation of India.During the briefing, the officials also clarified some aspects of the government’s plans to study different combinations of vaccine doses.“Rumours are being floated that now we will only be giving single shot of Covishield vaccine; I would like to clarify on behalf of the government that Covishield schedule approved for use in India is a two-dose schedule: first dose and then 12 weeks later you are supposed to take the second dose. There is absolutely no change in that,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Covaxin too will be given in a two-dose schedule, he added. “This is the schedule that India is following and there should be no misunderstanding or confusion about it,” he added.“The question being speculated is that if one has taken vaccine A as first dose, then can the second dose be with vaccine B? There are two possibilities: one is that a body may react adversely with such mixing of doses (it is under scientific consideration, especially for a vaccine that is developed using a different platform); and another possibility is that immunity enhances after taking second shot of a different vaccine. But severe reaction and harm cannot be ruled out; therefore, there’s research going on in other countries,” said Paul.The government representatives also said that infections data showed that in the first week of April, fewer than 200 districts had more than 10% positivity, and by the end of the month, the number had jumped to nearly 600 districts where more than 10% of samples were turning up positive.“Today, there are still 239 districts with more than 10% positivity; 145 districts are between 5 and 10% positivity rate; and 350 districts, which is nearly half of India, is less than 5% case positivity rate,” said Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-million-jabs-a-day-by-july-aug-centre-101622575130896.html
02-06-2021||India||Goa moves HC against Tejpal order||Panaji: The Goa government has called a verdict acquitting journalist Tarun Tejpal of rape and sexual assault by additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi as “perverse” and “influenced by extraneous inadmissible materials and testimonies”, and filed an appeal filed before the Bombay high court at Goa.The former editor of Tehelka magazine was accused of raping a colleague in an elevator of a five-star hotel in Goa during the THiNK festival in November 2013. The complainant alleged that Tejpal raped her in a lift in the hotel on November 7 and attempted to assault her again on November 8. Tejpal, who refuted the charges in court, was acquitted by the fast-track court on May 21. The Goa government filed an appeal against the verdict in the Bombay high court last Tuesday. In its amended appeal against the judgment, the Goa Police have said that the verdict was “shocking in its apparent legal bias against the prosecutrix” and that the judgement was “unsustainable in law and is coloured by prejudice and patriarchy” and that “much of the impugned judgment has been consumed by sexual gossip and alleged sexual fantasies related to the prosecutrix which were legally prohibited”.The appeal is scheduled for hearing on Wednesday. “The trial court, in its 527-page-judgment, has been influenced by extraneous inadmissible materials and testimonies, graphic details of the past sexual history of the victim, prohibited by law, and has used the same for purposes of censuring her character, and discrediting her evidence. The entire judgment focusses on indicting the complainant witness rather than trying to ascertain the culpable role of the respondent accused (Tejpal),” the appeal stated. Goa Police also contended that the trial court completely discarded the testimony of the survivor despite the fact that “her statement given in court, gave a clear and cogent account of the incidents of sexual harassment, rape, sexual assault, outraging of modesty, use of criminal force, and wrongful restraint and confinement”.“When it suggests that it is unsafe to rely on her testimony as she is well educated, a good writer, proficient in English and above all conversant with the rape law, and was a capable, intelligent, independent person, the Trial Court, unfortunately, deploys the prosecutrix’s strengths and accomplishments to dispute her testimony,” the appeal said.The state has sought that the judgment be set aside and Tejpal be convicted on the offences he was charged off since “the court disbelieved the version of the prosecutrix on the basis of a conception of how a victim is expected to behave while being sexually assaulted”.The state has also argued that the victim was subjected to a rigorous cross examination extending to almost 700 pages, spread over eighteen dates of hearing but which was “nothing short of a brutal attack on her character and alleged past sexual history designed to shame and humiliate her.” “Not only should these questions have been disallowed while recording evidence, but the trial court has gone so far as to use these very questions and materials to discredit her, although they were neither relevant to the case, nor could they have been put to her under law,” the state has argued. Tejpal, who was relieved at being acquitted, had thanked judge Kshama Joshi after his acquittal. “In November 2013 I was falsely accused of sexual assault by a colleague. Today the Hon’ble Trial Court of Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi, in Goa, has honourably acquitted me. In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her for standing by the truth,” he said.The verdict, among other points, suggested that the woman did not behave in a manner consistent with a victim of sexual assault after the alleged incidents. “The printouts of photographs clearly proves that the prosecutrix was absolutely in a good mood, happy, normal and smiling at the time she… did not look distressed or traumatized in any manner whatsoever though this was immediately a few minutes after she claims to have been sexually assaulted by the accused putting her in a state of panic and trauma,” the court said.Experts, however, contend that there is no template of correct behaviour after or even during an incident of sexual assault, rape and harassment, and that survivors often feel the need to appear “normal” out of fear of retribution by the assailant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-moves-hc-against-tejpal-order-101622575980534.html
02-06-2021||India||Darkest year in four decades: Chidambaram on economy||New Delhi: Former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday slammed the Union government for its handling of the country’s finances and urged it to borrow or print money and spend it aggressively without worrying about the fiscal deficit. He was reacting at a virtual press conference to India’s gross domestic product (GDP) figures showing a negative growth of 7.3% in the 2020-21 fiscal and called it “the darkest year of the economy in four decades” that left “most Indians poorer than they were two years ago”. “This is not the time to worry about the fiscal deficit. We can’t lose another year like we lost the last year. But the way the government is reacting, we are going to lose another year. My advice to the government is (to) act boldly and spend. Borrow or print money and spend,” he said at the press conference, adding that India has the sovereign right to print money.Chidambaram said in his opening remarks that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and chief economic adviser K Subramanian “began to sell the story of a recovery” after the first wave of Covid-19 seemed to ebb. “They saw ‘green shoots’ when no one else did. They predicted a V-shaped recovery. It was a false story,” he said, accusing the government of misleading the people. To be sure, the economy did recover sharply -- from a contraction of 24.4 in the first quarter of the fiscal to a growth of 1.6% in the last. But the second wave of the pandemic has roiled the economy again in April and May.The former finance minister also said that the per capita GDP falling below ₹1 lakh to ₹99,694 has been “the most worrying” development. “In percentage terms it is a decline of (-) 8.2% over the previous year. It is lower than the level achieved in 2018-19 (and maybe even 2017-18). The deeply worrying conclusion is that most Indians are poorer than they were two years ago,” Chidambaram said.In multiple interviews last week, CMIE chief Mahesh Vyas has said that the household income of 97% of India’s households have declined on account of the pandemic. The Congress leader also shared his apprehension that the fiscal pinch felt by the states due to the Centre not paying them their GST revenue share will impact the vaccination programme, while the overall economic situation has pushed millions of people back to below the poverty line. He also pitched for direct cash transfers and said, “The PM said, we give free ration. It translates to ₹32 per head. More and more economists are supporting cash transfers to the needy.” Chidambaram also criticised Sitharaman for not doing enough to stop the downward slide of the economy. “Unless you take steps now, how can you tackle the third or fourth wave? The finance minister said budget proposals will kick in. The budget was placed on February 1. Today is June 1. How long will it take for the budget proposals to kick in?” ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darkest-year-in-four-decades-chidambaram-on-economy-101622575979895.html
02-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi saga sparks row across Caribbean islands||Antigua and Barbuda prime minister Gaston Browne on Tuesday denied his government’s involvement in fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi’s disappearance from his country, even as a political row erupted in Dominica, where the 62-year-old has been apprehended, with allegations of the island’s government being part of a plot along with Antigua.Indian-born Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, last Sunday, but was detained by Dominican police on Tuesday night on charges of illegally entering the island. The two islands are roughly 100 nautical miles apart.Dominica’s leader of opposition, Lennox Linton, in an interview with HT, targeted PM Roosevelt Skerrit over the alleged abduction of Choksi, accusing him of being part of a plot that undermines the protection guaranteed to citizens of the region under the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (ECSC).Linton, leader of Dominica’s United Workers’ Party (UWP), demanded full investigation into the conduct of the police. “There has to be an investigation as to ‘who knew’, ‘who did what’, ‘why they did it’ and ‘how did we find ourselves in this situation where we appear to be facilitating this very unfortunate set of circumstances,” Linton said.Browne, speaking with local media in Antigua, denied his government’s involvement in Choksi’s disappearance. “Let me state here that even though Choksi’s citizenship was unsettled, we respected his legal and constitutional rights as a citizen, and we did nothing to abridge those rights whilst he was on Antiguan and Barbudan soil,” he said. He has been attacked by the political opposition in the country for allegedly not providing protection to Choksi as a citizen of the island nation.Meanwhile, Caribbean-based Associates Times reported on Tuesday that Mehul Choksi’s younger brother Chetan Chinubhai Choksi, who landed in Dominica on May 29, met Linton for two hours and promised to pay for election campaign in return for his support. Reacting to the report, the family’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “It is another one in the series of cock and bull stories being planted. Indeed Mr Chetan Choksi has arrived in Dominica to ensure medical attention to his brother. But he is in under mandatory quarantine and he cannot move out of his hotel quarantine facility. So all these stories are desperate attempts to malign my clients.”The Mehul Choksi saga took a sensational turn on Monday with people familiar with the matter saying that a woman, who had become friendly with him over the past six months, played a part in his disappearance.In New Delhi, an official said that a team that flew to Dominica last Friday to seek Choksi’s deportation includes two officers from the CBI, including a DIG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-saga-sparks-row-across-carribean-islands-101622575559755.html
02-06-2021||India||Brics backs Covid-19 vaccine patent waivers||The Brics grouping on Tuesday endorsed an India-South Africa proposal for patent waivers for Covid-19 vaccines and called for sharing of doses, transfer of technology, and development of vaccine production capacities in order to turn the tide in the fight against the coronavirus disease.Against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff, members of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping reaffirmed the importance of territorial integrity and sovereignty of states and the need to resolve problems through peaceful means.A virtual meeting of foreign ministers of Brics states, which was chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, also resolved to combat all forms of terrorism, including cross-border movement of terrorists, terror financing networks, and safe havens.Jaishankar and his counterparts from the four other countries – China’s Wang Yi, Brazil’s Carlos Alberto Franco França, Russia’s Sergey Lavrov and South Africa’s Grace Naledi Mandisa Pandor – focused on the response to the Covid-19 crisis and equitable access to vaccines during their deliberations.India and South Africa have been pushing for a waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines at the World Trade Organization (WTO) since last year, and all the Brics members agreed on Tuesday to support this measure as part of efforts to ensure timely, affordable and equitable access to diagnostics, vaccines and essential health products and technologies and their components to combat the pandemic.“The ministers reaffirmed the need to use all relevant measures...including supporting ongoing consideration in WTO on a Covid-19 vaccine intellectual property rights waiver and the use of flexibilities of the TRIPS agreement and the Doha Declaration on TRIPS Agreement and Public Health,” said a joint statement on reforming the multilateral system that was adopted at the meeting.The ministers reiterated the need for sharing vaccine doses, transfer of technology, development of local production capacities and supply chains for medical products, and promotion of price transparency, and sought “due restraint in the implementation of measures that could hinder the flow of vaccines, health products and essential inputs”. They also called for timely operationalisation of the Brics vaccine research and development centre.This was the first time the Brics foreign ministers agreed on a stand-alone joint statement on strengthening and reforming the multilateral system. They agreed that such reforms have to cover all key multilateral institutions, including the UN and its organs such as the Security Council and General Assembly, global financial institutions such as the IMF and World Bank, the multilateral trading system including WTO, and the global health system with the WHO at its core.The foreign ministers also agreed on six principles that should guide such reforms, including making instruments of global governance more inclusive and representative, changes based on inclusive consultations while respecting sovereign independence, making multilateral organisations more responsive and transparent, and strengthening countries and global organisations to better respond to emerging and non- traditional challenges such as terrorism, cybersecurity and fake news.Though there was no official word on whether the India-China standoff figured in the discussions, Jaishankar said in his opening remarks that Brics strives for an inclusive and equitable multipolar international system that respects the territorial integrity of all states.Such a multipolar system is “based on international law and the UN Charter, that recognises the sovereign equality of all states, and respects their territorial integrity while displaying mutual respect for interests and concerns of all”, he said.Asked about the India-China differences at a press conference after the meeting, Russian foreign minister Lavrov said the Brics members reaffirmed the principles of the UN Charter, including respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries, and the need to “resolve any problems with peaceful means”.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian side was able to get Brics members to agree to strong language on counterterror cooperation, including the reference in a joint media statement to “cross-border movement of terrorists, terror financing networks and safe havens”.The Brics members referred to the counterterrorism strategy adopted at the grouping’s summit last year, and reiterated their commitment to finalise a “result-oriented action plan” by the Counter-Terrorism Working Group in 2021.The statement on reforming the multilateral system said the foreign ministers reaffirmed the sole authority of the UN Security Council for imposing sanctions and called for “further consolidation and strengthening of the working methods of UN Security Council sanctions committees to ensure their effectiveness, responsiveness and transparency”.On the issue of Afghanistan, the other Brics states echoed India’s consistent stand and underline the need to preserve gains made over the past 20 years in the war-torn country. They stressed the need to protect the rights of all Afghan nationals, especially women, children and minorities, and called for an immediate ceasefire. They also stressed the “urgent necessity of the elimination of the threat of UNSC proscribed terrorist groups to lasting peace in Afghanistan”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-backs-vaccine-patent-waivers-101622574659675.html
02-06-2021||India||'My stand on CM still same': Sidhu to Cong panel||Punjab MLAs Navjot Singh Sidhu and Pargat Singh, who have been railing against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh over various issues, continued to do so before the three-member committee sent by the Congress to resolve the internal fight in the party ahead of next year’s polls.Sidhu, who has consistently accused Amarinder Singh of shielding the Badal family in the sacrilege and police firing cases and blamed him for the botched-up probe in the Kotkapura case, was with the committee headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge for at least one-and-half-hours. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP Jai Prakash Agarwal are the other members of the committee.After the meeting, Sidhu said he was there at the high command’s invitation. “My stand was the same, is the same and will be the same that the democratic power of people that goes to the government in the form of taxes should go back to the people... each citizen must be made shareholder in progress. The truth may be punished but it cannot be defeated. We have to make the truth victorious and defeat anti-Punjab forces,” the cricketer-turned-politician told reporters.Between June and October in 2015, three incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib took place in Faridkot district, leading to huge resentment and protests in the state. On October 14 that year, two protesters were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan. On the same day, police also opened fire on protesters in Kotkapura. The chief minister had promised strict action against those responsible for sacrilege and police firing.On April 9 this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the investigation carried out by the state police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case. The state government has constituted a new SIT in accordance with the court order.Though the Amritsar East MLA made a brief statement after the meeting but did not take any questions from the media. Later, Pargat Singh, who is considered close to Sidhu, is learnt to have raised questions over the chief minister’s working style, his failure to deliver on key poll promises and the public perception about Captain and the Badals being close.During his one-on-one meeting, the Jalandhar Cantonment MLA also handed over to the committee members copies of a letter that he wrote to the CM around 18 months ago, expressing displeasure over the state government’s performance. “Though there has been no issue regarding the flow to funds for development works, there are several promises that are still to be kept,” the former India hockey captain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-stand-on-cm-still-same-sidhu-to-cong-panel-101622574482324.html
02-06-2021||India||MHA allows use of Liquid O2 in some industries as cases drop||New Delhi: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed the supply of oxygen to certain industries on a temporary basis subject to ensuring an adequate supply of medical oxygen to hospitals and other medical purposes as number of Covid-19 cases are coming down and demand for medical oxygen easing.The government had, in April last week, diverted all the liquid oxygen meant for all non-medical purposes and manufacturing industry for medical use as the number of cases were skyrocketing and several states had reported a shortage of oxygen to treat critically-ill coronavirus disease patients amid rising deaths.. Only sectors exempted at that time were defence, ampules and vials making industry and pharmaceuticals. In its order on Monday, the MHA decided to exempt more industries for use of liquid oxygen, which include - continuous process industries/ plants such as furnaces, refineries, steel, aluminum, copper processing plants, etc. which require continuous power supply; infrastructure projects and plants; Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs); exporters of manufacturing sector requiring oxygen for production, and food processing units. The ministry said that “the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) may allow usage of liquid oxygen to the above-mentioned industries/ projects/ units on a temporary basis subject to ensuring an adequate supply of liquid medical oxygen to hospitals and other medical purposes as per demands of states/ Union Territories as well as adequate supply to industries/sectors such as ampules and vials, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing of oxygen cylinders and PSA plants, neutral glass tubing and defence forces”. The industries had approached the DPIIT in this regard. People familiar with the development said that supply of oxygen was reviewed, and it was concluded that there is no shortage in any hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mhaallows-use-of-liquid-o2-in-some-industries-as-cases-drop-101622574359673.html
02-06-2021||India||Govt bars publishing of sensitive info by ex-security officials sans permission||The Central government on Tuesday said that no government servant, who has worked with an intelligence agency or served in a security-related organisation, shall publish materials related to the domain of the organisation or “sensitive information” post retirement without prior permission, a gazette notification stated.The department of personnel and training has accordingly amended the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 to include the changes.“No government servant, who, having worked in any intelligence or security-related organisation included in the Second Schedule of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (22 of 2005), shall, without prior clearance from the head of the organisation, make any publication after retirement, of any material relating to and including the domain of the organisation, including any reference or information about any personnel and his designation, and expertise or knowledge gained by virtue of working in that organisation,” the gazette notification, dated May 31, stated.It further bars the officials from disclosing “sensitive information” which “would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the state, or relation with a foreign state or which would lead to incitement of an offence”.“The head of the organisation shall vest with the authority to decide as to whether the proposed material for publication is sensitive or non-sensitive, and whether it falls in the domain of the organization,” the notification added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bars-publishing-of-sensitive-info-by-ex-security-officials-sans-permission-101622573038190.html
02-06-2021||India||‘In every single case, treat virus early and treat it hard’: Steve Kirsch||More than a year after Covid-19 turned into a pandemic, there are few therapies that have proven to work. Scientists and clinicians are studying a host of drugs and therapeutics to create a new line of defence against the virus but clinical trials are yet to lead to conclusive evidence on any of these. The Covid-19 Early Treatment Fund (CETF) takes a different approach to this by funding outpatient clinical trials for effective early treatments. In an interview to HT, the fund’s founder Steve Kirsch says India must focus on ensuring people begin treatment for Covid-19 early. Edited excerpts:In your advocacy, you focus on early treatment of Covid-19. How important is it?Every virus, without exception, should be treated early. And this one, in particular, is devastating. So we’re talking about using repurposed drugs for Covid-19. It’s an advice that we have for other diseases and for other viruses. Dr David Ho (known for key research on HIV and AIDS) wrote a famous editorial years ago on how to treat HIV. And it said that you treat it early and hard. For Ebola, the advice from the World Health Organization was, don’t wait for treatments to be proven; take risks, make mistakes, but treat it... The two arguments we can repurpose... is that in every single case, you must treat it early and you must treat it hard – that way you‘ll get better results.There are two particular drugs you suggest should be used for early treatment – ivermectin and fluvoxamine. Tell us a little about the case for using these.There are 23 studies that have been done from hundreds of researchers all over the world. And every single one of them, except for one, shows that ivermectin always had a positive effect. And it was a large positive effect, like 65%, or 75%, or more...For fluvoxamine, people say you only have two studies -- a double blind randomised control trial and a real-world evidence trial, where the patients got to choose. In the second one, 125 patients at Golden Gate Fields hospital (in US) who were treated recovered with full marks. None of them were hospitalised versus 12.5% of the patients who chose not to.How does early treatment make a difference?If instead of treating people in four days after symptoms, they treat people five days after symptoms..it’s set up for failure. And this happened before in sepsis, where a doctor, Paul Merrick, discovered that if you get vitamin C within four hours, every single person can be saved.What’s your assessment of drugs and therapeutics that are on the horizon?I think proxalutamide is very interesting. I’m impressed with the results...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-every-single-case-treat-virus-early-and-treat-it-hard-steve-kirsch-101622574299654.html
02-06-2021||India||9,346 kids orphaned by pandemic, SC told||The tally of children who lost a parent or were orphaned during the pandemic could be much higher than the figure of 9,346 provided by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to the Supreme Court in an affidavit on Monday. This came to light as the Supreme Court heard the state and Union territory administrations in a suo motu petition on Tuesday and found differences in the data uploaded on the NCPCR website, Bal Swaraj.In a note supplied to amicus curiae in the case, Gaurav Agrawal, the Maharashtra government stated that since March 2020, 140 children became orphans due to the pandemic while 4,451 children lost a parent. But the data provided by NCPCR in its affidavit showed that Maharashtra had 80 orphans and 716 children who lost a parent.Maharashtra told the court that the discrepancy was on account of technical glitches faced in uploading the data on the NCPCR website. Maharashtra counsel Sachin Patil informed the court that data entry happens in six stages, but the district child protection officers found it difficult to enter data as information about the children wasn’t available.Rajasthan also reported the same problem.NCPCR counsel Swarupama Chaturvedi informed the court that the information on the portal need not be complete as the respective districts can just fill in the basic information. The bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Anirudhha Bose extended the time for the states to upload the data to June 5.HT on Monday reported that, as per NCPCR’s affidavit, between March 2020 and May 29, a total of 1,742 children became orphans while 140 were abandoned due to Covid; 7,464 children lost a parent. This data was uploaded by 25 states and five union territories and added up to 9,346.The court also directed additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati to file an affidavit explaining the ‘PM CARES for Children’ scheme: how it works, how the beneficiaries are identified, and how it will be monitored.The next hearing will be held on June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9347-kids-orphaned-by-pandemic-sc-told-101622574300265.html
02-06-2021||India||SC calls for early release of eligible convicts||To curb the spread of Covid-19 in overcrowded Indian jails, the Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered probation boards to reconvene and consider the early release of eligible prisoners. It relied on its May 7 order for the release of prisoners serving light sentences on the grounds of right to life.An application filed by lawyer Sachin Yadav drew the court’s attention to the fact that many such prisoners were languishing in prison as these boards had not convened during the pandemic.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose felt it appropriate to direct the boards to continue working and consider remission pleas of prisoners entitled for premature release under the CrPC.Yadav was represented by advocate Shoeb Alam, who referred to a May 7 order of the top court aimed at decongesting prisons during the pandemic that said prisoners charged with non-heinous crimes be granted interim bail or parole for 90 days.“Though there is no mention of release of prisoners entitled to premature release under Section 432 and 433A of CrPC, it is directed that the competent authority — probation boards shall continue to proceed with the release of those prisoners who are entitled for premature release,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-calls-for-early-release-of-eligible-convicts-101622573221369.html
02-06-2021||India||Centre to focus on covid among children amid concerns over 3rd wave: Paul||The Centre on Tuesday announced that it is focusing on coronavirus disease among children and is preparing operational guidelines for the same, a move aimed at countering concerns that have been raised about the third Covid-19 wave impacting children who are not vaccinated.“Childhood Covid-19 disease is gaining our attention. We have said earlier that paediatric population is generally asymptomatic; they get infection but their symptoms are minimal, almost nil. It often does not take serious enough shape to require hospitalisation. But the situation can change in paediatric population also if the virus happens to change its behaviour, or epidemiological dynamics see a change in future, then there is a possibility that in children Covid-19 disease severity may also increase,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.The government has been systematically looking at all related scientific developments on the subject. “About 2-3% of children currently require hospitalisation but we are preparing to handle at least two-and-a-half times more patient load as suggested by the expert panel. The government will act on the recommendations that include revised clinical management. We are working very systematically, comprehensively to address the problem of paediatric Covid-19 disease,” said Paul. “...we are keeping a tab at all sorts of scenarios, and pushing preparedness measures accordingly.”The Centre has created a dedicated group of experts to look at childhood Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-focus-on-covid-among-children-amid-concerns-over-3rd-wave-paul-101622573219585.html
02-06-2021||India||Mucormycosis | 'Save younger patients first': HC to Centre||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the central government to prioritise younger people over older ones to give Amphotericin-B, a last-line drug used to treat mucormycosis that is in acute shortage across the country due to an unprecedented spike in cases.Covid-19 vaccination drive: 238mn doses per month needed to meet Dec targetThe court said that the young are the “future of the country” and need to be saved, while the elderly have “lived their life”, and that the government should learn from foreign countries such as Italy that adopted a similar policy to treat the coronavirus disease when cases were spiraling.“You have to make a policy decision because everyone can’t be catered to. We need to protect our future, the youth. That is where our promise is. That is the age group which is going to build the country... It is not an area where God will be able to help us if we don’t help ourselves because facts and figures are all before us,” said a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh.Mucormycosis is a secondary infection being reported in increasing numbers of Covid-19 patients. Of the 848 cases recorded in the second wave, 41 have recovered while 59 have succumbed to it. The remaining are still in hospital. Treatment has been hobbled by the scarcity of the only drug that helps.The bench noted that supply of Amphotericin-B was about a third of the requirement, and said: “The administration of the drug to the patients who have better chances of survival may have to be prioritised. Similarly, the patients who are younger and who hold promise for our nation in the future, may have to be prioritised in comparison to the older generation which has lived its life and on whom others will not be as dependent.”At the same time, however, the bench clarified that it was not for a moment discounting the emotional and psychological support that the older generation provides to the families, particularly Indian families that are so closely bonded. But, it added, that difficult choices will have to be made in difficult times.“We therefore direct the Union of India to frame a policy with regard to distribution of Amphotericin-B among the patients, and once the policy is made, allocation should be made on the basis of that policy,” said the bench.Citing an example of other countries, the court remarked: “Why are you feeling shy? It is the duty of the government to lay down the way forward...In Italy, they said `Sorry for old people we don’t have beds’.. and rightly so.”It, however, said that while carving out such a policy, exceptions should be made for older people who are serving the nation in high positions.The court asked the Centre to file its status report on Friday.Central government standing counsels Amit Mahajan and Kirtiman Singh told the court that the issue was being considered by the government, and a decision would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-hc-tells-centre-to-save-younger-patients-first-101622573159615.html
02-06-2021||India||Covid vaccination drive: 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec target||For India to meet its target of vaccinating its entire adult population by the end of 2021, the country needs to administer 1.88 billion doses in total, of which 1.67 billion or 89% are yet to be administered. This means that the country needs to deliver 238 million doses every month from June or risk falling behind target, shows data analysed by HT.To vaccinate everyone, including those below 18 years of age by the end of 2021, India needs to administer 2.51 billion doses from June to December, or 359 million doses every month from June.In the race for vaccination, as is the case in a run chase in cricket, a slower run rate at the beginning of an innings requires slogging as the inning progresses. This concept may play a crucial role in India meeting its target, as if it falls behind in its initial months, the year-end target may get more and more difficult to meet.Till May 31, the country has administered over 215 million doses, the third highest number of total doses delivered in any country (behind only China and the US).According to the Co-WIN dashboard, the fastest rate at which India has vaccinated so far is 3.8 million doses per day (based on rolling seven-day average).For June, the 120 million doses the government says will be available work out to four million doses a day, and administering these should not require any enhancement in existing infrastructure and manpower. However,at this rate, it will take until July 23, 2022, to vaccinate just the country’s adult population, leave alone the entire population (which would take till February 2022).The required rateAccording to a press briefing by Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday, India plans to vaccinate its entire eligible population by December. As against the 238 million doses per month needed for this from June onwards, India appears to be beginning this chase with a slower rate next month with only 120 million doses likely to be available. This means a higher required rate from July: 258 million doses per month for adult vaccination, and 398 million doses per month for universal vaccination.What are the possible scenarios going forward? In May, 79.4 million doses were available, which is to increase to 120 million in June. This amounts to a 51% month-on-month growth in supply. Assuming the country is able to replicate this result in the coming months, India will have 181 million doses in July, 274 million in August, 414 million in September, and 626 million in October.All of this would require a massive increase in infrastructure and manpower.However, once the required rate matches the rate of supply (or scoring rate to use the cricket analogy), one can assume that the pace will be sufficient to meet the December target. This analysis shows that if the supply increases to 274 million per month by August – and stops there – then the adult population will be vaccinated by December. To vaccinate everyone by December, supply will have to keep growing at least until October at 51% per month.How does this compare with rates so far?To be sure, the government said on Tuesday it may have as many as 10 million doses available per day (translating to 300 million a month) in July and August – this is twice the highest single day doses administered in India till date (around 5 million). It isn’t clear how the government arrived at this number.However, even at the rate of 5 million doses a day, it will take till April 27 next year for the country to cover adults and till October 2022 for the entire population.As stated above, to vaccinate all adults by December, India needs to increase monthly supply to 274 million by August or daily doses to 9.13 million; and to vaccinate everyone,it needs to increase monthly supply to 626 million by October, or daily doses to 20.9 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/238mn-doses-per-month-needed-to-meet-dec-target-101622573040319.html
02-06-2021||India||Some states begin special vaccination for students going abroad||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have started vaccination of students with confirmed admission in foreign universities, HT has learnt. The move comes a few days after state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray announced the special drive.“My friends managed to get a slot on the first two days itself, and even though the system can act as a hindrance whenever we try to confirm slots, I finally managed to get my shot on Tuesday," said 25-year old Akriti Pandya, who works in a Mumbai MNC and has confirmed admission for MBA in an Australian University.Maharashtra government's directive to give the second dose of Covid-19 within six weeks would help Pune-based Siddhant Yelwande, a 22-year-old student, who has been admitted into the University of Minnesota, USA. “My second dose on CoWin app was assigned for August 24 even though I was supposed to reach the university on August 23,” he said.Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana have also followed Maharashtra's footsteps by allowing priority vaccination to students going abroad for studies. While Kerala has a special portal for students, Karnataka has provided an email id for the same.Last week, the Kerala government decided to give the second dose of Covishield vaccine to students who are travelling abroad for studies after four to six weeks of the first jab as against the 12-16 week gap recommended by the Union health ministry.The Kerala government has also decided to issue vaccine certificates carrying passport numbers and other details. It has also opened a special portal for those who want the second dose of vaccine on priority. The applicants need to produce documents supporting immediate travel and once the application is approved they will be given the second dose as well as the vaccination certificate.According to the state health ministry, at least 2,000 students have applied for the preferential vaccine so far. Before the onset of the pandemic, an average of 20,000 students went abroad for higher education from the state.Also read: China and BRICS stand with India in its fight against the pandemic - Chinese FMKarnataka has also come up with similar guidelines with a special vaccination drive starting from Tuesday. The drive aims to vaccinate around 300 students going abroad for higher education.“Vaccination confirmation was not attached to the passport but with the PAN card and Aadhar card. But now, to facilitate the students and employees going abroad, it has been linked to passports,” Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister of Karnataka and head of the state’s task force on Covid-19 said in a statement.Both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments have announced a special drive for vaccinating students going abroad but haven't begun the process yet. The officials in the two states said the process would start in a few days after the guidelines are issued.Akshay Chaturvedi, founder and CEO of Leverage Edu, an AI-based startup that helps students with their study-abroad process, said the move is a big relief for students. “In times like these, state governments need to empathise with the fact that students invest a lot of time and resources to get into their dream universities,” he said.In a recent survey of 5,000 students registered on its platform, Leverage Edu found that 94% were keener to travel and study abroad this year compared to last year. Of those surveyed, 58% said they made their plans within the last three months and 36% said they had these plans in place for much but are able to execute them only now.Leap, another platform and education-centric neo bank that facilitates end-to-end solutions for study-abroad aspirants, said the vaccination drive will allow students to reach their universities for the fall semester. “Since the start of the pandemic in March 2020, international students have been dealing with a lot of uncertainty with regards to their classes, whether they would be able to fly or not. Many students who were supposed to start their classes last year deferred their degree to this year, hoping to be able to attend offline classes,” said Vaibhav Singh, co-founder of Leap.No such special vaccination drives have been announced in several other states such as West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, among others.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-states-begin-special-vaccination-for-students-going-abroad-101622572706270.html
02-06-2021||India||Covid-19: ICMR asks independent researchers to share scientific knowledge||The ICMR has invited independent researchers from across India to contribute to the scientific knowledge related to COVID-19 by submitting their innovative research ideas in identified priority areas, stating that there is scanty knowledge available related to the functional aspects of the virus, its transmission dynamics, immunological response to natural infection and vaccines.In its call for invites, the apex research body said the coronavirus pandemic has led to major loss of lives and livelihood.Despite intense efforts of the global scientific community, there is scanty knowledge related to the functional aspects of the virus, its transmission dynamics, immunological response to natural infection and vaccines, it said." In addition, it is important to understand the drivers of vaccine hesitancy and reduced uptake, clinical spectrum of the disease and its progression. Also there is a need to formulate the clinical management protocols in line with the emerging global evidence," the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.It had it has initiated research on COVID-19 in 'task force and intramural mode'. These projects were formulated to address the most pressing research questions in the following domains -- clinical research, diagnostics and biomarkers, epidemiology and surveillance and operations research, it added."ICMR now invites independent researchers all across the country to contribute to the scientific knowledge related to COVID-19 by submitting their innovative research ideas as brief concept proposals in the following identified priority areas,” the apex research body said.All concept proposals have to be submitted online at https://epms.icmr.org.in as a brief 3-4 page concept note on/before June 30, the ICMR said.All concept proposals will be screened at ICMR.If approved by the screening committee, selected investigators will be requested to submit full proposals. The full proposals will be thoroughly reviewed by Project Review Committees and decision will be made accordingly, the apex research body said.The priority areas include epidemiological and surveillance studies to assess the impact on development of variants between those who are vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals in a limited geographic area, seroprevalence studies to determine susceptibility of individuals to SARS-CoV-2, as well as follow up seroprevalence studies at sites covered earlier to measure the impact of vaccination/herd immunity level, the IMCR said.It also includes surveillance of COVID-19 reinfections in previously infected individuals with same/different SARSCoV-2 strains, effectiveness of vaccines in reducing transmission, developing an appropriate model for surveillance of COVID-19 in schools and colleges.The priority areas also includes studying immune escape of variant SARS-CoV-2 strains in vaccinated individuals, immunological aspect and vaccine efficacy research to study immunological response to the COVID-19 vaccines in different populations/population sub-groups in the country , duration of protection offered by COVID-19 vaccines, and factors affecting it (age, sex, comorbid status, ethnicity, the ICMR said.It also includes studies on correlates of immune protection (in vaccinated as well as naturally infected individuals), assessment of antibody and antigen-specific responses in SARS-CoV-2 infected and naïve individuals immunised with COVID-19 vaccines, efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines in previously infected individuals, and potential scope of single-dose vaccination in such individuals to boost immune response, determining the need and timing of a third COVID-19 vaccine booster dose by measuring antibody titres and their persistence in vaccinees after the second dose of the vaccine and interchangeability of COVID-19 vaccine among others.Besides, priority areas include clinical research to study changes in COVID-19 mortality/ severity/ hospitalisation after vaccination, research on post COVID syndrome/Long COVID, and assessing differences between asymptomatic and symptomatic cases, if any, clinical trials of repurposed and new drugs and studies to assess the safety of COVID-19 vaccines in pregnant and breastfeeding women in programmatic mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-icmr-asks-independent-researchers-to-share-scientific-knowledge-101622569623049.html
02-06-2021||India||Biological E, Canadian firm to manufacture jabs||Hyderabad-based Biological E. Limited has tied up with Canada’s Providence Therapeutics to locally manufacture its mRNA coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, the Hyderabad-based company announced on Tuesday, adding it will run a pivotal trial in India, and seek emergency-use authorisation.“Providence and Biological E announce the execution of a term sheet that sets forth the material terms for a definitive licensing and collaboration agreement and also outlines the terms for sale by Providence of up to 30 million doses of Providence’s proprietary messenger RNA vaccine, PTX-COVID-19-B, to Biological E and other end-buyers,” the companies said in a joint statement.“This sale represents the sale of all the remaining 2021 Providence production, plus a portion of the early 2022 Providence production, after accounting for the first sale of Providence vaccines to the Province of Manitoba, Canada,” they added.Also Read | ‘Covishield to be administered in 2 shots, no change in schedule’, says govtProvidence will provide the necessary technology transfer for Biological E to manufacture mRNA vaccines in India, with a minimum production capacity of 600 million doses in 2022 and a target capacity of 1 billion doses. Biological E will be responsible for all clinical development and regulatory activities for the mRNA vaccine in India and other jurisdictions licensed by Biological E.“This initiative is an important commitment by a Canada-based company to help India and other nations vaccinate their citizens against Covid-19. Providence was founded to serve patients, and this commitment by Biological E allows us to achieve that essential goal,” said Brad Sorenson, chief executive officer of Providence, in a statement.The financial terms of the transaction, however, have not been disclosed.“The mRNA platform has emerged as the front runner in delivering the first vaccines for emergency use to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Biological E. is very pleased to be able to work with Providence on its promising mRNA vaccine candidate. We hope to provide India and other countries yet another option to ramp up their efforts towards achieving herd immunity against Covid-19,” said Mahima Datla, managing director, Biological E Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-ties-up-with-canada-s-providence-to-produce-mrna-covid-19-vaccine-101622551560847.html
02-06-2021||India||China creates combined air defence system along LAC||China’s People Liberation Army (PLA) has integrated elements of the air force and army to create a combined air defence system for its western theatre command that is responsible for operations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the latest in a series of moves indicating a strengthening of its positions in the region.The move follows numerous reports of China moving in new military equipment and formations into Tibet and Xinjiang, and bolstering air defence and missile positions and airports on its side of the LAC amid a border standoff with India that began more than a year ago.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that PLA had, for the first time, integrated army air defence units in the air force’s chain of command in the western theatre command to create a combined air defence control system.This new system was put through its paces during a recent exercise at an unknown location under the western theatre command, which saw army elements jointly training with the air force while command and control was exercised by the air force, the people said.“At least 10 PLA army units under the western theatre command are believed to have been integrated in the reporting chain for sharing inputs on early warning, combined readiness status and exercise participation as part of this new joint air defence set up,” one of the people cited above said.“It appears that PLA air force is controlling all the air defence network assets along the LAC, and it appears the Chinese side has felt an urgent need to put all such assets of the army and air force under a central control to avoid any fratricide and to ensure their optimum use,” the person added.Air Vice Marshal (retired) Manmohan Bahadur, a defence commentator who closely tracks developments on the LAC, said such a development in normal times would be seen as part of routine steps by a country to ensure military preparedness. “But since we have a confrontation, we must view it in that context and make plans accordingly,” he said.The Chinese side appears to be bringing all air defence assets into one grid and plugging gaps that can be exploited by the Indian Air Force (IAF), he said. “There have been reports of additional radar stations and other set-ups being created and the Chinese side seems to be in for the long run. Their aim would be to blunt the strike potential of the IAF, which they know will spearhead any Indian response,” he added.Disengagement of Indian and Chinese frontline troops along the LAC stalled following a drawdown of forces and armoured units on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. Diplomatic and military talks have not led to a breakthrough at other friction points on the LAC such as Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs.Ties between the two sides plunged to an all-time low following a deadly clash in Galwan Valley in June last year that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and several Chinese troops – the first fatalities on the LAC since 1975. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has made it clear that restoration of peace and tranquillity on the LAC through disengagement and de-escalation alone can be the basis for restoring normal ties in other areas such as trade and investment.Satellite imagery from last month showed that after withdrawing its forces from around Pangong Lake, China relocated a large section of troops and equipment to nearby Rutog County, where new military barracks have been built since 2019.The open-source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter said the new structures at Rutog include a large motor pool that includes support and offensive units, troop accommodation including prefabricated heated units and tents, camouflaged positions believed to hold supplies and weapons, and munitions storage facilities.The scale and proximity of the deployment in Rutog suggests the PLA is continuing to hold itself in depth areas near the LAC, experts said.A steady stream of satellite imagery and reports in recent months have shown that China is strengthening its position all along the LAC, building villages in previously uninhabited areas and building and reinforcing highways and airports to facilitate the speedy deployment of troops.A report issued by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy, last September had said China has more than doubled the number of airbases, air defence positions and heliports near the LAC since 2017. China began building at least 13 new military facilities near the LAC after the 2017 standoff at Doklam, and work on four heliports began after tensions erupted in Ladakh, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-creates-combined-air-defence-system-along-lac-101622544473501.html
02-06-2021||India||Normal monsoon likely this year: IMD||Monsoon rainfall, a key variable in the health of the rural economy, is likely to be normal at 101% of the long-period average (LPA), the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its second-stage long-range forecast on Tuesday. There is a 40% probability that is likely to be 96% to 104% of LPA, or the average rainfall (88cm) recorded from 1961 to 2010. In its first-stage monsoon forecast in April, IMD said the rainfall was likely to be 98% of LPA after two years of above-average rainfall.The monsoon arrives first in Kerala around June 1. It is expected to cover the rest of the country by July 5. The monsoon onset has been delayed by two days, IMD said in its revised forecast on Sunday. IMD previously said that the start of the monsoon would be on May 31, a day ahead of schedule.India receives about 70% of its annual rainfall during the four-month season that is crucial for the country’s farm-dependent economy and for rice, soybeans, and cotton cultivation. A normal monsoon this year will significantly help the agriculture sector. Good rains have been a prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience for two years despite the pandemic. India has over 150 million farmers and nearly half of Indians are dependent on a farm-based income. As much as 60% of India’s net-sown area does not have access to irrigation.Also Read | Monsoon progress slow but IMD hopeful that it will reach Kerala on June 3Agriculture is one of the mainstays of its economy. Monsoon spurs farm produce and improves rural spending. The monsoon impacts inflation, jobs, and industrial demand. Good farm output keeps a lid on food inflation. Ample harvests raise rural incomes and help inject demand into the economy. Nearly half of India’s population depends on a farm-based livelihood. The monsoon also replenishes 89 nationally important reservoirs critical for drinking and power generation.M Mohapatra, IMD director-general, said they use multi-model ensemble forecasting which considers projections from the best models and that the forecasts are better and more accurate closer to monsoon. “The first stage forecast was issued in April and then we monitored the conditions for entire May and found that monsoon is likely to normal and spatially well distributed,” he said.Northwest India is likely to record normal rain at 92 to 108% of LPA. Central India is likely to record above-normal rain of over 106% of LPA. Southern Peninsula is likely to record between 93 to 107%. Northeast India is expected to record below normal rain at less than 95% of LPA.For the first time, IMD has issued a special monsoon forecast for the monsoon core zone stretching from Odisha to Maharashtra and Gujarat, where agriculture is largely rainfed. In the monsoon core zone, monsoon rain is likely to be above normal over 106%.IMD said the monsoon is likely to be well distributed spatially across the country. “Most parts of the country are expected to receive normal to above-normal rainfall during the season,” IMD said in a statement.Normal to above normal rain is likely in June at 92% to 108% of LPA. The spatial distribution for June suggests above normal rainfall probability over most areas of eastern parts of central India, along the planes of the Himalayas and east India. Below normal probability is likely in northwest India and southern parts of the peninsula and some areas of northeast India.IMD said La Niña conditions, which are associated in India with strong monsoon and above-average rains and colder winters, turned neutral in April end. The El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, is neutral. It is likely to continue over the equatorial Pacific Ocean through the monsoon.ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods, and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures. In India, El Niño is associated with drought or weak monsoon.The 2020-2021 La Niña event has ended and neutral conditions (neither El Niño nor La Niña) are likely to dominate the tropical Pacific in the next few months, World Meteorological Organization said on Tuesday. Air temperatures are expected to be above average between June and August, especially in the northern hemisphere. There is very little chance of El Niño conditions developing now.Mohapatra said ENSO neutral conditions are associated with normal monsoon years. “We are also expecting above average rains in the core monsoon zone and over central India. This happens when the monsoon trough is active and low-pressure areas develop over the Bay of Bengal. We have to see if that is happening. From models, it appears to be a good year.”He said the monsoon is a dynamic system. “On May 15, we had said its onset is likely around the normal date of June 1. But the criteria for declaring monsoon were not fulfilled. Now conditions are very gradually becoming favourable, and we are expecting the onset of monsoon around June 3.”G V Ramanjaneyulu, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad, said good rains in the Kharif season are good news. He added but because of the lockdown and the second pandemic wave of the pandemic getting labour and inputs for sowing has become difficult. “We have also seen prices of various farm produce have come down in many rural areas. Health costs have increased because of Covid-19. Farmers will need support to repay loans. It is a good sign that at least rains will be normal during this distressing period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-be-normal-across-the-country-imd-101622533674177.html
02-06-2021||NA||Highlights: Madhya Pradesh registers 1,078 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||India continues to report the lowest daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at 1.27 lakh in 54 days, showing a declining trend in new infections, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.The decrease in the nationwide tally is directly linked to a sharp fall in cases seen in regions like Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. India's active cases have also decreased by 130,572 in the last 24 hours.According to the health ministry, recoveries in the country continue to outnumber the daily new cases for 19 days now.To break the chain of transmission and gain control over the disease spread, states like Bihar, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh on Monday extended Covid-induced lockdown or curfew, even though there will be some relaxation in curbs.Andhra Pradesh has decided to continue with curfew till June 10, while the complete shutdown in Lakshadweep will remain till June 7.On the global front, the World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday announced a new nomenclature for the Covid-19 variants that were previously — and somewhat uncomfortably — known either by their technical letter-number codes or by the countries in which they first appeared.WHO said it will now refer to the most worrisome variants — known as “variants of concern” — by letters in the Greek alphabet. Follow all the updates here:West Bengal logs 9,424 fresh Covid-19 cases, 137 deaths in last 24 hoursWest Bengal registered a total of 9,424 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the state government informed.Jharkhand extends lockdown-like restrictions till June 10 with some relaxationsThe Jharkhand government on Tuesday extended the lockdown-like restrictions till June 10 with some easing, an official said. This is the fourth time that the curbs, first imposed on April 22 for a week, were extended.Chhattisgarh sees 1,886 Covid-19 cases, 29 deaths, 4,471 recoveriesChhattisgarh on Tuesday reported 1,886 Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths, taking the infection count to 9,73,349 and the toll to 13,077, a health official said.Covid-19 kills 59 more in Bihar; recovery rate crosses 97%Covid-19 surge continued with its downward trend on Tuesday in Bihar where the recovery rate crossed 97% even as 59 fresh fatalities were reported and 1,174 more people tested positive.US city donates USD 10,000 to Chennai for Covid-19 reliefChennai Sister City in the US, San Antonio, has donated USD 10,000 towards Covid-19 relief work in the southern metropolis. A release from the US Consulate General here said San Antonio, Texas, donated the sum as a gesture of solidarity with its sister city.179 coronavirus deaths reported in UP, toll rises to 20,672With 179 fresh Covid-19 fatalities reported in Uttar Pradesh, the death toll in the state rose to 20,672 while the total cases in UP touched 16,92,709 with as many as 1,317 fresh cases on Tuesday.Covid-19: Haryana records 80 fatalities, 1,233 fresh casesHaryana on Tuesday reported 80 Covid-related deaths, which took the toll to 8,383, while 1,233 fresh cases pushed the tally to 7,57,868 in the state, according to a health department bulletin.Gujarat sees 1,561 Covid-19 cases, 4,869 recoveries, 22 deathsGujarat on Tuesday continued its downward trend of Covid-19 cases with the addition of 1,561 fresh infections, taking the tally to 8,10,730 while 22 fatalities pushed the toll to 9,855, the state health department said.Goa reports 903 new Covid-19 casesGoa reports 903 new Covid-19 cases, 22 fatalities, and 1777 recoveries in the last 24 hours; active cases at 11,8671,002 fresh Covid-19 cases, 65 more deaths in RajasthanRajasthan on Tuesday recorded 1,002 fresh Covid-19 cases that took its tally to 9,40,960 while 65 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,450, according to an official report.Madhya Pradesh registers 1,078 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deathsMadhya Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 1,078 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of active cases to 20,303. 45 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin.Maharashtra records 14,123 new Covid-19 cases, 477 deathsMaharashtra recorded 14,123 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total to 57,61,015. 477 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 96,198.CBSE class 12 exams cancelled in wake of Covid-19Central Board of Secondary Education has cancelled class 12 exams in the wake of Covid-19. The decision was taken in best interest of students, the Prime Minister said at the review meet on Tuesday.Kerala records 19,760 new Covid-19 cases, 194 deathsKerala records 19,760 new #COVID19 cases, 24,117 recoveries, and 194 deaths today; active cases at 2,02,436Rajasthan reports 1,002 new Covid-19 cases, 65 deathsRajasthan reports 1002 new #COVID19 cases, 65 deaths, and 6114 recoveries in the last 24 hours; active cases at 37,477 pic.twitter.com/JTmyA81W6GAndhra Pradesh reports 11,303 new Covid-19 cases, 104 deathsAndhra Pradesh reports 11,303 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state-wide tally to 17,04,388. 104 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin.Covishield to be administered in 2 doses, 'absolutely' no change in schedule: Health ministryThere is absolutely no change in the schedule of Covishield doses; it will be two doses only. After the first Covishield dose is administered, second dose will be given after 12 weeks. The same schedule is applicable to Covaxin: Union Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/77beFW2THWUnion health ministry said at a press conference on Tuesday that no changes in Covishield dose schedule has been made and it will be administered in 2 doses 12 weeks apart.Active cases on the decline in 30 states/UTs: Health ministryActive cases are down by 50%, 1.3 lakh decrease in active cases in a day. In 30 states/UT, cases have been consistently declining for one week, it's a positive trend: Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/meZ6RlRjKADelhi reports 623 new Covid-19 cases as positivity rate dips to 0.88%, daily deaths fall to 62Delhi recorded 623 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases to 14,26,863. 62 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 24,299.Thane logs 512 new Covid-19 cases, 34 more deathsThane has added 512 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 5,16,364, an official said on Tuesday.Besides these new cases reported on Monday, 34 more people also succumbed to the viral infection, pushing the death toll in the district to 9,248, he said.The Covid-19 mortality rate in Thane stood at 1.79 per cent, he added.Pondy's daily Covid-19 count below 1,000 for 4th dayPuducherry continued to record less than 1,000 daily cases for the fourth consecutive day with 979 fresh additions on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 1.05 lakh. The new cases were identified at the end of examination of 8,540 samples projecting test positivity rate at 11.45 percent.Education minister admitted to AIIMS due to post-Covid complicationsUnion Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal has been admitted to AIIMS following post-Covid complications on Tuesday.According to AIIMS officials, Pokhriyal was brought to the hospital at 11:30 am on Tuesday morning.The union minister had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 21.Centre provides more than 23 crore vaccine doses to States, UTsMore than 23 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to States and UTs so far, said the Union Government on Tuesday."The Government of India (GoI) has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 23 crore vaccine doses (23,18,36,510) to States/UTs. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 21,51,48,659 doses," reads the GoI statement.Chinese city locks down 2 areas as cluster growsChina's southern manufacturing hub of Guangzhou has imposed lockdowns on two neighbourhoods after an additional 11 cases of Covid-19 were detected in the city.The surrounding province of Guangdong has already required anyone wishing to travel to other parts of China produce a negative test for the virus taken within the previous 72 hours.Indian shares rise on downward trend in Covid-19 casesIndian shares extended gains on Tuesday, as investors took hope from a downward trend in daily Covid-19 cases while taking cues from a global rally in equities.The blue-chip NSE Nifty 50 index rose 0.18% to 15,611.30 by 0345 GMT, while the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex climbed 0.19% to 52,026.39. Both the indexes closed 1% higher on Monday, building up on gains posted last week.India records 127,510 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in nearly two monthsIndia reported 1,27,510 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the past 24 hours, as displayed by the Union health ministry dashboard at 9am on Tuesday. 2,795 new fatalities were also recorded in this duration, which pushed the death toll to 331,895, it showedAustralian court upholds ban on most international travelAn Australian court on Tuesday rejected a challenge to the federal government's draconian power to prevent most citizens from leaving the country so that they don't bring Covid-19 home.Australia is alone among developed democracies in preventing its citizens and permanent residents from leaving the country except in “exceptional circumstances” where they can demonstrate a “compelling reason.”Mizoram reports 312 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursMizoram reported as many as 312 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR), Mizoram informed on Tuesday.The state's positivity rate is at 7.93 per cent.The number of cumulative cases in the state has mounted to 12,399 including 9214 discharges and 40 deaths.Ladakh reports 165 new Covid-19 casesThe Union Territory of Ladakh reported 165 fresh Covid-19 cases, 105 recoveries and two deaths on Monday, as per the Department of Information and Public Relations, Leh.With this, the total number of cases in the region escalated to 18310 including 1,614 active cases and 16,859 total recoveries. However, the total death toll surged to 187 including the new deaths.Out of the total number of active cases, 1395 cases lie in Leh and 219 cases in Kargil district.Jharkhand CM Soren writes to PM seeking free Covid vaccine for 18-44 age groupJharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and sought free Covid jabs for the 18-44 age group, saying the state was unable to incur nearly ₹1,100 crore on it due to stressed resources.Soren said the state was battling a deadly second wave of Covid-19 with its limited resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-india-world-death-toll-june-1-2021-101622506835110.html
