04-06-2021||India||Modi reviews inoculation drive, highlights wastage of vaccines||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the country’s vaccination drive on Friday, and instructed officials to take measures to bring down vaccine wastage, which, he noted, was still high. The meeting was attended by top leaders including defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah, and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, among others. “PM was briefed about the current availability of vaccines and the roadmap for ramping it up. He was also apprised about the efforts undertaken to help various vaccine manufacturers ramp up production of vaccines. Government of India is actively working with vaccine manufacturers & helping them in terms of facilitating more production units, financing and supply of raw materials,” said a statement released by the PM’s office.The Prime Minister was also briefed about technical measures taken to make the vaccination process more people-friendly.The review meeting comes a day after the US announced that it will distribute Covid-19 vaccines to India as part of its “strategy for global vaccine sharing”. Soon after the President’s announcement, US vice-president Kamala Harris called up PM Modi about the decision.The vaccines India received will be part of the first tranche of 25 million doses of the 80 million to be donated by the US to several countries. India is part of two baskets -- through Covax and directly from the US -- but the exact numbers have not been released yet.According to health ministry data, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has exceeded 227.5 million, including more than 3.3 million doses administered on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-reviews-inoculation-drive-highlights-wastage-of-vaccines-101622829798474.html
04-06-2021||India||4-yr-old mauled to death by leopard in Kashmir||At around 7.40pm on Thursday, Adha Yasir’s parents heard a sharp cry.The four-year-old girl was playing on the lawn of her house in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam district. Her parents, who were in the house, and neighbours in Ompora Housing Colony remember the girl running about. The parents rushed out, only to find their daughter nowhere. They alerted the neighbours, the local police and launched a massive search operation.Roughly one hour later, local residents found the girl’s necklace and slippers from the forest that surrounded the colony. “This raised suspicion that the girl was taken away by a leopard, which are common in the area,” said Ehsan Fazili, a neighbour. In the early hours of Friday, their fears came true. Police found Yasir’s mutilated body in the forest nursery located one kilometre from her house, said an official who was part of the search team. “After receiving the information, a police team, locals and the wildlife department constituted various teams to trace the girl. After massive searches, the teams recovered the mauled body of the girl from the nearby forest nursery. Preliminary investigation suggests that the girl has been attacked and mauled by some wild animal (probably Leopard), said senior superintendent of police (Budgam) Tahir Saleem. Grandfather of the girl, Ghulam Hassan Mir, said that they have been urging the authorities to address the issue for a long time, but all the efforts were in vain. “The pain of losing our dear girl will never be healed. But fixing the problem could save other lives.”Local residents and politicians blamed the wildlife department for the death of the girl. “This is the nursery not the forest so they could have easily cleared trees from this place,” said Shabir Ahmad, another neighbour. Former minister and legislator Ruhullah Medhi termed the incident a case of “criminal negligence”. “Given the fact that incidents involving the same wild animals occurred multiple times in the recent months in areas as close to district collector’s office. People then were lucky, but this time this innocent little soul had to pay with her life,” he said.Budgam deputy commissioner Shabaz Mirza chaired a high level meeting with senior officials of police and forest department to decide on measures to prevent such incidents in the future, including immediate removal of fallen material trees from snow and bushes and other cultural operations (like removal of bushes) in Ompora forests and other areas.A spokesperson for the J&K administration assured action within two days.“DFO (Divisional Forest Officer) Budgam will immediately take steps for erection and strengthening of existing chain-link fencing at Ompora forests and will also submit DPR (detailed project report) to higher authorities for sanction of funds. He will also process the proposal/ case for sanction of thinning of the forest immediately. Wild life Warden Budgam will deploy staff well equipped with machinery for elimination of the wild animal (leopard), which has turned man-eater,” said the spokesperson, adding that the family of the deceased girl will also be compensated.DC Budgam Shabaz Mirza and SSP Tahir Saleem visited the house in the afternoon and assured them this type of incident wont be repeated and expressed condolences with the family. The range officer (Wildlife) in Ompora has also been put under suspension.Chief Wildlife warden, Suresh Kumar said they have set up the Control Room in Budgam and also put trapping cages in area. “One leopard was rescued from the area few months back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4yrold-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-kashmir-101622829797890.html
04-06-2021||India||Cong unlikely to field candidate against Didi for Bhowanipur bypoll||New Delhi: The Congress party, which drew a blank in the recent West Bengal assembly elections, is unlikely to field a candidate against chief minister Mamata Banerjee in her by-election from Kolkata’s Bhowanipur seat in a move that might assume significance for the long-term equations of India’s Opposition parties.While the Banerjee-led Trinamool won Bengal, she lost to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, and now needs to win a bypoll to retain her seat. West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, considered as one of the staunchest critics of Banerjee, said on Thursday that he feels the Congress should not filed a candidate against her out of political courtesy. Former Congress president Pradip Bhattacharya too, echoed the sentiment. “So far, AICC (All-India Congress Committee) has not communicated us anything formally. We are part of an alliance with the CPI(M) and the issue has not been discussed there as well. But I am also of the opinion that the Congress can avoid fielding a candidate against the chief minister,” he told HT. Two Congress strategists in Delhi said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi has informally conveyed her unwillingness to put up a candidate against Banerjee. “Apart from her excellent personal equation with Mamata, the Congress president is perhaps looking at wider scopes of Opposition unity,” said a senior Congress leader. The party’s reluctance also seems to stem from its worst-ever poll performance in the recent Bengal elections as the BJP emerged as the principal opposition in the state.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, too, recently spoke about Banerjee in a press conference when he said, “If PM Narendra Modi can be on the same page with (Chhattisgarh CM) Bhupesh Baghel and (West Bengal CM) Mamata Banerjee, the door will be shut for coronavirus.” Congress insiders maintain that any opposition pact inside or outside Parliament would not be possible without India’s only woman CM, especially after she won Bengal for the third time, defeating the BJP in a direct fight. Banerjee, too, plans a mega rally when the Covid wave subsides, and is likely to invite leaders from non-BJP parties who congratulated her after the victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-unlikely-to-field-candidate-against-didi-for-bhowanipur-bypoll-101622829378818.html
04-06-2021||India||CM Mamata likely to give more responsibility to Abhishek: TMC leaders before key meet||Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee may give more organizational responsibility to her nephew and the party’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee, senior leaders said before the TMC’s strategy meeting in Kolkata on Saturday. The young Lok Sabha MP is seen in the party as the chief minister’s political heir. This is the ruling party’s first big meeting after the assembly polls in which the TMC bagged 213 seats against 77 won by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Bengal has 294 seats. The Congress and the Left parties could not win a single seat. This has turned the state’s political scenario into a bipolar one for the first time since Independence. TMC leaders said Banerjee has asked all senior leaders to be present at the TMC headquarters where the next course of action will be decided. She will also make some important organizational announcements. “We are waiting for the outcome of Saturday’s meet. Only the party chief will take the final call in regard to projection of young leaders which has been the salient part of the TMC’s internal strategy since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the BJP bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats and our tally went down from 34 to 22,” a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. The chief minister and Abhishek Banerjee became the BJP’s prime targets in the campaign speeches of all leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, during the eight-phase elections. They were referred to as pishi (aunt) and bhaipo (nephew) in almost all speeches and the chief minister was accused of establishing dynastic rule. The BJP has also alleged that Abhishek Banerjee is involved in the coal smuggling case that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing. The investigation got a boost on December 31, when the agency raided the residences of businessman and TMC youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra. He has been declared an absconder. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. The CBI has already questioned Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee and her sister Maneka Gambhir. The latter’s husband, Ankush Arora and his father Pawan Arora have also been interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-likely-to-give-more-responsibility-to-abhishek-tmc-leaders-before-key-meet-101622829199081.html
04-06-2021||India||PM Modi to mark World Environment Day event with pilot project, interaction with farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday will mark the celebration of World Environment Day event via video-conferencing and release 'Report of the Expert Committee on Road Map for ethanol blending in India 2020-2025', Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.The event, jointly organised by the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas and the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, will be based on the theme 'promotion of biofuels for better environment'.In order to commemorate the day, the government is releasing E-20 notification directing oil companies to sell ethanol-blended petrol with percentage of ethanol up to 20 from April 1, 2023; and BIS specifications for higher ethanol blends E12 & E15, the PMO statement read.These efforts, prime minister's office said, will facilitate setting up of additional ethanol distillation capacities and provide timelines for making blended fuel available across the country.It will help increase the consumption of ethanol in the ethanol-producing states and the adjoining regions, before the 2025.The prime minister will also launch a pilot project of E 100 dispensing stations at three locations in Pune, and interact with farmers to gain insight on their firsthand experience, as enablers under the Ethanol Blended Petrol and Compressed BioGas Programmes, the PMO said.World Environment Day is observed on June 5 every year to underline the importance of nature. Celebrated across the world, the day spotlights the need to inform people that nature should not be taken for granted and must be respected for its values.It is important to note that the World Health Organization (WHO) has joined UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, a mission to prevent, reverse the degradation of ecosystems and the diversity of life they sustain. WHO will work as a collaborating agency along with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) among other partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-mark-world-environment-day-event-with-pilot-project-interaction-with-farmers-101622821705599.html
04-06-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 3 ethanol stations in Pune as a pilot project on June 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch three E100 ethanol dispensing stations in Pune under a pilot project on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday. The government will also release the E-20 notification that will allow oil companies to sell 20% ethanol blended petrol from April 2023. The BIS specifications for higher ethanol blends E12 and E15 will also be released. These efforts will lead to setting up of more ethanol distillation plants and increase consumption of ethanol in the ethanol producing states and the adjoining regions before the year 2025, said a government release. A report on ethanol blending in India 2020-2025 will be released by the Prime Minister on the World Environment Day on June 5, the theme for which is ‘promotion of biofuels for better environment’. PM Narendra Modi will join the event through video conferencing at 11 am. At the event he will also interact with farmers for their first-hand experience as enablers under the Ethanol Blended Petrol and Compressed BioGas Programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-3-ethanol-stations-in-pune-as-a-pilot-project-on-june-5-101622828538380.html
04-06-2021||India||India opposes 'vaccine passport', Harsh Vardhan says idea 'discriminatory'||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday conveyed India's strong opposition to the idea of vaccine passport at a G7 plus ministerial session. Dr Vardhan said that it is still immature to implement such a move — in which countries may allow only vaccinated travellers — as the vaccination coverage of developing countries is less than the developed countries."At this stage of the pandemic, it is pertinent to also discuss India's concern over the idea of a vaccine passport. Considering the fact of the lower levels of vaccination of the population in developing countries in contrast to the developed countries and given the still-unaddressed issues related to equitable and affordable access, supply and distribution of safe and effective vaccines, India would propose that the implementation of a vaccine passport will be hugely discriminatory and disadvantageous to the developing countries. India would suggest that the same should be implemented duly taking into consideration emerging evidence of the efficacy of vaccines and under the over-arching coordination by WHO duly attending to the anomaly of access and affordability as it exists today," the health minister said.US taking 'very close look' at vaccine passports for travelExpressed India's concern & strong opposition to 'Vaccine Passport' at this juncture of the #pandemic With vaccine coverage as a % of population in developing countries still low compared to developed countries, such an initiative could prove to be highly discriminatory.@G7 pic.twitter.com/zh6nhkEfbvThe minister tweeted that with India being invited as a guest nation for this year's G7, he had the privilege to address the health ministers meeting via video conference. "Expressed India's concern & strong opposition to 'Vaccine Passport' at this juncture of the #pandemic. With vaccine coverage as a % of population in developing countries still low compared to developed countries, such an initiative could prove to be highly discriminatory," the minister tweeted. The Group of Seven is an intergovernmental organisation comprising Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States.According to reports, the United States is taking a close look at vaccine passports for travel. The European Union and some Asian governments are reportedly working on some digital vaccination certificates to resume international travel. All this is at the negotiation level as the World Health Organization doesn’t recommend vaccination proof as a requirement for international travel, citing "unequal distribution of vaccines". The Centre too clarified earlier that there has been no consensus in this regard. As talks regarding vaccine passports are going on, it was apprehended that Indians inoculated with Covaxin will not be allowed international travel as Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is yet to be approved by the World Health Organization. While the Centre has clarified that no country has taken such a move, it confirmed on Friday that it is actively pursuing Bharat Biotech's application for WHO emergency listing with both Bharat Biotech and WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opposes-vaccine-passport-harsh-varshan-says-idea-discriminatory-101622826648951.html
04-06-2021||India||India's 7 major Covid-19 variants of concern found in Varanasi, adjoining areas: Study||There are at least seven major variants of coronavirus, including B.1.617 and B.1.351 (Beta), in Varanasi and its adjoining areas, according to a study conducted by the Banaras Hindu University and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB).The CCMB, an institute of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), said 130 samples were sequenced in this study."The team at CCMB sequenced these samples and found out that there were at least seven major variants circulating in the region,” it said.Also read: Relatives throw Covid patient's body into river in UP, booked after video goes viralThe Multidisciplinary Research Unit of the BHU collected the samples from Varanasi and areas around the city, mostly in April."Among the Variants of Concern (VoC), the most predominant variant we found in our study was B.1.617. This variant was also reported to be one of the major drivers of the second Covid-19 wave in India," said professor Royana Singh, who heads the Multidisciplinary Research Unit.The B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus was first detected in India, and it also had a sub lineage, the B.1.617.2.“Just as in most of India, the B.1.617.2 variant (aka Delta variant) was the most common one in the samples we studied. They were found among 36 per cent of the total samples. Other VoCs such as the B.1.351, detected in South Africa for the first time, was also found in this area," said Rakesh Mishra, adviser at CCMB.Also read | '100 bodies per day': Long wait for last rites as fatalities rise in Delhi“This study confirms yet again that the Delta variant is the most widespread coronavirus variant in the country right now. But at the same time, it is imperative for us to keep an eye on the other emerging variants in the country to prevent another unprecedented surge of cases," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-major-covid-variants-of-concern-found-in-varanasi-adjoining-areas-study-101622823540243.html
04-06-2021||India||When will Bharat Biotech's Covaxin get WHO nod? Govt answers||The government is looking forward to receiving recognition from the World Health Organization for its indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research. This will be a milestone for the India-made vaccine, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said, during the press briefing on Friday."We are working with both Bharat Biotech and WHO to make it happen. Data sharing is going on. we are very keen that this milestone is achieved as soon as possible," Dr Paul said, explaining that the process entails various stages of data sharing. The government will pursue the case on both the front, he said.Bharat Biotech on May 24 conveyed to the government that it has already submitted 90 per cent of the documents for obtaining the emergency use listing for Covaxin. The approval is expected by September, the Hyderabad-based company said.China's Sinovac has recently got approval from WHO, making it the second Chinese vaccine to be recognised by the international body for emergency listing. Sinopharm’s Covid-19 vaccine was already recognised by the organisation.Among the vaccines that are being administered in India, Serum Institute's Covishield has been granted emergency use approval by WHO.Why does it matter? WHO emergency listing gives international recognition to vaccines. Though there has been no decision on vaccine passport, it was speculated that countries may allow travellers inoculated only by the vaccines which have WHO approval. It was apprehended that Indians vaccinated by Covaxin may not be allowed to travel to other countries. But the Centre has clarified that no country has come up with such a practice and a negative RT-PCR report remains valid for the entry.According to the 'Status of COVID-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process' guidance document dated May 18 on the WHO website, Bharat Biotech submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 and "more information (is) required". A pre-submission meeting is expected "to be planned May-June 2021", the guidance document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-get-who-nod-govt-answers-101622822594110.html
04-06-2021||India||Assam stops 1st dose of Covaxin due to scarcity, fixes Covid-19 treatment rates for pvt hospitals||The Assam government on Friday decided to stop giving the first dose of Covaxin to all eligible persons with immediate effect due to scarcity of the vaccine produced by Bharat Biotech. “Due to problems with supply of Covaxin, we have decided to stop administering first doses of it in the state for the time being. We have around 150,000 people who got the first dose and are due for their second doses. They will be given their second doses within the 42 days’ time limit,” health minister Keshab Mahanta said. At present Assam has around 320,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. The state will receive around 50,000 doses of Covaxin within the next few days and some more later. The government also fixed rates of treatment at private hospitals in the state for Covid-19 patients. The rates have been fixed in two categories—for general hospitals and super-specialty hospitals. From now Covid-19 patients staying in general hospitals will have to pay a maximum of ₹4,000 daily for stay in general wards, ₹5,000 for private wards, ₹9,000 daily for ICU without ventilator and ₹12,000 for ICU with ventilators. For super-specialty hospitals, the rates would be ₹5,000 daily for general wards, ₹6500 for private wards, ₹10,000 for ICU without ventilator and ₹15,000 for ICU with ventilators. The rates would include registration, bed, boarding (food), nursing and consultation charges and tests and medicines but exclude high-end tests, costly medicines like Remdesivir and treatment for co-morbid conditions. “These are the maximum rates which private hospitals can charge per day. To give relief to patients, these hospitals can charge less than the amounts mentioned. The rates were fixed after consultations with private hospitals,” Mahanta said. From now all patients with co-morbidities will have to stay in Covid Care Centres or hospitals. Earlier it was mandatory only for patients above 50 years of age. The government decided to set up paediatric ICUs at all seven medical college hospitals in the state. The daily vaccination dose administered across the state, which is at present around 50,000, to be increased to nearly 70,000 doses with focus on Kamrup (Metropolitan), Nagaon, Sonitpur, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Cachar districts. The government also decided to provide interest free loans (for three months) to private hospitals in the state to procure Covid19 vaccines from producers. As per Centre’s guidelines, 25% of vaccines allotted to states will be given to private healthcare centres. “Due to cooperation of the public and restrictions in place, the daily Covid19 figures for Assam, both for new patients as well as deaths, have come down slightly in the past few days,” Those not able to visit vaccination centres due to age, disabilities or disease will be provided with jabs at homes or at places close to their homes. Assam recorded 4309 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and 46 deaths. The positivity rate in the state has dropped from around 8% few weeks ago to 4% at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-stops-1st-dose-of-covaxin-due-to-scarcity-fixes-covid-19-treatment-rates-for-pvt-hospitals-101622824278172.html
04-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra records 14,152 new cases of Covid-19 in 24 hrs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra reports 14,152 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours; 973 in MumbaiMaharashtra reported 14,152 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department bulletin issued on Friday evening. Read MoreIndian Railways aims to become 'net zero carbon emitter' by 2030The Indian Railways said on Friday that it is working on a mission to become a 'net zero carbon emitter' before 2030, and in the process become the largest 'Green Railways' in the world. Read MoreAdar Poonawalla thanks Biden, Jaishankar for US policy changeSerum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday thanked the US government and India's foreign minister S Jaishankar as the US lifted restrictions from AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sanofi. Read MoreUS yet to fix country-specific vaccine allocation, FDA nod for AstraZeneca jabs likely soonThe US is yet to decide country-specific allocations for the first tranche of 25 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines it will donate though figures will be determined in consultation with governments and the WHO-backed COVAX facility, a top American official said on Friday. Read More'Hard to look past him among recent greats': Brett Lee picks Virat Kohli as world's best batsman, Pat Cummins as bowlerFormer Australia pacer Brett Lee picked India captain Virat Kohli and Australia seamer Pat Cummins as the best batsman and bowler of the world currently. Read MoreYami Gautam ties the knot with Uri director Aditya Dhar in 'intimate wedding'. See first pic as coupleActor Yami Gautam has tied the knot with her Uri: The Surgical Strike director Aditya Dhar. Read More'Army chief a realist': On India-Pak ceasefire, views from both sides of borderIn late February this year, the Indian and Pakistani armies agreed to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire pact. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharashtra-records-14-152-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-24-hrs-and-all-the-latest-news-101622819212082.html
04-06-2021||India||DCGI allows Serum Institute to manufacture Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine in India||The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), Dr VG Somani, on Friday granted the Serum Institute of India (SII) to manufacture the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), days after the Pune-based vaccine manufacturer had applied for the same. "The DCGI has granted permission to the Serum Institute to manufacture the Sputnik Covid-19 vaccine in India for examination, test, and analysis at its licensed Hadapsar facility with certain conditions," news agency PTI reported, citing official sources.Also Read: Russia may start trial of Covid-19 vaccine combining Sputnik V, Chinese shotsIndia granted emergency use authorisation to Sputnik V on April 13. A test license, according to the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) website, is granted for the import of small quantities of drugs for purposes of examination, testing, or analysis. This license, unless suspended or revoked, will be enforced for a period of three years from the date of its issuance on June 4.The Pune-based SII has collaborated with Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Moscow, in Russia for developing Sputnik V at its licensed Hadapsar facility. The SII has already told the government that it will be able to manufacture and supply 10 crore Covishield doses in June, while it is also manufacturing the Novavax vaccine, the regulatory clearance for which is awaited from the United States.Earlier on Thursday, the Serum Institute of India had sought out the much-coveted DCGI nod to manufacture the Russian vaccine. According to the four conditions set by the drug regulator, the Serum Institute was asked to submit a copy of the agreement between it and the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology for transfer of cell bank and virus stock and a copy of the agreement for technology transfer with Gamaleya.Also Read: Delhi likely to get Sputnik shots only after June 20, says KejriwalThe Pune-based SII was also asked to submit a copy of the RCGM permission to import cell bank and virus stock and a copy of the RCGM permission to initiate research and development of viral vector vaccine Sputnik V, an official source told PTI.Sputnik V is currently being distributed in India by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which signed a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) that globally markets the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute. As part of the deal, Dr Reddy’s will distribute the first 250 million doses of Sputnik V.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-allows-serum-institute-to-manufacture-sputnik-v-vaccine-in-india-101622820702647.html
04-06-2021||India||PM Modi says vaccine wastage still high, asks officials to look into it||Vaccine wastage in the country is still on the higher side and this remains an issue that needs attention, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told officials on Friday as he reviewed the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive of the country. As the peak of the second wave of the pandemic is flattening with every state reporting an improvement in the Covid-19 situation, PM Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the progress of the vaccination drive.At the review meeting, where several Union ministers including Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Harsh Vardhan, Prakash Javadekar among others were present, officials briefed the prime minister about the current availability of vaccines and how the vaccine manufacturers are ramping it up. The PM was told that the government was actively working with vaccine manufacturers to facilitate more production units, financing and the supply of raw materials.The prime minister was briefed on advance visibility being provided to states on vaccine availability, with officials noting that states have been asked to pass on this information to the district level so that there is no inconvenience to people, a statement from the PMO said.Vaccine wastage can take place owing to various reasons starting from vaccine hesitancy to the breaking of the vials during transportation. A few weeks ago, the Centre released data showing Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh as the highest vaccine waters, but the state contested the claim and said that the Centre did not have complete data. The Centre on Friday said India has overtaken the US in terms of the number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The number of India is 17.2 crore while the United States stands at 16.9 crore, the Centre said.In India, around 45 per cent of 60 plus population has been covered with at least one dose, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said. "We have overtaken the US in terms of the number of people who have received at least a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine. It is reassuring that we are steadily improving and intensifying the vaccine campaign and it will be intensified so much more in the days to come," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-vaccine-wastage-still-high-asks-officials-to-look-into-it-101622820053558.html
04-06-2021||India||'Congress is frustrated with Central Vista because...': Anurag Thakur's jibe at opposition||Finance minister of state Anurag Thakur on Friday said the Congress is frustrated with the Central Vista project as the party has "missed the opportunity" to name it after the Gandhi family. Trashing Congress' narrative that it is opposing the project because of the pandemic, the Union minister asked if Congress-ruled states have halted infrastructure projects because of the pandemic."Rajasthan government has given approval to reconstruction and infrastructure work to the tune of ₹125 crore. The Rajasthan Chief Minister is busy laying the foundation stone for a ₹60 crore auditorium, a ₹20 crore stadium and spending crores on beautification of roads etc. Maharashtra government is constructing a residential hostel facility at Nariman Point for its legislators worth ₹900 crores," the minister said. Why Rahul Gandhi is not asking his chief ministers to utilise these funds towards vaccination "instead of charging the poor four times the cost", the minister said. The Delhi high court on Monday dismissed a plea against the construction of the Central Vista amid the pandemic and said the project is vital, essential and of national importance. The bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh imposed a cost of ₹one lakh on the petitioners."Unlike in the Congress party, it is neither named nor owned by one ‘family’. I can understand the frustration of the Congress party as they have missed an opportunity to name it after the ‘Gandhi Family’. Congress leadership needs lessons in civics, the official residences and offices belong to the nation, not an individual,” Anurag Thakur said adding that the project belongs to the people of India and the demand for a new Parliament building was raised by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-is-frustrated-with-central-vista-because-anurag-thakur-s-jibe-at-opposition-101622818632127.html
04-06-2021||India||SC notice to Rajasthan for medical treatment to Asaram||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the response of the Rajasthan government on a plea by self-styled godman Asaram Bapu seeking bail for his medical treatment. Asaram requested for treatment at the Prakash Deep Institute of Ayurvedic Sciences, Raiwala, situated on the Haridwar-Rishikesh highway in Uttarakhand.The 83-year-old is serving a life term at Jodhpur Jail for raping a minor at his ashram. After contracting Covid-19 recently in jail, he was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur for treatment. After recovering from the disease, the doctors advised him a follow-up for his gastrointestinal bleeding. Asaram approached the Rajasthan High Court for suspension of his sentence or bail to be treated through Ayurveda and not allopathy. The High Court dismissed his petition on May 21.A Vacation Bench of Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari issued notice on Asaram’s plea for the limited purpose to know the response of the Rajasthan government to shift the petitioner to the medical institute of his choice situated in Uttarakhand. The bench posted the matter for June 8.Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra who appeared for the petitioner pointed out that the condition of his client was critical due to the gastrointestinal bleeding. He also has age-related medical complications for which he was given blood thinners by AIIMS, Jodhpur. “He needs holistic treatment and Ayurveda preferably.”The petition filed by Asaram requested for suspension of sentence or interim bail for two months, the period required for his treatment. A special court at Jodhpur had convicted and sentenced the self-styled godman in April 2018. He is also facing trial in another alleged rape case in Gujarat.The Rajasthan High Court while dismissing Asaram’s petition had noted that the treatment for gastrointestinal bleeding was available at MDM Hospital at Jodhpur. The HC had called for a medical report from AIIMS, Jodhpur where Asaram’s condition was found to be stable. Even his haemoglobin levels had improved.Asaram had expressed in writing to the Court that he does not desire to take the allopathic line of treatment and should be allowed to undergo Ayurvedic treatment at his Jodhpur ashram. The HC considered all aspects and noted that his release on bail will affected the other pending trail in Gujarat. Further, the HC noted that whenever the convict is taken out of prison for attending court during trial, his followers would form huge congregations resulting in a law and order situation that would increase the risk of spreading the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-rajasthan-for-medical-treatment-to-asaram-101622818218044.html
04-06-2021||India||Indian Railways aims to become 'net zero carbon emitter' by 2030||The Indian Railways said on Friday that it is working on a mission to become a 'net zero carbon emitter' before 2030, and in the process become the largest 'Green Railways' in the world. The statement by the national transporter came on the eve of World Environment Day, which is celebrated annually on June 5 to encourage climate action and protection.To demonstrate its commitment, the Indian Railways said that country's railway network is being electrified to reduce pollution and carry on transportation in an environment-friendly way. This project to electrify the railway tracks has increased nearly ten times since 2014, the national transporter said, adding that all the balance Broad Gauge (BG) routes are set to be completely electrified by December 2023. "Head-On-Generation systems, bio-toilets, and LED lights recreate the train itself into a travel mode that's kinder to the environment while maintaining comparable passenger comfort," it said.The Indian Railways also has plans to develop its dedicated freight corridors as a low carbon green transportation network with a long-term low carbon roadmap, "which will enable it to adopt more energy-efficient and carbon-friendly technologies, processes, and practices."Several railway projects have also received climate certification, which legitimises carbon-friendly technologies, processes, and practices, it said. According to Indian Railways, it signed an MoU with the Confederation of Indian Industry in July 2016 for the facilitation of Green initiatives on IR. Moreover, several workshops, production units, loco sheds, and one store depot have also been 'GreenCo' certified.Green certification mainly covers the assessment of parameters having a direct bearing on the environment, such as energy conservation measures, use of renewable energy, greenhouse gas emission reduction, water conservation, waste management, material conservation, recycling, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-aims-to-become-net-zero-carbon-emitter-by-2030-101622814895795.html
04-06-2021||India||India overtook US in number of people vaccinated with at least one dose: Govt||India has overtaken the US in terms of number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the government on Friday said and noted that the vaccination campaign will be further intensified in the coming days.Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said 43 per cent of the 60 plus population has been covered with at least one dose and over 45 years, 37 per cent of the population has been covered.Citing the ourworldindata updated on Thursday, India, in terms of number of people who received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, has administered 17.2 crore doses and the US which was leading the pack is 16.9 crore."We have overtaken the US in terms of number of people who have received at least a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine. It is reassuring that we are steadily improving and intensifying the vaccine campaign and it will be intensified so much more in the days to come," Paul said."I want to appeal to enhance the pace of their vaccination and I want to appeal to senior citizens to get themselves vaccinated. Let us hope to make it to 50 per cent in the coming few weeks," he said.Paul said while the second wave is declining in the context of global data it may be worth mentioning that Covid-19 cases per 10 lakh population in India are 20,519, while the world average is still higher at 22,181."So even with the second wave the overall burden experienced, adjusted for population, is relatively modest. Covid-19 deaths per million in India are 245 per million population, while the world average is 477," he said.Noting that this situation was achieved due to strong action by the people of India, states, UTs, municipalities, districts, villages, panchayats and families, Paul asked the people to maintain discipline even when the restrictions are lifted."What is working is we are not back to wearing masks more diligently, what is working is now the testing is more generous. What is working is we have imposed restrictions in many many districts and that is making it difficult for the virus to reach other people."It is not the wish of the virus to forget us but we are making it difficult for the virus to travel. The connotation is when we reverse this process the situation can again become unacceptable and that is something we need to keep in mind," he said.He said if containment measures, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour or vaccination pace slackens, the situation can again go into a difficult phase."...if we suddenly get into the same behaviour what we were doing in January and February as a society it (peak) will come back again in a certain way," he said.Paul underscored the need to buy time to achieve high vaccination coverage."We have to buy time and we have to buy time particularly to ensure that we achieve a high coverage of our vaccination and that is the duration of intense discipline that we want to exercise."So remember the journey is still tough and we have to be responsible. This situation is a result of efforts and these efforts need to be continued in a calibrated way for us to open up but not to allow the virus to overtake us," he said.Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said there has been a continuous decline in the daily new Covid-19 cases."Almost 68 per cent decline in Covid cases has been noted since the highest reported peak of cases on May 7," he said.He said there has been a decrease in active cases by more than 21 lakh since the peak of active cases on May 10. Registering a decline of 56 per cent after around 50 days, active cases have been recorded at 16,35,993."The number of districts reporting more than 100 average daily new Covid-19 cases have decreased from 538 (between April 29 to May 5) to 257 (between May 27 to June 2)," he said.Agarwal said there has been a steady decline in weekly case positivity even while testing increased multifold since the last four weeks."The number of districts reporting less than 5 per cent case positivity has increased from 92 (on week ending May 7) to 377 (on week ending June 3)," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-overtook-us-in-number-of-people-vaccinated-with-at-least-one-dose-govt-101622815958596.html
04-06-2021||India||UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate inches close to 97.4%; higher than national average||As Covid-19 recovery rate in Uttar Pradesh continues to be better, the state on Thursday recorded the recovery rate at 97.4%, which is higher than the national average. A better recovery rate is an indicative of milder cases in the state and lesser deaths.Under its Covid-19 control strategy of ‘Trace-Test-Treat’, the Yogi Adityanath-led state government has conducted 3,18,714 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours, out of which nearly 1.40 lakh were RT-PCR examinations.The Uttar Pradesh government has also crossed the 50 million Covid-19 tests frontier earlier this week. The state has so far tested 5,07,23,809 samples for the coronavirus infection.With 1,175 positive cases on Thursday, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) has come down to 0.3% and has been lesser than 1% for over a week now. The weekly positivity rate stands at nearly 0.475%.The daily positivity rate (TPR) is much higher in Kerala (15.22%), followed by Tamil Nadu (nearly 15%), West Bengal (nearly 12%) and Maharashtra (nearly 6%). It is to be noted that Covid-19 testing in the above mentioned states has also been much less as compared to Uttar Pradesh.Uttar Pradesh has also been able to prove wrong the apprehensions of specialists that the state would become a hot spot of Covid-19 cases, where more than a lakh cases would surface every day and active cases would reach 30 lakhs.On the contrary, the active caseload in Uttar Pradesh has declined to 22,877 cases from a high of over 3,10,783 cases in the span of just 35 days and the fresh cases have been below 2,000 for six straight days in a row. On April 30, the number of active cases stood at 3.10 lakh.Signalling control over the spread of coronavirus infection, two districts of Uttar Pradesh--Kanpur Dehat and Shravasti reported no fresh case of Covid-19 infection, whereas as many as 37 districts logged fresh cases in just single digit and no district reported fresh cases in three digits in the last 24 hours. The patients in home isolation have also been reduced to nearly 12,000 now.The special testing drive in ne 97,941 revenue villages to save rural areas from Covid-19 disease with the help of over 4 lakh members of 73,441 surveillance committees has been playing a crucial role in checking the spread of the infection.The government is getting nearly 2 lakh tests through 8,000 Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) done in the rural areas of the state everyday. Surveillance of 17,16,24,758 people have so far been done by the surveillance committees in the remote areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-covid-19-recovery-rate-inches-close-to-97-4-higher-than-national-average-101622812221970.html
04-06-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla thanks Biden, Jaishankar for US policy change, says vaccine production will increase||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday thanked the US government and India's foreign minister S Jaishankar as the US lifted restrictions from AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sanofi. The move will "hopefully increase the supply of raw materials globally and to India; boosting our vaccine production capacity and strengthening our united fight against this pandemic," Poonawalla tweeted. Indian diplomacy is focussed on securing the vaccine supply chain, the minister of external affairs tweeted, responding to Poonawalla's tweet.Thanks to the efforts of @POTUS, @WhiteHouse, & @DrSJaishankar, this policy change will hopefully increase the supply of raw materials globally and to India; boosting our vaccine production capacity and strengthening our united fight against this pandemic. https://t.co/bHADBwiUnmAlso Read: US yet to fix country-specific vaccine allocation, FDA nod for AstraZeneca jabs likely soonThe US administration released its vaccine sharing plan and its decision to remove Defense Production Act priority ratings on AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sanofi vaccines. With this relaxation, the companies can now decide whom they want to sell their vaccines to.Indian diplomacy is focussed on securing the vaccine supply chain. https://t.co/lI9TY3XhzH"While the manufacturers will continue to make these three vaccines, this action will allow U.S.-based companies that supply these vaccine manufacturers to make their own decisions on which orders to fulfil first," the White House statement said.Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine producer, has tied up with AstraZeneca and is producing the Oxford vaccine, known as Covishield in India. It has also conducted trials in India and will also supply Covishield to World Health Organization's vaccine alliance Covax. Serum has also an agreement with Novavax and will produce its vaccine under the name Covavax. Earlier, Adar Poonawalla raised the issue of US restriction on the export of raw material required for vaccine production. The restrictions were put in place in February and the US defended the restriction on the export of key raw materials saying it needs to cater to the need of the American people first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adar-poonawalla-thanks-biden-jaishankar-for-us-policy-change-says-vaccine-production-will-increase-101622812988249.html
04-06-2021||India||Assam police arrest 2 for assaulting junior doctor at Hailakandi hospital||Silchar: Two persons including a woman who were accused of assaulting a doctor last week after the death of a patient in Assam’s Hailakandi civil hospital were arrested on Friday morning. The woman is being kept in a room at the Hailakandi police station after she tested positive for Covid-19.Police officer Pranab Kumar Saikia said Rumpi Malakar and Himangshu Malakar, arrested from their house on Friday morning, were among those who had assaulted Dr Gaurav Bhattacharjee after a Covid patient died within minutes of being admitted on May 27. The patient’s relatives and friends blamed the hospital for the death.“The patient had severe breathing issues. He died within a few minutes of reaching the hospital. We could not even start the treatment,” said Dr Bhattacharjee. The young doctor said it was his job to declare the patient dead.“But they started shouting at me and some family members started beating me. I was saved by my colleagues but no immediate action was taken against the culprits by the police. Not only me, but my colleagues are also afraid of going to hospitals because at any moment we can face such assaults,” Dr Bhattacharjee said.Superintendent of police of Hailakandi Ramandeep Kaur said strict action will be taken against the two accused. She also promised security arrangements at the district’s health care centres will be upgraded.Asked about the week-long gap between the incident and the arrest, said the police had received a complaint from Dr Bhattacharjee’s mother. “But the problem was that the doctor could not identify the culprits. He was also hesitant to lodge a complaint initially and they came to the police station a day after the incident. Now the accused have been arrested and we are also working on increasing security arrangements inside all the health centres in the district,” she said.Dr Bhattacharjee’s family, however, is apprehensive about him joining back.“In this pandemic, doctors and health workers are risking their lives but it seems people do not try to understand this. We are not happy and convinced with the way the administration and police are dealing with the case. After my son was assaulted, we lodged a complaint in the local police station. I requested the police to ensure the security of my son and other doctors when they work in government health centres. But it took seven days to arrest the accused who were living not far from the police station. I’m still afraid to send my son to duty.”Dr Sudip Chakraborty, superintendent of Hailakandi civil hospital, said they needed better security for staffers. “We want more security arrangements inside our hospital so that doctors and health workers feel safe while working. We are also planning to install CCTV cameras at the Civil Hospital.,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-arrest-2-for-assaulting-junior-doctor-at-hailakandi-hospital-101622813358289.html
04-06-2021||India||Punjab to ask private hospitals to return Covid-19 vaccines after criticism||Punjab will have private hospitals return the Covaxin doses sold to them at a higher rate amid much criticism over the move, officials aware of the matter said and added state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has issued directions in this regard and also ordered a probe.Principal Secretary (health) Hussain Lal confirmed the move but did not comment further.HT on Thursday reported how the state government was selling the Covaxin bought for ₹400 a dose to private hospitals for ₹1,060 a dose. The hospitals were, in turn, administering the vaccines for ₹1,560 a dose.Also Read | Profiteering from pandemic: 80k vials already sold, officials now say it was one-time measureThe authorities earlier justified the move, with an official saying that it was “only a one-time measure”.Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday accused the Punjab government of profiteering by selling Covid-19 vaccines to the public “at a premium” and to private hospitals “at a profit”. In a video message, Javadekar alleged 140,000 doses of Covaxin were sold to the state for ₹400 per dose. He added they were then sold to about 20 private hospitals for as much as ₹1,000 per dose. “The private hospitals are selling these doses to the people for ₹1,500 in turn,” he alleged.“The whole state is affected by the pandemic. However, vaccine management is poor, and the government has not even paid attention to testing. For the last three days, the entire government machinery is in Delhi… who is going to look after the state?”Also Read | Govt move to sell vaccine at a premium to private hospitals raises eyebrowsChief Minister Amarinder Singh has been in Delhi to meet a three-member party panel formed to resolve infighting in the ruling Congress. A section of leaders in the Congress is believed to be unwilling to contest next year’s assembly election under Singh’s leadership.“For their own internal politics, they are ignoring the people of Punjab. This is a big sin being committed by Congress. Rahul Gandhi, instead of giving lectures to others, should first ensure that work is done being properly in the state,” Javadekar said.Union minister Anurag Thakur, Shiromani Akali Dal leaders Sukhbir Badal, Harsimrat Kaur Badal also hit out at the Punjab government for profiteering from the pandemic.Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday demanded a high court-monitored probe into the manner in which the Congress government “is creating an artificial shortage of vaccines for the common man by selling doses at a hefty profit to private hospitals.”“A case should be registered against state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for diverting vaccines meant for the common man to private institutions,” Sukhbir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-to-ask-private-hospitals-to-return-covid-19-vaccines-after-criticism-101622812637729.html
04-06-2021||India||No deaths reported in those infected with Covid-19 after vaccination, finds AIIMS study||The All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), New Delhi, has conducted a study on individuals who tested Covid-19 positive after vaccination and revealed that there was no fatality. The study was conducted during April-May when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak.Out of the 63 individuals — 41 male, 22 female —enrolled in the study, 10 individuals were administered Covishield, while 53 received Covaxin. 36 people were administered two doses, and 27 individuals received at least one dose of either Covid-19 vaccine. The patients were aged between 21 and 92 and had no comorbidities.Viral load, the measure of the total number of viral particles in a particular volume of fluid, was high at the time of diagnosis even in vaccinated patients and they also reported high temperature persisting for 5-7 days, similar to symptoms of unvaccinated patients."Viral load at the time of diagnosis was high in all the patients irrespective of vaccination status or type of vaccine received and the initial course of disease with high-grade non-remitting fever lasted for five to seven days in the vaccinated group, similar to the clinical presentation in unvaccinated patients," the report said.The study found that in case of breakthrough infection, which is when someone contracts Covid-19 in spite of being fully or partly vaccinated, the Covid-variants of B.1.617.2 and B.1.1.7 were the two variants of concern."While antibody levels for a subset of patients were available, they became infected nevertheless and presented to the emergency just like other patients, putting in doubt the protection offered and or clinical relevance of total immunoglobulin G (IgG) as a surrogate of COVID-19 immunity," the report added.Cases of infection in vaccinated individuals have also been reported in the US. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said that a total of 9,000 individuals had been infected after being vaccinated at the end of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deaths-reported-in-those-infected-with-covid-19-after-vaccination-finds-aiims-study-101622812241655.html
04-06-2021||India||On World Environment Day, India’s top ten concerns||The 2021 World Environment Day is being observed at the most difficult of times with India battling on two fronts — the second wave of Covid-19 has caused devastation, and evidence shows that the country has not augured well on environmental norms. Water and air continues to be as polluted, and forest degradation continues, as India tries to revive its economy.India has contributed 30% of the global Covid-19 deaths in May and unlike the first wave, the second wave has spread more to rural areas than cities. In May 2021, 52 % of new cases and 53% of the deaths were from rural areas and health ministry data showed that spread of Covid in villages started from April and it got steam in May.Data from the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE)‘s annual state of environment report shows that bad environment with the Covid-19 pandemic can have a devastating impact on rural India, where health infrastructure is very poor. There is a 78% shortage of medical human resource and 32% of health infrastructure in villages as compared to urban areas, the report said.Even as India battles these twin crises, the key to the future lies in ecosystem restoration — the theme for this year’s World Environment Day. Ecosytem restoration basically means reviving old water bodies, building natural forests, providing space to wildlife and reducing water pollution to restore aquatic life. Healthier ecosystems, with richer biodiversity, yield greater benefits such as more fertile soil, bigger yields of timber and fish, and larger stores of greenhouse gases. The UN has dedicated this decade for ecosystem restoration.Also Read | World Environment Day 2021: History, significance and themeIndia needs to work on ecosystem restoration as its water and air quality is deteriorating and the impact of the climate crisis on people and agriculture is clearly visible. Here are the 10 major environmental concerns for India.Climate crisisThe year 2020 was the eighth warmest year on record, and 2016 was the warmest ever, followed by 2009. 12 of the 15 warmest years were recorded during the past 15 years (2006-2020), and 2011-20 was the warmest decade on record.This is a warning for India, with the average yearly temperature in 2020 being 25.78 degree Celsius. India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows that warming is happening in all seasons, with average difference in summer and winter temperature being five degree Celsius as compared to four degree Celsius in 1901. CSE report also highlighted that the poorest and populated states of India such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Odisha and Chhattisgarh were most vulnerable to the climate crisis. The vulnerability index is based on 14 indicators which include social-economic condition of people and ability of states to adapt to climate change.The biggest human consequence of the climate crisis is large scale displacement. India is the fourth-worst climate induced disaster hit country in the world, according to Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre (IDMC), and has suffered several disasters such as floods, storms and cyclones in 2020 and 2021 till May. India is also prone to other sudden and slow-onset hazards including earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, storm surges and droughts. The 2011-2020 decade saw 33 cyclones, the highest since 1971. An average of around 3.73 million people a year got displaced between 2008 and 2020 in India, the majority by flooding during the monsoon, the CSE said in its report.AgricultureEnvironmental degradation is a major cause of concern for Indian agriculture, with rising use of insecticides and pesticides, which is contaminating soil and ground water. According to Jal Shakti ministry, around half of ground water in agriculture rich districts of Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan is contaminated. Ground water is also depleting in these states because of excess use. A study done by University of Michigan published in March 2021 said that depleting ground water will cause a fall in agriculture produce, especially in wheat growing states such as Haryana and Punjab by 20% by 2025.Also Read | Indian tourists most concerned about polluted beaches, overtourism: SurveyThe impact of the climate crisis is clearly visible on agriculture, with IMD reporting increase in extreme weather events such as hailstorms, excess rain and storms. These factors, various studies have found, have contributed to high farmer suicides in India. According to National Crime Records Bureau, 5957 farmers died by suicide in 2019 as compared to 5763 in 2018.Even though the government of India has launched a mission for organic farming, only two percent of India’s 140 million hectares of farm land is used for organic farming. Organic farming is the highest in Sikkim (100%) followed by Andaman and Nicobar Islands (60%) but is very low in agriculture rich states of Punjab (0.4%) and Haryana (0.7%), said CSE’s state of environment report.WaterAbout 80% of surface water in India is polluted due to dump sewage and garbage, and an alarming percentage of ground water is contaminated by various organic and inorganic sources, said a study Water Sources and Challenges in India published in March 2020.Water bodies in most places are shrinking and according to minor irrigation (MI) census, water bodies declined by about 8% between 2001 and 2006 and another 10% were not in use because of poor quality of water.Less than half of country’s 1.3 billion people receives safe drinking water, though, to be sure, the Jal Shakti ministry has ambitiously and actively been working on its mission of connecting every home with a tap drinking water by 2024.Contrary to general belief, the water quality of India’s 19 major rivers did not improve significantly during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. While Ganga and four other rivers became dirtier, the water quality in another seven rivers remained unchanged, showed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) report. Discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage and no freshwater discharges from the upstream are main reasons for pollution levels in rivers.According to CPCB report, India’s major rivers such as Ganga, Yamuna and Godavari have not seen any significant improvement in water quality despite the government spending a huge amount of money for setting up affluent treatment plants to prevent sewage from flowing directly into rivers.Air pollutionOf the 6.67 million deaths due to air pollution in 2019, 1.67 million were in India, the second highest after China, according to a Lancet report. According to a CSE report, deaths because of particulate matter 2.5 pollution have increased by 2.5 times in the past decade, with air pollution rising in most places in India, especially the Indo-Gangetic plains. Also Read | Kerala retains top spot, Bihar at the bottom in SDG India IndexJust five states — Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, West Bengal and Rajasthan — account for half of the deaths due to air pollution in 2019. The economic cost was equivalent to 1.36% of India’s GDP. The only positive news is that in the past two decades, household air pollution has reduced by about 40% due to use of cooking gas instead of fire-wood.Brown industriesThere is an eight percentage point increase in polluting industries between 2019 and 2021, with 35% increase of such industries in Uttar Pradesh and 12% in West Bengal. Any industry which discharges waste water more than 100 kilolitres a day and/or 429 hazardous chemicals used by the industry as specified under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules of 1989 under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are considered polluting industries.According to Jal Shakti Ministry, industries in Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Delhi, Bihar and Arunachal have poor compliance with environmental norms. With the rise in hazardous industries between 2017-18 and 2019-20, total waste generation has gone up by almost 7 %. Almost 50% of the hazardous units are in five states and generate 65% of the total waste, says the CSE report.Unsustainable citiesMany Indian cities are environmentally unsustainable. Only 28% of sewage generated in India is treated to remove environmentally hazardously effluents before being released to water bodies. In the last 15 years, India’s sewage treating capacity has increased by only 15%. 10 states in India, including Bihar and Assam, have almost negligible facility for treating sewage. The water bodies have shrunk by about 20% in the last 20 years. This is just one facet of a larger decline in environmental standards across various parameters in Indian cities. BiodiversityIndia is one of the world’s most bio-diverse countries, with 7% of the world’s animal and plant species and 21% of its geographic area under forest cover. To pursue higher economic growth and meet aspirations of people, India is sacrificing a part of its biodiversity. And measuring the health of forest is the best way to understand country’s biodiversity status.Also Read | NGT forms committee to review environmental impact of inland aquacultureAccording to CSE, timber and non-timber forest produce services in India are on decline, suggesting overexploitation of the forest resources. Another indicator of poor forest health is that 14 states have seen a fall in carbon retention services with diversion of forest for projects. The highest fall was reported in Jharkhand, followed by Karnataka and Telangana.Forest firesThe warming of temperature and reduction in rainfall has also led to increase in forest fires in India. As of May 1, the number of fire alerts recorded by the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) was 433,581. This is quite a jump, even though the official forest fire season of the country is from February to June. The year 2016, the hottest on record when India’s annual temperature rose 0.71°C over the annual average of 25°C, saw 541,135 forest fires—the most in a decade, CSE report said.The Global Forest Watch report clearly shows that higher the variation in temperature from normal, more forest fires take place. 16 states have seen a significant rise in forest fires, including Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand. However, the southern states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala saw fewer fires than usual.Wild speciesIndia has over 45,000 species of plants and 91,000 species of animals. The IUCN Red List monitors 1,212 animal species in India, and over 12% of them are endangered. Of the 148 endangered species in India, 48 are mammals, 56 reptiles and 23 amphibians. Of the world’s top 35 biodiversity hot spots, four are in India — Western Ghats, Himalayas, Sunderbans and Indo-Burma region. Less than 10% of these hot spots are protected and the vegetation in these hot spots has fallen by up to 50% in the last four decades or so. Despite the increase in climate-induced weather events, spending on disaster resilience measures was either reduced or not increased significantly by most states in 2019-20.EnergyTo save the environment, India has tried to move from fossil fuels to renewable energy and has met almost 55% of its ambitious target of installing 175 GW of renewable capacity by 2022. With one year remaining, the country is unlikely to meet the target, primarily because of small hydro and biomass projects. The country is, however, lagging in meeting it’s solar (35% met) and wind energy (69% met) targets. India has decided to develop 39 solar parks but is yet to operationalise even one of them. Of 40,000 MW target for rooftop solar by 2020, India has only 4,324 MW, according to ministry of new and renewable energy.India’s target of providing around the clock electricity is still elusive, even though agreements about this signed with all states in 2019. Despite stiff resistance from across the world, India’s dependence on thermal continues with 60% of electricity generated from coal based power plants. India will continue to depend on high carbon emitting coal for its electricity for at least another 30 years. India has also refused to agree to net zero emissions aim being propagated by the developed world before Glasgow climate change conference to operationalise the Paris climate agreement. Net zero would mean India will have to set target to phase out usage of coal. Navigating the diplomatic challenge where India resists the target for its economic goals, but continues to shift to renewables, will be a challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-environment-day-india-s-top-ten-concerns-101622810777515.html
04-06-2021||India||66 doctors succumbed to Covid-19 in Telugu states during second wave: IMA||As the deadlier, more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic continues to ravage lives in India, it has been said time and again that the virus does not distinguish between commoners or celebrities when laying ruin to their beings. However, one of the professions which have found itself especially vulnerable in the face of the pandemic in this country is frontline workers, more specifically, the doctors treating Covid-19 patients.Also Read: 624 doctors lost their lives during second Covid-19 wave, says IMAThe Covid-19 second wave has so far claimed the lives of 66 doctors in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, combined. According to the Indian Medical Association (IMA)'s latest report, as many as 624 doctors have died of the disease so far across the country. The majority of doctors' deaths could be accounted to the second wave of the pandemic, according to the IMA. The organisation added that as many as 34 doctors in Andhra Pradesh and 32 doctors in Telangana also lost their lives in this duration.The Indian Medical Association on Thursday released the figures in this regard. The second wave killed the highest number of doctors in Delhi, with the death toll being 109, it was seen. In the second spot was Bihar, whereas many as 96 doctors lose their lives to the coronavirus disease. 79 doctors died in Uttar Pradesh, 43 in Rajasthan, and 39 in Jharkhand.The IMA estimated that 748 doctors had died across the country in the first wave of Covid-19. As many as 34 lakh cases were registered on Wednesday. In addition, 2,887 people lost their lives due to the pandemic.With this, the number of positive cases has peaked at 2,84,41,986. On the other hand, the total number of deaths spiked to 3,37,989. Currently, there are 17,13,413 active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/66-doctors-succumbed-to-covid-19-in-telugu-states-during-second-wave-ima-101622808863922.html
04-06-2021||India||'Next Covid wave will reach its peak faster if...': Centre's warning as Covid 2nd wave flattens||As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has started flattening in the country with every state registering a significant dip in the number of daily infections and fatalities, the Centre on Friday issued a warning saying the situation has not improved because the virus has changed its mind. "If we again start doing what we were doing as a society in December, January, the situation can again go into a difficult phase," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said."More of that we do higher will be the wave but if we proceed slowly and continue the tightrope walk, the wave will small. Maybe there will be no wave at all," he said. According to the health ministry's data, there has been a 68 per cent decline in daily cases from May 7, when the highest peak of the second wave was reported. Around 377 districts are reporting less than five per cent case positivity and only 257 districts are reporting more than 100 daily Covid-19 cases.Covid-19: Four steps that can help India avoid a third wave"This is not happening automatically. There are no crowds.. a price that we pay. But we have made it difficult for the virus to travel. But we have to remembers that when the peak is declining, if we start doing what we were doing in January, it will come back again. This is mathematically valid and also valid by common sense," Dr Paul said."If we suddenly go back to the situation of January, February, the next wave will be fast and will reach its peak faster. But if we maintain Covid appropriate behaviour, the wave will be smaller and may not come. We have to buy time to ensure that we achieve high coverage of vaccination before that," Dr Paul said.According to experts, a third wave of the pandemic in India is very much possible the way the second wave struck the country. But its timing and impact can not be predicted as it will depend on the lifting of restrictions and the extend of vaccine coverage etc. It has also been predicted that the third wave might impact children for which state governments are ramping up Covid care facilities for children. The Centre has also issued guidelines for the care and protection of the children infected by Covid and fixed responsibilities for the states, district magistrates, police, Panchayati Raj institutions and urban local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-covid-wave-will-reach-its-peak-faster-if-centre-s-warning-as-covid-2nd-wave-flattens-101622809038832.html
04-06-2021||India||Niti Aayog's SDG index ranks Andhra Pradesh 3rd, Telangana 11th||Andhra Pradesh ranked third in Niti Aayog’s sustainable development goals (SDG) India index for 2020-21, according to the report which was released on Thursday. The index for SDGs evaluates the progress of states and union territories on social, economic, and environmental parameters.​Along with Andhra Pradesh, other states such as Karnataka, Goa, and Uttarakhand scored 72 points and were also ranked third. Kerala, with a score of 75, was adjudged as the top performer, while both Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh shared the second spot together with a score of 74.In a contrast, Bihar was branded the worst-performing state, with just 50 points in this year’s SDG index.Also read: NITI Aayog unveils SDG India Index; Kerala retains top spot, Bihar at the bottom​Telangana, which ranked 11th, secured 100 points in affordable and clean energy, out of 16 goals. The state stood first in this category along with 15 other states. Telangana, however, stood first in safe drinking water and affordable, clean energy. The state was ranked second and third in clean water and sanitation, and providing decent work and economic growth, respectively.The 'Mission Bhagiratha' scheme helped Telangana achieve the second position in the clean water department. Last year, Telangana ranked sixth, whereas this year it slipped to the 11th rank.The report of SDG India index along with 'Dashboard 2020-21: Partnerships in the Decade of Action', was released by ​Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajeev Kumar and CEO Amitab Kant on Thursday. First launched in December 2018, the index has now become the primary tool for monitoring progress on SDG in the country. It has also simultaneously generated competition among the states and union territories by ranking them on global goals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-s-sdg-index-ranks-andhra-pradesh-3rd-telangana-11th-101622806976882.html
04-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: India has administered 223 million Covid vaccine doses till now and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm on Friday (June 4, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India has administered 223 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia has administered over 223 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, June 3. The country also went ahead to book in advance 300 million doses of a vaccine still under development in a ₹1,500 crore deal with Hyderabad-based Biological-E. The firm’s vaccine candidate is in Phase III of clinical trials. Read moreVisa of foreigners stranded due to Covid pandemic extended till Aug 31: MHAIndia on Friday extended the validity of exiting visa for foreign nationals, who came to the country before March last year and were stranded due to the coronavirus lockdown, till the end of August. Read moreDelhi University likely to provide fee waiver to students orphaned by Covid-19The Delhi University has asked colleges currently under the varsity to conduct a survey and prepare a list of students who have lost either one or both of their parents to the novel coronavirus. Read moreRussia may start trial of Covid-19 vaccine combining Sputnik V, Chinese shots: RDIF chiefRussia may start trials on a vaccine combining its Sputnik V vaccine and various Chinese shots in Arab countries, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) told a news agency on Friday, according to Reuters. Read moreRashid Khan describes MS Dhoni, Virat Kohli, Yuvraj Singh in 'one word'; gives special tribute to Sachin TendulkarAfter all their achievements, records, numerous match-winning performances on the cricket field, it sure cannot be an easy task to describe the likes of MS Dhoni, Virat Kohli, and Yuvraj Singh in one word. But then again, not everyone is Afghanistan's leg-spinner, Rashid Khan. Read moreWATCH: When Himesh Reshammiya’s duplicate showed up at Indian Idol audition and Anu Malik walked outIndian Idol, currently in its twelfth season, has been running on television for several years. While singer-composer Himesh Reshammiya is one of the judges of Indian Idol 12, did you know that there was a time when his duplicate came to try his luck on the show? Singer-composer Anu Malik, who was one of the judges at the time, even walked out during the audition. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-has-administered-223-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-and-all-the-latest-news-101622804984255.html
04-06-2021||India||'Filed for media publicity': Delhi HC dismisses Juhi Chawla's petition on 5G||The Delhi High Court on Friday junked Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla's petition against 5G technology's impact on humans and environment, stating that the plea was filed for media publicity. The court has also imposed an additional cost of ₹20 lakh on the petitioner payable to the Delhi state legal services authority.While dismissing the plea, the court came down harshly on the petitioners and said that the plea had been stuffed with unnecessary and frivoulous material where the plaintiff does not have any knowledge about the facts. Stating that Chalwa shared the link of the hearing beforehand on her social media account, the court said that the plaintiff had filed the suit of for media publicity.Also read: Juhi Chawla’s 5G case hearing interrupted by man singing her songsEarlier this week on Monday, the Bollywood actor Chawla and social workers Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani moved the HC court, alleging that 5G technology threatens to provoke serious radiation impact on humans and permanent damage to natural ecosystems. “Plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the plaint. I am surprised...,” the judge said.The court has also issued show cause notice of contempt against the person who had interrupted the proceedings during the hearing and asked the Delhi police to identify the person.An unidentified person disrupted proceedings of the Delhi high court three times on Wednesday... until he was muted and finally thrown off the online hearing because the participant did not stop singing songs from popular movies of actor Juhi Chawla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filed-for-media-publicity-delhi-hc-dismisses-juhi-chawla-s-petition-on-5g-101622805230878.html
04-06-2021||India||Will Pfizer be allowed for children in India? Will local vaccine makers get indemnity? Govt answers||The Centre on Friday said the issue of granting legal protection to Indian vaccine manufacturers is under watch, a day after reports said Pune's Serum Institute of India has requested the Indian government to extend legal protection. "The issue of indemnity has come up in the context of foreign companies raising the demand. In principle, they expect us to indemnify from legal suits as they are protected in other countries too. We have also checked with other countries and the World Health Organization. This appears to be the fact that they are protected legally protected in other countries," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said, during the briefing of the health ministry on Friday.As far as local vaccine makers, like Serum Institute of India, raising a similar demand is concerned, the issue is under watch, Dr Paul said. No decision has been taken as a decision in this regard has to be taken in totality, he said, adding negotiations with Pfizer are on.Will Pfizer be administered to children in India?On being asked whether Pfizer — with which India's agreement is nearing finalisation — will be considered for children between the age of 12 and 15 years as the UK has approved the vaccine for children, Dr Paul said India has its own vaccines being readied for children. "We have to understand that the child cohort is not a small cohort. When we are talking about children, we are talking about at least 13-14 crore population and to cater to them, we will need 26-28 crore doses. So we will have to make a decision based on how many doses of what vaccines are available," Dr Paul said adding that apart from Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, which is now under trial for children, Zydus Cadila's vaccine could be an option as the vaccine is already tested on children. "Bharat Biotech's trial will not take much time. Zydus Cadila's vaccine too will come for licence soon. When it comes, we will have more insight into the matter as this vaccine has already been tested on children," Dr Paul said.As India is expanding its vaccination drive, it is in negotiation with Moderna and Pfizer. While Moderna will be able to share its vaccines with India only in 2022, Pfizer is ready to share 5 crore doses with India but it has imposed two conditions. The US pharma company will only deal with the Centre and it has sought legal protection from the government which means no lawsuit will be filed against the company in India. The demand has raised similar demand from Serum Institute of India as its CEO Adar Poonawalla earlier batted for similar cover for vaccine makers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issue-of-indemnity-for-india-s-covid-vaccine-makers-under-watch-says-govt-101622804660840.html
04-06-2021||India||Editors Guild welcomes SC judgment on sedition case against journalist Vinod Dua||The Editors Guild of India on Friday welcomed Thursday’s decision of the Supreme Court, which quashed sedition charges against journalist Vinod Dua, saying, “a citizen has the right to criticize or comment upon the measures undertaken by a government”.An FIR was lodged against Dua by Himachal Pradesh Police on May 6, 2020, after a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader complained that Dua had been spreading rumours and “instigating” people during the communal violence in Delhi last year through his YouTube shows. “The apex court not just quashed the criminal complaint against Dua, but has also underlined the importance of protecting journalists from sedition cases,” a statement released by Editors Guild read.Also Read | Delhi communal violence: SC quashes FIR against Vinod Dua for ‘inciting’ peopleIt added that there is a need for further intervention by the apex court as sedition laws are misused by law enforcement authorities in different parts of the country, which lead to “pretrial incarceration”.Expressing satisfaction with the top court’s decision, the Guild said that such sedition laws have a chilling effect on free media and India’s democracy.“The Guild demands repeal of these draconian and antiquated laws that find no space in any modern liberal democracy,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/editors-guild-welcomes-sc-judgment-on-sedition-case-against-journalist-vinod-dua-101622804656757.html
04-06-2021||India||India has administered 223 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 223 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, June 3. The country also went ahead to book in advance 300 million doses of a vaccine still under development in a ₹1,500 crore deal with Hyderabad-based Biological-E. The firm’s vaccine candidate is in Phase III of clinical trials.Elsewhere, Serum Institute of India sought approval to manufacture Russian-made Sputnik V.By 7pm on Thursday, the number of doses administered was 223,727,632.In the newly added category of 18-45 year age group, 1,420,288 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on the day while 27,203 received their second dose during the day.Also Read | Self-reliant and strong India remains the resolve, says ModiCumulatively, 24,054,868 persons in the 18-45 age group across 36 states/UTs have received their first dose and 86,568 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose to more than 1 million beneficiaries each of the age group 18-45 years.On Friday morning, the data from the Union ministry of health showed the country recording 132,364 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide infection tally to 28,574,350. Also, in the same period, 2713 people succumbed to Covid-19, taking the related death toll to 340,702, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-223-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101622802797184.html
04-06-2021||India||Self-reliant and strong India remains the resolve, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the Covid-19 crisis may have slowed down its pace a bit, but even today their resolve remains self-reliant and strong India. He said India wants to be self-reliant in agriculture to astronomy, disaster management to defence technology, vaccines to virtual reality, and biotechnology to battery technology. Modi added India is showing the way to the world in sustainable development and clean energy. He said the country is playing an important role in progress in other countries with its role in software and satellite development.Self-reliance emerged as the cornerstone of the government’s policy response to the coronavirus disease last year.“Coronavirus pandemic has come before the whole world as the biggest challenge of this century, but history is witness to this, when there is a big crisis on humanity, science has given better future ways to be prepared,” he said in his address to a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Society gathering.Also Read | Delhi man detained after night-long search over PM Modi threat callHe praised the scientific community for making Covid vaccines in India in a record time while expressing gratitude to doctors, other medical staff, and front-line workers for their outstanding work despite the adverse circumstances during the pandemic.Modi praised the CSIR for breakthroughs in technology, which he said are a source of pride for the country. “This institution of ours has given so many talents and scientists to the country. A great scientist like Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar has given leadership to this institution,” he said. “India used to wait for years to get hold of innovations achieved outside, now our scientists [are] working at a same quick pace. Today, our scientists are serving the people by working alongside their foreign counterparts.”Modi warned the world about the challenges of the future and said that the climate crisis will become the biggest challenge in the coming times. “We have to prepare for this from now on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/selfreliant-and-strong-india-remains-the-resolve-says-modi-101622802676703.html
04-06-2021||India||Decline in water due to increase in human, cattle population: Javadekar||There has been a decline in availability of water due to an increase in human and cattle population, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday, emphasising on the need to save water.In his keynote address at the curtain raiser event of TERI's World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS) 2022 and discussion on sustainable, equitable and resilient water use, Javadekar said new technologies must be used to ensure zero wastage of water.The event comes ahead of the World Environment Day, which is celebrated on June 5."India has only four per cent water share of the world's fresh rain water resources. So, there is a basic necessity to save, reuse and repurpose. When India became independent, the availability of water was 5,000 litres per capita now it has become 1,100 litres. There is a basic decline in availability of water due to human and cattle population growth," he said.India has 18 per cent of the world's human population and 18 per cent of the cattle population of the world.The minister said efforts should be made in the field of agriculture to save water as it was consuming nearly 85 per cent of the water."Agriculture is consuming nearly 85 per cent of the water. So, the first saving should come from agriculture. There are new technologies like sprinkling, drip irrigation and other methods to save water which should be used," he said.Javadekar also highlighted the issue of sinking of rivers and lauded the Ken-Betwa River linking project, saying such projects are environmentally important."The best news this year has been the Ken-Betwa agreement between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh because if the deficit rivers get water from overflowing rivers, that really helps. In Gujarat also, two local rivers are exchanging their waters. Such projects are environmentally important," he said.Acknowledging that several rivers were sinking, the minister said there was a need to replenish water sources in forests where major rivers originated."Rivers are also sinking. In forest areas the major rivers originate. We have decided to augment water and fodder in jungles so that animals also don't come out of the habitat," he said.The minister also spoke about light detection and ranging (LiDAR) technology being used for conducting surveys of forests in all states."This year we have used a new technology called the LiDAR survey (light detection and ranging), which will be for all states. We have selected one forest campus in each state and all are being surveyed through this technology. After this our detailed project reports (DPRs) will be ready and after rains, work on watershed development at correct places will start in all states,” he said.Javadekar also said that the Ministry of Environment has provided funds through the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) for this survey and ₹40,000 crore has already been given for compensatory afforestation programme."For 15 years, this money was not getting used because of the Supreme Court judgement. We changed the basis of the Supreme Court decision and distributed funds to all states. I am warning the states repeatedly that these funds be used for the purpose they are meant for,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decline-in-water-due-to-increase-in-human-cattle-population-javadekar-101622799277488.html
04-06-2021||India||‘Do not believe such forwarded messages’: PIB after a fact-check||The Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Friday notified about a false WhatsApp forward that is being widely circulated and claims the government is providing relief fund for Covid-19. Fact-checking the claim, PIB said that the WhatsApp forward is 'fake' and asked people to not believe such forwarded messages on social media apps.Alarming the people about the fraudulent websites and forwards, PIB also asked them to never disclose any personal information on such misleading websites. "This WhatsApp forward claiming that the Central Government is providing Phase 4 Covid-19 Relief Fund is #FAKE! Do not believe such forwarded messages and never disclose any personal information on these fraudulent websites," PIB Fact Check tweeted on Friday.Also read: Claims of black pepper, honey, ginger curing Covid-19 is fake, tweets PIBProviding the details about the forward, PIB Fact Check also tweeted an image of the link that is being circulated with the WhatsApp message asking people to apply for the Covid-19 relief fund through the link."GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FUND FOR COVID-19. Apply now for the government Covid-19 support fund," the topic of the link read."Apply for the government Phase 4 Covid-19 relief fund grant provided by the government. Hurry now, It takes few seconds to apply. Don't miss this, opportunity. Apply here," the WhatsApp forward further read.The link mentioned in the forward, which has been declared fake is: https://cutt.ly/Covid19-Relief-Fund-ApplyNowThis WhatsApp forward claiming that the Central Government is providing Phase 4 Covid-19 Relief Fund is #FAKE! Do not believe such forwarded messages and never disclose any personal information on these fraudulent websites.#PIBFactCheck pic.twitter.com/8f0yDZDIZmThe coronavirus pandemic has battered the national economy and affected millions of people across the country.Meanwhile, the government on Thursday said that around 550 million people have been provided with 28 lakh tonne foodgrains for free in May via ration shops under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana scheme to provide relief during the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-believe-such-forwarded-messages-pib-after-a-factcheck-101622797201340.html
04-06-2021||India||Visa of foreigners stranded due to Covid pandemic extended till Aug 31: MHA||India on Friday extended the validity of exiting visa for foreign nationals, who came to the country before March last year and were stranded due to the coronavirus lockdown, till the end of August. "Due to non-availability of normal commercial flight operations on account of the Covid-19 pandemic since March 2020, a number of foreign nationals who came to India prior to March 2020 on valid Indian visas had got stranded in India," the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in a statement.The MHA has decided that the Indian visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals will be considered valid till August 31 on a “gratis basis” without levy of any overstay penalty."Keeping in view the difficulties being faced by such foreign nationals in getting their visas extended in India due to the lockdown, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued an order on 29.06.2020 conveying that the Indian Visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals expiring post 30.06.2020 shall be deemed to be valid until 30 more days from the date of resumption of normal international flight operations, on gratis basis,” the ministry said.MHA said that such foreign nationals have been applying for an extension of their visas or stay stipulation period on a monthly basis, adding that they won't be required to submit an application to the concerned foreigners regional registration officer (FRRO/FRO) for extension of their visas.Furthermore, such persons may apply for an exit permission before leaving India without attracting any overstay penalty. "Such foreign nationals may apply for an exit permission to the FRRO/FRO concerned before exiting the country, which would be granted on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty," it added.India's on Friday recorded 132,364 new Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to over 28.57 million, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visa-of-foreigners-stranded-in-india-due-to-covid-pandemic-extended-till-aug-31-101622801150105.html
04-06-2021||India||Delhi HC issues notice on plea seeking CBI probe in deaths due to shortage of oxygen at Jaipur Golden Hospital||The Delhi high court on Friday issued a notice on a plea which has sought Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)/Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe in the death of patients due to shortage of oxygen at Jaipur Golden Hospital.The incident had taken place on the intervening night of April 23-24 and eight families of 21 patients has moved the court.The high court issued notice on the plea which has also challenged the Delhi government's finding that 21 patients succumbed to co-morbidities and not due to the shortage of oxygen. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice and posted the matter for August 28.The petition filed by 8 family members of the 21 deceased has claimed that the city government’s finding is a cover up of its failure. The plea filed through advocate Utsav Bains has also sought compensation for the families while also seeking directions to seize the CCTV footage of the hospital.Hindustan Times had first reported on May 4 the findings of a committee constituted by the Delhi government to collate the data of the deaths that had taken place due to the alleged shortage of medical oxygen for the purposes of compensation. On April 27, the Delhi high court had asked the Delhi government to provide a list of the people who had died due to the shortage of oxygen.Quoting HT, the petitioners said that they first got to know about the finding from the news report. The plea has said that there was complete inaction and failure of the city government to provide adequate supply of oxygen in spite of having knowledge that any shortage would be fatal for the life of Covid-19 patients and immediately cause their death.It alleged that the report prepared by Delhi government’s committee is “erroneous and has been prepared to favour the Delhi government”. “..the cause of the death of the deceased has been mentioned as respiratory failure by the doctors for the reason that proper oxygen supply was not given to the deceased on time. It is the case of the hospital that when the oxygen supply did not come on time the deceased were put on oxygen cylinders, however, the requisite pressure was not there and due to same, the patients died while suffocating for oxygen," the plea read“The observation by the committee that the patients were receiving some form of oxygen therapy has been made to mislead the court. The Committee did not examine the issue of demand and supply of oxygen to the hospital and also has not taken statements by families of victims on record,” it added.It said that the authorities in the present case have rendered themselves not only liable to pay compensation to the families of the deceased victims but also for criminal prosecution under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The petition said that shockingly, the hospital authorities did not even inform the family members about the shortage otherwise they would have arranged for at-least Highflow Oxygen Cylinders and this would have saved the life of their loved ones.“It is submitted that most of the patients (now deceased) were recovering inasmuch as they were regularly informing their family members about improvements in their health. The deceased victims were in constant touch with their family members and were stable. However, suddenly in the intervening night of 23/24th April, 2021, the Petitioners were informed by the respondent hospital about the demise of the patients,” the petition read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-issues-notice-on-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-in-deaths-due-to-shortage-of-oxygen-at-jaipur-golden-hospital-101622799267711.html
04-06-2021||India||Include history, personalities of northeast in NCERT textbooks: Student unions||The recent racist remarks by a Punjabi YouTuber Paras Singh against Arunachal Pradesh has triggered a Twitter campaign demanding the inclusion of the “history, ethnicity, culture, lifestyle, personalities, natural resources and patriotism” of the northeastern states of India in the NCERT textbooks. The Twitter storm is scheduled to take place from 6-8pm on Friday.The Twitter storm was triggered by a video uploaded by Singh, a 21-year-old YouTuber from Ludhiana, last week. In the video, he commented on former MP Ninong Ering’s appearance saying he did not “look Indian” and claimed that Arunachal Pradesh is not a part of India, but is in China.“Educating the masses is the only viable solution to such kind of racism,” said Ashmita Bharadwaj, vice-president of Northeast Student Union (NESU) Vadodara. NESU Vadodra is the organiser of this campaign against racism geared towards northeastern states.Also Read | Arunachal court remands Punjab YouTuber to six days in jail in racial slur caseAfter NESU Vadodara reached out to universities across the eight northeastern states, over 40 of them, including Dibrugarh University, Manipur University, Mizoram University, NIT Agartala, as well as student unions in Delhi, Manipur, and other parts of the country have come on board to participate.“Our aim is to only humbly appeal to our Central authority for an obligatory place in the NCERT textbooks for northeast India’s history, ethnicity, vibrancy, diversity, special features, eminent personalities and contribution to India’s development,” said Bharadwaj. On being asked why NCERT, the NESU president said, “NCERT textbooks are widely used in educational institutions across the country. These books can be availed online as well as offline from every nook and corner of India and [NCERT] functions under the Central government. It has a pan-India effect.”Prerna Das, a third-year law student from IP University, New Delhi, said, “I am glad an organisation is taking the initiative of spreading awareness about a part of India which most people are not even aware of.”“If I go to a fifth grader, a ninth grader or a twelfth grader and ask them about any key topic of northeastern history, their response would be the same, regardless of which class they are in. It’s not their fault, we are never taught. If the nation is serious about integrating its ‘peripheral’ areas, then changing the educational curriculum to include the northeast would be a start,” said Neha Sharma Sangma, who is a part of Garo Student Union. “Northeast Indians facing racism in their own country is nothing new. Almost everyone I know has been subjected to some form of racial slur or discrimination because apparently we don’t look ‘Indian enough’. I have been asked numerous times to speak in Chinese, which is almost amusing because of the level of ignorance,” she added.The plan is to tag chief ministers, education ministers and other concerned authorities to bring the issue to their notice, Bharadwaj said. A few politicians such as K Therie, former finance minister of Nagaland, MLA Kuzholuzo Nienu from Nagaland, as well as Arunachal Pradesh’s Ninong Ering have extended their support to the Twitter storm.Speaking to HT, Ering said, “The way forward is the introduction of the northeast to mainland India. If some kind of knowledge on the northeast is provided at the primary or even secondary level, then such instances of racism would not be there. The students want to showcase northeast as part of India and they want to feel included. It is for a good cause.”Talking about racism and stereotypes faced by northeasterners, he said, “The mindset has to change and the mindset should be changed in childhood. Unless and until the idea of inclusion is not there, racism will always prevail.”In 2017, Ering had introduced a Private Member Bill ‘The Compulsory teaching of North-East culture in Educational Institutions’ in the Parliament, but it was not taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/include-history-personalities-of-northeast-in-ncert-textbooks-student-unions-101622801716630.html
04-06-2021||India||Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri accused of 'harassing' MCC’s Shilpa Nag: All you need to know||In what comes as an apparent tussle between Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers in Karnataka, Mysuru city corporation commissioner Shilpa Nag on Thursday resigned from her post alleging harassment by Rohini Sindhuri, her senior and the deputy commissioner of the district, over coronavirus disease (Covid-19) management. In a press conference announcing her resignation, Nag said, "There is no conducive atmosphere for me to discharge my duties. No one should ever face a situation like this."Also Read: ‘Humiliated’: Mysuru civic body chief resignsRohini Sindhuri, on the other hand, denied the allegations levelled against her and blamed IAS officer Shilpa Nag for submitting "contradictory" ward-wise Covid-19 data.Here's a rundown of the controversy surrounding these two IAS officers in Mysuru:What is the controversy about?At its heart, the controversy in Mysuru centres on two IAS officers accusing each other of showing personal grudge.Shilpa Nag, a 2014-batch IAS officer who has been the Mysuru city commissioner (MCC) since February earlier this year, alleged that Mysuru district deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has been "targetting" her after media reports stated that the MCC has been doing a decent job in controlling the Covid-19 outbreak in the city.Shilpa Nag's accusationsShilpa Nag said that Rohini Sindhuri held a "personal grudge" against her and resented the praise that the MCC was getting for managing the Covid-19 situation. Nag said that she is sending her resignation to the chief secretary."Today I am resigning. There is no conducive atmosphere for me to discharge my duties. No one should ever face a situation like this," said Shilpa Nag in a press conference on Thursday.Nag said that despite getting most of the work done within her corporation limits, there were calls being made to her office citing dereliction of duty in the preparation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the city.“They are meting out insults and spreading misinformation. No one should work with so much arrogance,” she said, making another apparent reference to Sindhuri. “I cannot work in this suffocating environment,” she added.Rohini Sindhuri's responseRohini Sindhuri, a 2009-batch IAS officer, denied all the allegations levelled against her as "false" and "baseless", and in turn, accused Shilpa Nag of dereliction of duty. “It is untrue that there was any harassment from me and none has been mentioned even in the statement issued by Shilpa Nag,” said Sindhuri on Thursday.Rejecting the allegation of harassment as untrue, the deputy commissioner of Mysuru district said, "The Mysuru city corporation was submitting unsigned and contradictory ward-wise Covid-19 figures on new cases, deaths and active cases. I had ordered that same be rectified."Rohini Sindhuri also said that Shilpa Nag had of late stopped attended coronavirus review meetings convened by her. She even said that Nag is yet to furnish details of CSR coming in from private companies towards the pandemic and other works.“It is for everyone to note that over the last 10 days Shilpa has been issuing statements to press and media against the district administration. Such conduct not expected from a Mysuru city commissioner,” Sindhuri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-dc-rohini-sindhuri-accused-of-harassing-mcc-s-shilpa-nag-all-you-need-to-know-101622797575038.html
04-06-2021||India||Tikait says farm laws will be gone by 2024, vows to fight till then||Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a key farm organisation behind the ongoing farmers’ agitation, celebrated his birthday on Friday with a vow to not rest until the three agricultural laws at the heart of protests were scrapped, but predicted the legislation would be gone by 2024. “(The) government will definitely agree to (scrap the laws). The laws will be withdrawn by 2024. It’s certain. In three years, the laws will go,” he said. The ruling National Democratic Alliance’s current term ends in 2024, when it will face the next Lok Sabha election. Asked what made him so confident since the government has said it was willing to suspend the laws for 18 months, not repeal them, Tikait said: “Why will they not withdraw it? What do you mean by ‘no, it looks impossible’ (withdrawal of the laws)?” The farm leader, however, did not clearly state the reasons behind his assertion. Asked if he had any word with the government on rescinding the laws, he said: “No, we have talked to the public. The public will decide and the laws will go. The government will have to withdraw them.” Also Read | Farmers slam central, state govts for labelling them Covid super-spreadersTikait said he had talked to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently over the phone. “Yes, I talked to him over phone. No meeting. In UP, there are arrears of ₹23,000 crore payable to sugarcane farmers. We raised these issues of pending sugarcane dues, and rising diesel and electricity prices that are hurting farmers,” Tikait said. “We will meet the (UP) chief minister when corona subsides,” he said. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, are demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year, mounting a political challenge for the Modi government. Tikait has entrenched the protests firmly in his home turf, the politically crucial sugarcane belt of western Uttar Pradesh. The Tikaits belong to the Baliyan khap, a dominant clan among the Jat agrarian community in western UP, most of who are sugarcane growers. They voted overwhelmingly for the ruling BJP in the past elections. So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the agitation. Both the government and farmers had called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. Under Tikait, the farmers’ protests have branched off into a regional uprising. He has built a groundswell of support for the agitation by raising local farm issues, such as the problems of sugarcane growers and growing cultivation costs, aside from the demand of scrapping the laws. The government has said the agricultural laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce. Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices. “The farmers’ agitation will not only impact but may well be a deciding factor in the UP’s state elections in 2022. The BJP claimed the agitation was limited to western UP, but lost some key seats in Ayodhya, Varanasi and Gorapkhpur in the panchayat polls,” said Sudhir Panwar, who teaches at Lucknow University. On May 21, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to resume dialogue to end the agitation. Reacting to the letter, farm minister Narendra Tomar had said since the farmers had rejected all the government’s proposals, they should come up with a new proposal before talks could be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-will-be-gone-by-2024-vow-to-fight-till-then-saystikait-101622800516820.html
04-06-2021||India||Release ₹14 crore to Panacea Biotec if it gets nod to produce Sputnik V: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi high court on Friday directed the Centre to release ₹14 crore to Panacea Biotec for manufacturing Russia-made Sputnik V if it obtains permission from the authorities to produce the vaccine in India. "The release is also subject to the undertaking given by Panacea Biotec that 20 per cent of the sale proceeds will be deposited by it with High Court Registry," the division bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Najmi Waziri said.Panacea Biotec filed an application in the court for the release of its arbitral award money, which was awarded to it in 2019 in a 2010 case. The company said if it gets the money now, it can use it to manufacture the Sputnik V vaccine in India. The company has already manufactured trial batches of Sputnik V in collaboration with the Russian Direct Investment Fund, it said.In an earlier hearing of the case, the Centre opposed the plea and said that the manufacturing of Sputnik V will not be beneficial to the country as it will supply the vaccines to the international market. The Centre also said that the company had not even got the licence to produce the Russian vaccine.The court commented that there is untapped potential for vaccine making in the country and "some people should be charged for manslaughter if they are sitting on untapped potential”.“There is a lot of scope and infrastructure which is available for manufacturing of vaccines. This untapped potential has to be utilised... People from abroad are coming. You have good vaccines in India. You handhold these vaccine manufacturers and take them all over India and tell them this hub is available and use this. There is an emergency,” the division bench of justices Manmohan and Najmi Waziri told the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-rs-14-crore-to-panacea-biotec-if-it-gets-nod-to-produce-sputnik-v-delhi-hc-to-centre-101622800057328.html
04-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Gujarat allows all offices to function with 100% staff from June 7||The Gujarat government on Friday allowed all private and government offices to function with 100% staff from June amid a decline in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Private and government offices will be allowed to function with 100% staff from June 7," the Gujarat information department said, according to news agency ANI.According to the latest order, the state government has also allowed all shops in 36 cities to remain open from Friday from 9am to 6pm. It also stated that the home delivery by restaurants can now be done till 10pm daily.Gujarat on Wednesday extended the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions in the state till June 11. On May 27, the state government extended the night curfew from 8pm to 6am in 36 cities till June 4.Meanwhile, the state government on Thursday said it has decided to expand its Covid-19 vaccination programme for the 18-44 age group to the remaining 23 districts of the state starting June 4, from the 10 districts where it is currently on.The Gujarat government also announced its plans to vaccinate three lakh people daily, including 2.25 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 category and 75,000 others from the 45-plus category, from Friday.Gujarat on Thursday recorded 1207 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of cases to 813,270, the state health department said. The death toll reached 9890 after 17 more patients succumbed to the coronavirus disease. The state's recovery rate stood at 95.78%, while were there as many as 24,404 cases active in the state at present and 429 out of them were on the ventilator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gujarat-allows-all-offices-to-function-with-100-staff-from-june-7-101622797298869.html
04-06-2021||India||NPPA caps trade margin on oxygen concentrators||National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) capped the trade margin on oxygen concentrators up to 70% on price to distributor level, country’s drugs price watchdog announced on Friday, adding that the margin currently ranges up to 198%.“In view of the extraordinary circumstances arising due to the Covid pandemic that has resulted in recent volatility in Maximum Retail Prices (MRP) of oxygen concentrators, the government has decided to step in to regulate the price of oxygen concentrators. As per information collected by the government, margin at the level of distributor currently ranges up to 198%. By invoking extraordinary powers under Para 19 of the DPCO, 2013, in larger public interest, NPPA has capped the trade margin up to 70% on Price to Distributor (PTD) level on oxygen concentrators…,” said ministry of chemicals and fertilizers in a statement.Based on the notified trade margin, NPPA has instructed the manufacturers and importers to report revised MRP within three days. NPPA will put the revised MRPs in public domain within a week.Also Read | HC slams drug department’s clean chit to GambhirEvery retailer, dealer, hospital, and institution has been directed to display price list as furnished by the manufacturer, on a conspicuous part of the business premises in a manner so as to be easily accessible to any person wishing to consult the same.Manufacturers and importers not complying with the revised MRP after trade margin capping kicks in, will be liable to deposit the overcharged amount along with 15% interest and penalty up to 100% under the provisions of the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 2013, read with Essential Commodities Act, 1955.State Drug Controllers (SDCs) have been directed to monitor the compliance of the order to ensure that no manufacturer, distributer, retailer sells oxygen concentrators to any consumer at a price exceeding the revised MRP, to prevent instances of black-marketing.The order is going to be applicable up to November 30, 2021, subject to review.“…The government is striving to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen and oxygen concentrators in adequate quantity in the country during the pandemic. Oxygen concentrator is a non-scheduled drug and presently under voluntary licensing framework of Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO). Its price is being monitored under the provisions of DPCO 2013,” read the ministry statement.Earlier, in February 2019, NPPA had capped the trade margin on anti-cancer drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nppa-caps-trade-margin-on-oxygen-concentrators-101622798476806.html
04-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand tourism industry faces livelihood crisis, seeks Covid relief package||The coronavirus battered tourism industry of Uttarakhand is pinning its hopes on a relief package for hoteliers, owners of roadside eateries, tour, and travel operators, and people connected with adventure tourism who are facing a livelihood crisis. It is estimated that the tourism industry of the state has suffered losses worth ₹1,600 crore in 2020 due to the pandemic."We have submitted a proposal to the chief minister seeking a relief package to inject life into our embattled tourism industry," Tourism and Culture Minister Satpal Maharaj said on Friday. "Tourism is our bread and butter and it has suffered at multiple levels due to the pandemic. A relief package at this stage will do a world of good to people in the sector," Maharaj told PTI in an interview.Citing the findings of a study conducted by IIM, Kashipur, the minister said Covid caused losses worth ₹1,600 crore to the tourism industry of Uttarakhand in 2020 besides rendering around 23,000 people jobless.The losses caused by the second wave of corona this year have not been estimated yet, he said. The relief package has been sought for hoteliers, owners of roadside eateries, tour and travel operators, and people connected with adventure tourism like rafting and trekking who are facing a livelihood crisis with no tourists arriving due to the pandemic."While Kumbh had to be scaled down for people's safety due to a raging second wave, the Chardham yatra has been hit hard by the Covid induced restrictions for the second consecutive year. It has been a big blow to the tourism industry," the minister said.Hotels in tourist hubs like Nainital and Mussoorie have suffered bulk cancellation of bookings in recent months due to the second wave of the pandemic which had shown signs of abating in February-March. Tour and travel operators have also suffered from no tourists around. Covid curfew has been in force in Uttarakhand for several weeks now and vehicle operators are almost off the roads, he said.    "A relief package for the tourism industry at this hour will give it the much needed shot in the arm," Maharaj said adding that the chief minister has also been asked to include folk artists as beneficiaries of the relief package as they do not get a chance to perform and earn with no cultural programmes being held by the tourism and culture department for more than a year. Maharaj said he has also requested the chief minister to go for a phased opening of the Chardham Yatra after the Covid curfew is lifted in the state.Although the famous Himalayan temples of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri are open for daily prayers, they have been kept out of bounds for pilgrims in view of Covid.  Pilgrimage to the Himalayan temples faced similar hurdles last year and opened finally with mandatory restrictions like a negative RT-PCR test report which limited the footfall of devotees to around 3.5 lakh only during the entire yatra season. However, the minister said the tourism scenario though bleak should not lead to despair."Covid is a global crisis. Many tourist hubs in the world have battled it and overcome the challenges. We should draw inspiration from them and look forward with hope," he said citing the instance of Dubai where the tourism industry is already showing signs of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-tourism-industry-faces-livelihood-crisis-seeks-covid-relief-package-101622796350607.html
04-06-2021||India||Over 1.93 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still with states: Centre||More than 1.93 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.The Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost and through direct state procurement categories, more than 24 crore vaccine doses to states and UTs.Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 22,27,33,963 doses, the ministry said."As many as 1,93,95,287 are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," it said.As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-93-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-with-states-centre-101622796541105.html
04-06-2021||India||NCB drug probe: Sushant Singh Rajput's friend Siddharth Pithani sent to 14-day judicial custody||Sushant Singh Rajput's friend Siddharth Pithani, who was arrested on May 26 by the Narcotics Control Bureau, has been sent to 14-day judicial custody on Friday, news agency ANI reported. Pithani was arrested in connection with the drug case that the NCB is probing in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput's death on June 14, 2020. Pithani was a former flatmate of the late actor and was staying with him during the lockdown last year, reports said. He was one of those who discovered Sushant's body on June 14. According to the NCB statement, Pithani has been long absconding and fleeing justice. The NCB Mumbai team gathered intelligence about Pithani's whereabouts and traced him to Hyderabad. After he was produced in a court, Pithani was remanded to the custody of the NCB till June 1, which got extended till June 4. Now he will be sent to judicial custody.Pithani's arrest comes just almost a year after Sushant Singh Rajput's death into which a multi-agency probe is going on. The NCB has been probing the drugs angle of the case after the Enforcement Directorate shared some chats related to drug purchase and procurement with the NCB.After Pithani's arrest, the NCB arrested drug peddler Haris Khan in connection with the same case. Khan is believed to have links with gangster and drug peddler Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, an associate of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.In the latest development of the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the NCB has recently interrogated two former domestic workers of the late actor — Neeraj and Keshav.Sushant's friend Rhea, her brother Showik, and several of his staff members including Samuel Miranda, Deepesh Sawant, were arrested in connection with this case and the NCB said many have disclosed that Pithani was also involved in the procurement of drugs.Pithani's association with Sushant Singh Rajput started around 2017 as Sushant's friend Ayush Sharma introduced them. In 2019, Pithani came to Mumbai and stayed with the late actor for some time. At that time, Pithani was working on Sushant Singh Rajput's Dreams 150 project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-drug-case-sushant-singh-rajput-s-friend-siddharth-pithani-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101622796081067.html
04-06-2021||India||World Environment Day 2021: History, significance and theme||World Environment Day is observed on June 5 every year to remind people about the importance of nature. The day is celebrated across the world to inform people that nature should not be taken for granted and must be respected for its values.It is important to note that the World Health Organization (WHO) has joined UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, a mission to prevent, reverse the degradation of ecosystems and the diversity of life they sustain. WHO will work as a collaborating agency along with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) among other partners.History of World Environment DayWorld Environment Day is one of the biggest annual events organised by the United Nations (UN) to generate awareness about the significance of nature. The United Nations Assembly established World Environment Day in 1972, which was the first day of the Stockholm Conference on the human environment.In 1974, the theme of World Environment Day was 'Only One Earth'. Since then, various host countries have been celebrating it. World Environment Day was first observed in 1974 in the United States.World Environment Day theme 2021The theme of this year's World Environment Day is 'Reimagine. Recreate. Restore.' as this year marks the beginning of the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Pakistan is the global host for the day to highlight the importance of ecosystem restoration this year.Significance of World Environment DayThe concept behind observing World Environment Day is to focus on the importance of the environment and to remind people that nature should not be taken for granted.This day is observing across the world to respect and acknowledge everything that the environment has given mankind and to take the pledge that to protect it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-environment-day-2021-history-significance-and-theme-101622793929358.html
04-06-2021||India||Covid-19 package worth ₹20,000 crore in Kerala budget, announces minister||Kerala on Friday announced a ₹20,000 crore package to tide over the crisis brought about by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and also set aside ₹1,000 crore to provide free Covid-19 vaccination for adults in the state. Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal said, while presenting the budget of the new Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, that an additional ₹500 crore would also be spent to ensure related equipment and facilities for free Covid-19 vaccination.“In the early days of the pandemic, a Covid package of ₹20,000 crore was announced to help those affected by Covid restrictions, including lockdowns, especially workers. In the wake of the second wave, the second Covid package of ₹20,000 crore is being announced to address the emerging health, social and economic challenges," Balagopal said, according to news agency ANI."The package provides ₹2,800 crore for health emergencies, ₹8,900 crore for direct disbursement to people, and ₹8,300 crore for various loans and interest subsidies aimed at financial revival," he added.Balagopal said the effort would be to reduce the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and ensure there is no third wave of the coronavirus disease in the state. "We will consider the concerns over the third wave of the pandemic. The health emergency existing is a challenge to the development prospects of the state," he added."The central government is withdrawing from the obligation to vaccinate persons above 18 years of age. But the state government cannot shirk its primary responsibility. Therefore, I set apart ₹1,000 crore for the purchase of free vaccine for all those above 18 years of age and ₹500 crore for the purchase of allied equipment. A flawless system will be planned for the distribution of the vaccine," said the finance minister in the state assembly.In the agricultural sector, Balagopal promised infrastructure refinancing from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) to Primary Co-operative Societies (PACS) at a 4% interest rate to be made available through Kerala Bank. "The aim is to provide loans of ₹2,000 crore in the financial year 2021-22. The government will also provide low-interest rate loans for new ventures in the agro-industrial and service sectors, for the revival of existing dormant enterprises, and for a new commercial. The target is to provide loans of ₹1600 crore by 2021-22," Balagopal said.He said that ₹1,000 crore credit will be provided to Kudumbashree self-help groups through bank loans during the financial year 2021-22.Kerala on Thursday registered 18,853 fresh coronavirus disease cases, taking the total number of those affected to 25.54 lakh. The toll rose to 9,375 with 153 more deaths.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-package-worth-rs-20-000-crore-in-kerala-budget-announces-minister-101622790695715.html
04-06-2021||India||How the second wave devastated the elderly in India||One evening, in late-May, Neeta Malhotra, a senior citizen, needed help to cremate her elderly mother, in a South Delhi colony.In March, just before the number of Covid-19 cases started increasing and spiralling out of control, her family had four living members. Towards the end of May, Sharma found herself all alone. Her husband, an able-bodied ex-army officer contracted the virus and never made it back from hospital. Her mother-in-law and mother died of old age. They were both 94.That evening in May, she was bereft. The doctors advised her to go through with the cremation as soon as possible. It was already 6pm. She picked up her phone and called Gaurav Khosla, the president of the resident welfare association, who in turn, quickly called the local member of the legislative assembly, Somnath Bharti.“My sorrow is mine and I am learning to deal with it but one must never forget the acts of kindness,” she says, narrating how Bharti reached her home, arranged for a hearse and accompanied her for the cremation. For a while at least, she forgot that the family had been reduced from four members to one. Malhotra acknowledges the help and is grateful for it. She now spends her mornings teaching her support staff’s children.Twenty kilometers away, in a slum colony in east Delhi, Shokat Ali, 73, who has three daughters and two sons, is confronting another set of challenges. He is dependent on help from Agewell Foundation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that works with the elderly. Their offices are shut but their services are not.Through a network of 80,000 volunteers, across states, Himanshu Rath, the organisation’s founder, is working overtime to help the elderly destitute, including Ali who worked as a plumber but can work no more. He gets dry rations and one of his daughter comes by with food, once in a while. What do you do when you’re hungry? “I can cook Maggi (instant noodles),’’ he says.Also Read | Despite Covid, our resolve of Aatmanirbhar Bharat remains: PM ModiCovid-19 has changed Ali’s life completely. He cannot stir out of his jhuggi. There are no parks in the neighbourhood and everyone around him is trying to survive and subsist. “If 10 out of 100 are suffering from Covid, the remaining are suffering from the fear of Covid. We work for a better tomorrow but the elderly are at a loss. They don’t know if they will survive,” says Rath.The living abandoned, the abandoned deadAt 140 million, India has the second largest population of old people in the world, as per the 2011 census. Several NGOs working with the elderly are finding themselves totally stretched. From providing dry rations to cooked meals, medicines to hospital beds, psychological counselling to physical hand holding in homes for those with dementia and Alzheimer’s, social workers are also helping rescue the “living abandoned” and the “abandoned dead”. Most of them work with the police and social welfare departments and receive urgent calls for help.HelpAge India, an NGO that is focusing on the elderly, has 176 mobile health units, each equipped with a doctor, a pharmacist and a social protection officer. Says Imtiaz Ahmed, Mission head, AgeCare division, “The units, which take health care to the interiors and to the doorsteps of the bed-ridden, are now doubling up as ambulances. The saddest aspect of this pandemic is that the elderly are being abandoned.”AgeCare’s statistics speak volumes of how cruel the second wave has been on India’s senior citizens. The total number of calls for help in the January to May period for 2020 and 2021 has shot up by 36%. Distress calls that include pleas for rescue of the abandoned elderly are up by 82.7% and information pertaining to the missing or the dead are also up by 60%. There is a 65% rise in those seeking medical assistance. Those reporting abuse, domestic violence and property dispute issues are also up by 19%.The mental health impact Agewell Foundation’s Rath has received several calls from the elderly complaining that they are being pressured into writing their wills. When written, family disputes break out, on why a particular son has been given more of the share of the property or jewellery. “There have been cases where the elderly have been denied food. That’s the family’s way of punishing the parent for writing the will a particular way. This adds to the insecurity of the senior citizens who, already isolated, are then denied food and medicines,” says Rath.Senior psychologist Suresh Kumar, who counsels Agewell’s client base, is dealing with a host of issues. “We are providing a confidential space to the elderly who are grappling with property issues, post-retirement blues, job losses, the fear of dying and a deep sense of loss. There was less panic during the first wave. This time, the fear of death has become real.” says Kumar.Also Read | RBI announces additional measures to mitigate impact of second Covid-19 waveAn Agewell survey, based on 5,000 respondents, found the elderly complaining of depression, anxiety, fear and a sense of loneliness and isolation. According to the study, released last month, there has been an over 50% rise in the number of older people seeking help for psychological issues.The elderly are grappling with innumerable questions.“Will I get a hospital bed if I get Covid?”“Will I die?”“Will our children die before us?”“Will our children lose their jobs?”“What kind of world are we leaving behind for our grandchildren?”The answers are not easy.Some of the elderly don’t have enough food to eat and many more are dependent on the network of NGOs for medicines and vaccines.As part of its medical kit, Agewell is also distributing adult diapers for the severely ill, who are bed-ridden. Says Rath, “They also suffer humiliation and a loss of basic human dignity. They are totally dependent on family members, some of who are understanding while many are not. They too are grappling with the sheer grind of life.”The care infrastructure Some of the elderly are in a position to afford care giving services. Samvedna is one such organisation which provides senior care service for a price. “The children find us,” says its founder, Archana Sharma. Packages can cost up to ₹30,000 a month and include a “care at home” model.Also Watch | 124-year-old woman administered Covid vaccine in J&K’s Baramulla“While last year’s lockdown saw us providing groceries and medication, this time, mental health issues have surfaced. It has gotten closer to home for all of us and the elderly are scared of losing family members.”Jayashree Dasgupta, Co-Founder, Samvedna, is catering to the psychological aspects of elderly clients who have children living far away in different cities. “We are seeing an increase in clients but we also lose a lot of clients due to mortality. The elderly under our care can’t visit their children and relatives; they can’t go for the last rites of members they’ve lost and they struggle with this a lot. The pandemic has turned lives upside down.”Caring for the elderly is a constant firefighting operation and Mumbai-based Silver Innings is trying to focus on engagement with the elderly. Its founder president, Sailesh Mishra, has tied up with Tata Trust and the All India Senior Citizen Confederation to devise quiz programmes and art and music therapy sessions. “We have co-opted the grandchildren to help grandparents get online through WhatsApp and Facetime calls,’’ says Mishra.He points to a crucial fault line that is affecting the elderly: Old age care is not yet an essential service. He also has a problem – like many of his colleagues across the NGO network – with the concept of social distancing. “Physical distancing is important but how do you distance yourself socially when loneliness lies at the heart of this fight?’’ he asks.It is not an easy ride for the NGOs. Sonali Sharma, HelpAge’s communication head points to a basic problem. “The able-bodied run faster than the elderly when our teams are out distributing ration. How do you differentiate between a hungry child and a hungry elder?”The government has now devised a policy for children orphaned by the pandemic. It needs to do the same for the elderly.Agewell has submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The primary objective of the proposal, titled, “National Initiative for Emotional Empowerment of Older Persons,” is to inculcate a sense of belief for a better tomorrow, to help the older people deal with Covid-19.That is key. The ill, the fearful, the hungry, the abused, rich and poor, are living in the hope of a better tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-second-wave-devastated-the-elderly-in-india-101622793016328.html
04-06-2021||India||Here's how black carbon deposits causing glaciers, snow melt in Himalayan ranges||Black carbon deposits due to human activities are increasing glaciers and snow melt in the Himalayan ranges and are changing temperatures and precipitation patterns, the World Bank has said in a study.The study published on Thursday said that recent evidence suggests that in addition to changing temperatures and precipitation patterns, black carbon (BC) deposits are further increasing glacier and snow melt in these mountain ranges.How does black carbon generate?The World Bank said that the black carbon is generated by human activity both inside and outside South Asia. It is part of a larger basket of aerosols that impact climate change directly and indirectly, according to Hartwig Schafer, vice president of the World Bank’s South Asia region.“Recent devastating flash floods attributed to a collapsing glacier in the Himalayas were a sobering reminder of the sometimes disastrous effects of climate change and the dangers we have to protect against,” said Schafer.He added that as glaciers shrink, the lives and livelihoods of many people downstream are affected by changes in the water supply. "We can slow glacier melt by collectively acting to curb the black carbon deposits that are speeding the thinning of the ice. Regional cooperation to protect these resources will pay important dividends for the health and well-being of the people in the region,” he added.How to control it?The World Bank said that countries in South Asia must work together to manage hydropower resources, an important source for the region’s clean energy needs and a generator of energy trade and security. Unstable water flow from glacier melt and more variable precipitation underscore the need to stabilise availability over the longer term to make hydropower more viable.It also said that regional cooperation will be necessary to create joint adaptation strategies, adding that a first step could be sharing information about the evolving state of glaciers and risks associated with it.“Water resource management policies must evolve because the trends we are observing point to a different and more challenging future,” said Muthukumara Mani, lead economist in the World Bank’s South Asia region and a lead author of the report.“Success will require an active and agile cooperation between researchers and policymakers so both groups can continue to learn about the problems at hand,” he added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heres-how-black-carbon-deposits-causing-glaciers-snow-melt-in-himalayan-ranges-101622789118845.html
04-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Arunachal student body writes to Shah to grant citizenship to Chakma-Hajongs||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Grant citizenship to Chakma-Hajongs in Arunachal: Student body writes to ShahThe apex body of Chakma students from Arunachal Pradesh has submitted a memorandum to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking citizenship to 4,627 Chakma-Hajong people in the state. Read moreIndian tourists most concerned about polluted beaches, overtourism: SurveyAs many as 24% of 18,327 people surveyed for international digital travel agency Agoda’s sustainable travel trends survey believe governments have the responsibility when it comes to making changes to help make travel more sustainable. Read moreAs Bengal battle persists, lessons from Vajpayee-era on Centre-state tensionsPoliticians in power often tend not to learn from the experience of their rivals, peers or predecessor regimes. The realisation that they could have done it better dawns when the clock can’t be reversed. Read morePM Modi enquires about Milkha Singh's health, wishes for his speedy recoveryPrime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken to Indian track and field legend Milkha Singh and has wished for the former sprinter's speedy recovery, news agency ANI reported. Read moreDucati to launch Panigale V4 BS 6 in India next week: Sources2020 was quite a dull year for the Indian premium bike market seeing the challenges thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic. There were no major launch announcements by Ducati last year, save for the updated Panigale V2. However, the company has lined up several new launches for this year starting with new bike announcements next week. Read moreForest official shares incredible video of night patrolling amid heavy rainfallHave you ever seen those videos which almost instantly make you say “Wow”? There is a possibility that this video shared by a forest official will evoke the same feeling in you. Shared on Twitter, the video shows him patrolling the forests at night and that too amid heavy rainfall. Read moreSalman Khan’s Bajrangi Bhaijaan co-star Harshaali Malhotra is now ‘officially a teenager’. See photosSalman Khan’s Bajrangi Bhaijaan co-star Harshaali Malhotra turned 13 on Thursday. She took to Instagram to share pictures and videos from the celebrations, which included at least four birthday cakes, with ‘Munni’ (her character in the film) written on one of them. ‘Officially a teenager,’ was written on another cake. Read moreGood News! Google Chrome will now do this for you on harmful downloads, extensions - save yourself from phishingGoogle Chrome extensions and downloads can often prove to be malicious without the user’s knowledge. Google has been working on making Chrome safer for users from malicious downloads and extensions. It is rolling out new features that should make it easier for users to detect harmful Google Chrome downloads and extensions. The new features are a part of Enhanced Safe Browsing that Google launched last year. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-arunachal-student-body-writes-to-shah-to-grant-citizenship-to-chakma-hajongs-and-all-the-latest-news-101622788464879.html
04-06-2021||India||Despite Covid, our resolve of Aatmanirbhar Bharat remains: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday India used to wait for years for innovations achieved abroad but now researchers are working at the same quick pace as he lauded the scientists of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)."CSIR works as an institutional arrangement to maintain system for science, society and industry in our country. This institution of ours has produced several talented scientists. Great scientist like Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar has led this institution," PM Modi said during the address at the society meeting.Also read: PM Modi enquires about Milkha Singh's health, wishes for his speedy recoveryIndia is leading the world in the fields of sustainable development and clean energy, PM Modi said, adding that from agriculture to astronomy, disaster management to defence technology and vaccine to virtual reality, the nation aims to become self-reliant and empowered in every direction.Furthering the call for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' or self-reliant India, PM Modi said that while the coronavirus pandemic may have slowed the pace of development, but determination for self-sustenance and empowerment still remains.“The Covid-19 crisis may have slowed our pace but our resolve has been 'Aatmarnirbhar Bharat’, ‘Empowered India’,” he said.Speaking about the coronavirus pandemic and the devastation caused by it, the Prime Minister also said that it has emerged as the biggest global challenge of the century. However, history is proof that whenever there has been a huge crisis on humanity, science comes to the rescue and has always prepared the way for a better future, PM added.Also read: PM Modi's surprise interactive session made students happy and excitedOn the advancement of science in the country, the PM said that the nation has developed to an extent that it is now fuelling the progress of others in the world."Today, from software to satellites, we are also accelerating the development of other countries, playing the role of a major engine in the development of the world," Modi said at the CSIR meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-covid-our-resolve-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-remains-pm-modi-101622790129151.html
04-06-2021||India||After Alapan Bandopadhyay’s reply, Centre says further action soon: Report||The Centre has received Alapan Bandopadhyay’s reply to its show-cause notice served to him under the disaster management act to explain his absence from Prime Minister's Narendra Modi’s meeting last month and is being examined, according to news agency ANI. “Further course of action will be decided soon,” ANI tweeted citing people familiar with the development.On Thursday, Alapan Bandopadhyay replied to the Centre's May 31 show-cause notice, saying that he left for Cyclone Haas-hit Digha, a resort town in Purba Medinipur district, on orders from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The West Bengal government also sent its reply to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on the matter on the same day—the last for sending it. Chief secretary HK Dwivedi, who succeeded Bandopadhyay, wrote the reply.Also read | Row over ex-Bengal chief secy’s transfer, Centre’s notice: All you need to knowThe Union home ministry served the show-cause notice to Bandopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, that entails imprisonment up to two years after a tussle between the Centre and the Mamata Banerjee government.Mamata chose to meet Prime Minister Modi for a shorter period instead of a longer planned review meeting at Kalaikunda airbase to review the damage brought about by Cyclone Yaas on May 28. They left within minutes after giving a representation to the Prime Minister and without attending it. It triggered a political row as leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Union ministers accused Banerjee of insulting Modi.Also read | ‘Severely dented IAS’: Govt sources on ex-Bengal chief secy BandyopadhyayBandopadhyay, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer of West Bengal cadre, was set to retire on May 31 but the state sought permission for an extension of his tenure for three months saying his services was needed in the Bengal as he played a crucial role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. He was granted permisson to continue.Also read | Relook at Centre-Bengal government row over chief secretary’s transferBut the Centre asked Alapan Bandopadhyay to report for New Delhi by 10am on May 31, his last working day, and directed the state government to release him immediately. The senior bureaucrat, instead of reporting to Delhi, chose to retire and he was subsequently appointed as the CM's chief adviser sparking another war of words between the Centre and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-alapan-bandopadhyay-s-reply-centre-says-further-action-soon-report-101622788415613.html
04-06-2021||India||Indian tourists most concerned about polluted beaches, overtourism: Survey||As many as 24% of 18,327 people surveyed for international digital travel agency Agoda’s sustainable travel trends survey believe governments have the responsibility when it comes to making changes to help make travel more sustainable. At least 20% said they themselves have to ensure it. The survey found pollution of beaches and waterways, and “overtourism” in India were the top two concerns among the tourists. The single-use plastics and energy inefficiencies (including overconsumption of electricity/water) ranked third.The survey launched to mark World Environment Day on Saturday highlighted tourists globally consider governments most accountable for making positive environmental changes around travel, followed by tourism authorities and individuals. Tourists from Indonesia and UK were most likely (36%) to hold governments most accountable followed by those from China (33%), Australia (28%), Malaysia (27), and India (24%).Also Read | UK unlikely to relax foreign travel curbs amid Covid-19 surgeManaging their waste including using less single-use plastics, switching off the air conditioners and lights when leaving their accommodation, and looking for eco-friendly accommodation were the responses of the respondents when asked how they will make the post-Covid travel scenario better.“...when asked about what Indians associated the most with sustainability, the top three results were renewable resources (36%), natural cleaning products (32%), and eco-friendly design/furniture (31%),” the survey report said.John Brown, chief executive officer of Agoda, said what is also clear is that while globally the message is governments need to take the lead on managing sustainable travel, there is recognition that some responsibility lies with people’s own behaviour. “This past year at Agoda, we have seen a shift in travel patterns as people, limited to domestic travel, explore lesser-known areas. If managed well, not only does this help support independent hoteliers and accommodation providers that rely economically on the tourist dollar, but it can also help lessen the environmental burden on overcrowded areas.”The survey found respondents from South Korea (35%), India (31%), and Taiwan (31%) were keener on the need to travel more sustainably. “It is concerning that many people see sustainable travel as less important today than they did before Covid-19, but I hope that is just a short-term effect, driven by people’s thirst to get back out there and travel any way they can,” Brown said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-tourists-most-concerned-about-polluted-beaches-overtourism-survey-101622786900009.html
04-06-2021||India||Grant citizenship to Chakma-Hajongs in Arunachal: Student body writes to Shah||The apex body of Chakma students from Arunachal Pradesh has submitted a memorandum to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking citizenship to 4,627 Chakma-Hajong people in the state. The request by Arunachal Pradesh Chakma Students Union (APCSU) was in response to a recent directive by Centre authorising officials in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to approve citizenship applications of Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan in those districts. The memorandum submitted through email said 14,888 Chakma-Hajongs, who are Buddhists and Hindus, migrated to India between 1964 and 1966 from Chittagong Hills Tract (CHT) of then East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) to escape religious persecution and were settled in North East Frontier Agency (now Arunachal Pradesh). They were settled under a rehabilitation plan, allotted land and provided financial assistance, depending on the size of their families. In January 1996, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to grant them citizenship as per provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1995. Hearing another petition, the apex court in September 2015 directed the Centre to process the pending citizenship applications of 4,627 Chakma and Hajongs within three months. Also Read | How India’s water mission is overcoming the challenge in the Northeast“However, the apex court direction has not been complied with and is getting delayed for one reason or the other,” said APCSU president Drishya Muni Chakma.The memorandum urged Shah to grant citizenship to 4,627 Chakma-Hajongs immediately, instruct the Arunachal Pradesh government to allow enrolment of all eligible Chakmas and Hajongs in electoral rolls, and also include the two communities in central and state welfare schemes. “Shah had indicated two years ago that the Chakma-Hajong problem will be resolved before October 2020. We seek his urgent intervention in granting citizenship to 4,627 and also ensure that those who got citizenship are able to enjoy all facilities and rights,” said Chakma. As per 2011 census, there are 47,471 Chakmas and Hajongs in Arunachal Pradesh of which nearly 90% have got citizenship by birth under Section 3 of the Citizenship Act, 1955.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grant-citizenship-to-chakma-hajongs-in-arunachal-student-body-writes-to-shah-101622786066194.html
04-06-2021||India||RBI Monetary Policy highlights: From unchanged repo rate to reduced economic growth forecast||The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday announced it will maintain the status quo on its key rates. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that it was decided to keep the repo rate and the reverse repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent and 3.35 per cent respectively to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy."Enduring lesson from Covid-19 experience in the Indian context has been the deployment of unconventional monetary policy measures that distribute liquidity among all stakeholders," Das said.Also read: Sensex, Nifty trade flat ahead of RBI’s monetary policy announcementDas said that the policy committee has decided to maintain the accommodative stance to continue as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth and ensure that inflation remains within the target.Here are the key highlights of the MPC announcement:1. Besides, unchanged repo rate and reverse repo rate, the MPC decided to keep the bank rates the same too at 4.25 per cent.2. The economic growth forecast was cut to 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal from the previous 10.5 per cent, announced Das. Das said 18.5 per cent real GDP growth is expected in the first quarter, 7.9 per cent in the second quarter, 7.2 per cent in the third quarter and 6.6 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2021-22.3. RBI's MPC has projected the consumer price inflation (CPI) at 5.1 per cent during 2021-22. RBI governor Das announced 5.2 per cent CPI in the first quarter, 5.2 per cent in the second quarter, 4.7 per cent in the third quarter and 5.3 per cent in the fourth quarter.4. Das especially commended the resilience of the farm economy, however, the dent in urban demand and spread of infection in rural India poses risks to the normalisation of the economy, he said. A normal monsoon, resilience of agriculture and farm economy, adoption of Covid-compatible business models and gathering momentum of global recovery can help revive the domestic economy when the second wave of coronavirus disease abates, the governor said.5. The governor said it has been observed that the mobility indicators declined but were seen above the levels of last year. The impact on economic activities due to the second wave of the virus is expected to be relatively contained in comparison to that of the first wave, with restrictions on mobility being nuanced and regionalised.Also read | Banks shouldn’t cite 2018 crypto note: RBI6. Further on the assessment of growth and inflation, the MPC observed that India's exports in March, April and May 2021 have been on an upswing. "Conducive external conditions are forming for a durable recovery beyond pre-pandemic levels, targeted policy support for exports is need of the hour," Das said.7. The governor of the central bank said that the focus of RBI is turning from systemic liquidity to equitable distribution. He also added that the vaccine policy of the country is expected to gather steam in the coming months and should help normalise economic activities.8. RBI took several steps to inject liquidity in the economy as it conducted regular Open Market Operations (OMO) to the tune of ₹36,545 crore till May 31, Das said. This was in addition to ₹60,000 crore under the G-SAP 1.0.9. Das also highlighted that the country's foreign exchange reserves touched $598.2 billion as of May 28. The forex reserves are at a striking distance of reaching $600 billion.10. Policy measures decided by the MPC panel to boost economic recovery include opening ₹15,000 crore window till March 2022. Banks can provide fresh lending support to restaurants, adventure and heritage, aviation ancillary, private bus operators, rental car service providers among others in the hospitality industry that suffered significant damage from the pandemic.11. To ensure further support to the medium, small, micro enterprises (MSMEs), RBI has lent ₹50,000 crore support to all Indian financial institutions. Of this, ₹15,000 crore support is provided to the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) for aid to the MSMEs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-monetary-policy-highlights-from-unchanged-repo-rate-to-reduced-economic-growth-forecast-101622781067505.html
04-06-2021||India||Why Google showed Kannada as 'ugliest language of India': Explained||Google attracted a massive backlash in the country recently after it showed Kannada, a language predominantly spoken in the southwest part of India, as the answer to the search query "ugliest languages".Kannada language speakers slammed the search engine giant for insulting the historically significant language, which dates back over 2,000 years. According to the image shared widely on social media, the answer to the question, “What is the ugliest language in India?” was Kannada. “The answer is Kannada spoken by around 40 million people in south India,” according to a screenshot of the search results.The Karnataka government also condemned this on Thursday and warned of appropriate action against Google. "This is a very condemnable thing. If Google or anyone else behaves in contempt of Kannada language or insults Kannada, appropriate action will be taken against them," said Arvind Limbawali, minister for forest, Kannada and culture in Karnataka.Limbawali also said that the secretary of the department has been briefed about the matter and has been instructed to issue a notice to Google immediately.Meanwhile, the tech giant has deleted the response and apologised, saying the search results weren’t always perfect. Google also said that the concerned team takes a swift corrective action when it is made aware of the issue. It also said that the it is working to continuously to improve the algorithms and "does not reflect the opinions of Google."So what exactly happened?The search results on Google are algorithm-based and depend on keywords for websites and their online content. When a user enters their query, the algorithm looks across the internet for websites and articles that have related keywords and brings the result that it thinks is the best fit.This is commonly known as search engine optimisation or SEO. Hence, experts say that the real culprits here are sites that may have written content based on these lines and used the keywords.In December 2018, Google CEO Sundar Pichai told US Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren that how the company has little to no control over the search results after it showed Donald Trump's images to a query related to the word "idiot." During the House Judiciary Committee hearing, Pichai explained that the search results are based on Google search indexes, webpages and the keywords, images attached to those pages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-google-showed-kannada-as-ugliest-language-of-india-explained-101622784047314.html
04-06-2021||India||Govt employees forum wants ex gratia, jobs for officials succumbing to Covid||A forum of central secretariat officers has urged the Union government to provide ex gratia of ₹1 crore and relax the rules for providing jobs to the dependent next of kin as immediate relief for the families of government officials who lost their lives in the pandemic. As per a list provided by the central secretariat services forum (CSS), a representative body of central secretariat service officers, 60 officials in various government departments have lost their lives during the second wave of the pandemic. As many as 119 officials working in the Central Board of Direct Taxes and 110 in the Central Board of Indirect Taxes have also lost their lives to the pandemic, as per government sources. The All India Banking Employees Association (AIBEA) that also has asked the Centre to ensure that rules are relaxed for appointments on compassionate grounds. AIBEA general secretary CH Venkatachalam said there have been about 1,400 casualties in the banking sector since the pandemic began in 2020. In a letter to department of personnel & training minister Jitendra Singh on May 26, the CSS forum said, “As per official figures reported in India till now, 0.03% of citizens of age 21 and above have died due to Covid-19 whereas a whopping 0.6% of CSS offices have died due to Covid 19 till date, which is 20 times of the national average.” Seeking a relaxation in rules for appointment, it said there is already a long list of requests for compassionate appointments which are pending with almost all department heads in different ministries and departments. Also Read | States lifted full PMGKAY quota in May, says CentreA member of the CSS union said since there is no provision of ex gratia for civil servants like in the armed forces; families can only get help on the basis of family pension, gratuity, insurance etc. “Taking cognisance of delays in release of terminal benefits to families of the deceased particularly in states, the union had urged the process to be expedited,” the member said. An official aware of the details said while the government is working to expedite the release of terminal benefits, there is little it can offer by way of jobs on compassionate ground. “As per a Supreme Court order, jobs on compassionate grounds cannot exceed 5% of the total direct recruitment quota. Such jobs are limited to group C. The vacancies that have arisen are across levels and some are at senior positions... It may not be possible for fill these on compassionate grounds,” the official said. AIBEA’s Venkatachalam said the federation wants the banks to relax the rules for compassionate appointment and also ensure the vacancies are filled within a month. He also said while the banks had decided to give ₹20 lakh as compensation to those who died in service, it is not being uniformly implemented across private sector banks. He said that the guidelines for bank employees are not extended to those in contractual service, business correspondents, deposit collectors, and those who are engaged in gold appraising. “There is also a need to declare bank employees as frontline workers and expedite their vaccination,” he added.Last month, the finance ministry directed all the government departments to settle all claims on a priority basis for those employees who died on account of Covid while in service. The first official quoted above said that since 2016, there is a specific instruction to the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) that “all death case claims submitted by families or legal heirs of the EPF members have to be settled within seven days from the date of submission of the claims. In some cases, this is not followed, sometimes it is owing to inconsistencies in the claims.” The Union ministry of labour and employment also announced on May 31 that members of the Employees’ Provident fund Organisation can take a second non-refundable Covid-19 advance to meet any financial exigency during the pandemic. EPF subscribers can take a non-refundable advance of basic wages plus dearness allowance for three months or after 75% of the amount in their account, whichever is lesser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-employees-forum-wants-ex-gratia-jobs-for-officials-succumbing-to-covid-101622783115298.html
04-06-2021||India||Zydus Cadila, first Indian company gets permission for clinical trials of antibodies cocktail to treat Covid-19: Report||The only Indian company Zydus Cadila which claims to have developed neutralising monoclonal antibodies (mAbs)-based cocktail for the treatment of Covid-19 has been given permission to conduct clinical trials by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), according to sources."SEC gives a recommendation for the Phase I and II clinical trials of Zydus Cadila's biological therapy ZRC-3308, a cocktail of two SARS-CoV-2-neutralising monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) that can emerge as one of the main treatments for mild Covid-19," the sources said.These antibodies are made by cloning unique white blood cells. Domestic pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila has sought the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) permission recently to undertake clinical trials.Zydus said that its biological therapy ZRC-3308, a cocktail of two SARS-CoV-2-neutralising monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) can emerge as one of the main treatments for mild Covid-19.Currently, some of the hospitals are administering the cocktail of two fast-acting anti-bodies - Casirivimab and Imdevimab, the batch of the Roche Antibody Cocktail drug arrived in the country on May 24. The cost of a single antibody cockatail is ₹59,750Another antibody cocktail that has received permission is Eli Lilly and Company, India announced that it has received permission for restricted emergency use of its antibody drugs, bamlanivimab 700mg and etesevimab 1400mg, in India for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate coronavirus disease 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-first-indian-company-gets-permission-for-clinical-trials-of-antibodies-cocktail-to-treat-covid-19-report-101622779902060.html
04-06-2021||India||States lifted full PMGKAY quota in May, says Centre||The Food Corporation of India, the state-run grain-handling agency, has distributed 4.8 million tonnes of cereals under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to ameliorate Covid-19 distress, official figures show. As many as 31 states and Union Territories have “lifted” or utilised 100% of their quota under the free-food programme for the month of May, according to the figures, while five, Arunachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Puducherry, have withdrawn that for June as well. Under PMGKAY’s third tranche, announced on April 24, the Centre is providing 5 kg of free foodgrain per person, per month, to nearly 793.9 million beneficiaries for May and June 2021. These recipients are also covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013 (NFSA) and therefore also receive subsidised food on a monthly basis. “The scheme has provided a big relief to the beneficiaries during ongoing Covid pandemic period,” a statement from the food ministry had said on May 25. Also Read | Centre asks states to give food cover to ‘most vulnerable’Some independent studies have showed that although federal food aid schemes, like the PMGKAY, have reached their targeted beneficiaries, distribution needs to be more widespread and strengthened to fully protect vulnerable people. As soon as stocks are lifted by states, their share is replenished regularly to maintain adequate foodgrains in all the states, an official said. Migrant workers covered under NFSA can withdraw their share of grains at any designated fair price shop in the country under the ‘One nation, one ration card’ programme. The programme is however operational in 32 states currently, the official said. According to the food ministry, a survey conducted by Dalberg firm showed a “very high level of satisfaction among the beneficiaries”. The ministry called it an “independent survey”, although it was commissioned by the finance ministry. Some food security experts however say food insecurity has been exacerbated by the pandemic. According to Amit Basole, associate professor of economics, Azim Premji University, who has conducted a study, overall 68% of households did receive at least some extra grains under the Centre’s Covid-19 food relief, which suggests not everyone eligible got the full benefits. In an article published in the journal EPW in February 2021, Basole writes that during the first lockdown in 2020, a “worrying 20% of households reported no improvement in food intake since the lockdown”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-lifted-full-pmgkay-quota-in-may-says-centre-101622780056174.html
04-06-2021||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases, deaths fall to 132,364 and 2713; tally tops 28.5 million||India recorded 132,364 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide infection tally to 28,574,350, according to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), updated at 8am on Friday. Also, in the same period, 2713 people succumbed to Covid-19, taking the related death toll to 340,702, the data showed.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesThis is for the first time after two days that India saw a marginal fall in its daily new cases of the viral disease. Since logging 127,510 fresh infections in the 24-hour period leading to June 1 -- the lowest single-day rise in more than two months -- the country reported 132,788 and 134,154 cases, respectively, in the next two days.According to Friday’s data, the national recovery rate has further improved to 93.80% after 207,071 people were discharged in the preceding 24 hours, taking total recovered cases to 26,597,655. Active cases have fallen to 1,635,993, a decline of 77,420 infections from the previous 24-hour bulletin and constitute 5.72% of the national caseload.Also Read | ‘Everyone, so-called enemy’ saying I was right about coronavirus’ origin in Wuhan: Donald TrumpThe number of tests conducted on June 3 stood at 2,075,428, the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) tweeted on Friday morning. While this is a decline from 2,159,873 tests on June 2, total 357,433,846 tests have been conducted till now, ICMR’s figures showed.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/A6i5mWUOlUCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/ZnElSmZt67The decline in daily cases has coincided with containing measures taken by governments at the state and the Union Territory (UT) level. While this decline has prompted several state governments, like Delhi and Maharashtra, to announce measures to “unlock” or exit from lockdown or lockdown-like curbs, others have announced an extension in restrictions to further break the chain of transmission of the virus.Also Read | Maha adds 15K new Covid cases, state tally at 5,791,413However, as daily cases are still well above the 100,000-mark, the central government, on June 1, announced the cancellation of class 12th board exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Within hours, the Council of Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (CISCE) announced the cancellation of its class 12th exams as well. Class 10th exams were scrapped in April when the second wave was at its peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-132-364-new-covid-19-cases-and-2-713-deaths-tally-tops-28-5-million-101622772919600.html
04-06-2021||India||Row over ex-Bengal chief secy’s transfer, Centre’s notice: All you need to know||Former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay on Thursday replied to the Centre’s notice issued to him for skipping Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s May 28 meeting on Cyclone Yaas. The notice has divided opinion on whether the Centre could have sent it. Some believe it did the right thing by seeking an explanation while others argue the Centre could not have issued the notice since Bandopadhyay was part of the state administration.What has happened so farThe Centre on May 24 granted Bandopadhyay, a 1987 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, a three-month extension after the West Bengal government sought it saying his services were required to combat Covid. Days later, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Bandopadhyay arrived at the venue of Modi’s meeting. But they left within minutes after giving a representation to the Prime Minister and without attending it and triggered a political row. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Union ministers accused Banerjee of insulting Modi.The same evening the Centre asked Bandopadhyay to report for New Delhi by 10 am on May 31, his last working day, while directing the state government to release him immediately. Banerjee wrote a five-page letter to Modi urging him to withdraw the transfer order while refusing to release Bandopadhyay. She said she allowed Bandopadhyay to retire on his request and appointed him as her chief adviser for three months.Also Read | PM Modi phones Mukul Roy a day after TMC leader visits latter“I am shocked and stunned by the unilateral order…,” wrote Banerjee. She added it would be very unfortunate if there is a correlation between the Centre’s decision to recall the bureaucrat to Delhi and Modi’s meeting. Banerjee said she had reservations about the presence of Suvendu Adhikari, who defected from her Trinamool Congress (TMC) to BJP and defeated her in assembly polls, and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the meeting. “….an individual MLA [Adhikari], having no locus attending the meeting was unacceptable,” said Banerjee.She later hit out at Modi and Amit Shah saying she has never seen such a heartless Prime Minister and Union home minister. “I wrote the letter to the Prime Minister, but the reply came to him [Bandopadhyay] and not me. The Centre did not even mention why it needs him. You [Centre] have added insult to injury. I see only political vendetta. Why? Is it because you do not like Mamata Banerjee? Is it because you lost the elections?” asked Banerjee. She added she was made to wait at the meeting venue before she could meet Modi.The Centre on June 1 sent the show cause letter to Bandopadhyay, accusing him of violating Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act by skipping Modi’s meeting and failing to make a presentation on Cyclone Yaas and relief work. He was asked to reply within three days. Banerjee a day later said the state government will stand by Bandopadhyay and added “the chapter is over”.Bandopadhyay’s transfer and the Centre’s viewThe Centre has said the Department of personnel and training (DoPT) is the cadre controlling authority of IAS and has the right to transfer an official from the state to the Centre. Normally, it is done in consultation with the state governments and also depends on the willingness of an officer to join the Central government. The Centre has argued the state government was obliged to relieve Bandopadhyay. It has pointed out the Centre granted him a three-month extension as well.West Bengal government viewIt has argued an official can be transferred in consultations with the state government. In the case of Bandopadhyay, the state government was not consulted before his transfer order. Also Read | Bengal BJP divided over Centre’s notice to ex-CS, politicians’ arrestThe state government has called the transfer hours after Banerjee skipped the meeting with Modi as a vindictive action. It has argued the extension in service was granted for Covid work and hence Bandopadhyay could not have been transferred to the Centre.Show cause notice and Centre’s viewIt has argued Bandopadhyay as the chief secretary, an all-India services officer, could not have ignored his Constitutional duties. The Centre has said no presentation was given to Modi and Bandopadhyay left the meeting without giving any reason for it. It has said seeking his explanation was within the civil service rules. The Centre has argued as the cyclone is a disaster, it can invoke its powers under the Disaster Management Act and issue directions to state government officials. It said skipping the meeting to review disaster relief amounted to a violation of the law and therefore the notice was issued under its Section 51 (b). The Section provides for jail of up to one year for failing to comply with orders issued under the law.West Bengal government viewIt has said the show cause was issued after Bandopadhyay’s retirement and therefore it has no legal value. The state government has argued the notice to attend the meeting was not issued under the Disaster Management Act and therefore, the notice under it cannot be issued. It said the show cause was an afterthought after Banerjee named Bandopadhyay as her chief adviser. The state government has said his transfer order had become null and void and the notice was issued to harass him.“This is a vindictive action by the BJP which cannot get over its humiliating loss in the recent polls. This will go down in the history of dirty politics. A bureaucrat is being recalled before his retirement when he is touring cyclone-hit areas. This proves how anti-Bengal and anti-Bengali BJP’s central leaders are,” said Trinamool Congress spokesman Kunal Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-ex-bengal-chief-secy-s-transfer-centre-s-notice-all-you-need-to-know-101622779575224.html
04-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Monsoon to reach Tamil Nadu, coastal Karnataka by June 5 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon to reach Tamil Nadu, coastal Karnataka by tomorrowMonsoon is likely to advance into remaining parts of south Arabian Sea, some parts of central Arabian Sea, and the remaining parts of Kerala and Lakshadweep by Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreIndian jet in Dominica for Mehul Choksi flies out, destination unknownThe private jet India sent to Dominica with documents linked to the deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi last week has flown out of the island at 8:10pm (local time) on Thursday, people familiar with the development said on Friday. Read morePM Modi condoles demise of Mauritius' ex-prime minister Anerood JugnauthPrime Minister Narendra Modi has condoled the demise of Anerood Jugnauth, the former president and prime minister of Mauritius. Jugnauth died at the age of 91 on Thursday. Read moreED gets 10-day custody of RJD MP in money laundering caseHours after his arrest, a Delhi court on Thursday sent Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Rajya Sabha MP Amarendra Dhari Singh to 10-day custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with its money laundering probe linked to an alleged import of fertilisers from foreign suppliers at inflated rates, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. Read moreAnubhav Sinha says reports of Kartik Aaryan's ouster from films are part of a 'concerted' campaignFilmmaker Anubhav Sinha shared his views on the recent rumours around the projects of Kartik Aaryan. Anubhav said that the rumours of Kartik's ouster from various films seem like a campaign against the actor, as producers do not usually talk about dropping actors from their projects. Read more'If you're a kid, emerging player or county cricketer, copy Jadeja': Pietersen's massive praise for India's 'superstar'Kevin Pietersen has urged young and budding cricketers of England to look up to and emulate star India all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja if they wish to have a long career in Test match cricket. Read moreMahindra tractor made an ‘appearance’ in this Oscar winning movieA post documenting the appearance of a Mahindra tractor in an Oscar winning film is the recent source of Twitter chatter. Can you guess the movie in question? Read moreWatch: Health professionals dance inside patient’s ward at Mumbai’s Covid centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-monsoon-to-reach-tamil-nadu-coastal-karnataka-by-june-5-and-all-the-latest-news-101622777110621.html
04-06-2021||India||Maha adds 15K new Covid cases, state tally at 5,791,413||Maharashtra on Thursday saw 307 Covid deaths, pushing its total toll to 97,394. The state also added 15,229 fresh cases, taking its cumulative tally to 5,791,413. The active caseload of the state dropped to 204,974; and the positivity rate was 5.86% on Thursday.Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to report under-1,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day. It saw 985 new cases and 27 deaths, taking the respective tallies to 708,026 and 14,907. Of the fatalities reported in the state on Thursday, 228 occurred in the past 48 hours and 79 in the last week. The state also added 336 deaths to its cumulative tally as part of data reconciliation.Also Read | Delhi case count below 500 for the 1st time since mid-March, less than 50 deathsMaharashtra has seen 45,240 fatalities between March 1 and June 3. However, state health department officials said the death rate has been lower in the second wave. “The case fatality rate (CFR) was over 3% in July and August, which dropped to 2.65% in September, when Maharashtra achieved its peak in the first wave. The CFR was 1.94% on March 31, 1.5% on April 30 and 1.66% on May 31. Although the number of deaths occurring during the second wave was higher, the positive aspect is that the deaths did not rise to the level of the rise in cases,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-adds-15k-new-covid-cases-state-tally-at-5791413-101622775974764.html
04-06-2021||NA||LIVE: Haryana records 895 new Covid-19 cases, 73 deaths||India's coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload currently stands at over 28.57 million after 132,364 new infections were to the tally on Friday, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. On Thursday, the country completed a week of reporting less than 200,000 cases daily. The positivity rate also continued a declining trend as it stood at 6.20 per cent, less than 10 per cent for the tenth straight day. Active cases also witnessed a further decline of 80,000 and currently amounts to 1,713,413, the ministry's data showed.Meanwhile, the government announced its first advance commitment as it made a ₹1,500 crore deal to purchase 300 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Hyderabad’s Biological E. The company's vaccine candidate is currently in the last phase of clinical trials.Globally, the viral disease has affected more than 172 million people and caused over 3.6 million deaths since the pandemic began, according to the Johns Hopkins University Covid tracker. As per the tracker, more than 2 billion vaccine doses have been administered worldwide so far. The US is also ready to release the first tranche of 25 million vaccine doses to the countries in dire need in order to address the growing surge in demand, including India.Australia's Victoria has detected the first case of Delta coronavirus variant—the name designated by the World Health Organization (WHO) to the variant first found in India. Calls for in-depth investigation of the Wuhan Lab leak theory continues to grow, recently, US top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci demanded China releases medical records of the lab workers, which can aid in determining the veracity of the theory.Follow all the updates here:Haryana records 895 new Covid-19 cases, 73 deathsHaryana recorded 895 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally of active cases to 11,054. 73 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 8,605. Assam reports 4,548 new cases, 54 deathsAssam reported 4,548 new cases on Friday, taking the state-wide tally to 4,28,933. 54 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 3,577, as per the state health bulletin.DCGI grants SII permission to manufacture Sputnik V vaccines The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) on Friday for manufacturing Russian vaccine Sputnik V for examination test and analysis at its licensed facility at Hadapsar, sources told news agency ANI. Maharashtra records 14,152 cases of Covid-19, 289 deathsMaharashtra recorded 14,152 cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the state-wide tally to 58,05,565. 289 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 98,771, according to the state health bulletin.Andhra Pradesh reports 10,413 Covid-19 cases, 83 fatalitiesAndhra Pradesh reported 10,413 cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally of cases to 17,38,990. 83 fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the state currently has 1,33,773 active cases, according to the health bulletin.Kerala reports 16,229 Covid-19 cases, 135 fatalitiesKerala reports 16,229 fresh COVID19 cases, 135 deaths today; active cases at 1,74,526Goa reports 576 Covid-19 cases, 17 fatalitiesGoa reported 576 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally of cases to 1,58,423. 17 fatalities were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 2,727, according to news agency PTI.US aims to increase global Covid-19 vaccine coverage: State departmentThe United States aims to increase Covid-19 vaccine coverage globally, Gayle E Smith, US State Department coordinator for Covid-19 Response and Health Security told news agency ANI. Adding that the US is hopeful of other countries will also start sharing their vaccines with the world.Delhi reports 523 Covid-19 cases, 50 deathsDelhi on Friday recorded 523 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total tally of cases to 14,28,449. 50 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 24,497.Switzerland to launch Covid-19 certificates Switzerland will start distributing vaccine certificates to people from next week, reported Reuters. These certificates will be given to people who have been vaccinated, tested negative or have recovered from Covid-19. Covaxin and Zydus vaccines being tested in children, says health ministry COVAXIN & Zydus vaccines already being tested in children. We will need around 25 crore doses. We will have to take this into account when we strategize. Information & analysis being continually being examined: Dr. VK Paul, Member-Health, Niti AayogThe health ministry said on Friday that both Covaxin and the Zydus Cadilla vaccines are being tested on children. Adding that around 25 crore doses will be required to inoculate children against Covid-19.377 districts in the country reporting positivity rate of less than 5% : Health ministry377 districts reporting less than 5% case positivity currently: Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, Health MinistryLav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, health ministry, also said that the recovery rate has improved and now stands at 93.1%Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine approved for 12-15 year olds in UKBritain's medicines regulator said on Friday it had extended approval of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech so it can be used on 12- to 15-year-olds.Pfizer vaccine produces less antibodies against the Delta variant: Lancent study The Pfizer-BioNTech SE vaccine produces five times less neutralising antibodies against the Delta variant a study published in the medical journal Lancet stated, reported news agency PTI. Russia reports 8,947 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursRussia's coronavirus disease tally rose to 5,108,129 after it added 8,947 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, reported Reuters.Covid-19 Delta variant dominant in UK, may posses higher hospitalization riskThe Delta variant of Covid-19 or the B1.617.2, first found in India, has now become the most prevalent variant of concern in the UK and may also have an increased risk of hospitalizations, PTI quoted a health official in Britain as saying.Odisha reports 7,729 new Covid-19 cases, tally nears 800,000Odisha on Friday reported 7,729 new Covid-19 infections and 39 fatalities. The state's tally now stands at 7,98,699, as per a health department official, reported PTI.Ladakh reports 113 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deathsLadakh reports 113 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the infection tally to 18,854. the death toll of the Union territory reached 193 as it reported two new fatalities from the virus, reported PTI.Taiwan reports 472 new Covid-19 cases, adjustment continuesTaiwan on Friday logged 472 new Covid-19 cases, including 133 added to the total for recent days, as it is still readjusting its infection count due to delay in reporting positive tests, reported Reuters.Arunachal Pradesh reports 364 new Covid-19 cases, one deathArunachal Pradesh on Friday registered 364 new Covid-19 infections, while one person died due to the disease, pushing the toll to 119, according to a senior health department official, reported PTI.27 new Covid-19 cases take Andaman and Nicobar islands tally to over 7kAndaman and Nicobar Islands saw a rise of 27 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours. The coronavirus tally of the Union territory now stands at 7,070, according to the health official, reported PTI.Over 2 million samples tested for Covid-19 in last 24 hours: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/A6i5mWUOlUIndia logs over 132,000 new Covid-19 cases, pushes tally to 28.5 millionIndia on Friday witnessed a decline in new Covid-19 cases as 132,364 fresh infections were reported in the last 24 hours. The daily fatalities also saw a decline as 2,713 people succumbed to the disease taking the toll to 340,702, according to the health ministry dashboard.India to be big part of US global Covid vaccine allocation plan: Envoy SandhuIndian Ambassador to the United States, Taranjit Singh Sandhu said India will be a major part of US President Joe Biden's newly-launched Global Allocation Plan of 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to be delivered to neighboring and partner countries.Taiwan grateful to Japan for Covid-19 vaccineThe foreign ministry of Taiwan paid its gratitude to Japan for the donation of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, reported Reuters. China logs 24 new Covid-19 casesChina on Friday reported 24 new coronavirus disease cases, same as the day earlier, Reuters quoted the country's health ministry as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-june-4-2021-101622770691562.html
04-06-2021||India||Monsoon to reach Tamil Nadu, coastal Karnataka by tomorrow||Monsoon is likely to advance into remaining parts of south Arabian Sea, some parts of central Arabian Sea, and the remaining parts of Kerala and Lakshadweep by Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).It is likely to cover some more parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, some parts of coastal and south interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema, and some more parts of south and Central Bay of Bengal today and tomorrow.Also Read | In rare relief, no heatwave yet, none likely this summer: IMDMonsoon made onset over Kerala on Thursday, two days behind its normal date of arrival. Due to strengthening of lower level southwesterly winds, widespread rainfall activity is very likely over northeastern states during the next five days. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh during June 4 to 6; Assam and Meghalaya during June 3 to 7 and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram amd Tripura on June 5 and 6.A fresh western disturbance as a trough is affecting the western Himalayan region. Under its influence, scattered rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds is very likely over parts of western Himalayan region and the adjoining plains of northwest India during the next 2-3 days.Under the influence of a trough ( area of low pressure) at mean sea level off Karnataka-Kerala coasts and strengthening of westerly wind in lower tropospheric levels, scattered to widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds is likely. Isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over Kerala and Karnataka during the next 3 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-reach-tamil-nadu-coastal-karnataka-by-tomorrow-101622774594798.html
04-06-2021||India||Indian jet in Dominica for Mehul Choksi flies out, destination unknown||The private jet India sent to Dominica with documents linked to the deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi last week has flown out of the island at 8:10pm (local time) on Thursday, people familiar with the development said on Friday. Choksi, wanted in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case, remains at Dominica-China Friendship Hospital under police guard.The Indian team, which went there along with the documents, has also returned, the people cited above saidalso added that the flight’s destination is not known.Indian-born Choksi disappeared from Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, on May 23 but was detained by Dominican police three days later on charges of illegally entering the island, nearly 100 nautical miles away.Also read | Illegal entry charge to citizenship question: Decoding the casesPrime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne said last week that the Bombardier Global 5000 business jet of Qatar Executive landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport May 29. Browne also told a radio show in his country that Choksi may have left Antigua and taken a boat ride to neighbouring Dominica to have dinner or a “good time” with his girlfriend.On Thursday, a court in Dominica denied bail to the 62-year-old businessman and remanded him to police custody for roughly two weeks on charges of illegally entering the island nation. And, the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court adjourned hearing in a habeas corpus petition filed by Choksi’s lawyers and the government of Antigua, where the 62-year-old spent three years as a citizen before he went missing on May 23, reiterated that it favoured deporting the businessman to India.Also watch | Dominican court denies bail to Mehul Choksi in illegal entry caseIndia said it was making all efforts to bring back Mehul Choksi. “He (Choksi) is currently in the custody of Dominica with some legal proceedings underway. We will continue to make all efforts to ensure he is brought to back India,” foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told reporters. “Let me emphasise that India remains steadfast in its efforts to ensure that fugitives are brought back to India to face justice,” Bagchi added.Also read | Wife says Choksi being treated as a criminal because of Antigua PMThis is the first time the Indian government has officially commented on the issue since Choksi disappeared from Antigua, where he has been living since 2018 after acquiring its citizenship, and was found three days later in Dominica.India-born Choksi faces two separate legal proceedings in Dominica. A magistrate’s court in the Dominican capital Roseau is hearing the government’s charge that the businessman entered the country illegally. And, Choksi’s lawyers have moved the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, alleging that he was abducted and asking him to be sent back to Antigua.Choksi’s lawyers have said their client was kidnapped, beaten, and unwillingly brought to Dominica.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-jet-in-dominica-for-mehul-choksi-flies-out-destination-unknown-101622773913141.html
04-06-2021||India||PM Modi condoles demise of Mauritius' ex-prime minister Anerood Jugnauth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has condoled the demise of Anerood Jugnauth, the former president and prime minister of Mauritius. Jugnauth died at the age of 91 on Thursday.“Padma Vibhushan Sir Anerood Jugnauth, a tall leader & statesman, was the architect of modern Mauritius. A proud Pravasi Bharatiya, he helped forge the special bilateral relationship that will benefit from his legacy. Condolences to his family & the people of Mauritius. Om Shanti,” PM Modi said in a tweet.Padma Vibhushan Sir Anerood Jugnauth, a tall leader & statesman, was the architect of modern Mauritius. A proud Pravasi Bharatiya, he helped forge the special bilateral relationship that will benefit from his legacy. Condolences to his family & the people of Mauritius. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/CktEnK4XMnExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar also condoled the demise of Jugnauth. "Deeply grieved to learn about the passing away of Sir Anerood Jugnauth, former President & Prime Minister of Mauritius. A towering leader and a special friend of India. Still recall his warmth and graciousness the last time I called on him," tweeted Jaishankar. "Deepest condolences to the Jugnauth family and the people of Mauritius. Om Shanti," Jaishankar added.Jugnauth was Mauritius' longest-serving prime minister and held the post for more than 18 years. Jugnauth held the post of prime minister between 1982 and 1995, then again between 2000 and 2003, and later between 2014 and 2017. His son, Pravind Jugnauth, took over the post and is the current prime minister of Mauritius.Jugnauth also served as the president of Mauritius from 2003-2012. He was considered the father of the Mauritian economic miracle of the 1980s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-demise-of-mauritius-ex-prime-minister-anerood-jugnauth-101622770570551.html
04-06-2021||India||Increase in Covid-19 vaccine production in India to be 'game changer' beyond borders: US||Increase in manufacturing capacity of Covid-19 vaccines in India has the potential to be a game changer well beyond its borders, the Biden Administration said Thursday."It's important to us because India has suffered immensely from the outbreak. Virtually, no element of Indian society has been left untouched by this horrible scourge. That is why we have spoken of the focus on increased manufacturing in India," State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters."The increased manufacturing capacity in India, the volume of capacity has the potential to be a game changer well beyond India's borders. And that's precisely why this arrangement was reached and announced in the context of the Quad," he said.Early this year at the first virtual Quad summit, composed of leaders from Australia, India, Japan and the United States, it was decided to work together to increase the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing capacity of India.So far, the United States has contributed USD500 million in Covid-19 assistance to India. This includes USD100 million from the government alone. The entire US government, including Secretary of State Tony Blinken, has led an effort to galvanise the private sector to chip in, he said.“We have been really gratified to see that, together between the US government contributions as well as private sector contributions, we have seen some USD0.5 billion in support go to India in its time of need,” he said.The Biden Administration on Thursday announced that it will send 25 million of its vaccines to other countries, including India.“There remain some 55 million doses that the administration has committed to send abroad by the end of this month,” Price said, adding that the announcement in this regard could come in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-in-covid-19-vaccine-production-in-india-to-be-game-changer-beyond-borders-us-101622767157662.html
04-06-2021||India||SC gives CBSE 2 weeks for evaluation formula||The Supreme Court on Thursday set a two-week deadline for the Centre to come up with a “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class 12 students of the Central Bureau of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) following the cancellation of their examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Attorney general KK Venugopal, who appeared for the Centre, shared an official communication intimating the court about the cancellation.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said they were happy over the “in principle” decision to cancel the examinations, but asked the government why no decision was taken on the criteria of assessment. “...what will be the objective criteria to assess students? It has not been spelt out in your letter,” the bench said.Venugopal said that the decision was pending as the government needed to determine whether to include the performance from Class 10 onwards, or restrict the assessment to Class 12 alone. “There is another issue of which subjects to assess. All this may take at least three weeks.”Senior advocate JK Das, appearing for CISCE, sought four weeks to come out with a scheme. “This time, unlike last year, we have asked for data from all principals with regard to all subjects,” Das said. Venugopal, however, agreed to a two-week deadline after the court said that in the age of videoconferencing, a decision could even be taken overnight.The court told Das that students were concerned about college admissions not just in India but abroad as well. “Impress upon your clients that this is a matter of urgent basis,” it said.The Centre on Tuesday cancelled the CBSE Class 12 examinations and ended uncertainty for roughly 1.4 million students who were to appear in them.The decision was taken at a meeting chared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid appeals by students and parents, who feared the exams could be a superspreader event particularly because those under the age of 18 are not eligible for vaccination yet. Hours later, CISCE also scrapped its Class 12 exams or ISE exams. The CBSE and ICSE Class 10 board exams were cancelled in April.The Supreme Court on Thursday adjourned the matter to June 17, and said that it was mindful of the interest of students in schools affiliated to state boards, and will address their concerns after the objective assessment for CBSE and CISCE was settled.The court’s deadline came on a petition filed by advocate Mamata Sharma, who sought an objective assessment scheme within a specified time frame.The petitioner referred to state boards, pointed out that most of them were yet to cancel the Class 12 examination, and sought uniform directions for students across the country. The court asked Sharma to be patient and said her petition sought directions for Class 12 students of CBSE and CISCE only but was now “asking for heaven”.“Interests of the student community will be taken care of... First let us settle for CBSE, CISCE and then we will go into other issues,” it said.Last year, the top court faced a similar predicament when a demand was made to scrap Class 12 Board examinations. The petition by Amit Bathla and others came up at a stage when some subject examinations were yet to be held. After the court’s intervention, CBSE scrapped Class 10 exams. It devised an assessment scheme for Class 12 based on papers already given and their overall performance in the year.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in New Delhi’s Rohini, said, “A well defined objective criterion as stated in the decision of cancellation of examinations requires a lot of deliberation and discussion. It requires time to come up with a criteria to ensure objectivity and satisfaction.”AK Jha, principal of a Delhi government co-ed school, said sufficient time is required to make an “error free” criterion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-cbse-2-weeks-for-evaluation-formula-101622758255531.html
04-06-2021||India||Govt books 300 million doses of new Indian jab||India made its first advance commitments for a coronavirus vaccine under development, announcing a ₹1,500 crore deal with Hyderabad’s Biological E to stockpile 300 million doses of its candidate that has shown promising signs but is currently in the last stage of clinical trials.The commitment, announced by the Union health ministry on Thursday, represents the first time the government has placed an advance purchase order, which typically helps secure large volumes of doses, and has been a strategy used by countries that managed to procure doses early. “The arrangement with Biological-E is part of the wider endeavour of Government of India to encourage indigenous vaccine manufacturers by providing them support in research & development and also financial support,” the ministry said in a statement.The move comes a day after the Supreme Court pulled up the government for its vaccination policy and gave it two weeks to submit all files and notings that “reflect its thinking and the culmination” of its vaccination policy, which judges said appeared to be “arbitrary and irrational”.The criticism around the Covid-19 vaccination drive stems from an acute shortage of doses in the country, where under 19% of the 940 million eligible people have received at least one dose.The order that the government disclosed on Thursday will help India get guaranteed access to large doses of the vaccines made by Biological E once the dose is approved. The amount committed will go towards development as well as stockpiling of the doses in advance, which will help push large quantities as soon as clearances are secured. The vaccine is likely to be marketed as Corbevax, according to names previously disclosed by the company.The 300 million doses appeared to be the cumulative capacity that Biological E told the Centre it will be able to produce for the rest of 2021. Niti Aayog’s VK Paul on May 13 said the company’s 300 million doses was among the 2.16 billion doses of various vaccines that the government was expecting to be available between August and December. It was not immediately clear when the 300 million doses will begin to become available since Phase III trials were only approved in late April, and the developers – Biological E and its partner, Texas-based Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) – are yet to release data from the Phase 1/2 studies.Dr Peter Hotez, the dean of BCM’s National School of Tropical Medicine and one of the scientists involved in the development, said in an interview to an Indian TV channel last month that clinical trials have shown there will be cross-protection against a number of variants of concern. The vaccine is made using a tried-and-tested platform that is also used in the development of the Hepatitis B vaccine, which Biological E has past experience of making.In an interview to HT in January, BCM’s Maria Elena Bottazzi said that the vaccine could particularly help inoculate children. “A hepatitis vaccine platform will also help be reassuring for paediatrics use since mRNA and viral vectors have never been used in children,” she said.Bottazzi said Biological E has worked on the technology for long and the Texas-based institute transferred the technology in summer of 2020. “They were very quick not only in scaling up and reproducing (necessary biologicals) -- we now know they can make 1.2 billion doses of the protein -- but they are also very quick at doing the formulation science,” she said.Experts welcomed Thursday’s announcement.“I am just glad that the government is taking some risk now, to do advance purchase of products that might be useful. They should have done this a year ago. Knowing you have a commitment to buy and an advanced paid from the government will encourage vaccine manufacturers to ramp up production even as they do clinical trials,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccinologist and physician-scientist, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.“They should also look at supporting Gennova for their mRNA product,” she added.A senior public health expert, who asked not to be named, however, asked Biological E to release clinical trial data. “Permission to progress to the next phase cannot be given unless you have submitted trial results of the previous phase; therefore I don’t see why the vaccine makers should hold on to the data. If results are promising put them out for other experts to scrutinise who were not a part of the trial,” said this person“How are they so sure that phase III results will be favourable; those who understand science know that earlier phases of clinical trials are about promise and the third phase is actually what determines the real performance,” the expert added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-books-300-million-doses-of-new-indian-jab-101622757968694.html
04-06-2021||India||ED gets 10-day custody of RJD MP in money laundering case||Hours after his arrest, a Delhi court on Thursday sent Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Rajya Sabha MP Amarendra Dhari Singh to 10-day custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with its money laundering probe linked to an alleged import of fertilisers from foreign suppliers at inflated rates, people familiar with the development said on Thursday.Officials said Singh, 61, was picked up from his residence in Defence Colony under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He was sent to the Rajya Sabha by RJD in March last year.The party defended him and said the case against him reeked of political vendetta. “Centre, through its agencies, has been targeting the Opposition party leaders and misusing the central agencies. We are yet to get the details of his arrest. But the party stands behind him,” said Mrityunjay Tiwary, RJD spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-gets-10-day-custody-of-rjd-mp-in-money-laundering-case-101622755516553.html
04-06-2021||India||'Talks on with US firms to source jabs': Shringla||India is in talks with US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson about sourcing and possible local manufacturing of their Covid-19 vaccines even as it awaits WHO approval for the indigenous Covaxin vaccine, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday.Addressing the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Southeast Asia regional health partners’ forum on Covid-19, Shringla said the government has taken several steps to speed up domestic manufacturing of vaccines, such as easing “regulatory disruptions” of supply chains for raw materials and components.With the pandemic well into its second year, India is “fighting an exceptionally severe second wave”, and the country has “lived through a series of extraordinary stresses and shocks” while dealing with “unprecedented economic and social disruptions”, he said.Listing the steps taken by the Centre to overcome the impact of the pandemic, Shringla said, “We are also part of the discussions with major vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna about sourcing and possible local manufacturing of their vaccines in India. We have also helped to expedite the introduction of Sputnik-V vaccines.”He added, “We are also looking forward to WHO’s approval for India’s indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech.”India’s vaccination programme has been hit by a shortage of jabs and the government has ramped up efforts to both buy doses from abroad and ramp up domestic production.Later in the day, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We are also engaged with the US administration to ensure that necessary components and raw materials for vaccine production in India are readily available... It is in our mutual interest to combat the global pandemic by expediting vaccination efforts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-on-with-us-firms-to-source-jabs-shringla-101622753511683.html
04-06-2021||India||BJP leader cremated, terror group says it’s behind attack||A previously unknown terror group has claimed responsibility for the killing of a councillor in Jammu and Kashmir’s Tral on Wednesday night when he was visiting a friend’s house on his way back from Jammu without his security cover, police said.Rakesh Pandita, 56, a leader of Bharatiya Janata Party, was shot dead while his friend Mushtaq Ahmad’s daughter suffered injuries in the shooting and was hospitalised in a critical condition.Pandita was cremated in Jammu on Thursday.People’s Anti Fascist Front (PAFF) claimed responsibility for the killing in a statement that accused Pandita of creating a network of informers, drug trafficking and “immoral activities”. It added it was “keeping an eye on the activities of these forces”.“He [Pandita] had gone to Jammu and left PSOs [Personal Security Officers] in Kashmir. After returning from Jammu, he went to Tral without his PSOs to meet his friend... The investigations are going on,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.Police said PAFF appears to be a front of terrorist organisations active in south Kashmir and added security forces have cordoned off the attack scene and launched a search operation to nab the assailants.“Pakistani terrorists have once again bled the Kashmir Valley. Pandita’s martyrdom will not go in vain,” Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-cremated-terror-group-says-it-s-behind-attack-101622751728298.html
04-06-2021||India||Biological-E: Hyderabad company to give another shot in the arm||Bengaluru: The Centre on Thursday announced that it has inked a deal with Hyderabad-based Biological E for 30 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, which is in clinical trials, and will make an advance payment of ₹1,500 crore to procure the same.A statement from the health ministry said that these vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by Biological-E from August to December this year. The statement also said that the Covid-19 vaccine of Biological-E is currently undergoing phase-3 clinical trials after showing promising results in phase 1 and 2 trials. The vaccine being developed by Biological-E is a RBD protein sub-unit vaccine and is likely to be available in the next few months, it added.The Centre’s announcement comes at a time when India continues to remain in the grip of the second wave of Covid-19. With the present production not being able to meet the rising vaccine demand, the Union government has approached other companies like Biological E to scale up manufacturing and help ease the supply constraints.“The proposal of Biological-E was examined and recommended for approval after due diligence by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC),” the health ministry statement said. Biological E could not be reached for a comment on the latest development on Thursday.In a statement on June 1, it said that it has partnered with Canada-based Providence Therapeutics Holdings Inc which will provide necessary technology transfer to manufacture mRNA vaccines in India, with a minimum production capacity of 600 million doses in 2022 and a target capacity of 1 billion doses.A December 2020 article by Forbes on Biological E titled ‘The Dark Horse in India’s Vaccine Race’ had described how the company has emerged as one of the biggest facilities to produce the life-saving vaccine. The company is already working with four Covid-19 vaccine candidates, including Johnson & Johnson, according to the report. Founded by Dr D V K Raju in 1953, Biological E commenced operations as a biological products company, manufacturing liver extracts and anticoagulants.The company gradually began producing Heparin, a drug to prevent blood clots, and barely a decade later in 1963, the company became the first private sector player in India to enter the vaccine business.Biological E has made quick and significant strides since then, producing anti-tetanus serum and developing vaccines for Japanese Encephalitis among others. In 2019, the company commenced its commercial operations in the USA.The firm envisions to become the “largest Indian vaccines company and be among the top few Indian companies in complex generics and specialty pharmaceuticals” by 2025, according to the organisation.The company at present is led by its managing director and chief executive officer, Mahima Datla. At present, only Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech are producing the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, respectively, in India. As the second most populous country in the world, India would require inoculating 1.3 billion people in its fight against Covid-19.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biologicale-hyderabad-company-to-give-another-shot-in-the-arm-101622749992437.html
04-06-2021||India||BJP chief in Kerala accused of giving bribe to candidate to remain in NDA||Thiruvananthpuram: After a humiliating defeat in the assembly elections in which it lost its lone seat, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kerala has found itself embroiled in a controversy for its alleged links with a purported highway heist of more than ₹3 crore in Thrissur district in April. On Wednesday, a purported audio tape of party state president K Surendran surfaced, in which he is heard reportedly talking to tribal leader and candidate from Wayanad constituency C K Janu, promising her ₹10 lakh. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the audio clip. While one of the office-bearers of Jana’s erstwhile party (Janadhipathya Rashtriya Sabha) has claimed that she had sought ₹10 crore from the saffron party to remain in the National Democratic Alliance and that the ₹10 lakh was an advance amount, both Janu and Surendran said the money was part of the poll campaign expenses. “We are ready for any probe. The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) is playing dirty politics to link the BJP with a money-snatching incident. Like CPI(M) leaders, we won’t get admitted to hospitals to avert questioning,” Surendran told reporters in Kozhikode on Thursday, adding that he was ready to appear before agencies for a probe. Police have already questioned several district BJP leaders and expected to summon party state office-bearers in connection with the alleged heist which took place on April 3 in Kodakara on the Thrissur-Ernakulam highway. A man named S Shamseer alleged that he was transporting ₹25 lakh cash when he was reportedly waylaid by a group of people and looted after being assaulted. Four days after the incident (April 7), he filed a police complaint in which he alleged that the money was meant for a property transaction.Shamseer later named a local Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader, Dharmajan, who claimed that the money was collected from several people and was meant for election activities.While the police noted several inconsistencies in Shamseer’s version of events, after making 20 arrests, it found that the recoveries were more than ₹25 lakh.As per latest information, the amount involved was supposedly ₹3.5 crore and police have recovered ₹1.25 crore so far.During the probe, Dharmajan reportedly told police that the money was meant to be handed over to BJP Alappuzha treasurer K G Kartha and that party state organising secretary M Ganeshan was aware of the transportation. However, the case took a turn when one of the main accused P Deepak was found at the BJP district office in Thrissur after the incident, police said. BJP leaders, however, claimed that Deepak visited the office as part of an internal probe being carried out by the party. The entire incident led the police to suspect the role of some party insiders who were aware of the transportation of cash in the heist. When contacted, investigating officer deputy superintendent of police V K Raju refused to comment on the case, saying an investigation was underway. CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan alleged that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is hesitant to probe the case since it involved the BJP. The central agency is already probing the Kerala gold smuggling case which was a huge point of contention between the state and Union governments in the run up to the elections. “We have seen the ED taking up even minor cases in the state. But the central agency is keeping silent now. It exposes the central agency’s partisan attitude,” he said. Meanwhile, an existing internal feud in the party over the elevation of Surendran as the Kerala unit president in February intensified after party OBC Morcha leader Rishi Palppu questioned the leaders over the source of money and heist. He was later expelled from the party.Reports suggest that the party central leadership is also upset with the recent developments in the state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-in-kerala-accused-of-giving-bribe-to-candidate-to-remain-in-nda-101622749692435.html
04-06-2021||India||Waiting for oxygen became like waiting for God: TN health minister||Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian sounded confident that the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic will be under control in another ten days. In an interview with HT, he recalled several touch-and-go situations when hospitals made SOS calls for oxygen, but the state overcame such challenges by scaling up infrastructure soon after forming the new government. Subramanian, the former mayor of Chennai, is one of chief minister MK Stalin’s most trusted aides. They have been together since 1976 when Subramanian joined the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) youth wing. At 62, he is known for his fitness. He clocked a 10-km run in little over an hour on the morning of June 2. Edited excerpts Covid-19 cases have started to decline in Tamil Nadu, but we faced multiple crises. What were the major challenges? We formed the government on May 7 when there were around 20,000 cases daily and it rapidly increased and went up to 36,000. At that stage there was a huge shortage of beds, oxygen-supported beds and ICUs. Patients were waiting for a long time in hospitals for admission… Almost all patients are requiring oxygen support in the second wave, which spread rapidly and caused more lung damages to patients. Shortage of hospital beds with oxygen was a major challenge. How did you overcome the crisis of oxygen shortage? Almost every night, the chief minister’s office received a call from hospitals and residents alike. Complaints received on social media were diverted to us. A hospital made an SOS to the CM that if they don’t receive oxygen within two hours, 20 lives were at risk. We immediately diverted oxygen and avoided any of these incidents from turning into a major disaster, like the one in Andhra Pradesh, where 21 people died. We only had 230 MT of oxygen per day until May 7 in government and private hospitals together. But today, we have 660 MT per day while our requirement is 540 MT. We have created a situation where we have more supply than demand. The chief minister was constantly in touch with concerned ministers in the Union government and even spoken to the Prime Minister to increase oxygen allocation for Tamil Nadu. One night, we were waiting at 2 am to receive oxygen from Rourkela. Waiting for oxygen and Remedisivir became like waiting for God for us. Now, there is no more oxygen shortage anywhere. As on June 1, the state has 8,072 oxygen beds, 618 ICUs and 16,644 non-oxygen beds available. Ten days ago, patients were scrambling to find even a single bed and that has now changed to more than 25,000 beds being vacant. In the three-week period, we were able to develop the infrastructure. The CM appealed to the public to turn this into a people’s movement. We have received ₹200 crore in donations to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to fight Covid-19. Besides, industries, corporates and clubs have donated oxygen concentrators worth crores. In Covid Care Centres, we also offered Siddha, Yunani, Homeopathy and Yoga in 61 centres. Each of them had a 100-bed capacity. Cases are now declining fast in all districts with more patients recovering and getting discharged. The difference between the number of new positive cases and discharges are also increasing. This has given us a huge confidence. But the death toll in state is still on the higher side with over 400 fatalities every day. People weren’t vigilant and delayed testing and treatment even if they had symptoms like a fever. Only when they have respiratory distress do they show up. But by then, they develop severe lung infection, which is why deaths are high. The deaths aren’t due to any shortage. Treatment protocol is fine. We have been raising awareness for people to approach hospital during the onset of symptoms. As cases reduced in Chennai, it began rising in the western region. What are the specific problems there? Cases are being contained there too. I’ve visited these regions thrice in the past 20 days and the CM went twice and conducted review meetings with district collectors. IAS officers as nodal officers as well as ministers have been appointed in these districts. Forest minister and food minister have been made in-charge in Coimbatore. We are also scrutinising if there is any nexus between private labs and private hospitals. According to complaints, in Tiruppur, a private lab, Medall, had entered 4,000 negative cases as positive. (The department of public health temporarily cancelled Medall’s RT-PCR testing, but the lab explained that it was an encryption error.) In Coimbatore, I made a surprise inspection at a lab. The Erode district collector inspects private labs everyday by randomly selecting 10 positive samples and sending it to a government lab for re-checking. As compared to the first wave, there have been more problems in terms of shortage of oxygenated beds, ICUs, remdesivir and other drugs. What do you think went wrong during the second wave? The difference from the first wave is that the virus is more virulent in the second wave. So, the number of cases is high, the virus spreads rapidly, and it has led to more critical patients now. There are more cases of patients with serious lung involvement and respiratory distress. It took a year to contain the first wave. But we have crossed half the well in a month. As far as I know, in another ten days, we will come out of it. The infrastructure we have increased now was not required in the first wave. Experts say TN should have ramped up testing to 300,000 daily, as against only 170,000 when cases had peaked. Why was it low? TN’s 170,000 is the highest number of RT-PCR tests conducted in India. There will always be an opinion to do more, that’s natural. We have been able to bring cases under control because we were testing in high numbers. You had announced suspending vaccine drive on June 1 and that evening the Union government sent more doses. How are you going to address vaccine shortage? Our only issue is vaccine shortage. Earlier there was vaccine hesitancy and now we are waiting for vaccines. From January 16 until May 7, during the AIADMK government for 103 days, they vaccinated 61,000 people daily on an average. In the last 20 days, we have crossed an average of 100,000 people every day. People’s awareness has increased especially for those in the 18-44 age group. People have come to an understanding that vaccination is the only solution. We have paid ₹85.48 crore for vaccines for those in the 18-44 age category. We have received 1.3 million vaccines and we are yet to receive another 1.3 million. We were worried earlier that we have to suspend vaccination on June 2, 3 and 4 because we hadn’t received the full supply that the Centre allocated for May. The health secretary and I both told the media about it after which we received 494,000 vaccine doses on June 1 evening. We distributed it to all the districts on the same night. So, vaccination has continued. This will last another few days and before it gets over, the Centre will re-stock. So, we are confident we will continue inoculation. The Centre has also allocated 4.2 million vaccines for us in June. Is the Centre to be blamed for the vaccine shortage in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere? This isn’t a time to complain and blame. We have been requesting for more. We are not just solely depending on the Union government. We have released a global tender for 35 million vaccines. On June 5, we will know the tender participants. We have also asked about the integrated vaccine complex in Chengalpattu. If we get a reply from the Centre to hand over the plant to us on lease, it will offer protection for Tamil Nadu on a huge scale. What about a request on behalf of the state to Jesse Jackson (Sr) of Rainbow PUSH Coalition to request US President Joe Biden to release at least 60 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccines for India including Tamil Nadu? We haven’t finalised it for now. We are trying all avenues and we will take a call after we review global tenders on June 5. How is our situation in terms of mucormycosis? So far, the state has reported 518 cases of mucormycosis, of which 17 patients have died and 20 have been discharged. We have formed a committee of 13 with the best doctors including Mohan Rajan (Rajan Eye Care Hospital), ENT professor Mohan Kameswaran (director of Madras ENT Research Foundation) and doctors from government and private hospitals. They will research this infection’s cause, effects and treatment. Mostly they will submit their report this week and it will be submitted to the CM. We have opened a separate ward for mucormycosis treatment in Omandurar hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. We have instructed all Tamil Nadu medical college hospitals to open similar wards. Doctors say that if we detect it in the early stages, we can save lives. We are also starting to build awareness among the public, so they do not miss the early symptoms. Has the new government put in place a mechanism to ensure that Covid deaths aren’t missed and under-reported? I’ve visited 16 districts so far and inspected rural and urban areas. At the end of it, our advice to the district collectors and all stakeholders is to not hide deaths and positive cases. Only if we know the true numbers will the public also have a combined feeling of fear and awareness. During the previous AIADMK regime (in 2012), it was evident that 21 people had died due to Cholera in north Chennai. I had released a statement. The Greater Chennai Corporation responded to it during a council meeting and lied that they died due to cardiac arrest. We don’t have such intentions in our government. We don’t have to hide anything. What is your vision for the health sector of Tamil Nadu? When I finish my responsibility and leave my position, I want to have created a situation where people of Tamil Nadu look towards government hospitals if they are sick. They should have an intention that they will be taken care of well in a government hospital and it isn’t necessary to go to a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waiting-for-oxygen-became-like-waiting-for-god-tn-health-minister-101622748492336.html
04-06-2021||India||Cong grapples with Punjab infighting||An incumbent Congress chief minister who just a few months back looked set to return to power, the characteristic in-fighting that has come to be the norm in many state units of the party, and a high command that appears to be encouraging the dissidents to speak up.All are part of a high-stakes drama being played out in Punjab and Delhi, with there being no certainty that a meeting between state chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and a three-member committee (Mallikarjun Kharge, Harish Rawat and JP Aggarwal) set up by the party high command to resolve the issue, will result in anything substantive.At the core of the issue, according to one camp, is the chief minister’s style of functioning; according to the other, it is the ambition of some of the Captain’s rivals, including Navjot Singh Sidhu.But the issue has become larger than that now -- something that should worry the party ahead of next year’s state elections that it looked set to win under the Captain, largely on account of the farm protest that broke the partnership of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party, leaving the former on a weak wicket and ensuring the temporary oblivion of the latter in the state.Captain Amarinder Singh’s team says there’s no problem at all. “It’s just a checklist before the polls,’’ said finance minister Manpreet Badal , on the meetings the committee has been having. “There is no rebellion at all.’’Yet, HT learns that the 79-year old chief minister is particularly miffed that the party’s high command has asked an intermediary to encourage legislators to speak out against him.“Harish Chaudhary, a Rajasthan minister and former AICC secretary in charge of Punjab elections, has been calling up MLAs for the past 10 days,’’ said a person close to the CM who asked not to be named. “Chaudhary was speaking to dissidents and encouraging them to speak out and he was supposedly acting on behalf of the party leadership. The CM has spoken to Rahulji (Rahul Gandhi) about this.’’Congress spokespersons did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment, but the fact that calls were being made was confirmed by one of Gandhi’s aides who insisted it is part of a feedback gathering mechanism. Chaudhary denied calling MLAs for this purpose. “I was in the state for seven years, so of course, I have a relationship with many people. We were checking on each other, to help each other during Covid. I have nothing to do with the upcoming elections.”HT also learns that Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar politely told the committee that the problem is above their pay grade. Pointing out that the CM is senior to them all, he said the problem could only be solved by the Gandhis.Jakhar’s position is key because it’s his job that Sidhu wants. The former cricketer quit Amarinder Singh’s cabinet in July, 2019 when his portfolio was changed. While the CM has told Delhi that Sidhu is welcome to have his job back, Sidhu wants to be PCC chief. Sidhu is believed to be close to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was instrumental in getting him to join the party in 2017.But the larger issue is how the party has handled the whole affair, said a key Punjab Congress leader who asked not to be named. “It’s not about Sidhu being a threat to the CM or even Partap Singh Bajwa (another dissenter) being a threat. It’s just that this should have all been sorted out a year ago; the high command has just let it linger. ’’The CM, who reached Delhi on Thursday afternoon, will meet the three-member committee at 11am on Friday. On reaching the Capital, he went into a huddle with aides and advisers at Kapurthala House. The committee, meanwhile, completed its discussions with other party leaders, even many of the 37 party candidates who lost in the 2017 state polls. Agarwal said the committee would give its report in the next two to three days. “The meetings went off smoothly. There was no serious groupism. There are a few leaders who have some disagreements but nothing that cannot be sorted out. That’s why the committee has been formed,” he said.Interestingly, before Singh left for Delhi , he inducted three rebel AAP MLAs, including former leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira and two first-timers Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa, into the Congress, a move that will only strengthen his hand.The chief minister said their induction has been approved by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “Since AICC general secretary (in-charge of Punjab) Shri Harish Rawat and PPCC president Shri Sunil Jakhar were busy in the consultation process with the three-member committee in Delhi, their blessings would be sought in a few days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-grapples-with-punjab-infighting-101622748372811.html
04-06-2021||India||Tussle over Puducherry cabinet structure ends after talks between Rangasamy, Shah||Chennai: Puducherry chief minister N Rangasamy’s Covid-19 infection and ally BJP’s demands have delayed the formation of the union territory’s cabinet, said leaders privy to the ground situation. They however said an arrangement was reached after Rangasamy and union home minister Amit Shah spoke over the phone on Tuesday. This led to the Puducherry unit of the BJP to make one confirmation on Wednesday -- that the speaker post will be taken by the party. The high command would decide on the number of ministers, the candidates and portfolios, said BJP’s Puducherry chief V Saminathan. But for the three nominated MLAs in 2016-2021 assembly and an elected MLA in 2001, the BJP had had no presence in the erstwhile French colony and it will now have a strong cabinet representation. The NDA alliance led by Rangasamy’s All India NR Congress (AINRC) in Puducherry won the assembly elections that were declared on May 2. Rangasamy took oath on May 7 and the next day he tested positive for the virus. From May 9 to 17, Rangasamy was under treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. He continued to quarantine and on May 26, pro-term speaker of the legislative assembly K Lakshminarayanan of AINRC administered the oath of office to the newly elected MLAs.The BJP is likely to get two cabinet ministers, said an AINRC leader, not wishing to be named. “BJP had demanded three ministers. Our stand was that they either get three ministers and no speaker post or two ministers plus a speaker. That negotiation took about for four days and finally we reached agreement on second option,” he said.The BJP had also asked for a deputy chief minister’s post which is till now not a position in Puducherry. “That is also in process,” said Saminathan. “Our high command will make a decision and before June 14 the cabinet will be formed.” The national party’s high command is also expected to meet Rangasamy in person in the coming days.But AINRC and BJP members said that the month’s gap in expanding the cabinet was largely due to Rangasamy’s health and the matter has been solved. When he was hospitalised, the union government nominated three BJP members as MLAs to the Puducherry assembly. The elected strength is 30 seats plus three nominated seats. “The cabinet will have the chief minister, five ministers and a speaker,” said AINRC secretary NSJ Jayabal. “The speaker has to be elected but since we have given that to the BJP, we will not nominate anyone and we will present the new cabinet for the L-G’s approval.” On Wednesday, the Madras high court upheld the nominations of the three BJP MLAs, dismissing a plea filed against it. In the previous regime also, the three nominated seats were from the BJP who, thanks to a Supreme Court order, have voting rights on the floor of the House. They were instrumental in the fall of the previous Congress government that couldn’t prove majority owing to a spate of resignations since January and came under Governor’s rule. Despite drawing a blank in the previous 2016 elections, the BJP poached some Congress heavyweights, gave them seats and won six out of nine constituencies they contested this time. AINRC won 10 seats. Their ally AIADMK drew a blank. The Congress just has two MLAs while its ally, the DMK, has six. A record number of six independent MLAs were elected this time. The BJP also now has the support of three independent MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tussle-over-puducherry-cabinet-structure-ends-after-talks-between-rangasamy-shah-101622748372270.html
04-06-2021||India||SC allows name change in CBSE school certificates||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to allow changes in name or date of birth in school certificates issued by it even after the publication of results.The court took the decision while hearing a batch of petitions challenging the CBSE’s Examination Byelaws of 2007 that did not look into any request for correction or change in name or date of birth of the candidate or name of parent(s).The byelaws underwent amendments in subsequent years after which such changes were permitted only “before publication of result” and provided there was a court order or gazette notification.A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court found this condition as “arbitrary” and “unreasonable” and carved out two categories of requests – first requiring correction or change in name or parent(s) name or date of birth based on public documents and second, where change of name, parent(s) name or date of birth is not backed by any document and is purely based on choice of a person to be known by a different name.The bench in its 132-page judgment observed, “An individual must be in complete control of his/her name and law must enable (him/her) to retain as well as to exercise such control freely for all times. Such control would inevitably include the aspiration of an individual to be recognized by a different name for a just cause.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-name-change-in-cbse-school-certificates-101622748313494.html
04-06-2021||India||‘We’re better prepared for next wave’: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been in the news. First over his handling of the Covid situation in India’s most populous state; then, over the results of the panchayat polls; and finally, on account of a two-day meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s central leadership in Lucknow that sparked off speculation about changes in the government and the party organisation ahead of next year’s assembly elections. In an interview with Sunita Aron, Adityanath, who travelled to all 18 administrative divisions of the state between April 30 and May 27, spoke about the devastating second wave of Covid-19, his state’s preparedness for the third wave, and the challenge of 2022. Edited excerpts:We believe the recent meetings of the party in Lucknow were to assess the political situation and discuss changes in the organisation and government? Do you think there should be a reshuffle months before the elections?Every individual performs according to his or her capacity. One should have expectations accordingly. The ministers were touring their constituencies and it is only because of the joint efforts of my cabinet colleagues, party workers, officials and the medical staff that we could face the challenge of the first and the second waves. Look at the state’s recovery and positivity rate today. Our positivity rate has come down to 0.4% when compared with 22% in April while the recovery rate stands at 97.1%. Uttar Pradesh has also become the first state to cross the five-crore (50 million) testing mark.Do think you need a cabinet reshuffle months before the elections?The government and the organisation will together take a call and do what is needed. The media cannot decide that.Then what was discussed ? We believe another meeting is scheduled in Delhi on June 5?We regularly hold meetings and discussions. It’s a normal practice in our party. We meet every six months but because of the pandemic, there was some delay. Similarly, there is nothing new in PM meeting CMs. Definitely when we meet we discuss both achievements and shortcomings and take appropriate decisions.So, it was a preparatory meeting to discuss the forthcoming elections?BJP will form a majority government in 2022. Remember my words, we will meet again after that. As for the poll strategy, it is not discussed or decided by media. It’s an internal exercise. The poll issues will be spelt out in the manifesto. But certainly, government’s performance — security, good governance and development — will be issues people will judge and vote for.Why did the BJP perform so badly in the panchayat polls? Are you worried?Panchayat polls are not fought on party symbols. Mark my words. SP won in 90% of panchayat seats in 2016 but lost in 90% of seats in the 2017 assembly elections. They will again lose 2022 badly. Otherwise also, the panchayat elections are only half done.The forthcoming election will be fought under your leadership and will be a referendum on your government’s performance while the 2017 polls was primarily fought on the charisma of the Prime Minister.The state has acquired a new image in these five years — a progressive state in the country. No riots, improved law and order, no discrimination in distribution of central and state government welfare schemes, the ease of doing business, the investment summits. Yes, the pandemic may have slowed down the pace, but could not stop the overall growth. Work on Ram temple construction too got delayed but it will soon pick up speed. And now we are again gearing up on our various development projects while simultaneously preparing for the third wave.Are you confident because the Opposition is fragmented?We will win elections on our strength and mission.The Opposition has been very critical of your management of Covid.I believe it is easier to be a critic from the comfort of your home through statements on social media. I would like to invite them to visit the rural areas and see for themselves how the state government has managed the second wave and the figures clearly reflect the same.During your extensive tour of the state, what were the major shortcomings that you thought needed immediate attention?I wanted to assess the on-ground situation. I have travelled more than 6,000 km by helicopter and by road across 45 districts, including the ones which were most affected, to assess the ground situation and motivate the local health staff and district administration. I spoke to citizens, Covid-19 patients, doctors and administrators to review the situation and give directions to the staff. Also, being a team leader, I think me being on-ground motivates and inspires others.There is a possibility of third wave coinciding with the election dates? The decision to hold West Bengal elections has been criticised world over. You think it would be judicious to defer elections in case third wave proves as devastating as the second wave?Elections should be held on time though it is for the Election Commission to decide. We are poll ready. The second wave has been contained in a month’s time and we are better prepared for the third wave .UP has been accused of fudging or concealing real Covid dataAbout 2,000 delegates of World Health Organisation visited the state. WHO has also appreciated the UP model of triple Ts — test, trace and treat. Should people believe data or of those who, because of some wrong perceptions in their mind, doubt the fact that the state has actually contained the second wave efficiently.They can’t believe that the state with over 240 million population saw 64 deaths per million while United States with 328 million population saw 1,796 deaths per million.Wasn’t it upsetting to see bodies floating in the river?Yes, it’s very painful, but this is not the first time bodies were seen floating in the river. Similar scenes were witnessed in 2012, 2014, 2016. Besides starting an awareness programme, my government had only last year alerted local bodies. Jal Pravah (water burial) is a tradition and now the saints have also joined the campaign to stop this practice.The only way to fight Covid-19 is by vaccination and there is a shortage of vaccines. Do you think the Centre should come up with a better distribution formula?The Centre has evolved a formula and all states should follow that. We are quite happy with the current formula of vaccines being supplied by the Centre.By July adequate vaccines would be available in the country. We have already vaccinated 1.90 crore (19 million) people till date and have an ambitious vaccination plan for July. We are committed to free vaccination for all in the shortest time possible.Global tenders for vaccines have not worked.Uttar Pradesh was the first state to float a global tender to procure 40 million doses of vaccines. In the pre-bid meeting of the global tender, representatives of six companies, including Pfizer and Moderna, also participated. We have revised the tender and now the manufacturers of vaccines requiring storage or transportation at temperatures like -20 degrees Celsius, -70 degrees Celsius or -80 degrees Celsius can also participate. We are in touch with all manufacturers across the world and these companies have communicated with us too.There is wide reluctance to get vaccinated among some communities. Women in rural areas are generally reluctant to go for a test or vaccination. How would you motivate them?We are trying to raise awareness and bust myths. The Opposition is spreading misinformation. However, we are helping people in rural parts to register on the app via 133,000 common service centres across districts.Is there a need to launch a polio like campaign across the state involving community and religious leaders?Uttar Pradesh is already reaching the last mile with its micro- management strategy and door-to-door visits. I have myself held meetings with religious leaders, sportspersons, gram pradhans and we will continue to consult with every group and community to spread awareness and create interest in vaccination in the state.In retrospect, you think holding panchayat polls was a blunder? Many believe it triggered infection in the rural pockets.Panchayat elections are the most difficult elections to hold but polls were also held in Tamil Nadu as well as in Kerala and West Bengal. You can compare their positivity and recovery rate with that of UP and see the difference. Secondly, there were no elections in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh or Rajasthan or Delhi. Let’s focus on ground realities, The last phases of panchayat polls were held on April 26 and 29 and counting took place on May 2. The peak of 38,000 cases per day was reached on April 24. Thereafter, the number of cases started coming down steadily. Thus, it is not based on data and figures that the virus spread because of panchayat elections. In fact, the extent of cases has come down since polls in UP.Do you think somewhere the state too has to own responsibility for large number of deaths as there was a delay in improving health infrastructure, including medicines, oxygen supply, beds, etc?Despite the sudden surge of Covid-19, our cases per million and death per million has been much less than many states of the country and much less than the most developed nations of the world. I think we should avoid doing politics on such issues.We were the first state to create a system where oxygen supplies to medical colleges or private colleges and overall oxygen supply was managed very efficiently. We didn’t have in-house manufacturing plants, but we made arrangement to get oxygen from various places as far as Jharkhand. We received ample assistance from the Central government. Also, we were the first state to implement “oxygen audit” which has been replicated by many other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-better-prepared-for-next-wave-yogi-adityanath-101622748072978.html
04-06-2021||India||Disengagement on LAC unfinished, China should maintain stability: MEA||India on Thursday said the process of disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops at friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) remains “unfinished” and it expects the Chinese side to maintain stability and avoid any new incidents.Speedy completion of the disengagement process alone will lead to complete restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and facilitate progress in bilateral relations, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. He was responding to a question on reports of China increasing military deployment and creating fresh infrastructure at friction points on the LAC.“I would like to reiterate what I have shared earlier – that the process of disengagement remains unfinished,” he said.“The two sides have agreed that in the interim, they would maintain stability on the ground and avoid any new incidents. It is our expectation, therefore, that neither side should do anything that is not in keeping with these understandings,” he added.There have been numerous reports in recent weeks of China moving in new military equipment and formations into Tibet and Xinjiang and bolstering air defence and missile positions and airports on its side of the LAC amid the border standoff with India, which began more than a year ago.China’s People Liberation Army (PLA) recently integrated air force and army elements to create a combined air defence system for the western theatre command, which is responsible for operations along the LAC.The disengagement of frontline troops along the LAC stalled following a drawdown of forces and armoured units by both sides on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. Diplomatic and military talks have not led to a breakthrough at other friction points such as Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-on-lac-unfinished-china-should-maintain-stability-mea-101622748072292.html
04-06-2021||India||Unusual rain, lockdown trigger dip in mango production, prices in state||Bengaluru: Unseasonal rain and the month-long lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic have resulted in a drop in the production and prices of mangoes in Karnataka. According to farmers, this year’s yield has dropped by 65-70% and lack of exports due to the pandemic has resulted in the prices dropping in the local markets.In Bengaluru’s markets, various mango variants are being sold at ₹20-30 less than their normal prices. Banganapalli mangoes, which sell around ₹70-80 per kg were being sold at ₹45-50 in several markets in Bengaluru on Thursday. According to traders, since the lockdown is in effect, the demand for mangoes is less, forcing them to sell at a lower rate. “People aren’t coming out to buy fruits. We are left with most of our stock during the week. While we get some orders from delivery apps, it is usually small scale. Now we are really left with no option but to reduce the prices,” said Arogya Das, a fruit vendor in the Frazer Town in East Bengaluru. Karnataka is among the top mango growers in India, cultivating the crop on 168,000 hectares in 16 districts, including Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Dharwad and Ramanagara. Karnataka grows Badami, Mallika, Neelam, Malgova, Kalapad, Sindhura, Alphanso, Totapuri and other varieties of mangoes. Srinivas Gowda, president, Chickballapur Mango Growers’ Association, which is one of the largest growers of mangoes in the state, said the production of the seasonal fruit has come down drastically. “Compared to our capacity, we are producing only 30-35% of the yield. Several table variants like Malgova, Alphonso, Raspuri and others have seen big slash in production,” he added. Gowda said the unseasonal rain was one of the reasons for the limited production. “There were heavy wind, rains, and even hailstorms in several parts of the state during the flowering season and harvest,” Gowda explained. Even though the production has reduced, the prices of the mangoes didn’t see a hike like it should have as per the market conventions, but instead, there was a drop in prices. Gowda cited the lack of exports as the main reason for this. “Just to give example of our region, we used to see around 250 tonnes exported to several countries like the US, UK, Canada, Australia and the Gulf countries. But this year, because of the pandemic and regulations, we could send only 1 tonne. This is just our region. Now you can imagine the situation of the rest of the state,” he said. Even the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation agreed that there was a massive reduction in export. While this year’s figures were not readily available, according to senior officials of the corporation, in 2020, an estimated 1,000 tonnes of exports were reported in the state against the normal 50,000. “It could be worse this year. We will know the exact figure at the end of the season,” said a senior corporation official. In its attempt to promote mango sales during the lockdown, the corporation had launched an online portal, where mangoes would be delivered through the India Post. However, the project has not covered much distance. Meanwhile, the lack of exports has also resulted in the overload of mangoes in the retail market and that had resulted in the drop in the prices, added Gowda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unusual-rain-lockdown-trigger-dip-in-mango-production-prices-in-state-101622747532331.html
04-06-2021||India||Drawing flak, Google says sorry for Kannada blunder||Bengaluru Google, the USA-based search engine giant, on Thursday found itself at the receiving end of severe criticism over its search results for Kannada, which had a descriptor as the “ugliest language”.The backlash from the Kannada language speakers, which is one of the national languages in the country, was so spontaneous that #Kannada was trending on microblogging site, Twitter across the country.Other hashtags like #KannadaQueenOfAllLanguages also continued to trend on Twitter.According to the image shared widely on social media, the search result for the ugliest language in India came up as Kannada.“What is the ugliest language in India?” was the question, to which the answer was shown as “Kannada spoken by around 40 million people in south India,” according to a screenshot of the search results.“Kannada language has a history of its own, having come into existence as many as 2,500 years ago! It has been the pride of Kannadigas all through these two-and-a-half millennia,” Arvind Limbavali, Karnataka’s minister for forest, Kannada and culture said in a twitter post.“If Kannada is now called ugliest language in India, it is merely an attempt by @Googleto insult this pride of Kannadigas. Demand apology from @Google ASAP to Kannada, Kannadigas. Legal action will be taken against @Google for maligning the image of our beautiful language!,” he added.“Home to the great Vijayanagara Empire, #Kannada language has a rich heritage, a glorious legacy and a unique culture. One of the world’s oldest languages, Kannada had great scholars who wrote epics much before Geoffrey Chaucer was born in the 14th century. Apologise @GoogleIndia,” PC Mohan, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Bengaluru Central posted on Twitter.Politicians from all major outfits in Karnataka took to social media to condemn the Indian-born Sundar Pichchai-led companies to apologise on the content.“This blunder is not acceptable. When it comes to language, whoever it is should be careful. Especially when it comes to Kannada, twice the care should be taken. Otherwise, there will be no surprise if the self-respect of Kannadiga’s that became a wave in just one hour, can turn into a Tsunami,” HD Kumaraswamy, former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader said in a post in Kannada on Twitter.The search engine giant, in a response to Hindustan Times, apologised for the misunderstanding and to those whose sentiment may have been hurt.“Search isn’t always perfect. Sometimes, the way content is described on the Internet can yield surprising results to specific queries. We know this is not ideal, but we take swift corrective action when we are made aware of an issue and are continually working to improve our algorithms. Naturally, these are not reflective of the opinions of Google, and we apologize for the misunderstanding and hurting any sentiments,” a Google spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drawing-flak-google-says-sorry-for-kannada-blunder-101622747472364.html
04-06-2021||India||India defends decision to abstain during UNHRC vote on Israel-Hamas conflict||India on Thursday defended its abstention in a vote at the UN Human Rights Council that led to the setting up of an inquiry into rights violations during the Israel-Hamas conflict, saying it had also acted in a similar manner in the past.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi outlined the country’s position a day after it emerged that Palestinian foreign minister Riad Malki had expressed concern over the abstention in a letter sent to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on May 30.Malki’s letter had stated that India’s abstention during the vote on May 27 “stifles the important work of Human Rights Council at advancing human rights for all peoples, including those of the Palestinian people”.Asked at a weekly news briefing whether India’s decision to abstain during the vote at the UN Human Rights Council was contrary to the country’s long-standing position on the Palestinian issue, Bagchi replied that this was not a “new position”.“Regarding the letter from the Palestinian foreign minister, I understand that Palestine has written similar letters to all the countries that abstained during the UN Human Rights Council vote,” he said.“The position that we took is not a new position. We have abstained on previous occasions. I think that explains our position quite clearly and addresses these questions,” he added.A resolution calling for a commission of inquiry into human rights violations during the Israel-Hamas conflict, which was presented by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and the Palestinian delegation, was adopted by 24 votes at the Human Rights Council. Israel rejected the move.India, Brazil, France, Italy and Nepal were among 14 countries that abstained during the vote.New Delhi also dropped its traditional reference to support for the “just Palestinian cause” in at least three recent statements at the UN Security Council, General Assembly and Human Rights Council. The statements, however, retained the usual support for a two-state solution to be achieved through direct negotiations to ensure lasting peace between the people of Israel and Palestine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-defends-abstention-at-unhrc-on-israel-hamas-conflict-101622747112222.html
04-06-2021||India||'You’ll gain from tough times': PM Modi||Two days after the Centre cancelled the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 board examinations in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with several class 12 students and their parents and suggested that they learn from “tough experiences” and gain strength from them.Modi joined a virtual interactive session organised by the ministry of education for Class 12 students and their parents unannounced, taking them by surprise. At a meeting on Tuesday chaired by the PM, it was decided to call off the Class 12 exams conducted by CBSE in view of the raging pandemic.The PM asked students how they feel about the cancellation of board exams, and advised them not to get stressed. He said that the decision to cancel exams was taken in the interest of students.“...we learn from these tough times. You will gain a lot of strength from these tough experiences. You will achieve new feats in whichever field that you choose. We always speak about team spirit; we are given lessons about united strength. However, during the pandemic, we got an opportunity to learn, understand and experience the strength of unity. We witnessed how people collectively helped each other and how the country, through team spirit, faced a tough challenge. The experience of public participation and team spirit (gained during the pandemic), will give us a renewed strength,” Modi said.During the interaction, several students and parents shared their experiences with the Prime Minister about how the announcement of the cancellation of exams brought relief for them and ended a long spell of uncertainty.Nandan Hegde, a Class 12 student from Karnataka, said, “This was not the last exam of my life and we are really grateful that the government has decided to cancel them prioritising the interest of students.”Students also said that the cancellation of exams will give them more time to prepare for their competitive exams.Appreciating the “positive attitude” of students, the PM said, “After interacting with you, I have realised that India’s youth is positive as well as practical…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youll-gain-from-tough-times-pm-tells-students-101622747052273.html
04-06-2021||India||Every journalist entitled to protection from sedition: SC||Every citizen has a right to criticise the government’s policies so long as it does not incite people to violence or creates public disorder, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while quashing a sedition case.The bench of justices Uday U Lalit and Vineet Saran underlined a 1962 constitution bench judgment in Kedar Nath Singh’s case to assert that a journalist could not be prosecuted under Section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for “disapprobation of actions of the Government and its functionaries”, and quashed a case registered last year against journalist Vinod Dua in Himachal Pradesh over a YouTube show.“A citizen has a right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries, so long as he does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder,” said the court, referring to the Kedar Nath’s case while highlighting the basic requirements for registration of a first information report (FIR) under Section 124A.Sedition is punishable with either imprisonment ranging from three years to a lifetime, or a fine, or both. It is only when the words or expressions have pernicious tendency or intention of creating public disorder or disturbance of law and order, said the bench, that Sections 124A and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity) of the IPC must step in.“Every journalist will be entitled to protection in terms of Kedar Nath’s judgment, as every prosecution under Sections 124A and 505 of the IPC must be in strict conformity with the scope and ambit of said Sections as explained in, and completely in tune with the law laid down in the judgment,” it said.The bench emphasised its 1962 judgment that laid down the fundamental requirements before registration of a sedition case, as it turned down Dua’s plea for constitution of a committee in every state for approving FIRs against persons belonging to the media with at least 10 years of standing in the profession. Dua pleaded that every state should have a committee comprising the chief justice or a judge of the high court concerned, the home minister of the state, and the leader of the Opposition. But the bench said that constitution of such a panel will amount to encroachment upon the rights of the legislature.The ruling came two days after another bench of the SC expressed concerns over the misuse of India’s sedition law, stating that it will define the contours of the colonial era penal provision to indicate what does and does not constitute sedition.On April 30, another bench led by justice Uday Lalit had agreed to examine constitutional validity of the penal law on sedition in India and sought assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal. In this case, journalists Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla challenged the validity of Section 124A. This case will be heard next in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-journalist-entitled-to-protection-from-sedition-sc-101622746992245.html
04-06-2021||India||At Cong poll loss review meet, call for state units’ overhaul echoes||The Congress panel reviewing the party’s performance in recent assembly polls has, in the course of its meetings, encountered demands for sweeping changes in the party’s state leadership in Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, two members of the panel said on condition of anonymity.In all three, the local leaders also cited Covid as a major factor that restricted the party’s political activities for the past year and claimed that this had a fallout in the electoral prospects of the Congress.The five-member panel, led by former Maharashtra chief minister Ashok Chavan, met the rank and file of the Congress units as well as the top leaders in these three regions. The Congress failed to win in Assam, Puducherry and Kerala, and drew a blank in West Bengal. In Tamil Nadu, it is part of the ruling alliance, courtesy its partnership with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The Congress was the incumbent in Puducherry and its failure to win Kerala broke a 24-year trend where the Congress-led and the Communist Party-led groupings alternate in power. The latter was the incumbent.The panel has submitted its report on Assam, Kerala and Puducherry to party chief Sonia Gandhi while the Bengal report is still being prepared. The panel has made several recommendations to strengthen the organisation. “In all the three regions, the major demand was to change the current party organization and bring in new faces. Leaders accused each other and infighting marred several interactions,” said a member of the panel. who asked not to be named.In the last CWC meeting, where the general secretaries in charge of states were asked to report on the poll results, they too, pointed to factional feuds in states such as Assam and Kerala as one reason for the party’s poor performance.The other reason highlighted by many leaders was that the Covid situation forced them to abandon many programmes in the run up to the elections. “Political agitations against the incumbent government, and party’s outreach to the voters was severely curtailed and the long spell of inaction of the Opposition helped the ruling party that was visible through relief measures and Covid-related activities,” said another Congress leader .The panel spoke to 20-25 leaders in Puducherry and Kerala. In Assam, the panel interacted with more than 40 Congress leaders, according to a party functionary.The panel also comprises Salman Khurshid, Jothi Mani, Manish Tewari and Vincent H Pala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-cong-poll-loss-review-meet-call-for-state-units-overhaul-echoes-101622746812214.html
04-06-2021||India||HC questions CBI claim of bias in Narada case, points to rights||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court hearing the bail plea of four West Bengal leaders accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case told the CBI on Thursday that procedure becomes important when rights are involved.The bench also questioned the CBI what prejudice could have been caused if the agency didn’t move the letter seeking a stay on bail immediately and waited for one day. On May 17, the CBI arrested two cabinet ministers, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee.Even though a special CBI court granted them interim bail on the same day, later that evening the CBI moved the high court. The division bench of acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee stayed the bail and the leaders were sent to judicial custody. Later, on May 21, they were put under house arrest and the court constituted a larger five-judge bench to hear the bail petitions. On May 28, the five-judge bench granted them interim bail.The agency sought that the May 17 proceedings at the special CBI court be declared as vitiated as top TMC leaders, including party supremo Mamata Banerjee, staged protests after the four were arrested. The CBI also sought transfer of the case.The bench, however, questioned the CBI on what terms the proceedings could be declared as vitiated and the case be transferred. The bench also questioned what would happen to the rights of the accused.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, said the May 17 proceedings of the special CBI court were vitiated “by corrupting the atmosphere”. He said that he had to argue his case over mobile phone as he was not allowed to step out. Even the case diary was not presented, he said.The bench will again take up the matter for hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-questions-cbi-claim-of-bias-in-narada-case-points-to-rights-101622746752199.html
04-06-2021||India||Bengal ex-chief secy responds to Centre notice||Former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Thursday responded to the Union home ministry’s show-cause notice sent to him for missing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s May 28 meeting, said officials at Nabanna, the state secretariat in Kolkata.State officials told PTI that Bandyopadhyay argued that he left the Cyclone Yaas review meeting as per the directive of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and went to another meeting in Digha, a resort town in Purba Medinipur district that was ravaged by the powerful storm.The Centre sent the notice on May 31, insisting that Bandyopadhyay’s decision to leave the PM’s meeting was a violation of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The political firestorm began after Banerjee briefly met Modi and told reporters that she took the PM’s permission before leaving the venue -- a fact later disputed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. She also indicated her objection to the presence of her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari, who is the leader of Opposition in Bengal.Soon after this, Bandyopadhyay was sent transfer orders from Delhi and told to report to the Centre’s department of personnel and training on May 31. The 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service officer was due to retire that day but had received a three-month extension from the central government.The order was unusual because it didn’t specify what post he was to hold. Banerjee declined to release him. On Monday, she also wrote to the PM to request that the transfer order, issued without consulting the state, should be withdrawn. On May 31, she said she allowed Bandyopadhyay to retire and appointed him as special adviser to the CM for three years.The Centre, which initially suggested that it would initiate action against Bandyopadhyay for not coming to Delhi, issued the show-cause notice under a provision of the disaster management law that requires everyone to abide by any direction given by officials during a disaster. “By this act of abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister, who is also the Chairman of the National Disaster Management Authority, in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas as part of his visit to cyclone affected areas in the state of West Bengal, Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay, chief secretary, government of West Bengal, acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the Central government and is thus violative of Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act 2005,” read the letter signed by Ashish Kumar Singh, under secretary to the government of India.Bandyopadhyay sent his reply on Thursday, but officials at Nabanna refused to divulge the contents of the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-ex-chief-secy-responds-to-centre-notice-over-missing-pm-meeting-101622746692194.html
04-06-2021||India||Govt considers single jab-purchase channel||Is the Centre considering procuring vaccines on behalf of the states? According to three people familiar with the matter, it is discussing the modalities of a centralised channel for vaccine procurement. The agency in charge of this channel will negotiate terms with vaccine manufacturers, and supply jabs on a pro rata basis to states, the people added, asking not to be named.Govt books 300 million doses of new Indian jabThe chief ministers of some states, including Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal and Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan have taken a public position that the Centre should procure vaccines centrally after global tenders raised by many states evoked no real response. Some large pharma companies, including Pfizer and Moderna have also told states that they prefer dealing with the federal government.“States first demanded decentralisation of vaccination. Hence, they were allowed to float global tenders. Now, they find merit in a collective centralised mechanism, which is under consideration. However, a final decision on this issue will be taken by the competent authority,” one of the people cited above said.“It also depends on consensus among states on this matter,” a second person said. The empowered group on vaccination, the Prime Minister’s Office, the Niti Aayog, and ministries of finance and health did not respond to email queries .Under Phase 3 of its vaccine drive, the Centre opened up vaccines to all people over the age of 18 years and shifted the onus of acquiring such vaccines to states, albeit under a quota devised and monitored by it. It also allowed private hospitals to acquire and administer vaccines. With vaccines in short supply, the result has been chaotic, with not enough jabs to go around. The widely varying charges levied by private hospitals presented another problem. The Supreme Court on Wednesday termed the policy for 18-45 year olds “arbitrary and irrational”.Till Wednesday, India vaccinated 45.3 million people completely and another 130 million have received one dose.In a letter to chief ministers, Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday said global vaccine manufacturers were unwilling to get into supply contract with individual states. “The best option available is for the Government of India to centrally procure the vaccines and distribute it among the States so that our citizens are vaccinated at the earliest,” he said in the letter, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.He, however, reaffirmed states’ demand of a decentralised vaccination programme.Similar sentiments have been expressed by chief ministers of Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Punjab. On May 26, Kejriwal tweeted that the global tenders by states could not elicit any vaccine manufacturer. Hence, the Centre should give vaccines to state as per their needs.While some states are willing to pay for their quota of vaccines procured under a centralised system, others, such as Kerala want the Centre to bear the entire burden. “While payment responsibility is another issue to be resolved as health is a state subject, it is certain that a collective negotiation will reduce to cost of vaccines by 25%,” a third person said.On May 31, Vijayan wrote to 11 chief ministers “in the spirit of Cooperative Federalism” demanding the Centre to take the responsibility of procurement. On May 24, he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that competition among states to procure vaccines would push up their prices.Audit and consulting firm EY India, in the latest edition of Economy Watch, said that if the Centre procures vaccines, the average price would be much lower than if individual states get involved. Conservatively, it estimates savings of over ₹43,000 crore or 40% of the total cost. “For vaccinating India’s total population aged 12 years and above at 108.5 crore (1.08 billion) , total required doses would be 217 crore (2.17 billion) considering two doses per person. At an average price of ₹300 per dose, the total vaccination cost would be ₹65,108 crore. If states’ involvement pushes up the average price to say ₹500 per dose, total vaccination bill would unnecessarily go up to ₹1.09 lakh crore,” it said.DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor of EY India said: “This cost enhancement, which may be higher if the average vaccine price increases even more, is clearly avertible apart from avoiding the confusion ensuing from states’ involvement in vaccine procurement and implementation.Union Budget 2021-22 allocated ₹35,000 crore for vaccination programme. “The budget will not be a constraint and the government will enhance the vaccination budget, if required,” the third person mentioned above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-considers-single-jab-purchase-channel-101622746632216.html
04-06-2021||India||Serum seeks DCGI nod to manufacture Sputnik||Serum Institute of India (SII) has sought approval to manufacture the Russian-made coronavirus disease vaccine, Sputnik V, in India, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday.SII, applied to Indian regulator, the drugs controller general of India (DCGI), Dr VG Somani, on Wednesday to seek approval for grant of licence.“Yes, it is true that SII has applied to the drugs regulator. They have applied for a test licence,” said one of the people cited above.A test licence, according to the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) website, is granted for the import of small quantities of drugs for purposes of examination, testing or analysis. According to industry insiders, SII is also hoping for grant of indemnity, as is being considered for foreign Covid-19 vaccine makers by the Indian government, as they raised the issue last year.During Carnegie India’s Global Tech Summit 2020 in December, SII chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, talked about the need for the government to provide indemnity to vaccine manufacturers against frivolous complaints.Sputnik V is currently being distributed in India by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which signed a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) that globally markets the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute. As part of the deal, Dr Reddy’s will distribute the first 250 million doses of Sputnik V.RDIF has also tied up with six other local companies to produce its vaccine, and its chief executive officer, Kirill Dmitriev, said earlier that it was also in talks with other manufacturers to ramp up production in India, which is likely to start some time in July. By current estimates, RDIF is looking at a production capacity of about 850 million Sputnik V vaccine doses per annum from India. The companies with which it has a manufacturing tie-up include Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Stelis Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, and Virchow Biotech.India granted emergency use authorisation to Sputnik V on April 13.Queries to SII remained unanswered till press time, and RDIF representatives said as of now there was no official information that they could provide.SII Is already manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine locally under the brand name Covishield, which is one of the two jabs being used under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme.Government officials aware of the matter recently said SII has informed that the company is ramping up its vaccine production capacity, and will likely produce 100-120 million doses a month by June.SII has also started manufacturing and stockpiling the United States’ Novavax vaccine that it will be locally manufacturing under the brand name Covovax. However, regulatory approval for Novavax is still awaited in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serumseeks-dcgi-nod-to-manufacture-sputnik-101622746512189.html
04-06-2021||India||MK Stalin writes to centre, asks to ramp up supply of black fungus drug||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday urged the Centre to allocate adequate number of Amphotericin B drug, used for treating black fungus disease, as the state detected 673 cases so far and the demand for the medication has 'increased manifold'. In a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Chief Minister M K Stalin said, ".. the emergence of mucormycosis among the patients and sufficient supply of liposomal Amphotericin B, which is being allotted by the Government of India, are increasingly becoming critical issues which need urgent intervention." With the state government declaring 'mucormycosis' as a 'notified disease', Stalin said Tamil Nadu has initiated large scale prevention efforts by creating greater awareness about its likely causes. The state government has also set up mucormycosis clinics and dedicated wards in government hospitals. So far, 673 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus have been detected in the state and hence the demand for "liposomal Amphotericin B has increased manifold", he said in the letter. Noting that his government already placed orders for 35,000 vials of the anti-fungal drug, he said the supply was according to the allocation made by the Centre. ".. the state has received only 1,790 vials, which is woefully inadequate to treat the growing numbers of mucormycosis patients. I would request you to kindly instruct the concerned officials to immediately allocate at least 30,000 vials to Tamil Nadu," the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mk-stalin-writes-to-centre-asks-to-ramp-up-supply-of-black-fungus-drug-101622744724439.html
04-06-2021||India||In rare relief, no heatwave yet, none likely this summer: IMD||The Capital has not recorded a single heatwave day this summer. And with the forecast of another spell of rain at the end of next week, it is unlikely that Delhi will record any day of extreme heat this summer – a phenomenon experts said has never happened before in the city.Weather scientists said that two cyclonic storms, along with a series of western disturbances through April to June were the primary reasons behind this year’s mellow summer in Delhi, a city known for its scorching heat this time of the year.Between March 1 and June 3, Delhi has not recorded a single “heatwave” day, which India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said is a “rare” phenomenon for the city. IMD scientists also said that this could “very well be the first summer in Delhi’s history” that the city did not experience a single heatwave day.HT reported last week that the Capital has been on a streak of weather records from August 2020. On June 1, the minimum temperature in the city dropped to 17.9 degrees Celsius, the lowest ever recorded in June.In the plains, heatwave days are classified when two things happen – when the maximum temperature crosses 40 degrees Celsius, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees Celsius. A severe heatwave is when there is a rise of 6.5 degrees Celsius or above from normal temperature.RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD, said a combination of conditions favourable for a cool summer have been seen in Delhi, which has resulted in no heatwave days. “We have not seen such conditions ever... This time of year is known for its scorching heat and high temperature. There have been years when the maximum temperature in May has even touched 48 degrees Celsius. We will have to wait till the end of June to declare if we have broken an all-time record of the coolest summer,” Jenamani said.In Delhi, heatwave days occur between March and June, with April and May generally being the hottest. Towards the middle of June, the heat starts to abate with the onset of pre-monsoon and monsoon rains.This year brings much-needed relief from the extreme heat in recent years. Last year, Delhi reeled under a severe heatwave spell from May 22 to May 30, with temperatures up to 47 degrees Celsius. Delhi recorded six heatwave days in 2019 and three such days in 2018.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said under the impact of cyclone Tauktae, Delhi broke the record for the highest single-day rainfall for the month ever on May 19-20, with 119.3mm of rain. This kept mercury low through May, with day temperatures dropping to 23.8 degrees Celsius on May 19, the lowest ever recorded in the month.“Even after the cyclone’s impact, we got a consistent series of fresh western disturbances that passed over Delhi, which led to smaller spells of rainfall over the region. This helped keep mercury levels from rising,” Srivastava said.He said that after Tauktae, Delhi also witnessed several days of cloudy skies due to cyclone Yaas. “Most of your extreme recordings are seen till June 15, because after that Delhi starts witnessing pre-monsoon activities, because of which temperatures start going down. So it is quite likely that we will not record any heatwave days this year,” Srivastava said.IMD records show that Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory recorded zero heatwave days in 2014 and 2011. However, other weather stations in the city recorded heatwave conditions in both years. Srivastava’s claims were also confirmed by IMD’s latest forecast of fresh western disturbance passing over the region on June 11 and June 12, which is likely to bring rainfall by the end of next week.Experts said that heatwaves are common in Delhi during this time of year as the region comes under the country’s core heatwave zone (CHZ), as categorised by IMD. Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Vidarbha in Maharashtra, parts of Gangetic West Bengal, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana come under CHZ, where high recordings are witnessed in summer. According to IMD, regions in CHZ experience at least six heatwave days every year.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet India Weather Services, however, said that while conditions indicate a below-normal summer season, it is too early to claim that temperatures will not rise as June progresses.“It is true that heatwave conditions recorded in May are likely to last longer, compared to those reported in June because the intensity of heat often dies down sooner due to the onset of southwest monsoon. But there are years where we have seen extreme recordings (even in June),” Palawat said.On June 10, 2019, Delhi’s Palam observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 48 degrees Celsius, breaking the previous all-time record of 47.8 degrees Celsius (June 9, 2014).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-heatwave-days-this-season-met-officials-said-could-create-a-new-record-101622745674903.html
04-06-2021||India||Delhi govt schools asked to scale up vaccinating teachers||The Directorate of Education (DoE) has directed all its schools to take immediate steps to vaccinate all the teachers. All the Delhi government schools have been asked to submit data of teachers who have not been vaccinated as of now. On Monday, HT reported that around 100 teachers have died of Covid-19 since March last year. Even as schools were immediately closed when the pandemic hit the national capital last year, teachers were deployed in Covid-related duties.In a letter to district education officers and school principals, director (DoE) Udit Prakash Rai said, “Government school teachers have been spearheading the Covid response of the Delhi government. Teachers have been deployed on several fronts to contain the spread of coronavirus. Teachers have gone beyond the call of duty in management of containment zones, airports, vaccination drive, ration distribution, oxygen management etc.”“The teachers of DoE who are the frontline workers for the Delhi government have led the efforts of the government in containing the infection and breaking the transmission. They have also spared no efforts in managing the second wave Covid -19 crisis which unfolded in the months of April and May 2021,” he added.Rai said all the government school teachers shall get vaccinated at the earliest. “Accordingly, all DDES and HOSS are hereby directed to take all necessary steps towards vaccination of all the government school teachers. They should ensure that all the concerned teachers are facilitated and vaccinated at the earliest,” he said in the letter.Officials at the DoE said the government might set up a separate vaccination centre for teachers in the coming days. “It will be decided after collecting data from all schools,” an official said.Several principals of Delhi government schools said that they have already sent data to their district officers between Wednesday and Thursday. Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV) in Tilak Nagar, said, “Only 28-29 of the total 60 teachers employed at the school have been vaccinated yet. We were sending our teachers for vaccination in batches in March-April. Then the second wave of Covid-19 hit the capital. We will now prioritize the vaccination of all our teachers.”Dr Devendra, principal of Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Rouse Avenue, said they also submitted the data with the district officials. “Although 80% of our teachers are already vaccinated, it will be better to complete the vaccination of all teachers before we restart the teaching-learning process again after the summer break,” he said.Schools in the Capital are scheduled to reopen virtually from June 10 after the summer break.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-schools-asked-to-scale-up-vaccinating-teachers-101622745614970.html
04-06-2021||India||Crowdfunding raises ₹60 lakh for 24-yr-old techie’s treatment; needs more help||A 24-year-old software engineer of Odisha who developed pneumonia and septicaemia in the lungs after testing positive for Covid last month was flown to Chennai on Thursday evening in an air ambulance after his family and friends were able to raise ₹60 lakh for his treatment. He needs a lung transplant that will cost them ₹1.2 crore.Amrit Pradhan, a software engineer from Berhampur town of Odisha, was wheeled into an air ambulance of Chennai’s Apollo Hospital waiting at Bhubaneswar airport after the city police created a green corridor for the 10 km stretch from AIIMS Bhubaneswar.“The Apollo Hospital team had brought an Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation(ECMO) machine which would keep him alive till he gets a lung transplant,” said Chidanand Tarei, his brother-in-law. An ECMO pumps his blood to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back to tissues in the body, bypassing the heart and the lungs.Doctors at AIIMS-Bhubaneswar told his family that the entire treatment including a lung transplant and 2-month long hospitalisation would cost ₹1.2 crore.“For a middle class family like us with health insurance, the maximum cover that we have is ₹10 lakh. We had lost all hopes when we decided to appeal on social media as well as fundraising site Milaap. By Thursday evening, we had collected ₹60 lakh from 5,400 people. The amount of support and love that Amrit received was incredible,” Amrit Pradhan’s brother-in-law Tarei said.The ECMO supported air ambulance alone costs Rs. 30-40 lakh. “We are hoping to achieve the ₹1.2 crore figure that we aimed at,” said Tarei, who will fly to Chennai with his wife on Friday.Techie aspiring to be civil servantPradhan, described by his family as a happy go-lucky man, had taken up a job as a software engineer in a Bangalore-based IT firm after passing out from a premier engineering college in Bhubaneswar. During the pandemic, he left his job and started preparing for the civil services.However, his life was disrupted after his 56-year-old mother was hospitalised due to Covid. Some time later, his father, a retired banker, also tested positive and was hospitalised. And then, Amrit Pradhan and his sister Manisha, who had been running around for their parents to arrange medicines, also tested positive for Covid.Amrit tested positive for CovidEveryone else in the family recovered, not the 24-year-old. Doctors said he had developed pneumonia and septicaemia in the lungs.Amrit Pradhan was initially admitted to a private hospital but as his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to AIIMS-Bhubaneswar on May 2. He was initially put on NIV non-invasive ventilation support and for the last 20 days, has been on ventilator support.“Around May 24, doctors at AIIMS advised us that my brother-in-law would need to be admitted to a hospital having facility for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support and lung transplantation which is not available in Odisha,” said Tarei.Tarei said the spirit of camaraderie that he saw for Amrit’s treatment amid the Covid pandemic was moving. “We are too overwhelmed with the response that we received from unknown quarters. My brother-in-law will surely come out of the hospital with a new lungs and a rejuvenated life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crowdfunding-raises-rs-60-lakh-for-24-yr-old-s-life-saving-transplant-and-hopes-101622743632489.html
04-06-2021||India||India says will bring Choksi back; Dominican court rejects bail plea||New Delhi: India on Thursday said it was making all efforts to bring back fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi as a court in Dominica denied bail to the businessman and remanded him to police custody for roughly two weeks on charges of illegally entering the island nation.The developments came on a day the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court adjourned hearing in a habeas corpus petition filed by Choksi’s lawyers and the government of Antigua, where the 62-year-old spent three years as a citizen before he went missing on May 23, reiterated that it favoured deporting the businessman to India.“He (Choksi) is currently in the custody of Dominica with some legal proceedings underway. We will continue to make all efforts to ensure he is brought to back India,” foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told reporters.This is the first time the Indian government has officially commented on the issue since Choksi disappeared from Antigua and was found three days later in Dominica, roughly 100 nautical miles away.“Let me emphasise that India remains steadfast in its efforts to ensure that fugitives are brought back to India to face justice,” Bagchi added.India-born Choksi, who is wanted in a R13,500 crore bank fraud case, faces two separate legal proceedings in Dominica. A magistrate’s court in the Dominican capital Roseau is hearing the government’s charge that the businessman entered the country illegally. And, Choksi’s lawyers have moved the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, alleging that he was abducted and asking him to be sent back to Antigua.In the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, justice Bernie Stephenson adjourned the matter to allow Choksi’s legal team and Dominican prosecutors to meet and agree on the language to be used in the injunction filed to stop his removal from Dominica, according to local media.As the hearing was underway, some protesters demonstrated outside court and sought a probe into Choksi’s presence in Dominica.In the court of magistrate Candia Carrette-George, Dominican state attorney Sherma Dalrymple argued that Choksi entered Dominica illegally at Toucari beach on May 21 -- two days before he was officially reported missing from Antigua -- and was a flight risk.Dalrymple cited an Interpol notice against him, 11 alleged offences in India, and extradition proceedings in Antigua. She said Choksi had no ties to Dominica, therefore could flee the island if given bail, local media reported.Choksi’s lawyer, Waye Norde, sought bail and said his client was kidnapped, beaten, and unwillingly brought to Dominica. He said Choksi was not a flight risk given his poor health and added that the Interpol notice and extradition proceeding in Antigua were reasons for Choksi to not leave Dominica.He asked the magistrate that stringent conditions could be added to the bail and proposed a sum of East Caribbean $10,000, double the maximum penalty for illegal entry. Dalrymple objected to the offer.Norde cited Section 4 of the bail law and said a defendant was entitled to bail as a right unless the offence was serious. But the court rejected his plea for now and set the next date of hearing on June 14.Choksi was sent back to the Dominica-China Friendship Hospital, where he was admitted earlier this week. He will be sent to police custody when he is discharged.The controversy over Choksi’s disappearance and alleged abduction has stirred a political storm in both Antigua and Dominica. On Thursday, the Antiguan cabinet said Choksi will become a “problem” if he was sent back to the island, where he has citizenship protections.“Choksi has become Dominica’s problem at this time. If he finds himself in Antigua, the problem reverts to Antigua and Barbuda. The preference of the cabinet of Antigua and Barbuda is for Choksi to be repatriated to India from Dominica,” an Antiguan cabinet note stated.Meanwhile, four days after Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne claimed Choksi left the island with his girlfriend, the Antiguan information minister Melford Nicholas on Thursday refused to divulge details on the matter. Responding to questions about the identity and nationality of the woman, Nicholas said, “The cabinet has been briefed by the intelligence agencies about the circumstances of departure and removal of Mr Choksi but I am not obliged to disclose the details as it may prejudice the investigations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-denied-bail-dominica-prosecutor-says-he-entered-illegally-on-may-21-101622701749695.html
04-06-2021||India||Monsoon has set in over Kerala: IMD||Monsoon set in on Thursday, advancing into some parts of south Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep area, south Kerala, south Tamil Nadu, remaining parts of Comorin – Maldives area and some more parts of southwest Bay of Bengal, IMD said in the afternoon.More than 60% of 14 key rainfall monitoring stations in Kerala reported rainfall 2.5mm or more in the past 2 days consecutively. The spatial distribution of rainfall over Kerala remained to be fairly widespread during the past 2 days; westerly winds have strengthened in the lower levels (wind speed upto 20 knots) and satellite derived winds suggest that 15-20 knots westerly winds prevail upto 600 hectopascal (hPa); there is persistent convection (cloudiness) indicated from satellite imagery and coastal Doppler Weather Radars over Lakshadweep and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea along and off Kerala coast and Maldives area. All these three parameters are to be fulfilled for monsoon onset to be declared over Kerala, according to IMD.Also Read | Delhi weather: Isolated thunderstorms likely today, says IMDIMD also said an east west shear zone (a zone of change in wind direction and velocity) is running from south Arabian Sea to southeast Bay of Bengal across southern most parts of peninsular India in the mid-tropospheric levels. An off shore trough (area of low pressure) is at mean sea level running off Karnataka-Kerala coasts.Monsoon is likely to advance into remaining parts of south Arabian Sea, some parts of central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Kerala, Lakshadweep, some more parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, some parts of coastal and south interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema and some more parts of south and central Bay of Bengal during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-make-onset-over-kerala-todayimd-101622692629337.html
04-06-2021||NA||Highlights: Punjab reports 2,206 new cases, 91 deaths||India's coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on Thursday increased by 134,154 as the number pushed an overall tally to cross the 28.4 million mark. The death toll was 337,989 as 2,887 people lost their lives to the viral infection.Also Read: India's daily Covid-19 cases go further up to 134,154, new deaths reduce by 320 since yesterdayIn the United States, President Joe Biden announced a plan to work with churches, colleges, businesses, and celebrities to boost inoculations. The US is also set to announce which countries will receive the first shipments of coronavirus vaccines donated from its stockpile.Meanwhile, the European Union passed 250 million vaccinations and is on track to reach its target of inoculating 70% of adults in July, according to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said employees should begin returning to offices in early September for at least three days a week.In the United Kingdom, Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned of caution as he said that the country is on course to lift restrictions this month.Follow all the updates here:Punjab reports 2,206 Covid-19 cases, 91 new deathsPunjab reports 2206 COVID cases, 4512 patient discharges, and 91 deaths in the past 24 hours Active cases: 2,86,73Total discharges: 5,30,601Death toll: 14,840 pic.twitter.com/QV07KeDfYdPunjab reports 2206 COVID cases, 4512 patient discharges, and 91 deaths in the past 24 hoursActive cases: 2,86,73Total discharges: 5,30,601Death toll: 14,840US to donate 25 million Covid-19 doses abroadThe United States (US) administration has announced it will donate 25 million Covid-19 doses abroad, with most of them allocated to WHO's Covax initiative. In a fact sheet, the White House said it will donate just over 6 million with countries experiencing surges, including Canada, Mexico, and India.Mumbai reports 961 new Covid-19 cases, 27 deathsCOVID19 | Mumbai reports 961 fresh cases, 27 deaths and 897 recoveries today; Recovery rate at 95% pic.twitter.com/XBlUxmlDQrCovid-19 | Mumbai reports 961 fresh cases, 27 deaths and 897 recoveries today; Recovery rate at 95%We have clear rollout date for Covishield and Covaxin: Karnataka health ministerWe've a clear rollout date for Covishield & Covaxin in June from both Central & State procurement sources. We'll be getting close to 58 lakh doses in June till 30th; 44.50 lakh doses from centre procurement sources & about 14 lakh from state sources: Karnataka Health Minister pic.twitter.com/vNlP3rgwVmWe have a clear rollout date for Covishield and Covaxin in June from both central and state procurement sources. We will be getting close to 58 lakh doses in June till 30th; 44.50 lakh doses from central procurement sources and about 14 lakh from state sources, said Karnataka health ministerIndia will be able to achieve vaccination for all by December: CEA SubramanianIndia will be able to achieve vaccination for all by December. If we vaccinate people in three shifts each day, then, we can vaccinate 1 crore people in a day. This is definitely ambitious, but not impossible: Chief Economic Advisor KV Subramanian.Second wave of Covid-19 affected momentum of economic recovery: CEA KV SubramanianThe second wave of Covid-19 has affected the momentum of economic recovery. We expect a recovery in the economy from July. Now, States have started removing restrictions and if we speedup vaccination our economy will start recovering: Chief Economic Advisor KV Subramanian to ANI.Karnataka extends lockdown till June 14 to contain COVID-19Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday announced extending lockdown for a week from June 7 to June 14 to contain the Covid-19 spread. The curbs are in effect since April 27 but from May 10, the chief minister announced a shutdown till May 24 morning.Other states imposing lockdown but we have only enforced certain restrictions: West Bengal CMCovid-19 cases have decreased to half in West Bengal. 1.4 crore vaccines have been given free of cost by us. The other states have imposed lockdown but we have only enforced certain restrictions, and people are supporting us: Mamata BanerjeeMaharashtra cancels class 12 board examsThe Maharashtra government has cancelled the Class 12 board examinations in the state after the approval of the education department's proposal.UP govt cancels class 12 board exams amid COVID-19The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday cancelled the 12th Intermediate Board Exams 2021 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic."Uttar Pradesh 12th Intermediate Board Exams 2021 have been cancelled by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath," deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said.(Reporting by ANI)Hong Kong includes kids over 12-year-olds into vaccination driveHong Kong will open its Covid-19 vaccine scheme to children over the age of 12 for the first time, the government said on Thursday, as it pursues a broader campaign across the city to incentivise its 7.5 million residents to get vaccinated.SII seeks nod to manufacture Russian vaccine Sputnik VSerum Institute of Indian (SII) applies to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission for a test license to manufacture Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, news agency ANI reported citing sources.89 people dies of black fungus in DelhiA total of 1,044 black fungus cases in Delhi; 92 people have recovered and 89 deaths so far, says Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain.Active cases declines to 17,13,413Number of active Covid-19 cases in India further declines to 17,13,413, says Union health ministry.India logs 134,154 fresh cases of Covid-19India's Covid-19 tally rises to 28,441,986 after 134,154 people test positive for the viral disease over the last 24 hours.India seals deal for 300 million Biological-E Covid-19 vaccine dosesIndia has inked a deal with domestic vaccine maker Biological-E for 300 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for 15 billion rupees, news agency Reuters reported.The vaccine, which is currently undergoing phase-3 clinical trials, will likely to be available in the next few months, it also reported citing health ministry.40 from Manipur test positive for Covid-19 in DelhiAs many as 40 members, including two children of the Bnei Menashe Jews Community from Manipur, were tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, just a day before boarding their flight to Israel on Monday.Ladakh's Covid-19 tally rises by 91Ladakh's Covid-19 tally rises by 91, one other person dies over the last 24 hours.The number of active cases now stands at 1,531 and the death toll has reached 191.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-india-world-death-toll-june-3-2021-101622680708161.html
