05-06-2021||India||Malta firm offers 60mn Sputnik doses, says Hry||Chandigarh: The Haryana government on Saturday said that a Malta- headquartered pharma company has come up with an offer to provide 60 million doses of Sputnik V vaccines to the state. This comes after the state government’s global bid to purchase 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses did not get a response from any international firm on Friday, the last day of making the bid. An official spokesperson said that Malta-based Pharma Regulatory Services Limited has given an expression of interest to Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL) for providing 60 million Sputnik vaccine doses at ₹1,120 per dose. “We are verifying the antecedents of the pharma company. We will also get in touch with the Indian High Commission in Malta to do a thorough check on the company,’’ additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said on Saturday. Arora said though the offer has come after the due date of the global tender got over it is still being examined to see if it met the criteria of the tender document and ensured optimal vaccine availability for the state.The firm has given a timeline of 30 days to supply the first batch of half a million (5 lakh) doses followed by a million doses every 20 days till the supply is completed against a letter of credit issued in their name. The last date for receipt of global tender was June 4. Russian manufactured Sputnik-V is the only vaccine besides Covishield of Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech which has been granted emergency use authorization (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malta-firm-offers-60mn-sputnik-doses-says-hry-101622917765155.html
05-06-2021||India||CM’s nephew Abhishek named TMC national general secy||Kolkata Abhishek Banerjee, Trinamool Congress MP and nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, was promoted to the post of the party’s all-India general secretary on Saturday. Senior party leader and minister Partha Chatterjee also announced that the party, after its sweeping victory in the recently held assembly elections, would now expand its organisational footprint beyond the state. “One of the biggest decisions taken by Mamata Banerjee in Saturday’s meeting was to appoint Abhishek Banerjee as the general secretary of the All India Trinamool Congress,” Chatterjee said. Experts said that Abhishek Banerjee played a key role in the party’s victory in the assembly polls in which the TMC won 213 seats of the 292 assembly constituencies where polls were held. The BJP could manage only 77. It was Abhishek who was instrumental in roping in poll strategist Prashant Kishor after the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Political commentator Biswanath Chakraborty said: “Abhishek Banerjee has emerged as a true leader and the second-in-command of the party through the 2021 assembly elections. So, it is obvious that now he would play a greater role.” “Mamata Banerjee is at the helm of affairs in the TMC. So it is natural that her nephew would get elevated. Why should we (BJP) get into it?” said Samik Bhattacharjee, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal. The TMC which returned to power for the third consecutive term also made some other major organisational changes on Saturday, while hinting that more would be made at the district level in the next one month. Actor Saayoni Ghosh has been made the head of the youth wing, a post earlier held by Abhishek Banerjee. The party has also appointed MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar as president of its women’s wing. First-time MLA and film director Raj Chakraborty will head the party’s cultural cell. “Today, the All India Trinamool Congress takes a new step towards effective leadership. Going forward, we shall be committed towards being a #OnePersonOnePost party,” the party tweeted. The TMC working committee, however, was yet to take a decision on whether to take back turncoats who abandoned the party to join the BJP ahead of the assembly elections and now want to return. While many have openly apologised and said that they want to return to the TMC, a few others sent feelers by criticising the BJP. “Nothing was discussed on this. Mamata Banerjee would take a decision. She may also form a committee for this,” said Chatterjee. The party also has decided to step outside Bengal, Chatterjee said. In April a tweet by the TMC had triggered speculation over whether Mamata Banerjee would contest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi or the party would field someone to challenge him in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “It was also decided in the meeting that the TMC would expand beyond West Bengal to strengthen the party. The party’s MPs, including Abhishek Banerjee, would be working in this,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cms-nephew-abhishek-named-tmc-national-general-secy-101622917585216.html
05-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 231 million doses administered so far in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 23 crore, with 31,20,451 doses being given Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said.Of the total doses administered on Saturday, the ministry said 16,19,504 beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years received their first dose and 41,058 their second.Cumulatively, 2,76,35,937 persons across 37 States/UTs have received their first dose and a total 1,60,406 have received their second since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive on May 1.Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine.The total of 23,10,89,241 doses include 99,62,728 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 68,53,413 HCWs who have taken the second dose.About 1,61,57,437 Frontline Workers (FLWs) received first dose and 86,58,805 FLWs their second.In 18-44 years age group, 2,76,35,937 and 1,60,406 have received first and second dose respectively till now.Besides, 7,06,41,613 and 1,12,93,868 beneficiaries aged over 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively.s many as 6,05,25,195 and 1,91,99,839 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose.O Day-141 of the vaccination drive (5th June, 2021), a total 31,20,451 vaccine doses were given.As many as 28,70,693 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the 1st dose and 2,49,758 for the 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report till 7 P.M. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-over-231-million-doses-administered-so-far-in-india-101622914368381.html
05-06-2021||India||Covid-19 unlock: Delhi, Maharashtra among major states to ease lockdown restrictions from June 7||In a cautious approach towards unlocking, some state governments have announced new relaxations to the lockdowns in their respective states as Covid-19 cases begin to dip. From the slew of new relaxations announced in Delhi, earlier on Saturday, to the five-level unlock plan in Maharashtra, many states have eased their ongoing lockdown.Along with Delhi and Maharashtra, other major states including Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh have also announced certain relaxations.Here is a list of states where the new relaxations come into effect from Monday (June 7) -Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that certain Covid-19 related restrictions have been eased in the national capital due to the fall in daily new cases. According to the new measures, markets and malls would be allowed to operate between 10am to 8pm on an odd-even basis.Metro services would begin operations from Monday with 50 per cent seating capacity. Also, standalone shops would be allowed to remain open on all days.Uttar Pradesh: The state government offered respite for those districts with less than 600 active Covid-19 cases from the restrictions. However, night curfew between 7pm and 7am and the weekend “corona curfew” would continue to be in effect.Also, the restrictions have so far been eased in 64 out of the total 75 districts in the state. Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Jhansi are still under the restrictions due to the high number of cases, according to the state government.Tamil Nadu: While the ongoing lockdown has been extended till June 14, chief minister MK Stalin on Saturday announced a few relaxations. Shops selling essential goods such as provisions, vegetables, meat and fish stalls are allowed to function between 6am and 5pm.However, no relaxations have been allowed in 11 districts where the number of cases are still high, the government ordered.Gujarat: Beginning June 7, the private and government offices would be allowed to function with 100 per cent staff in Gujarat, the state government announced earlier on Friday. Also, shops have been allowed to remain open between 9am and 6pm in 36 cities.The state government has also extended the lockdown till June 11 to control the transmission of the coronavirus.Odisha: The Odisha government has extended the ongoing lockdown till June 17 according to its latest order. Nuapada, Gajapati and Sundargarh will now have relaxed weekday lockdown hours from 6am to 1pm.Essential commodities could be availed from shops in the above mentioned time period in the three districts, where the total positivity rate (TPR) has fallen drastically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-unlock-delhi-maharashtra-among-major-states-to-ease-lockdown-restrictions-from-june-7-101622914447135.html
05-06-2021||India||Haryana gets response on global tender from Malta-based pharma company for Sputnik V vaccines||An international pharmaceutical company headquartered in Malta, Pharma Regulatory Services Limited, has expressed interest in providing Haryana with up to 60 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine, manufactured by the Gamaleya Institute and marketed by the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), said the state government.“An international pharma company with headquarters in Malta namely Pharma Regulatory Services Limited has given an expression of interest to provide up to 60mn does of Sputnik V vaccine manufactured by the Gamaleya Institute and the Russian Direct Investment Fund,” the state government said in a press note.Per dose of the Sputnik V vaccine supplied by the firm will cost nearly ₹1,120. The firm has been given a month’s time to supply the first 5,00,000 doses, which will be further augmented by 1 million doses every 20 days, against a letter of credit issued in the pharmaceutical company’s name.“As per the order made by the firm, per dose cost will be nearly ₹1,120. The firm has given a timeline of 30 days to supply 1st batch of 5L doses followed by 1 mn doses every 20 days,” the note added.This “expression of interest” comes after the global tender floated by Haryana on May 26 for vaccine procurement closed on May 4 with no bids. Even though the offer came after the due date was over it is being considered to ensure optimal vaccine availability for the state, said additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora.The Sputnik V vaccine is the only foreign-manufactured vaccine currently available in India and was recently cleared for import by Brazil. Sputnik V is yet to be approved by the World Health Organization, the US food and drug administration and the European Medicines Agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-gets-response-on-global-tender-from-malta-based-pharma-company-for-sputnik-v-vaccines-101622914089353.html
05-06-2021||India||Stop insulting us, says Karnataka minister as Amazon Canada sells 'Kannada flag bikini'||Karnataka minister Arvind Limbavali on Saturday said the state government will take legal action against Amazon Canada if it does not apologise to Kannadigas for promoting the sale of bikini with the Kannada flag. The state's emblem is also imprinted on the bikini. This happens two days after the Google search engine showed Kannda as the ugliest language, drawing the ire of the state government and Karnataka people."We experienced an insult of Kannada by @Google recently. Even before the scars could heal, we find @amazonca using the colours of #Kannada flag and the Kannada icon on ladies’ clothes," Arvind Limbavali tweeted saying that multinational companies should be careful to not hurt the pride of the Kannadigas. "Multinational companies should stop such repeated insult of #Kannada. This is a matter of Kannadigas' self-pride and we will not tolerate the rise in such incidents. @amazonca should, therefore, apologise to Kannadigas. Legal action will be taken immediately against @amazonca," the minister tweeted.Multinational companies should stop such repeated insult of #Kannada This is a matter of Kannadigas' self pride and we will not tolerate the rise in such incidents.@amazonca should, therefore, apologise to Kannadigas. Legal action will be taken immediately against @amazonca 2/2Karnataka has its own flag — red, white and yellow — with the emblem of the state Gandaberunda, a two-headed mythological bird, in the centre. While the flag has its own share of political controversies, it has now kicked up a row after the design was found on a two-piece on Amazon's Canada site.Dear Amazon didn't expect from you this and if you do business in Karnataka first you learn respect our state flag also.....@amazonIN #Kannada #karnataka #karnatakaflag pic.twitter.com/LBjtrHZ2YIAs shared by several social media users, the name of the product ( BKDMHHH Women's flag of Karnataka original design slim fit tie side laces triangle chic trimmer) also mentions 'Karnataka flag', though the white portion of the flag is missing.The Karnataka government has already said it will take legal action against Google as the search engine showed Kannada as the "ugliest language" of India. "This is a very condemnable thing. If Google or anyone else behaves in contempt of Kannada language or insults Kannada, appropriate action will be taken against them," Karnataka's minister for Forest, Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbawali said. A Google spokesperson clarified search result on the search engine is not always perfect and they do not reflect the opinions of Google.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-canada-sells-bikini-with-kannada-flag-minister-threatens-legal-action-101622911731740.html
05-06-2021||India||Mangroves best remedy to check growing coastal erosion in Kerala, say experts||As coastal erosion and high tides continue to hit Kerala, marine experts have warned that the state will witness more sea surges in coming years due to a rise in sea surface temperature. During the two recent cyclones—Tauktae and Yaas-- coastal areas bore the maximum brunt in the state. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written a letter to PM Modi recently urging him to declare coastal erosion as a natural disaster helping to provide compensation to the affected from the national and state disaster response funds. Speaking at a webinar organized by the premier marine body Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) on Saturday as part of World Environment Day, experts called for restoration of coastal vegetation giving more emphasis on mangrove forests, which they said will act as a bio-shield protecting lives of residents. The webinar highlighted that the entire Kerala coast recently witnessed ‘storm surge’ during the two cyclones. They are of the view that such storm surges are likely to occur in the coast increasingly in coming years with rapid warming of waters in the Indian Ocean. Alarming winds triggered by cyclones help form storm surge in waters which results in high waves, sea erosion and flooding in the coastal hamlet. This was seen recently especially in coastal areas like Chellanam in Kochi, they said. Kerala’s coastal region could be protected to a great extent through restoration of mangroves and other biodiversity in the region, said CMFRI Director Dr A Gopalakrishnan. “Conservation of coastal biodiversity, which is in deterioration owing to many reasons including constructions, is the best long-term natural option for protecting the lives of coastal people from sea turbulence,” he said, adding that mangroves act as a model bio-shield. The webinar, which was attended by leading experts who work on mangroves, recommended that restoration of coastal vegetation along the Kerala coast should be planned in a social forestry concept with public participation. Feasibility studies are required for identifying potential areas for mangrove forestation. Dr N Vasudevan, Managing Director of Forest Development Corporation, Maharashtra; PP Pramod, Chief Conservator, Forest Eastern Circle and Custodian, Vested Forest, Kerala; Dr R Ramasubramanian, Director of Coastal Systems Research Programme at MS Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai; Dr P Kaladharan, Principal Scientist of CMFRI, Dr Grinson George, Senior Programme Specialist at SAARC, Dr K Vinod, Principal Scientist of CMFRI and Dr Ratheesh Kumar R, Scientist of CMFRI also spoke at the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mangroves-best-remedy-to-check-growing-coastal-erosion-in-kerala-say-experts-101622911885415.html
05-06-2021||India||Mumbai unlock: Outdoor shooting not allowed after 5pm. Check what's allowed||As part of Maharashtra's five-level unlocking, set to begin from June 7, several activities will remain time-bound and restricted in Mumbai, as it falls under level 3 category. Districts with a Covid-19 case positivity rate of 5 to 10 per cent and oxygen bed occupancy of 40 to 60 per cent fall under this level.Dear Mumbai, Municipal Commissioner @IqbalSinghChah2 informs that Mumbai shall fall under level 3, as per #BreakTheChain orders by the State Government.Watch this space for detailed written orders shortly.#MyBMCUpdatesHere is what will be allowed in Mumbai from Monday> Shops, establishments dealing with essential items will remain open till 4pm all days.> Shops, establishments dealing with non-essential items will remain open till 4pm on weekdays.> Mall, theatres (multiplex as well as the single-screen) will remain closed> Restaurants will open with 50 per cent capacity for dining in till 4pm only on weekdays. After 4pm, parcels, takeaway, home delivery allowed.> Local train services will remain restricted for medical services, essential services and women. Extra restrictions may be added.Maharashtra 5-level Covid curbs: Gyms, salons, restaurants allowed to open with conditions> Public places, parks will open from 5am to 9am every day allowing walking, cycling.> All private offices will open but will operate till 4om on working days at 50 per cent attendance (except exemption category).> Sports activities (only outdoor) allowed between 5am to 9am and between 6pm and 9pm.> Shooting activities to be conducted in a bubble. No outdoor shooting after 5pm.> Social gathering allowed only with 50 per cent capacity and till 4pm on weekdays.> Wedding events allowed to be held with 50 people while 20 people can attend funerals.> Construction work allowed but labourers must leave by 4pm.> Agriculture works allowed till 4pm every day.> E-commerce services will function regularly.> Gyms, salons, parlours will be allowed to function till 4pm at 50 per cent capacity. People will be admitted only with appointment and ACs will not be allowed.> Buses will operate with 100 per cent capacity without standing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-unlock-outdoor-shooting-not-allowed-after-5pm-check-what-s-allowed-101622910336989.html
05-06-2021||India||Brazil clears proposal to import Covaxin, Sputnik V; conditions apply||Brazil has cleared the proposal to import Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) -- Covaxin -- for the purpose of tackling the pandemic. The South Asian country's top health regulator, the National Health Surveillance Agency of Brazil - Anvisa, has also approved the proposal to import Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine into that country.Also Read: WHO nod likely by September: Bharat BiotechEarlier in February, Bharat Biotech signed an agreement with the Brazillian government for the supply of 20 million doses of Covaxin during the second and third quarters of 2021, in which it presented an "adequate action plan" and fulfilled all the pending issues related to the certification of good manufacturing practice (GMP) request, Anvisa said.The clarification regarding GMP comes as the Brazillian health regulator had earlier denied the proposal to import Covaxin into the country after the authorities found that the Indian plant in which the Covid-19 vaccine was being made did not meet the GMP requirements.Also Read: India could get Covid vaccine for kids, Zydus Cadila set to seek nod for ZyCoV-DBrazil, as the per initial agreement, is expected to receive four million doses of Covaxin, following which it will monitor the data on Covid-19 vaccine use and decide, if required, the number of additional doses to be imported. Initially, Covaxin will only be used under specific conditions, Anvisa said on Saturday in a statement issued in Portuguese, shortly after the 9th extraordinary public meeting of the collegiate board.Presenting a slew of conditions for the import of Covaxin, Anvisa said that all batches to be destined for Brazil must have been manufactured after the adaptations of the GMP implemented by the manufacturer Bharat Biotech, according to the corrective and preventive action report presented to Brazil's health regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brazil-clears-proposal-to-import-covaxin-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccines-101622904345225.html
05-06-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek made TMC general secretary in key party meet||Abhishek Banerjee, a Trinamool Congress MP and nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, was made the party’s all-India general secretary on Saturday. Senior party leader and minister, Partha Chatterjee, also announced that the party, after its sweeping victory in the recently held assembly elections, would now expand its organisational footprint beyond the state. “One of the biggest decisions taken by Mamata Banerjee in Saturday’s meeting was to appoint Abhishek Banerjee as the general secretary of the All India Trinamool Congress. According to political analysts, Abhishek Banerjee played a key role in the party’s thumping victory in the assembly polls in which the TMC won 213 seats out of the 292 assembly constituencies where polls were held. The BJP could manage only 77. It was Abhishek who was instrumental in roping in poll strategist Prashant Kishor after the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Political commentator Biswanath Chakraborty said: “Abhishek Banerjee has emerged as a true leader and the second-in-command of the party through the 2021 assembly elections. So, it is obvious that now he would play a greater role.” “Mamata Banerjee is at the helm of affairs in the TMC. So it is natural that her nephew would get elevated. Why should we (BJP) get into it?” said Samik Bhattacharjee, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal. The TMC which returned to power for the third consecutive term also made some major organisational changes on Saturday, while hinting that more changes would be made at the district level in the next one month. Actor Saayoni Ghosh has been made the head of the youth wing a post earlier held by Abhishek Banerjee. The party has also appointed MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar as president of its women’s wing. First-time MLA and film director Raj Chakraborty will head the party’s cultural cell. “Today, the All India Trinamool Congress takes a new step towards effective leadership. Going forward, we shall be committed towards being a #OnePersonOnePost party,” the party tweeted. The TMC working committee, however, was yet to take a decision on whether to allow the turncoats, who abandoned the party to join the BJP ahead of the assembly elections and now want to return to the TMC. A number of them have openly apologized and said that they want to return to the TMC, while a few others have sent feelers by criticizing the BJP. “Nothing was discussed on this. Mamata Banerjee will take a decision. She may also form a committee for this,” said Chatterjee. The party has also decided to step outside Bengal, Chatterjee said. In April, a tweet by the TMC had triggered speculation over whether Mamata Banerjee would contest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi or the party would field someone to challenge him in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. It was also decided in the meeting that the TMC would expand beyond West Bengal to strengthen the party. The party’s MPs, including Abhishek Banerjee, would be working on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-nephew-abhishek-made-tmc-general-secretary-in-key-party-meet-101622907804835.html
05-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee chalks up new rule for the Trinamool Congress and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.One person, one post: Mamata Banerjee chalks up new decree for Trinamool CongressWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has chalked up a new rule for the Trinamool Congress (TMC), wherein a member of the party will be allowed to hold only one party post at any given time, TMC sources said. Read more'They will start as favourites': VVS Laxman names his pick for India vs New Zealand WTC finalFormer India batsman VVS Laxman said India will start as favourites in the upcoming World Test Championship final against New Zealand starting on June 18 in Southampton, England. Read moreYami Gautam-Aditya Dhar share pics from her simple, intimate mehendi ceremonyActor Yami Gautam has shared more pictures from her recent, secret wedding. She and filmmaker Aditya Dhar tied the knot in an intimate wedding on Friday. Read moreTikTok’s updated privacy policy in the US gives it permission to collect biometric data from usersTikTok has updated its privacy policy in the US and has introduced a section that states that the app “may collect biometric identifiers and biometric information” from its users’ content. And this includes data like “faceprints and voiceprints”. Read moreWhy effective vaccination drive is crucial in helping Indian economy recoverThe Indian economy expanded by 1.6% in the fourth quarter. The economy had contracted by 7.3% in the financial year 2021. The second wave of Covid-19 wreaked havoc. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-s-new-rule-for-the-trinamool-congress-and-all-the-latest-news-101622907130066.html
05-06-2021||India||RSS blue tick row: Why does Twitter remove verified status? All you need to know||Twitter on Saturday removed the blue tick from the personal accounts of Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and a few other RSS functionaries for a brief period of time. By evening the blue ticks were restored. There has been no official statement by either the government or Twitter, though RSS functionaries have termed it as "tech feudalism by Twitter".What is a blue tick?A blue tick on Twitter is a verification badge which symbolises that the accounts are authentic. The social media platform has a set of rules to grant this verification badge.Why did Twitter remove the blue tick? What does the rule say?According to Twitter's rulebook verified badges may be automatically removed from inactive and incomplete accounts. There are other reasons for which an account may lose its verified status like hateful conduct etc. But inactivity has been cited as the reason for removing the blue ticks in these cases.How does Twitter determine inactivity?In its policy guideline, Twitter has mentioned that inactivity is based on logging in. "We encourage people to actively log in and use Twitter when they register an account. To keep your account active, be sure to log in at least every 6 months. Accounts may be permanently removed due to prolonged inactivity," it said.Have these accounts been inactive?The personal account of the Vice President has been inactive since 2020. The accounts of the RSS functionaries were also inactive for some time. The accounts of the RSS functionaries were made to check the spread of misinformation by parody accounts, it has been said.Allegation of biasThe RSS has pointed out that several accounts have been inactive but they continue to remain verified. Many have pointed out the examples of Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley's Twitter accounts which have blue tick long after their death. It may be noted that Sushma Swaraj's Twitter account has been turned into a memory account and is now handled by Swaraj Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-blue-tick-row-why-does-twitter-remove-verified-status-all-you-need-to-know-101622903445687.html
05-06-2021||India||L-G hasn't rejected Kejriwal's ration scheme, asked to follow law: Sources||Delhi's Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Anil Baijal has not rejected chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's doorstep ration delivery scheme but has only advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit, sources in the know of the matter said. The aim is to ensure smooth decisions and seamless benefits to people at large, sources said, after the Aam Aadmi Party accused the Centre of stalling its Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana Scheme.Officials explained that since the scheme seeks to change the method of distribution of ration supplies — from fair price shops to private vendors who will deliver at doorstep, it will require prior approval of the Centre as per Section 12 (2) (h) of the National Food Security Act 2013. The file has now been returned to the chief minister for reconsideration."It was brought to the notice that a Writ Petition WP (C) 2037/2021 in the said matter has been filed by the "Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh" in the High Court of Delhi challenging the proposed arrangement of doorstep delivery of ration by GNCTD wherein the Union of India is also a party. The said petition is scheduled to be heard on August 20, 2021," sources said."It is underlined that the Hon'ble Lt Governor has not rejected the proposal as is being portrayed. He has advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit with the sole aim of ensuring smooth decisions and seamless benefits to people at large," sources added.Under the scheme, every ration beneficiary of Delhi would have received 4 kg wheat flour (atta), 1 kg rice and sugar per person at the convenience of their homes, Kejriwal's office said adding that this could have stopped ration mafia and beneficiaries would have got the supplies at home without going to the fair price shops. The scheme is also in tune with Centre's One Nation One Card scheme, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-hasn-t-rejected-kejriwal-s-ration-scheme-asked-to-follow-law-sources-101622904450050.html
05-06-2021||India||Kerala to vaccinate all above 40 years of age by July 15: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala will provide the first dose of the vaccine to all above 40 years of age by July 15, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday adding that a vigorous campaign will be launched to meet the target. At the core committee meet on Covid-19, the CM said about 50 lakh people will have to take the vaccine from this age group and the state will be getting 38 lakh doses at the end of June therefore all will be covered by the middle of July. “Efforts are on at a war footing to contain the possible third wave in the state. We have started a detailed study on different mutations. We have to be more vigilant as there are reports that children may be infected during the third wave,” the CM said. All departments should work together to meet the threat of a possible third wave, he said. Kerala on Saturday reported 17,328 new Covid-19 cases when 205,000 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 14.89 per cent. For the last two days the state has been reporting a TPR below 15 per cent. Active cases have also come down to 1,67,638 with 24,000 recoveries on Saturday. Thiruvananthapuram reported the maximum number of cases 2468 followed by Malappuram with 1980 and Palakkad district with 1899 cases. But deaths are on the rise-- 209 fatalities were reported taking the death toll to 9719 since the outbreak began. The state is under lockdown since May first week and it is expected to end on June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-vaccinate-all-above-40-years-of-age-by-july-15-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-101622904924732.html
05-06-2021||India||Haj 2021 will depend on Saudi Arabia's decision, says Union minister Naqvi||The Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Saturday said there is no clarity yet if the annual haj pilgrimage will be possible this year or not and the decision will depend on the Saudi Arabia government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that India will stand with the Saudi government's decision, Naqvi added, reported news agency ANI."Haj will depend on the decision of the Saudi Arabia government. PM Narendra Modi has said India will stand by the side of the Saudi govt in their decision. Last year Haj got canceled. This year nothing has been decided yet," ANI quoted Naqvi as saying.Also read | Only 'immunised' pilgrims to Mecca allowed: Saudi authoritiesSaudi Arabia last year banned outside pilgrims from taking part in haj to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Only a limited number of domestic pilgrims were allowed to perform haj. The restriction was the first such ban in recent history on what is considered the most significant pilgrimage for Muslims all around the world.On Thursday, the world's largest Muslim majority nation, Indonesia cancelled the haj pilgrimage for the second consecutive year amid the concerns of the increasing spread of Covid-19."Due to the pandemic and for the safety of the pilgrims, the government has decided that this year it won't allow Indonesian pilgrims to go again," Reuters quoted the country's religious affairs minister Yaqut Cholil Qoumas as saying.Saudi Arabia has relaxed a ban on travellers coming from 11 countries that were imposed to prevent the spread of the virus, but quarantine measures will be required to follow, Saudi state news agency said, according to the Reuters report.Also read | Covid-19: Saudi Arabia to organize Mecca pilgrimage under special conditionsEarlier in March, the Saudi health ministry said that it will allow vaccinated people to attend haj this year, as per media reports.Around 2.5 million pilgrims used to visit the most sacrosanct site of Islam in Mecca and Medina to perform the week-long haj, and the lesser, year-round umrah pilgrimage, which cumulatively helped the kingdom to gain around $12 billion annually, as per the official data, Reuter reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haj-2021-will-depend-on-saudi-arabia-s-decision-says-union-minister-naqvi-101622899676562.html
05-06-2021||India||'Dear BJP, why do you hate Delhi,' AAP asks as Centre 'blocks' ration scheme||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday accused the Centre of stalling Delhi's doorstep delivery of ration scheme, which was scheduled to begin with one or two days. The scheme would have benefitted 72 lakh people in Delhi, but the LG has rejected the file citing an ongoing legal case and the absence of the Centre's approval.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's office issued a statement in which it was claimed that no approval from the Centre is required for such a scheme and the ongoing legal complications too do not deter the launch of the scheme as there has been no such court order. Delhi food minister Imran Hussain said the decision to reject the file is politically motivated.L-G hasn't rejected Kejriwal's ration scheme, asked to follow law: SourcesIn March, BJP promised Home Delivery of Ration in Tamil Nadu.Today, BJP has stopped Home Delivery of Ration in Delhi.Dear @BJP4India, we once again ask you - Why do you hate Delhi?#ModiProtectsRationMafia https://t.co/WVYu7IyKVhThe scheme was designed after informing the Centre and all the suggestions of the central government were incorporated. The file was sent to the LG for final approval on May 24, but it has been returned."Prime Minister, what nexus do you have with ration mafia that you stopped Kejriwal government's Ghar Ghar Ration Scheme?" the AAP tweeted.Under the scheme, every ration beneficiary of Delhi would have received 4 kg wheat flour (atta), 1 kg rice and sugar per person at the convenience of their homes, the CMO said adding that this could have stopped ration mafia and beneficiaries would have got the supplies at home without going to the fair price shops. The scheme is also in tune with Centre's One Nation One Card scheme, it said.The scheme, which has undergone a name change on Centre's direction, was scheduled to be launched on March 25. But the Centre raised a few objections which were addressed by the Delhi cabinet, the CMO said.The obstruction will also dent Delhi's fight against the pandemic, the CMO said. "Centre’s obstruction also severely compromises Delhi’s fight against the third wave of Corona. As cautioned by experts, the next Covid wave may disproportionately target children. By forcing people to stand in long queues outside ration shops, it is likely that in the third wave the virus may pass from parents to their children. Keeping this in mind, the Delhi government had fast-tracked the implementation of this scheme," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dear-bjp-why-do-you-hate-delhi-aap-asks-as-centre-blocks-ration-scheme-101622902022688.html
05-06-2021||India||Covid recoveries in Andhra Pradesh breach 1.6 mn mark; 10,373 new cases seen||The gross coronavirus recoveries in Andhra Pradesh crossed 1.6 million as 15,958 more people got cured of the infection in 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday. The state added 10,373 fresh cases and saw 80 more fatalities in 24 hours, a health department bulletin said. The state Covid-19 chart showed 1,749,363 total infections, 1,609,879 recoveries and 11,376 deaths so far. The active caseload reduced further to 128,108 on Saturday, the bulletin added. In the last seven days, the active coronavirus cases in AP fell by 37,687. Only four districts in the state now have more than 10,000 active cases, while the remaining nine are in four digits each, with Vizianagaram having the lowest of 3,490. East Godavari district reported less than 2,000 fresh daily cases after a long gap, adding 1,880 to take its overall count to 237,033. It has the highest number of 27,812 active cases now, a considerable drop from about 34,000 a fortnight ago. Chittoor district stopped just short of the two lakh total cases mark as it registered 1,728 afresh in a day. West Godavari reported 1,078 and Anantapuramu 1,002 while the remaining nine districts added less than 700 new cases each. East Godavari (1,001) and Krishna (1,000) districts joined Chittoor (1,364) with total Covid-19 fatalities of over 1,000 each. Chittoor reported 12 fresh fatalities, Anantapuramu, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram nine each, Kurnool, SPS Nellore and West Godavari six each, East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam five each, Krishna four, Prakasam three and Kadapa one in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-recoveries-in-andhra-pradesh-breach-1-6-mn-mark-10-373-new-cases-seen-101622899024188.html
05-06-2021||India||‘Children are vulnerable to Covid-19, majority asymptomatic’, says expert||Children are vulnerable to the SARS-CoV-2 but its impact among children is relatively moderate with only 1-2% requiring hospitalisation, R Somasekar, executive board member, Indian academy of Pediatrics (IAP) said during a video conference on Saturday."Covid-19 in children is still moderate. Though children are vulnerable to the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the majority of them are asymptomatic and only 1-2 per cent had to go for hospitalisation," news agency ANI said quoting Somasekar.He urged parents to exercise caution so the virus is not transmitted from adults to children and asked them to look for changes in children's behaviour to identify the symptoms of Covid-19.Somasekar added that Covid-19’s impact on children so far has only been felt in the state of Karnataka, where as many as 68,635 children under the age of 10 have been infected, starting from the beginning of the pandemic till May 20 of this year, according to state health department data.He also discussed easy-to-adopt measures in everyday life like physical exercise, avoiding junk food, healthy sleep, wearing masks, following a balanced diet, and age-appropriate vaccination, reported ANI.As the second wave subsides and states are taking precautionary measures to resist a probable third wave, more attention is being paid to Covid-19’s impact on children. The Union health ministry said in a press conference on May 22 that children can be infected by Covid-19 and can infect others, and that it cannot be said with certainty that infection rates among children are comparatively less than adults.Instances of children being infected have poured in from all over the world. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report on Covid-19’s impact on adolescents found that almost one-third of adolescents hospitalised with Covid-19 in January-March of this year had to be admitted to intensive care units, and 5% needed machines to help them breathe.In India, Delhi and Maharashtra have started ramping up infrastructure by setting up additional pediatric wards and ICU beds in anticipation of a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-are-vulnerable-to-covid-19-majority-asymptomatic-says-expert-101622895754972.html
05-06-2021||India||GST revenue crosses ₹100,000 crore-mark for 8th straight month, collection at ₹102,709 crore||The Union ministry of finance on Saturday said that the GST revenue collection remained over the ₹100,000 crore-mark for eight months in the row with ₹1,02,709 crore collected in May 2021. The finance ministry projected that the actual revenues would be greater and will be known when the extended deadline for filing Goods and Services Tax returns expires. It also said the revenue collection is despite the fact that most of the states have been under strict lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.The collected revenue includes ₹17,592 crore as CGST, ₹22,653 as SGST, ₹53,199 crore as IGST, including ₹26,002 crore collected on import of goods, and cess of ₹9,265 crore, including ₹868 crore collected on imports.Also read: Overcoming the pandemic’s challenge requires an economic policy reset"The above figure includes GST collection from domestic transactions till June 4 since taxpayers were given various relief measures in the form of waiver/reduction in interest on delayed return filing for 15 days for the return filing month May’21 in the wake of covid pandemic second wave," the ministry said in a statement.The finance minister also said that ₹15,014 crore has been settled to CGST and ₹11,653 crore to SGST from IGST by the government as a regular settlement. The ministry added revenues collected in May 2021 are 65 per cent higher than the GST revenue of the same month last year. The month this year recorded 56 per cent higher revenues from import of goods. The revenue from domestic transactions, including import of services, are 69 per cent higher than the collection from these sources during the same period in 2020.Also read: Centre forms 8-member panel to examine GST exemption on Covid materialThe taxpayers with turnover above ₹5 crore had to file returns by June 4, which they would have otherwise filed by May 20. Taxpayers with turnover less than ₹5 crore still have time as part of the relief measure and can file returns till the first week of July without any late fee and interest. Hence. the revenue from these taxpayers is deferred till then, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-revenue-crosses-rs-100-000-crore-mark-for-8th-straight-month-collection-at-rs-102-709-crore-101622893679243.html
05-06-2021||India||'Coronil not a medicine,' Uttarakhand IMA raises concerns over Ramdev's therapy||The Uttarakhand unit of the Indian Medical Association has opposed the inclusion of Patanjali Ayurved's Coronil in the Covid-19 kit of the Uttarakhand government. The doctors' body said Coronil is not approved by the World Health Organization; it does not either have any approval from the Drug Controller General of India of Ayush as a medicine. "Coronil is however recognised as a food supplement by Ayush Vibhag of central government and is not a drug or medicine as claimed by Baba Ramdev on National TV on hourly basis advertisements" Dr Ajay Khanna, state secretary of IMA Uttarkhand wrote to the chief secretary of the state.This "retaliation" comes at a time the association is at loggerheads with Ramdev over the yoga guru's disparaging comments on modern medicine. The controversy has been going on and the IMA filed complaints against Ramdev and sent a legal notice to Patanjali Ayurved.No curbs on Ramdev, he’s entitled to his opinion: HCAmid this ongoing tussle, it has been reported that Patanjali has proposed to add Coronil as part of Covid-19 kit in Uttarakhand. This is medically wrong, the IMA said as this will result in a mixing of allopathy and Ayurved, the IMA said."Addition of Coronil with allopathic drugs shall amount to mixopathy that is a cocktail of Allopath and Ayurved which is not permitted as per the rulings of the honourable Supreme Court. Apart from the Apex Court, several high courts of various states have also ruled that mixopathy is not allowed," the IMA said.Since its launch, Coronil has been mired in controversies as the Uttarkhand government last year said that Patanjali was given a licence to manufacture an immunity booster, not anything related to the treatment of the Coronavirus.Priced at ₹545, the kit consists of three things — Coronil tablet, Swasari vati and Anu Taila. The Haryana government has recently anounced that one lakh Coronil kits will be distributed among Coronavirus patients in Haryana free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-coronil-not-a-medicine-uttarakhand-ima-raises-concerns-over-ramdev-s-therapy-101622894953076.html
05-06-2021||India||Mamata's nephew Abhishek Banerjee appointed as Trinamool general secretary||Abhishek Banerjee, a member of Parliament (MP) and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew, was on Saturday appointed as the all-India general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). At a press meet in Kolkata, party leader Partha Chatterjee confirmed the development and said that the working committee has decided one person will be allowed to hold just one post in the party, to which the core committee has duly given its approval.Also Read: PM Modi speaks to Mukul Roy, day after Abhishek Banerjee's 10-min courtesy call"Our party chief Mamata Banerjee has nominated MP Abhishek Banerjee as the all-India general secretary of the TMC," Chatterjee said, following two crucial meetings earlier in the day. Abhishek Banerjee will be replacing party leader Subrata Bakshi as the national general secretary.Partha Chatterjee, a former state minister, also announced other appointments to party posts. Trinamool leader Kunal Ghosh has been appointed as the party's state general secretary, while Abhishek's earlier post, that of the president of the Trinamool Youth Congress, went to TMC leader and actor Saayoni Ghosh.Also Read: Narada sting: HC grants interim bail to senior Trinamool leadersThe Trinamool working committee, however, has not yet come to a decision regarding turncoats who abandoned the party to join the BJP shortly before the recent state assembly elections, Partha Chatterjee said. Many of these turncoats, willing to return to the party fold once again, had reportedly been contacting the senior leadership over the past few weeks, news agencies reported.Many have even speculated upon the next move of former TMC big-gun Mukul Roy, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after a fallout with Mamata Banerjee in 2017, eventually becoming the saffron party's national vice-president. Roy, whose wife is being treated for Covid-19 at an east Kolkata hospital, reportedly "received a call" from Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day after Abhishek Banerjee visited the same hospital earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamatas-nephew-abhishek-banerjee-appointed-as-trinamool-general-secretary-101622893157558.html
05-06-2021||India||Twitter restores verified blue tick of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s personal account||Twitter on Saturday restored the blue verification badge of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s personal account, hours after removing it. The micro-blogging site also restored the verification badge of other key functionaries of the Sangh including Krishna Gopal.The blue verification badge on Twitter denotes that the account of a person or an organisation is authentic. Twitter has said the badge is removed if an account becomes inactive.Mohan Bhagwat’s Twitter handle has over 215,400 followers and he only follows the official profile of the RSS. Bhagwat has not posted any tweets/retweets or shared any photos or videos yet.Also Read| 'Last chance': 10 things to know about government versus Twitter battleEarlier on Saturday, sources in the RSS told news agency ANI that for the past several days, Twitter had removed the verification badge from the accounts of famous Sangh leaders including Arun Kumar, former general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, and former leader Suresh Soni, which got verified in 2019.RSS leaders do not use their Twitter handles and the verification was only done to separate them from the fake ones, according to a report by Hindustan Times on Saturday.Meanwhile, Twitter on Saturday also removed and then restored the verification badge of Vice President Venkaiah Naidu’s personal account, citing that it had been inactive since July last year. “As per our verification policy, Twitter may remove blue verified badge and verified status if the account becomes inactive. Badge has been restored,” a company spokesperson said.Also Read| Twitter restores blue verification tick of VP Naidu's personal accountThis event of removal and restoration of verification badges of Twitter handles comes at a time when the United States based tech giant is facing the ire of the Indian government over its non-compliance of the new Information Technology (IT) rules, which were supposed to come into effect on May 25. On Saturday, the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) issued another letter to Twitter and said this is the last chance to comply with the new rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-restores-verified-blue-tick-of-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-101622893599265.html
05-06-2021||India||Studying abroad but stuck in India over Covid-19? Here's what you should do||Amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country, the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) on Saturday took note of all those students, studying abroad, but presently stuck in India due to the pandemic. The ministry issued a series of guidelines meant to help students find proper directions on getting back to their regular curriculum as soon as possible.Also Read: US students who took Covaxin, Sputnik V, asked to get re-vaccinatedHere's what the external affairs ministry suggests that students stuck in India should do:1. Get in touch with India's ministry of external affairs if you are facing mobility issues due to the pandemic.2. Send your coordinates, i.e. email id and mobile number, to the OIA-II division of the ministry.3. The emails for the OIA-II division where the students should send their coordinates to are: us.oia2@mea.gov.in and so1oia2@mea.gov.inIn a tweet from his official handle on the microblogging website, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that Indian students studying abroad but presently stuck in India due to Covid-19 and related issues can get in touch with the ministry and send their coordinates -- email id and mobile number -- to the OIA-II division for further directions.📢 Kind Attention!Indian students studying abroad but stuck in India due to COVID-19 and related issues can get in touch with the OIA-II Division at @MEAIndia.➡️ Visit https://t.co/unwYpe26PN to know more!Scores of students studying abroad in foreign countries are presently stuck in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, news agency PTI reports. Several international students are also facing problems returning to their academic courses due to the Covid-19 restrictions imposed in countries where they are enrolled. Many of them are currently studying from home on a remote basis due to border restrictions, while several are simply stranded in India.Since March, over 400 US colleges and universities have asked students to get Covid-19 vaccinations ahead of the Autumn semester but those who have been inoculated with India's indigenous Covaxin or the Russian-made Sputnik V are being asked to get re-vaccinated as these vaccines have not yet been approved by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/studying-abroad-but-stuck-in-india-over-covid-19-here-s-what-you-should-do-101622891437021.html
05-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Lalu Prasad Yadav criticises Nitish Kumar over Niti Aayog SDG ranking and all the latest news||‘Bihar ranks top from the bottom’: Lalu Prasad Yadav hits out at Nitish KumarBihar former chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav hit out at the Nitish Kumar led-state government over Bihar’s ranking in the Niti Aayog Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) index 2020-21. Read MoreTutor held for sexually abusing a student in BharatpurA 32-year-old tutor was on Saturday arrested for disrobing and inappropriately touching his nine-year-old student in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur a day earlier. Read MoreDelhi govt issues clarification on Covid-19 relaxations from June 7The Delhi government on Saturday issued a clarification about the relaxations issued during the ongoing lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read More'Almost like Virat': Faf du Plessis finds Sarfaraz and Kohli's captaincy similar, compares them to MS DhoniIt wasn’t too long ago that Faf du Plessis was on a run-scoring spree for the Chennai Super Kings in the IPL 2021. Read MorePearl V Puri rape case: Hina Khan, Aly Goni, Nia Sharma, Karishma Tanna, others extend support to actorHours after television actor Pearl V Puri was arrested by the Mumbai police on charges of raping a minor girl, many celebs have come out in support of the actor. Read MoreWhatsApp to add this very helpful feature soon, review voice messages before sending themWhatsApp recently introduced a feature that lets you speed up voice messages you have received. This is a really great feature to have since it essentially saves you time when you are listening to long-ish voice notes. Read MoreYami Gautam’s mehendi look leaves Aditya Dhar smitten and we don’t blame himHaving played the on-screen bride in many of her Bollywood flicks, actor Yami Gautam left fans stunned as she surprised them with her wedding pictures on Friday as she tied the knot with Uri director Aditya Dhar. Read MoreHer parents were reluctant to get a dog. Clip shows what happened when she got oneHave you ever seen a video which shows an individual falling in love with a pet that they previously declined to keep in the house? Read MoreTwitter restores blue tick of Venkaiah Naidu's persona handle after removing itTwitter restored the blue verification tick from M Venkaiah Naidu’s personal handle after removing it on June 4. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-lalu-prasad-yadav-criticises-nitish-kumar-over-niti-aayog-sdg-ranking-and-all-the-latest-news-101622890471860.html
05-06-2021||India||'This is their culture': Puri slams Congress-led govts for Covid vaccine corruption, wastage||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday fired a salvo at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the Centre's Covid-19 Vaccine Maitri policy, as he called out states led by the opposition party for wasting shots or profiteering off it."Rahul Gandhi ji asks where is the vaccine for our children. That vaccine is in the garbage in Rajasthan and profits are being made on that vaccine in Punjab. This is the culture of Congress,” Puri said during a press conference.Also read: Under flak, Punjab govt asks private hospitals to return vaccine stockCiting the data of Covid-19 vaccination in Punjab, made public by an officer of the government in that state on May 29, Puri said the figures reveal that the dispensation is profiteering by overcharging for the vaccines. One dose of Covishield vaccine, which costs ₹309, has been sold at ₹1,560 through private hospitals, Puri said."These people are giving a dose of Covishield which they bought for ₹309 to a private hospital for ₹1,000 and as per yesterday's data they are selling it for ₹1,560," the Union minister said.He further cited the disclosed data by saying, that 429,000 doses of Covishield were procured at ₹13.25 crore its average amount is ₹309 and 114,190 Covaxin doses were procured at ₹4.70 crore, its average amount is ₹412."The Centre has distributed 50 per cent of vaccines to states and UTs to administer doses to people free of cost. States are profiteering on their own procurement. If these figures are true then the real amount of profit is not just ₹2.40 crore," Puri said.Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday made the same allegations against the Punjab government, saying that the state government distributed the vaccine procured under the state quota to 20 private hospitals for ₹1,000.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati also said that it is 'indecent, inhuman, condemnable and very unfortunate' that the Punjab government was indulging in corrupt activities during a health emergency.Also read: Captain digs in heels at meet over infightingThis comes after Sukhbir Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal accused the Amarinder Singh government of diverting vaccine doses to private hospitals for profit.After the backlash, the state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said that he has ordered a probe into the allegations imposed by the opposition regarding the vaccines.Post this, the state government in new order withdrew the “one-time” instruction to private hospitals for vaccinating people in the age bracket of 18-44 years and instructed the hospitals to return all the vaccine doses available with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-their-culture-puri-slams-congress-led-govts-for-covid-vaccine-corruption-wastage-101622884107906.html
05-06-2021||India||Former Telangana health minister Eetala Rajender resigns from TRS||Former Telangana health minister and TRS MLA Eetala Rajender announced his resignation in a press conference, thereby ending his 19-year-long association with Telangana both from the party and state legislature.He is expected to submit his resignation to Assembly speaker, Pocharam Srinivas Reddy soon.He plans to join the BJP in a few days once the home minister gets discharged from the hospital as reported in the 'Indian Express' on 4th June.Addressing a press meet at his Shamirpet residence, he slammed chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) for sacking him without giving any clarification on allegations against him and his family.He said the distance between him and Chandrasekhar Rao developed and deepened in 5 years. He alleged that CM had humiliated him on many instances and T Harish Rao similarly faced several humiliations.Furthermore, Rajender alleged that the CM insulted him by returning him along with ministers and MLAs from the gates of Pragathi Bhavan and the farmhouse. He added that he does not want to be treated like a slave merely for the post of a minister.Many leaders were sent out of the party, he accused. Is there any minister in the state cabinet or any officer in the government working independently, he added.All my previous colleagues in the party may now very well condemn my comments, but they know the truth, Eetala said. He questioned the role of CM in engineering defections in other parties when the TRS got the absolute majority in the Assembly. TRS spent Rs.50 crore in Huzurabad since he was dropped from the cabinet to lure his followers, he alleged.Rajender said that he won several times as an MLA, and he won the election whenever the party fielded him as its candidate.Eetala asserted that KCR believes in money, conspiracy and oppression, he yearns to be a dictator. He reminded that everyone was aware about what happened in MLC elections.Other followers of Rajender including former legislator Enugu Ravinder,Karimnagar former ZP chairperson Tula Uma also resigned from TRS. His other followers include Gandra Nalini, Lata, Ande Babaiah, BK. Mahesh,Hanumantha Rao and Sridevi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eatala-resigns-from-trs-101622889328393.html
05-06-2021||India||Mamata replaces PM Modi on vaccine certificate in Bengal; Minister explains why||Amid the ongoing Centre versus West Bengal tussle, the state government has replaced PM Modi's photo on Covid-19 vaccine certificates with that of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Justifying the move, the state government said that this is only on the certificates being issued to people falling between the age group of 18 and 45 as the state government is procuring these vaccines, not the Centre. An official told news agency PTI beneficiaries of 45 plus are getting certificates of vaccination with the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as in other parts of the country, but those falling in the 18-44 age bracket have photographs of Mamata Banerjee as the state government is using its resources to procure these vaccines. "The government has started procuring vaccines directly from the manufacturers and arranging for inoculating the population. That is the reason it has been decided to use photograph of the CM on the certificates," the news agency quoted an official as saying. Also Read: Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucratsState minister for housing and outgoing mayor of the city Firhad Hakim, who is also the chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation board of administrator, said other states are also taking similar steps. "All information regarding inoculation is there on the certificate. Starting from the batch number of the vaccine, there is also CoWIN Registration number. Besides, a special message of the CM," Hakim told PTI adding that Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand have already replaced PM's photo with that of their respective chief ministers. PM Modi's photo on Covid-19 vaccine certificates triggered a controversy ahead of the state elections and the photo was removed from certificates in the poll-bound states for the time being. The photo reappeared after the stipulated period was over.From May 1, the third phase of the vaccination against Covid-19 has begun in which state governments are also procuring vaccines directly from vaccine makers. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-replaces-pm-modi-on-vaccine-certificate-in-bengal-minister-explains-why-101622888748280.html
05-06-2021||India||Court allows banks to sell Vijay Mallya's real estate assets and securities||A Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court has allowed banks to sell certain real estate assets and securities and of fugitive business tycoon Vijay Mallya to recover their debts."The PMLA court has given permission to banks to sell gcertain real estate properties and securities that belonged to disgraced tycoon Vijay Mallya to recover dues loan amount of over ₹5,600 crore. It was earlier under the Enforcement Directorate," said Mallikarjuna Rao, Managing Director, Punjab National Bank."Now the lead bank will sell those properties. PNB does not have much loan exposure in Kingfisher, but we will get our due share whatever once lead bank to realize," added Rao.Mallya is accused in a bank loan default case of over ₹9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines and is presently in the United Kingdom.Mallya was declared as a fugitive economic offender in January 2019 by a special court in Mumbai.The 65-year-old has gone through and exhausted the full legal procedures available to him to fight the government's effort to extradite him to India to face charges of defrauding a consortium of banks of more than a billion dollars in relation to the collapse of Kingfisher Airlines in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-allows-banks-to-sell-vijay-mallya-s-real-estate-assets-and-securities-101622887832987.html
05-06-2021||India||Over 16.5 million Covid vaccine doses still available with states, UTs: Centre||More than 16.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.So far, over 24 crore doses have been provided to the states and UTs, it said in a statement.The total consumption, including wastage, stands at 226,508,508 doses, according to data available at 8 am on Saturday, the ministry said."More than 1.65 crore (1,65,00,572) Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," it said.So far, 243,009,080 vaccine doses have been provided free of cost to the states and UTs by the government of India and through the direct state procurement category, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-16-5-million-covid-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-centre-101622886149436.html
05-06-2021||India||'Last chance': 10 things to know about government versus Twitter battle||The Centre on Saturday issued a notice to microblogging platform Twitter asking it to comply with the new IT rules, which were to be implemented by May 26. The government said this is the last chance given to Twitter. While this "last notice" comes in connection with the IT rules in which all social media intermediaries operating in India have to abide by, the Twitter versus government saga has been going on for quite some time and several central ministers have opened their accounts on Koo, an Indian microblogging platform.Here are 10 things you need to know about the ongoing government versus Twitter1. After the farmers' rally on Republic Day in Delhi turned violent, the government asked Twitter to take action against some accounts, but Twitter was not prompt in responding to the request. Later, it complied but partially, when the "damage had been done".2. The government expressed its displeasure over the toolkit that was shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. The Centre said that Twitter was being misused for planning string social media campaigns to create disharmony and unrest in India.3. Twitter wrongly showed the geolocation of certain areas of Ladakh as part of China and took several days to rectify the mistake, the IT ministry has recently said in a statement. "Twitter chose to show the geo-location of certain locations in Union Territory of Ladakh as part of the People’s Republic of China at a time when India and China were engaged in the peaceful resolution of border-related issues through bilateral dialogue," it said.4. The government has also accused Twitter of promoting vaccine hesitancy. "Twitter’s lack of responsibility has led to rampant proliferation of fake and harmful content against India and Indians. Promoting vaccine hesitancy has been rampantly done through the use of the Twitter platform and yet Twitter has taken no action. Is this commitment to the people of India?" the IT ministry said.5. The government said Twitter took no action against posts that "maliciously" termed B.1.617 mutant as an Indian variant.6. Recently, Twitter flagged some posts of a BJP spokesperson as "manipulated media". The Delhi Police Special Cell visited the office of Twitter in this regard.7. Twitter has said it is concerned about the safety of its staff working in India. "Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve," it said.8. Twitter also said that the new IT rules have elements that could inhibit free speech. It said it plans to “advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation”.9. In reply, the government said that the platform will have to abide by the rules as these have been finalised after wide consultations with all stakeholders.10. Twitter has appointed an interim grievance redressal officer in India. This was one of the mandatory provisions stipulated by the new IT rules.Meanwhile, Twitter on Saturday removed the blue tick from the personal accounts of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat as well as a number of other leaders from the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-chance-10-things-to-know-about-government-versus-twitter-battle-101622884907224.html
05-06-2021||India||Puducherry sees further decline in daily Covid-19 tally with 613 fresh cases||Puducherry witnessed further dip in the daily cases of coronavirus recorded in the last twenty-four hours ending 10 am on Saturday. With 613 fresh cases, the total infection count reached 1,08,439. The number of new cases were detected at the end of testing of 9,086 samples in all the four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam, Director of Health S Mohan Kumar said. Puducherry region alone accounted for 470 new cases followed by 106 in Karaikal, 21 in Yanam and 16 in Mahe region. Total active cases were 8,783 (1,325 patients in hospitals and remaining 7458 patients in home isolation). Twelve people succumbed to the viral infection bringing the toll to 1,613, he said. Six of the deceased had no comorbidities. Those who died were in the age groups of 38 and 82 years. As many as 98,043 patients were discharged after recovery so far. The fatality and recovery rates were 1.49 percent and 90.41 percent respectively. The Director said 1.094 million samples have been examined so far and of them 9.44 lakh turned out to be negative. Meanwhile, 35,035 health care workers and 22,332 front line workers have been vaccinated in the Union Territory. Also, 170,000 people coming under the category of either senior citizens or those above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated since March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-sees-further-decline-in-daily-covid-19-tally-with-613-fresh-cases-101622883746331.html
05-06-2021||India||Odisha's Covid-19 tally crosses 800,000-mark, 40 fresh deaths recorded||Odisha's Covid-19 tally on Saturday breached the 800,000-mark after 7,395 more people tested positive for the infection, while 40 fresh fatalities pushed the toll to 2,952, a health department official said.The coastal state's caseload has now risen to 806,094, the official said.Of the 7,395 cases, 4,169 were recorded in quarantine centres, and the rest detected during contact tracing.Accordingly, the number of active cases climbed to 78,687, the health department official said.As many as 724,402 patients have recovered from the highly infectious disease, including 11,347 on Friday.Khurda district, of which the state capital Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the maximum number of new cases at 1,069, followed by Cuttack at 868, Jajpur at 561 and Angul at 443.At least nine of the state's 30 districts reported less than 100 cases each -- Bolabgir (81), Nuapada (22), Sonepur (91), Deogarh (57), Dhenkanal (81), Gajapati (52), Ganjam (69), Jharsuguda (66) and Kandhamal (76).The number of red zones -- having more than 1,000 active cases each -- has fallen to 13 from 25 in May.Taking to Twitter, the health department said, "Regret to inform about the demise of forty Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals."Six deaths were reported from Khurda, four each from Cuttack, Mayurbhanj and Sundergarh, three each from Angul, Boudh, Jharsuguda and Kalahandi, and two each from Bolangir, Bargarh and Deogarh.One patient each succumbed to the infection in Ganjam, Kandhamal, Naygarh and Sambalpur.This apart, 53 other Covid-19 patients in the state have died due to comorbidities, the official said.Odisha's positivity rate stands at 6.66 per cent.Over 12.1 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 thus far, including 70,313 on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-covid-19-tally-crosses-800-000-mark-40-fresh-deaths-recorded-101622882679011.html
05-06-2021||India||‘Comply with new rules or lose safe harbour: Govt to Twitter||The ministry of electronics and information technology on Saturday sent a sternly-worded letter to microblogging platform Twitter to share compliance details with the new intermediary guidelines, all clauses of which came into effect on May 25, saying that Twitter’s refusal to follow the rules demonstrates a “lack of commitment towards providing a safe experience to the people of India”.“Despite being in operation in India for over a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc. has doggedly refused to create mechanisms that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes,” the ministry has stated in its letter. “Users who are abused on the platform or are harassed or are subject to defamation or specula abuse or become victims go a whole range of other abusive contacts must get a redressal mechanism that the same people of India have created through a due process of law.”The ministry has, as a “gesture of goodwill”, given Twitter one last notice to immediately comply with the new rules or lose the exemption from criminal liability available to the social media intermediary under section 79 of the Information Technology Act. Section 79 provides Twitter safe harbour or protection against any kind of criminal action for third party content posted on the platform.The government has threatened that non-compliance with the new guidelines will result in the platform being criminally liable for third party content posted on it.Also read: Now, Twitter removes verification tick from RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s accountThe central government has given Twitter one last chance to comply with the new guidelines notified on February 25, which direct companies such Twitter, WhatsApp and Facebook to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.The government has been in a standoff with the microblogging platform since last week when Twitter raised concerns regarding “intimidation tactics by the police” and with the “core elements” of the new social media and intermediary guidelines. Twiter’s statement prompted a strong response from the government which called the remarks an “attempt to dictate its terms”.In a letter addressed to Jim Baker, the ministry has expressed its “dismay” over Twitter’s response to its communications indicating that it has not fully complied with the new rules. The ministry had sought details of the compliance officer, grievance redressal officer and nodal contact person from all significant social media intermediaries (which have 50 lakh users or above) on May 26. While Twitter shared the details of the last two, naming an India-based attorney, it did not share details of a compliance officer with the government.Twitter declined to comment.The ministry in its letter has stated that the platform has not informed about the details of the chief compliance officer and that the nodal contact person and resident grievance officer appointed by Twitter is not an employee of Twitter Inc. in India, as prescribed by the rules. It has further added that the address shared by Twitter is that of a law firm, which also is not in consonance with the new guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comply-with-new-rules-or-lose-safe-harbour-govt-to-twitter-101622883083533.html
05-06-2021||India||World Environment Day: What we know about India’s net-zero emissions target||Soon after the Biden Administration took over and vowed to resume its commitment on climate change, that took a backseat for four years during the tenure of Donald Trump, US President’s special envoy on climate, John Kerry, visited India ahead of the Climate Leaders’ Summit. The US assured the world of its commitment to a net-zero emission target for 2050.The move was seen as the country’s bid to reclaim its position in global climate leadership, even as several other nations, including the United Kingdom and France, have already enacted legislations towards achieving a net-zero emission scenario by the middle of the century. On the other hand, developed nations such as Canada, South Korea, Japan and Germany have also expressed their intention to commit themselves to a net-zero future. Even China has promised to go net-zero by 2060.However, India, the world’s third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, after the United States and China, is yet to show any keenness. During his last visit, Kerry aimed to talk New Delhi through softening its stance and exploring the possibility of pledging itself to a net-zero goal by 2050.Click here for latest updates on environmentRecently, Ravi Shankar Prasad, a former additional secretary in the ministry of environment, forests and climate change, and one of lead negotiators for India at global climate meets, said that the “net-zero emissions target is unjust for developing nations like India” .“While the feasibility and efficacy of such a strategy for all countries is questionable, it also strikes at the root of the basic tenets of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Simultaneously, it undermines the achievement of a climate-just world,” he wrote in an article published at the Indian Express.What is net-zero goal?Net-zero, also referred to as carbon-neutrality, is a state in which a country’s emissions are compensated by absorption and removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Absorption of the emissions can be increased by creating more carbon sinks such as forests, while removal of gases from the atmosphere requires advanced technologies such as carbon capture and storage. Net-zero does not mean that a country would bring down its emissions to zero. Through carbon absorption it is possible for nations to have negative emissions, if such absorption and removal of greenhouse gases exceed the actual emissions. Bhutan is a case in point and often called a ‘carbon-negative’ nation as it absorbs more than it emits.Why the push for net-zero goal?Countries are being put under pressure to commit to a net-zero emission goal for 2050. There are views that the only way to achieve the Paris Agreement target of keeping the planet’s temperature from rising beyond 2°C compared to pre-industrial times is by achieving global carbon neutrality by 2050. Scientists and environmental experts fear the present policies and actions against emissions reduction won’t be able to prevent even 3-4°C rise in surface temperature by the turn of the century. The net-zero formulation does not assign any emission reduction targets on any country. Moreover, unchecked emissions by rich and developed countries over past several decades are significantly responsible for global warming and the resultant irreversible climate change.READ MORE: UNEP report to launch today. All you need to knowA country can become carbon-neutral at its current level of emissions, or even by increasing its emissions, if it is able to absorb carbon or remove greenhouse gases more. From the perspective of the developed world, it is a big relief, because now the burden is shared by everyone, and does not fall only on them.What are India’s objections?India is opposed to the net-zero emissions target as it is likely to be the most impacted by it. Over the next two to three decades, India’s emissions are likely to grow at the fastest pace in the world, as it aggressively pushes for growth and development on all fronts. No amount of afforestation or reforestation would be able to compensate for the increased emissions at the scale is looking at. Moreover, most of the carbon removal technologies right now are either unreliable or expensive.India’s arguments are not unfounded. The net-zero goal does not figure in the 2015 Paris Agreement. It only requires the signatory nations to take the best climate action it can. Countries need to set five-year or a 10-year climate targets for themselves and the results. Apart from that, the countries are also required to set more ambitious targets than the previous one for every subsequent time-frame.READ MORE: Global average temperature could pass 1.5° Celsius within the next 5 yearsThe implementation of the Paris Agreement has begun recently and the majority countries have their submitted nationally determined targets with an aim to achieve them by 2025 or 2030. India’s argument is that countries must focus on delivering on what they have already promised instead of opening up a parallel discussion on net-zero targets outside of the Paris Agreement framework.Where do other countries stand?Data shows India is the only G-20 country whose climate actions are compliant to the Paris Agreement goal of keeping global temperatures from rising beyond 2°C. Even the actions of the European Union, often seen as climate-progressive, is assessed as “insufficient” while India is praised for doing more, relatively speaking, on climate change than many other countries.Rich-poor divide in climate targetIndia often pointed out that developed nations have failed to deliver on their past promises and commitments to climate change. No major country achieved the emission-cut targets assigned to them under the Kyoto Protocol, the climate policies that were in place before the Paris Agreement. While some countries openly walked out of the Kyoto Protocol without any consequences none of them delivered on the promises that they made for 2020.The developed countries also faltered on their commitment to provide money and technology to developing and poor countries to help them mitigate the impacts of climate change.ALSO READ: On World Environment Day, India’s top ten concernsIndia has been insisting that the developed countries should take more ambitious climate actions now to compensate for the unfulfilled promises from the past.However, India says it is too early to rule out the possibility of achieving carbon neutrality by middle of the century, even though she does not want to make an international commitment at this stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-environment-day-what-we-know-about-india-s-net-zero-emissions-target-101622881384730.html
05-06-2021||India||IIC appoints two new life trustees to its Board of Trustees||The India International Centre (IIC) appointed two new life trustees Meenakshi Gopinath and Shailesh Nayak to its Board of Trustees this week. This was necessitated after the demise of former attorney general Soli J Sorabjee and the resignation of Justice (retired) BN Srikrishna from the board.An eminent educationist, Gopinath has served in various capacities in her career spanning over decades, the IIC said in statement on Monday. She is the Founder and Director of WISCOMP (Women in Security, Conflict Management and Peace) which seeks to promote the leadership of South Asian women in the areas of peace, security and regional cooperation.Along with being a member of the University Grants Commission, she is also Chair, Board of Governors, Centre for Policy Research (CPR) and principal emerita of Lady Shri Ram College where she served as principal for 26 years.Gopinath was the first woman to be nominated to the National Security Advisory Board (NSAB) of India and has also been a Padma Shri recipient for her work on women’s education and empowerment. Nayak, who was also appointed this week, specialises in the area of Earth System Science and Sustainability. He is currently the director of National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS) in Bengaluru and chancellor, TERI School of Advanced Studies (TERSAS). He has also worked with ISRO’s Space Application Centre in various capacities between 1978 and 2006.“Nayak has made unparalleled and substantive contributions towards the application of geophysical methods for societal benefits. His R&D projects and programmes have focused on multidisciplinary research output towards sustainable development, and conceptualising and developing a policy framework for a ‘Blue Economy’,” the ICC said in its statement Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iic-appoints-two-new-life-trustees-to-its-board-of-trustees-101622881285338.html
05-06-2021||India||Now, Twitter removes verification tick from RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s account||Twitter on Saturday removed the blue verification badge from the personal account of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, on a day it came to light the badge was also removed from the accounts of a number of RSS leaders.Also Read: RSS leaders lose Twitter blue verified badgesBhagwat’s account was opened in May 2019, follows only one handle and has more than 200,000 followers.Earlier in the day, the social media giant removed the tick from the handles of RSS leaders, such as joint general secretaries Krishna Gopal and Arun Kumar, former general secretary Suresh “Bhaiyyaji” Joshi, and current “sampark pramukh” Anirudh Deshpande.An RSS functionary told Hindustan Times the badges were removed in March but no explanation was offered. “If they claim it was done because the accounts were inactive, they should’ve informed us. There has been no communication from their side,” the functionary said.According to Twitter’s rules, the tick is removed if an account becomes “inactive.” A Twitter spokesperson cited the same rule when explaining why the badge was removed from the personal handle of vice president M Venkaiah Naidu; the badge was restored within hours after major outrage. The last tweet from Naidu’s personal handle was put out on July 23, 2020.Also Read: Twitter restores blue verification tick of vice president Venkaiah Naidu's personal accountNo tweet has been posted from Bhagwat’s account nor has the company restored the tick on the accounts of other RSS leaders. However, several social media users have pointed to accounts which still have the blue tick despite being inactive for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-now-removes-verification-tick-from-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-s-account-101622876571717.html
05-06-2021||India||Amid ban, TikTok shares info on compliance with new rules||Short video streaming mobile application TikTok has informed the Union ministry of electronics and information technology that they have complied with the controversial new social media and intermediary guidelines even as the app continues to be banned in India, people familiar with the matter said. “In a communication sent to the ministry, TikTok has stated that it has complied with the new guidelines,” a person familiar with the matter said. The person added that the communication was sent as part of a “regular communication” with the ministry. A ministry official familiar with the matter said that it was a good thing that the company was complying with the guidelines but it was unlikely to affect the ban. “The ban was imposed for a different reason,” the official said. “It is good that the company is complying but the ban is a separate issue.” The official added that TikTok was not among the significant social media intermediaries, which have 50 lakh users or above, that was asked to share compliance details. A TikTok spokesperson said that the company looks forward to engaging with the government and returning to India. ”TikTok remains fully committed to the Indian market. We have always worked to comply with the law and look forward to engaging with the government about returning to India and again providing a joyful platform to our millions of creators and users,” the spokesperson said.Also read: Twitter restores blue verification tick of VP Naidu’s personal accountThe government is facing pushback against the new guidelines that direct companies such Twitter, WhatsApp and Facebook to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Twitter was the third company to express concerns with the rules. WhatsApp sued the Union electronics and technology ministry over the new rules in Delhi high court on Wednesday, and Facebook on Tuesday said there were “a few of issues (that) need more engagement with the government”. It became the seventh party to challenge the rules in court. Meanwhile, TikTok was among the 250 apps, mostly of Chinese origin, banned by India in the aftermath of the clashes with China in the Galwan sector in June last year. The government banned the application in three tranches stating that they posed a threat to the sovereignty and integrity of the country. “(The apps are) prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order,” the government had said. TikTok was part of the first ban that the government implemented, wherein 59 apps were taken down.Union information and technology minister Ravi Shanker Prasad called the ban a “digital strike” on China.The government was particularly concerned that the apps, which included the popular game PUBG, could be compromising the data of Indian users, Hindustan Times reported on June 30. Officials said that the apps were reported for “leaking data”. “All these apps have been reported to have been leaking data. Their malpractices have also been singled out by experts. They have been said to take location data, transfer files to servers in China,” an official had said then. The Ministry invoked its power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009 and in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 118 mobile apps ‘since in view of the information available they are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’. The ministry had said that the move “will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-ban-tiktok-shares-info-on-compliance-with-new-rules-101622875824172.html
05-06-2021||India||On World Environment Day, PM Modi says India is emerging as leader of climate justice||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday released the 'Report of the Expert Committee on Road Map for ethanol blending in India 2020-2025' at an event organised to mark World Environment Day. "Today, on the occasion of World Environment Day, India has taken another big step. A detailed roadmap for the development of the ethanol sector has just been released," said PM Modi in his address to the nation. "Until 7-8 years ago, ethanol was rarely discussed in country, " he also said, adding, "now ethanol has become one of the major priorities of 21st century India.""The focus on ethanol is having a better impact on the environment as well as on the lives of farmers. Today we have resolved to meet the target of 20 percent ethanol blending in petrol by 2025," PM Modi added.Highlighting the central government's effort for sustainable development, PM Modi said, "Our capacity for renewable energy has increased by more than 250 per cent in 6-7 years." "India is today in the top-5 countries of the world in terms of installed renewable energy capacity... In this too, the capacity of solar energy has increased by about 15 times in the last 6 years," he added.PM Modi, further said India has chosen a path where 'Economy and Ecology both can go together and can move forward." "Be the International Solar Alliance, realizing the vision of One Sun, One World, One Grid, or the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure initiative, India is moving ahead with a big global vision.""India is setting an example in front of the world that when it comes to protecting the environment, it is not necessary to block development works while doing so," he also said.PM Modi also launched an ambitious E-100 pilot project for the production and distribution of ethanol across the country at three locations in Pune.At the start of the event, PM Modi also interacted with farmers and discussed their experience as enablers under the Ethanol Blended Petrol and Compressed Biogas Programmes.The virtual event was organised by the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas in collaboration with the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Prakash Javadekar and Nitin Gadkari were also present at the launch event.To commemorate the World Environment Day, the government is releasing the E-20 notification that will allow oil companies to sell 20% ethanol blended petrol from April 1, 2023, and BIS specifications for higher ethanol blends E12 and E15.Every year on June 5, people around the world observe World Environment Day to raise awareness about the importance of nature and to inspire positive change towards the environment. The theme of this year's World Environment Day is 'Reimagine. Recreate. Restore' as 2021 marks the beginning of the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Pakistan is the global host for the day to highlight the importance of ecosystem restoration this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-environment-day-pm-modi-releases-report-on-ethanol-blending-interacts-with-farmers-101622869956925.html
05-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 14 with conditions||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday extended the lockdown by another week, till 6am on June 14, with some relaxations in a bid to curb rising Covid-19 cases in the state. However, the restrictions will not be eased in 11 districts in Tamil Nadu, which continue to see high number of cases of the coronavirus disease. The 11 districts are Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Karur, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai. According to a state government press release, stand alone retail provision, vegetable, fruits, flowers and meat shops will be allowed to open between 6am and 5pm.Wholesale trade alone will be permitted in fish markets and abattoirs. The government has also allowed matchbox factories to function with 50% workers. Government offices will resume work with 30% staff.Tamil Nadu registered 22,651 new Covid-19 cases and 463 related fatalities, which have taken the state’s tally to 21,95,402 and its death toll to 26,128, according to the health department on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-june-14-with-conditions-101622872518296.html
05-06-2021||India||India could get Covid vaccine for kids, Zydus Cadila set to seek nod for ZyCoV-D||Zydus Cadila is testing its Covid-19 vaccine candidate on children in the age group of 12-18 years, apart from adults, and the Ahmedabad-based company is likely to apply for licensure of the vaccine in next two weeks, a senior government official has said.“Not only Covaxin is conducting child trials—and they will not take long because they are all immunogenic trials—but also Zydus vaccine is already being tested on children. So when Zydus comes for licensure, hopefully in the next two weeks, maybe we will also have enough data on the view whether that vaccine can be given to children,” NITI Aayog (health) member VK Paul said during the briefing of the health ministry on Friday.Also read | Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik"We have to understand that the child cohort is not a small cohort. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population and for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses,” "We cannot have some people getting and others not getting. So we will have to take this into account when we strategise and make a decision based on how many doses of which vaccines are available," he said.ZyCov-D, the Zydus vaccine, is being developed with support from the Centre’s National Biopharma Mission as part of Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, department of biotechnology.Three-dose vaccineAccording to the Phase 3 trial protocol submitted to the clinical trial registry of India, the vaccine, which is to be administered intradermally and in three doses, is being tested in 30,000 volunteers.“The dosing for the Phase III clinical trials has started in 30,000 healthy adult volunteers as part of the multicentric, randomised,double-blind, placebo controlled, study. ZyCoV-D was found to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic in the Adaptive Phase I/II clinical trials,” Zydus Cadila has said.Also watch | ‘Not just Covaxin, Zydus Cadila’s vaccine being tested on children’: Dr VK Paul“The Phase II study of the vaccine ZyCoV-D had been conducted in over 1000 healthy adult volunteers as part of the adaptive Phase I/II dose escalation, multi-centric, randomized, double-blind placebo controlled study. The vaccine was found to be safe and elicit a strong immunogenic response,” it added.The vaccine is very stable at 2 to 8 degrees as a result in a normal refrigeration temperature, the vaccine is also very thermostable at 25 degrees, the company said.Next 5-12 years old childrenReports have said that Zydus Cadila is planning to start the trials of ZyCoV-D in children in the age group of 5-12 years after covering adults and 800 children in 12-18 years age group under its ongoing clinical trials."We will have a good amount of data on children in this age group. If everything goes well in terms of safety, the vaccine will potentially be approved for use in children aged 12 to 18 years," Cadila Healthcare’s managing director Sharvil Patel told the Times of India.Patel said vaccine development takes place in phases, starting with adults, followed by 12-18 years age group and then for under 12 years children, when asked about plans to test the vaccine for use in children below 12 years age.Covaxin trialsPatna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) began the Phase 2/3 clinical trials of Covaxin, developed by the Bharat Biotech International Limited, on children in the age group of 2 to 18 years on Tuesday. As many as 54 children registered at the institute for the trials of which 16 were in the 12-18 years age group.“We began the children’s trials by administering the vaccine on three volunteers in the 12-18 years age group,” said Dr Lokesh Tiwari, additional professor and head, department of paediatrics, also one of the investigators in the trials at AIIMS Patna.Also read | India's vaccine-related decisions based on science, says NTAGI chairperson“We are commencing the trials today in the reverse order of age from today. Children in the 12 to 18 years age group will be given the shots first. We will then proceed with the 6 to 12 years age category before inoculating children in the 2 to 6 years age bracket,” said Dr CM Singh, professor of community and family medicine, also the principal investigator of the trial at AIIMS-Patna and medical superintendent.According to ANI, AIIMS Delhi is also planning to start the paediatric trials for Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, in few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-could-get-covid-vaccine-for-kids-zydus-cadila-set-to-seek-nod-for-zycovd-101622870854492.html
05-06-2021||India||Twitter restores blue verification tick of vice president Venkaiah Naidu's personal account||Twitter on Saturday restored the blue verification tick of vice president M Venkaiah Naidu's personal account, within hours of removing it from his profile. The corrective action by the social media giant came after the removal of the verification tick triggered a major uproar on social media.Also Read: Twitter removes blue verified badge from personal handle of vice president Venkaiah NaiduNaidu's personal account, which was created in August 2013, has 1.3 million followers. However, the last tweet from the handle was made on July 23, 2020. A Twitter spokesperson attributed this to the removal of the verification badge from the vice president's personal handle."Account inactive since July 2020. As per our verification policy, Twitter may remove blue verified badge and verified status if the account becomes inactive. Badge has been restored," a Twitter spokesperson was quoted as saying.However, several social media users pointed out how several accounts which are inactive continue to have the blue tick. Also, at the same time, the official handle of the vice president of India continued to be verified.Saturday also saw verification badges from personal Twitter handles of several Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) removed.Also Read: RSS leaders lose Twitter blue verified badgesThis episode comes at a time when the San Francisco-headquartered company has found itself in a face-off with the central government over the new IT Rules, which were announced on February 25. The Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has warned Twitter to comply with the "law of the land."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-restores-blue-verification-tick-of-vp-naidu-s-personal-account-101622870258839.html
05-06-2021||India||Aadhaar card: How to update your photo. Follow step-by-step guide||In today's times, Aadhaar is one of the most crucial documents to carry as it contains the demographic and biometric details of a citizen. From opening a bank account to registering for a new phone connection, an Aadhaar card is required everywhere. However, one of the common concerns of the unique 12-digit identification number holders is updating their photo on the identification card. If you are also one of those people, good news for you, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) now allows you to update your photo in just a few steps.Also Read | Download Aadhaar card without a registered mobile number. Check howHere is our step-by-step guide to change or update photo on Aadhaar card:1) Visit the nearest Aadhaar Enrolment Centre or Aadhaar Sewa Kendra.2) Download the Aadhaar Enrolment/Correction/Update Form from UIDAI’s website. The portal link is https://ssup.uidai.gov.in/ssup/.3) Select the fields that need to be updated. With a photograph, one can also update their name, address or any other detail.4) Fill in the data in the selected fields and submit it to the executive available at the centre.5) You will then be asked for your biometric details like iris, fingerprints and facial photograph.6) A fee of ₹100 needs to be paid at the centre to update the details.7) After the successful submission of the form, you will be given an acknowledgement slip that will have the Update Request Number (URN).8) You can use the URN to check the update status. Within a week you receive your new Aadhar card at home.9) It can also be downloaded through the UIDAI portal. Link: https://uidai.gov.in/my-aadhaar/get-aadhaar.htmlAlso Read | Link Aadhaar with mobile number in five easy steps: A step-by-step guideImportant points to note while updating the photograph on an Aadhaar card:1) You don’t need any document for changing photos on your Aadhaar card.2) You do not have to submit a photograph as the executive clicks the photograph on the spot using the webcam.3) It may take up to 90 days to get the details updated in Aadhaar4) You can check the Aadhaar update status online using the URN provided||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-card-how-to-update-your-photo-follow-step-by-step-guide-101622869207694.html
05-06-2021||India||States just transferring prisoners instead of efforts to decongest jails||Many states have since last year been just transferring prisoners from one prison to another instead of “making any credible” efforts to decongest jails despite the Covid-19 pandemic, a Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) report has said. The report was released days after the Supreme Court on May 8 cited “housing of inmates beyond optimal capacity” in prisons and again ordered decongestion of jails with immediate release of prisoners granted bail or on parole. It said the impact of the decongestion efforts on prison occupancies did indicate an average fall in the number of inmates. But it added the inmates in many states actually increased between April 1, 2020, and June 30, 2020, when the Supreme Court constituted panels in states and Union territories to reduce overcrowding in prisons. CHRI said the number of jail inmates in Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose by 10.42% during this period. “In Bihar, the prison department transferred 14,903 prisoners which amounted to more than 35% of their prison population, to ease overcrowding in select prisons. However, at the end of June, 25 prisons were overcrowded, as opposed to 19 prisons on 1st April. Further, the overall occupancy increased from 86.7% on 1st April to 92% on 30th June 2020,” the report said. CHRI said the same practice was noticed in Haryana, where the women prisoners from Gurgaon were transferred to another prison in Jhajjar due to insufficient quarantine infrastructure. This too resulted in overcrowding in Jhajjar prison, it added. The Supreme Court suggested that prisoners, who have been convicted or are undertrials for offences for which the maximum imprisonment is seven years, may be considered for release. CHRI said there was no correlation found between the number of meetings of the Supreme Court-appointed panels and the release of prisoners. It added a higher number of meetings ensured regular monitoring of prisons and effective measures to curb the spread of the virus. CHRI said different procedures about consideration of parole applications were followed in states. It cited the vulnerabilities of senior citizens to Covid and said only Mizoram, Punjab, West Bengal, Delhi, and Jammu & Kashmir considered cases of elderly prisoners for release. “Similarly, barring the three [Mizoram, Punjab, and Delhi], no other HPC [panel] considered undertrials for release who were suffering from co-morbidities and other chronic diseases and pre-existing conditions like chronic diabetes, heart condition, cancer .... Only Punjab HPC specifically mentioned pregnant women as the category for release,” the report said. CHRI called for ensuring strict implementation of legal provisions that check arbitrary arrests. “The judiciary and other stakeholders must also consider alternatives to imprisonment … to support efforts to reduce overcrowding in prisons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-just-transferring-prisoners-instead-of-efforts-to-decongest-jails-101622867902806.html
05-06-2021||India||World Environment Day 2021: Why restoration of ecosystem is important||The World Environment Day is celebrated every year on June 5 across the world to inspire the people and the communities to take action to prevent the growing strain on planet Earth’s natural systems from reaching its saturation points.This year the World Environment Day is themed on ‘ecosystem restoration’ and calls for urgent action to revive the damaged ecosystems, with Pakistan being the host country for the day.Restoration of ecosystem holds significance in a globalised world that has been witnessing rapid development at blinding speed. According to the United Nations, the world loses enough forest every three seconds to cover a football pitch and over the last century over half of our wetlands have been destroyed. “As much as 50% of our coral reefs have already been lost and up to 90% of coral reefs could be lost by 2050, even if global warming is limited to an increase of 1.5°C,” the UN has warned.ALSO READ | UNEP report to launch today. All you need to knowThe loss of ecosystem deprives the world of carbon sinks, like forests and peatlands, at a time humanity can least afford it. Emission of global greenhouse gasses have grown exponentially for three years in a row and the blue planet is a step ahead in its path to potentially catastrophic climate change.Moreover, the raging coronavirus disease pandemic has held a mirror for us on how debilitating the consequences of ecosystem loss can be. The shrinking area of natural habitat for animals has led to ideal conditions for pathogens – including coronaviruses – to spread.The World Environment Day 2021 focusses on ecosystem restoration and its theme is “Reimagine. Recreate. Restore.” The day will kick off the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration (2021-2030), a global mission to revive billions of hectares, from forests to farmlands, from the top of mountains to the depth of the sea.ALSO READ | On World Environment Day, India’s top ten concernsEcosystem restoration means preventing, halting, and reversing this damage – to go from exploiting nature to healing it. It also calls for assisting in the recovery of ecosystems that have been degraded or destroyed, as well as conserving the ecosystems that are still intact. Restoration can happen in many ways, such as through actively planting or by removing pressures so that nature can recover on its own.Ecosystem restoration at a global scale is important if we are to mitigate the extent of the ecological crisis that we are currently facing, and protect the biodiversity for future generations.Our food systems and the revival of forest and agrarian crops depend on healthy soils. But soil degradation not only compromises the essential value of the ecosystems but also its ability to produce healthy and sustainable foods. Therefore, the restoration of soil is important to sustain life on earth.ALSO READ | Generations at work: Their love for environment knows no ageIndigenous culture is pivotal for the community and the society. However, the ecological erosion has the potential for erosion of culture, including that of knowledge and language. This knowledge is often hyper-localised and has evolved over thousands of years and is crucial for the health of many ecosystems and the livelihoods of communities across the globe. Therefore, ecological restoration can help to sustain the diversity of human cultures by supporting mutually advantageous relationships between human beings and the nature.Restoring ecosystems carries substantial benefits for people. It also creates jobs in rural areas where they are most needed.Some countries have already invested in restoration as part of their strategies to bounce back from coronavirus disease while others are turning to restoration to help them adapt to a climate that is already changing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-environment-day-2021-why-restoration-of-ecosystem-is-important-101622867093612.html
05-06-2021||India||On World Environment Day, PM Modi to release report on ethanol blending, interact with farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address an event, marking World Environment Day, on Saturday and will release 'Report of the Expert Committee on Road Map for ethanol blending in India 2020-2025'.PM Modi is also scheduled to launch a pilot project of E 100 dispensing stations at three locations in Pune. He will also interact with farmers and discuss their experience as enablers under the Ethanol Blended Petrol and Compressed Biogas Programmes.To commemorate World Environment Day, the government is releasing the E-20 notification directing oil companies to sell ethanol-blended petrol with the percentage of ethanol up to 20 from April 1, 2023; and BIS specifications for higher ethanol blends E12 & E15.This is being done to facilitate the setting up of additional ethanol distillation capacities and provide timelines for making blended fuel available across the country, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement earlier. It will help increase the consumption of ethanol in the ethanol-producing states and the adjoining regions, before 2025, it also said.The event is being organised by the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas in collaboration with the ministry of environment, forest and climate change.Every year on June 5, people around the world observe World Environment Day to raise awareness about the importance of nature and to inspire positive change towards the environment. The United Nations Assembly established World Environment Day in 1972, which was the first day of the Stockholm Conference on the human environment. Since then it has become one of the biggest events dedicated to the environment.The theme of this year's World Environment Day is 'Reimagine. Recreate. Restore' as 2021 marks the beginning of the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Pakistan is the global host for the day to highlight the importance of ecosystem restoration this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-environment-day-pm-modi-to-release-report-on-ethanol-blending-interact-with-farmers-101622866986999.html
05-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 120,529, active cases dip to over 1.5 million||India’s daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a further dip, as 120,529 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data, updated at 8am on Saturday, showed. With this, the national infection tally has risen to 28,694,879, the data showed further.In the same period, the MoHFW dashboard showed, 3380 lives were lost due to Covid-19, taking the related death toll and death rate to 344,082 and 1.19% respectively. Total 197,849 patients were discharged in the preceding 24 hours, as the number of recoveries mounted to 26,79,5549, with the recovery rate improving to 93.38%. Active cases, meanwhile, fell to 1,555,248, a decline of 80,745 infections from the previous bulletin, and comprise 5.42% of the overall caseload.India’s latest positive cases were out of 2,084,421 samples tested for the viral disease, the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) tweeted on Saturday morning; in the preceding 24-hour period, 2,075,428 tests were carried out. With this, the number of samples tested thus far has reached 361,174,142, the ICMR data showed.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/AEGGUYsmJwEarlier, on Friday, national capital Delhi witnessed a marginal rise in cases and related deaths, while the financial hub of Maharashtra witnessed a fall on both counts. While Delhi registered 523 fresh infections and 50 deaths -- up from 487 and 45 the day before -- Maharashtra logged 14,152 cases and 289 deaths, as against 15,229 and 307 on June 3. Both were particularly hard-hit by the second wave of the pandemic, which was at its peak in April-May, but have since announced measures to unlock from lockdown and lockdown-like curbs respectively.Also on Friday, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture the Russian-made Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine. The SII is already manufacturing Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s shot as “Covishield” in India, while Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has developed Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-cases-fall-to-120-529-active-cases-dip-to-over-1-5-million-101622861268466.html
05-06-2021||India||Twitter removes blue verified badge from personal handle of vice president Venkaiah Naidu||Twitter on Saturday removed the blue tick, which lets people know that an account on the social media platform is authentic, from the personal handle of vice president M Venkaiah Naidu. However, the official account of the vice president of India, @VPSecratariat, which is run by the vice president's secretariat, still has a blue tick next to it."Twitter has withdrawn blue verified badge from the personal handle of vice president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu," news agency ANI quoted the vice president's office as saying.Twitter withdraws blue verified badge from personal Twitter handle of Vice President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu: Office of Vice President pic.twitter.com/vT8EZ5O9NaNaidu's personal account, the last tweet from which was posted on July 23, 2020, has 1.3 million followers. The vice president of India's account, on the other hand, has more than 931,000 followers.Twitter also removed blue verification tick from the accounts of various Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), including its joint secretaries Krishna Gopal and Arun Kumar. However, the official handle of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat continues to be verified. Other RSS leaders to lose the verification badge are former general secretary Suresh "Bhaiyyaji" Joshi, former joint general secretary Suresh Soni and the current Sampark Pramukh Aniruddha Deshpande.According to Twitter, the blue verified badge on lets people know that an account of public interest is authentic. To receive the blue badge, the account must be authentic, notable, and active. However, according to rules, Twitter can remove blue verified badge and verified status of a Twitter account at any time and without notice if an account changes its username (@handle) or an account becomes inactive or incomplete or if the owner of the account is no longer for which position they were initially verified and do not otherwise meet our criteria for verification since leaving such position.Additionally, verified badges can also be removed from those accounts that are found to be in severe or repeated violation of the Twitter.Saturday's development comes at a time when Twitter is already engaged in a face-off with the central government over the new IT rules, announced on February 25 this year. The Ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has asked the microblogging company to "stop beating around the bush" and "comply with the laws of the land".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-removes-blue-verified-badge-from-personal-handle-of-vp-naidu-101622863844711.html
05-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: India produced over 45k tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste in last 1 year and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.World Environment Day: India produced 45,308 tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste in previous one yearAccording to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), India has been generating nearly 146 tonnes of bio-medical waste everyday. Read moreCaptain digs in heels at meet over infightingPunjab chief minister appears before Kharge panel, defends his style of functioning. Read moreAlpha to Delta switch behind city’s 4th waveThe Delta variant of Sars-Cov-2 out-competed the Alpha variant within weeks and went on to spark Delhi’s most devastating wave of Covid-19 yet. Read more'Pant has the effect of Sehwag or Gilchrist on rivals': Karthik“He lends flexibility to the team and the management has the opportunity to play the extra batsman or the bowler as per requirement," said Karthik. Read moreKRK says Arjun Kapoor called him, is his only 'real friend' in Bollywood: 'I will never criticise your film'Actor Kamaal Rashid Khan, also known for sharing film reviews on YouTube, has called actor Arjun Kapoor his 'real friend' in Bollywood. Read moreVaccine hesitancy caught on cam: Scared of Covid jab, woman hides behind drumsA video showing an old woman hiding behind a drum fearing Covid-19 vaccination has gone viral on social media. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-produced-over-45k-tonnes-of-covid-19-biomedical-waste-in-last-one-year-and-all-the-latest-news-101622860336340.html
05-06-2021||India||World Environment Day: India produced 45,308 tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste in previous one year||Biomedical waste is a threat to global public environmental health and with ‘plastic footprint’ becoming larger by the day due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, concerns on plastic waste choking the planet are mounting.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), India has been generating nearly 146 tonnes of bio-medical waste every day due to diagnostic activities and treatment of Covid-19 patients. Between June 2020 and May 10, 2021, India produced 45,308 tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste. This is in addition to the 615 tonnes of biomedical waste a day being produced before Covid-19, the pollution control board's data showed.This is an increase of almost 17% in biomedical waste generation solely because of the pandemic."There has been a general increase and since it is a crisis situation, we are not thinking of plastic but general prevention. The focus is no longer plastic, so that is a problem," news agency PTI quoted Ravi Agarwal, founder-director of the environmental non-profit Toxics Link, saying.Agarwal also noted that a lot of biomedical waste like face masks, PPE kits are being generated from normal households and it is also contributing to the problem significantly. "These things are finding their way across ecosystems. A lot of these things like masks can be seen on beaches, in coral reefs etc," he also said.Apart from Covid-related medical waste, what is also contributing to plastic waste is people using home delivery services for essential and non-essential shopping more than before.Lack of Covid-waste disposal mechanisms is also a major contributor to the problem.Under the existing rules by CPCB, biomedical waste is segregated into four categories. While the yellow category is for waste that is classified as “highly infectious” — such as human, animal, anatomical, and soiled — red is for contaminated recyclable waste generated from disposable items like tubing, bottles tubes, syringes.Sharp objects like needles, syringes with fixed needles are segregated into the white category and broken or discarded and contaminated glassware, including medicine vials are categorised into the blue category.However, as the Covid waste is considered potentially infectious, it is tagged yellow and incinerated. "We never know the extent of pollution we are doing... We are converting our land-based pollution to water or air pollution. That’s what we end up doing,” said Siddharth Singh, deputy programme manager at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), as per PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-environment-day-india-produced-45-308-tonnes-of-covid-19-biomedical-waste-in-previous-one-year-101622862552910.html
05-06-2021||NA||LIVE: Punjab reports 1,907 Covid-19 cases, 79 deaths||The worldwide cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) increased to more than 172 million as mutated variants continued to cause rapid spread of the virus, news agency Bloomberg reported. The death toll was above 3.7 million as of Saturday morning, it also reported.In India, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave a nod to the Serum Institue of India to manufacture the Russian vaccine Sputnik V for examination, test and analysis.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, a government study found that the highly infectious Delta variant of Covid-19 which was first detected in India was the primary cause behind the unprecedented surge during the second wave.India has a total of 28.69 million Covid-19 cases and the death toll stands at 344,082.In the United States, New Jersey ended its 15-month public health emergency in what Governor Phil Murphy called a “decisive step on the path toward normalcy.” In California, more than 70% of adults have been administered with at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine ahead of full reopening on June 15.New York planned to let school districts waive the mask mandate for students’ outdoor activities next week.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat records 996 new cases, 15 deathsCOVID19 | Gujarat records 996 new cases, 3,004 recoveries and 15 deaths today; active cases at 20, 087Punjab reports 1,907 Covid-19 cases, 79 deathsPunjab reported 1,907 cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of active cases to 2,44,54. 79 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 15,009, according to the state health bulletin.Himachal Pradesh reports 818 new coronavirus cases, 19 deathsHimachal Pradesh reports 818 new #COVID19 cases, 1,102 recoveries, and 19 deaths in the past 24 hours; active cases at 9,484 pic.twitter.com/2OFxmBaIT3Tamil Nadu reports 21,410 new coronavirus cases, takes tally to 2.2 millionCOVID19 | Tamil Nadu reports 21,410 fresh cases, 443 deaths and 32,472 recoveries today; active cases at 2,57,463 pic.twitter.com/3GelAfh2aYTelangana logs 2,070 new Covid-19 infectionsCOVID19 | Telangana reports 2,070 new cases, 18 deaths and 3,762 recoveries; recovery rate at 94.47% pic.twitter.com/ZY9PsWDmFLChandigarh reports 98 new Covid-19 cases; active caseload at 925COVID19 | Chandigarh reports 98 new cases, 3 deaths and 175 recoveries today; the number of active cases in the Union Territory is 925 pic.twitter.com/CQHqxcD9MpManipur reports 717 new coronavirus cases; active caseload at 9,016Manipur reports 717 new cases, 9 deaths and 740 recoveries; active cases at 9,016. The recovery rate in the State is 81.82% pic.twitter.com/pxgdh49LcDGoa logs 567 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths#COVID19 | Goa has reported 567 new COVID-19 positive cases, 17 deaths, and 1,433 recoveries todayActive cases: 8,216Total positive cases: 1,58,990 pic.twitter.com/ou1JsxhSMFAndhra Pradesh reports 10,373 new coronavirus cases, 80 deaths10,373 new cases, 80 deaths and 15,958 recoveries reported in Andhra Pradesh in the past 24 hours; the number of active cases in the State is 1,28,108 pic.twitter.com/8dOJypjak9Kerala reports 17,328 new Covid-19 cases, 209 deathsKerala on Saturday reported 17,328 new Covid-19 cases and 209 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the state currently stand at 167,638, reported ANI.UK's infection rate on a rise, logs 6,238 new Covid-19 casesThe UK reported 6,238 new coronavirus cases on Friday as England's R number or infection rate continues to rise. 11 new deaths due to the virus were reported in the UK, as per the government's latest data, reported PTI.Daily recoveries continue to exceed daily Covid-19 cases: Health ministry #IndiaFightsCorona:📍𝗡𝗲𝘄 𝗥𝗲𝗰𝗼𝘃𝗲𝗿𝗶𝗲𝘀 have exceeded 𝗡𝗲𝘄 𝗖𝗮𝘀𝗲𝘀 for the last 23 days ☑️Follow #COVIDAppropriateBehaviour to #StaySafe#Unite2FightCorona #StayHome pic.twitter.com/KO2Ut6skueOver 1.65 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states, UTs: Health ministryThe Union health ministry on Saturday said more than 1.65 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and Union territories.Under new unlock rules in Delhi, liquor shops to open from June 7 on odd-even basis; Gyms, theatres, restaurants, salons to remain closedThe Delhi government on Saturday said under the new unlock rules liquor shops in Delhi will open from Monday, June 7 on odd-even basis and revenue services like registry will also be functional. However, restaurants, bars, even if in markets or malls will remains closed. Gyms, spas, salons, parlours and cinema halls will too remain closed, the government said.646 doctors died in second wave of Covid-19: IMAA total of 646 doctors died in the second wave of COVID-19: Indian Medical Association pic.twitter.com/RF5Yw355zwDelhi reports around 400 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate falls to 0.5%: KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that the Capital reported about 400 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, while the positivity rate dropped to 0.5 per cent.Russia logs 9,145 new Covid-19 infectionsRussia on Saturday registered 9,145 new Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 5,117,274, reported Reuters.Taiwan adds over 500 new Covid-19 cases to its tallyTaiwan on Saturday reported 511 new Covid-19 cases, including 35 cases from the recent days that authorities try to readjust to the infection count following delay in test results, reported Reuters.Odisha logs 7,395 new Covid-19 cases, tally surpasses 8-lakh markOdisha's Covid-19 infection count breach the 8-lakh mark after it added 7,395 new cases on Saturday. The state reported 40 deaths due to the disease, pushing to toll to nearly 3,000, reported PTI.2 genome sequencing labs to be set up for identifying Covid variants: KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said two genome sequencing labs will be set up for detection of new Covid-19 variants, if there exists any.Puducherry logs 613 new Covid-19 casesPuducherry on Saturday reported 613 new Covid-19 cases that took the total infection count to 1,08,439, reported PTI.Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 14Lockdown in Tamil Nadu extended for another week. It will now remain in effect till June 14.Delhi to see further relaxation in lockdown?Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce further lockdown relaxations from the next week amid a dip in the city's daily Covid-19 case count, officials said on Saturday. Kejriwal will address a briefing at 12pm, where is expected to make the announcement.India's Covid-19 tally climbs to 28.6 millionIndia's Covid-19 tally climbs to 28,694,879 after 120,529 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease. The death toll is at 344,082.China approves Sinovac for kidsChina has authorised the emergency use of Sinovac’s coronavirus vaccine for children aged between 3 and 17, Sinovac Chairman Yin Weidong told China Central Television.Brazil approves imports of Covid-19 vaccines Sputnik V, CovaxinBrazilian health regulator Anvisa on Friday voted to approve imports of Russia's Sputnik V and India's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccines, but with conditions on both.The 4-1 vote by Anvisa's board follows rulings in April to reject Brazilian states' request for Sputnik V due to a lack of data guaranteeing its safety, quality and effectiveness, and in March to reject Covaxin because it did not meet Anvisa's manufacturing standards, news agency Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-death-toll-india-world-june-5-2021-101622853741309.html
05-06-2021||India||PM lauds scientists for indigenous vaccines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded scientists for the scale and speed at which they developed indigenous vaccines against Covid-19 pandemic and bolstered measures to fight the viral disease within a year, even as he reiterated his government’s call for a self-reliant and strong India.“In the previous century, inventions were made in other countries and India had to wait for many years. But today the scientists in our country are working at the same speed and at par with other countries,” said Modi while chairing a meeting of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Society through video conferencing.“Our scientists, within a year, developed ‘Made in India’ vaccine and made it available to the countrymen,” he added.The Prime Minister further hailed science for always helping world fight crises. “Coronavirus pandemic has come before the whole world as the biggest challenge of this century, but history is witness to this, when there is a big crisis on humanity, science has given better future ways to be prepared,” he said.During the meeting, Modi reiterated his call for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant) and a strong India, saying that the pandemics may have slowed its pace but the country’s resolve remains the same.The PM also spoke about the concerns of climate crisis and urged experts to actively look for solutions while preparing for carbon capture, energy storage and green hydrogen technologies. “Our scientists, our institutions should prepare ourselves for this future challenges with a scientific approach. From carbon capture to energy storage to green hydrogen technologies, we have to take a leap,” he said.Lauding the work done by the CSIR, he said: “This institution of ours has given so many talents and scientists to the country. A great scientist like Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar has given leadership to this institution.”The CSIR, he added, has a powerful ecosystem of research and patents and its scientists work for many problems faced by the country.Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal and Harsh Vardhan were also present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-scientists-for-indigenous-vaccines-101622850316260.html
05-06-2021||India||Alpha to Delta switch behind city’s 4th wave||The Delta variant of Sars-Cov-2 out-competed the Alpha variant within weeks and went on to spark Delhi’s most devastating wave of Covid-19 yet, according to a new report by Indian scientists who carried out genomic analysis, providing yet more evidence that India needs to reconsider its decisions to delay second doses of the vaccine.The report is yet to undergo peer review and was published late on Thursday by researchers from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).It is part of a flurry of scientific evidence published in the last 24 hours that reinforces fears that the Delta variant, also known as B.1.617.2, is harder to contain and may be leading to more vaccine breakthrough cases and even severe disease – attributes that have implication for India’s vaccination drive, especially the decision to delay second doses.“Although we don’t have effectiveness data for the Covishield vaccine against severe disease with the Delta variant, the UK data from PHE and from the Crick Institute point to the urgent need to review our data and our policies and use impact modeling to decide if a change is needed,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.“While much more remains to be done, three takeaways for now are: Delta (B.1.617.2) is more transmissible than Alpha (B.1.1.7), there seems to be greater immune escape and reinfection, and fully vaccinated breakthroughs were disproportionately due to Delta,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, IGIB, in a tweet.Late on Thursday, Public Health England (PHE) updated its technical analysis of the variant to say that the variant that was first found in India is more likely to lead to hospitalisations than the variant that has been predominant in the UK, or the Alpha variant (also known as B.1.1.7). A previous PHE analysis on May 27 showed the efficacy of one dose against the Delta variant was significantly lower than against the other variants (see box).On Friday, Lancet published a fresh analysis of how vaccines perform with the variants in lab tests – where antibodies from vaccinated individuals are made to react with the different variants. It showed that the neutralising capacity of antibodies from people who got two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was 5.8 fold lower when the Delta variant was involved, as compared to the predecessor variant that was prevalent in 2020. This was similar to the loss of neutralisation activity seen with the Gamma (or B.1.351) variant, which has been established to be significantly resistant to vaccines.In contrast, the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7) led to only a 2.6 fold loss in neutralisation by vaccine-trained antibodies.The authors of the Lancet study, also from the Public Health England, said that the findings back their decision to reduce the gap between two vaccine doses, which UK announced on May 15. “These data therefore suggest that the benefits of delaying the second dose, in terms of wider population coverage and increased individual NAbTs (neutralising antibody titers) after the second dose, must now be weighed against decreased efficacy in the short term, in the context of the spread of B.1.617.2 (Delta variant).“Worldwide, our data highlight the ongoing need to increase vaccine supply to allow all countries to extend second-dose protection as quickly as possible,” they said.Agrawal said the timing of doses was a “complex issue”. “There are some benefits, some losses. Overall an acceptable strategy if used with flexibility of giving second dose at 8 weeks in some situations and longer intervals for others,” he said.Taken together, these findings mean the Delta variant ticks all three boxes of traits that make a variant particularly dangerous: it is more transmissible, it is more resistant, and it can lead to more serious disease.On transmissibility, Indian researchers from NCDC and IGIB say the manner in which the Delta variant replaced the Alpha variant in Punjab “was surprising since there is no known mutation in B.1.617 lineage or in B.1.617.2 that is associated with such high transmissibility.” Punjab previously had the Alpha variant as the dominant virus.In Delhi, the Delta variant was relatively obscure at 5% in February, at a time when the Alpha variant’s prevalence was estimated at 20% of all samples. But by mid-April, the Delta variant overtook Alpha in prevalence, and at one point in mid-April was estimated to have a prevalence rate of 65%. It was around this time the positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive – in Delhi jumped to over 36%.The Indian researchers too note that the viral load of the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) appeared to be higher than the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7), “and based on data from India and UK, so does vaccination break-through rate”. They add that B.1.617.2 is “capable of creating very fast rising outbreaks with vaccination breakthroughs”.“We would re-emphasize that prior infections, high seropositivity and partial vaccination are insufficient impediments to its spread, as seen in Delhi, and strong public health response will be needed globally for its containment,” the authors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alpha-to-delta-switch-behind-city-s-4th-wave-101622838952997.html
05-06-2021||India||Indian ‘seeker’ among sleuths who raised heat on lab theory||A motley group of social media detectives with backgrounds in science have been leading efforts to uncover clues about the origins of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, particularly if it leaked from a lab in Wuhan – according to new reports, which identifies one of them as an Indian based, possibly, in Bhubaneswar.A group of 24 people that calls itself DRASTIC, or Decentralized Radical Autonomous Search Team Investigating COVID-19, began looking into clues from Chinese scientific databases shortly after the pandemic began, Newsweek reported earlier this week.The clues involve scientific papers that detail how researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) and other Chinese establishments were investigating coronaviruses found in an abandoned mine, how these studies may have been meant to find a vaccine, and some instances where authorities attempted to conceal data.Some of these have now come into the spotlight. Top American health official Anthony Fauci said on Thursday that China should release the health records of nine people, including six miners who fell sick in 2012 – an incident that may have kick-started a biological investigation into Sars-like coronaviruses, according to the clues uncovered by DRASTIC.“It starts with an outbreak of severe unexplained pneumonia cases in 2012, which saw six miners hospitalised. Three of them died, and the cause for their illness was suspected to be due to “SARS-like CoV”. The symptoms were almost indistinguishable from COVID-19,” said the Indian who uses the nom de guerre The Seeker on Twitter, and was identified as among the DRASTIC members who pieced together the most crucial of the clues.The group was also profiled in a piece by CNET on April 15, which identifies as The Seeker being a resident of Bhubaneswar, though in both cases, the person asked to remain anonymous.According to tweets by DRASTIC members, particularly The Seeker, the illness of the miners may be the first time a predecessor or a close relative of the Sars-Cov-2 virus may have infected humans. “WIV went on a years-long investigation into the same mine, on the lookout for what afflicted the miners,” The Seeker wrote on April 8.The clues the group has found has led it to suspect the WIV researchers were likely investigating the pathogen that caused the 2012 illness (and death) of the men who went into the abandoned mine, and one of the pathogens they isolated may have leaked from the lab at a later date. Viruses are typically isolated and grown in order to study them, a process that requires high levels of biosafety standards.In public, one of the lead researchers of WIV, Shi Zhengli, said the miners’ death and illness was due to a fungal infection but DRASTIC found evidence it may have been a Sars-like coronavirus.The illness of the miners caught the attention of the group when they found a Master’s thesis by a medical student in 2013, who described symptoms that are now associated with Covid-19. The thesis also described the illness as suspected to have been caused by a Sars-like coronavirus. A bulk of the clues the group found were in previous scientific papers and news reports – a technique often described as OSINT, or open source investigation. Chinese authorities have since restricted access to the CKNI database, where some of the crucial trails were found, Newsweek reported.Officials and scientists around the world are now increasingly agreeing on the need for China to offer more access and disclose more data. These include detailed information about the projects WIV was undertaking, the origins of another coronavirus known as RATG13, which the Chinese scientists said were found in bats in a cave hundreds of kilometres from Wuhan, and the nature of the illness of three WIV researchers who were hospitalised right before the first confirmed cases of Covid-19 took place.The debate over the origin of Sars-Cov-2 has ranged from it having evolved naturally, to being engineered -- with one scenario falling somewhere in between: that it leaked from the WIV where it was being studied after being found in bats.DRASTIC members also speak of overlapping genomic code snippets with other viruses for which Chinese experts have released the sequence, hypothesising the need to determine if the teams were carrying genetic modifications for further analysis.The search for evidence for a lab role has been difficult, as is the hunt for a motive if the origin of the pandemic indeed lies in a lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-seeker-among-sleuths-who-raised-heat-on-lab-theory-101622838355301.html
05-06-2021||India||4-yr-old mauled to death by leopard in Kashmir||At around 7.40pm on Thursday, Adha Yasir’s parents heard a sharp cry.The four-year-old girl was playing on the lawn of her house in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam district. Her parents, who were in the house, and neighbours in Ompora Housing Colony remember the girl running about.The parents rushed out, only to find their daughter nowhere. They alerted the neighbours, the local police, and launched a massive search operation.Roughly one hour later, local residents found the girl’s necklace and slippers from the forest that surrounded the colony. “This raised suspicion that the girl was taken away by a leopard, which are common in the area,” said Ehsan Fazili, a neighbour.In the early hours of Friday, their fears came true. Police found Yasir’s mutilated body in the forest nursery located one kilometre from her house, said an official who was part of the search team.“After receiving the information, a police team, locals and the wildlife department constituted various teams to trace the girl. After massive searches, the teams recovered the mauled body of the girl from the nearby forest nursery. Preliminary investigation suggests that the girl has been attacked and mauled by some wild animal (probably a leopard), said senior superintendent of police (Budgam) Tahir Saleem.Local residents and politicians blamed the wildlife department for the death of the girl. “This is the nursery not the forest so they could have easily cleared trees from this place,” said Shabir Ahmad, another neighbour.Former minister and legislator Ruhullah Medhi termed the incident a case of “criminal negligence”. “Given the fact that incidents involving the same wild animals occurred multiple times in the recent months in areas as close to district collector’s office. People then were lucky, but this time this innocent little soul had to pay with her life,” he said.Budgam deputy commissioner Shabaz Mirza chaired a high level meeting with senior officials of police and forest department to decide on measures to prevent such incidents in the future, including immediate removal of fallen material trees from snow and bushes and other cultural operations (like removal of bushes) in Ompora forests and other areas.A spokesperson for the J&K administration assured action within two days.“DFO (Divisional Forest Officer) Budgam will immediately take steps for erection and strengthening of existing chain-link fencing at Ompora forests and will also submit DPR (detailed project report) to higher authorities for sanction of funds. He will also process the proposal/ case for sanction of thinning of the forest immediately. Wild life Warden Budgam will deploy staff well equipped with machinery for elimination of the wild animal (leopard), which has turned man-eater,” said the spokesperson, adding that the family of the deceased girl will also be compensated.DC Budgam Shabaz Mirza and SSP Tahir Saleem visited the house in the afternoon and assured them this type of incident wont be repeated and expressed condolences with the family. The range officer (Wildlife) in Ompora has also been put under suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4yearold-girl-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-jk-101622837181018.html
05-06-2021||India||Monsoon brings little joy for Kerala umbrella makers as pandemic casts shadow on sales||A newly wed couple jostle for space under a colourful umbrella in splashy water, drenched school children racing to unfurl their cover and shutterbugs and curious travellers sitting under a big dark umbrella waiting for the right clique, these usual scenes are missing this time as monsoon arrived at the first stopover of the country, Kerala, on Thursday. The season of plenty is back but the usual joy and ecstasy are missing this time also_ everyone has a story of loss and gloom to share. Umbrella makers of Alapzuha are no exception_ they are bracing for another lost season. Umbrellas are not merely seasonal object that sprouts like a mushroom in the first spell of the monsoon and were once a symbol of status and part of fashion. When an academic session starts in the southern state a new umbrella is almost a right of every school-going child. True, usually this is the best time for umbrella makers they flood the market with innovative products and with a lot of advertisements and jingles to attract buyers but they are silent now no market, buyers or schools around they are in for another lean patch. But industry insiders say the online market is slowly picking up and it roughly forms 10 per cent of total sales. But they complain many online giants insist on the lowest price to make use of the dull patch. Alpha, known for its backwater tourism, is also famous for its umbrella. It is home to the country’s two popular brands, Poppy and John’s. Industry insiders say the umbrella market in the country is roughly between ₹800 crore to ₹1000 crore and it grows by ten per cent every year. But last two years there is negative growth due to the pandemic. Usually, the sale peaks from May to August but in the last two years virus has stolen their march. “I think the worst is over and we will bounce back soon. We have enough stocks piled up. Once the general trade picks up we can clear them. There is no point in talking about lost opportunities, we have to look forward,” said director of John’s Umbrella Mart Joseph A Thayyil. His company employs over 300 workers. Alappuzha has a long history of umbrella-making. In the 1940s Thayyil Abraham Varghese alias ‘Kuda Vavachan,’ a small-time merchant, started manufacturing an umbrella in a small way. In 1954 he founded St George Umbrella Mart with a dozen workers. After his death, his son Baby Thayyil took over the business. But later a split took place in the family and the brand ‘St George’ was frozen. Baby then started Poppy Umbrella Mart and his brother began John’s, Umbrella Mart. Now both are major players in the country. Baby Thayyil died last week following age-related ailments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-brings-little-joy-for-kerala-umbrella-makers-as-pandemic-casts-shadow-on-sales-101622834898188.html
05-06-2021||India||AIADMK united against Sasikala’s comeback attempt: Palaniswami||Chennai: The complications in AIADMK are deepening with three players- former chief ministers and party leader in state assembly, Edappadi Palaniswami, former deputy chief minister O Pannersevlam and ousted interim general secretary V K Sasikala, who is attempting to gnaw her way back --- play important roles in the drama, which is yet to unfold fully. Palaniswami on Friday said the AIADMK was “united” in not allowing any member of the Sasikala family back into the party days after audio clips of her speaking to partymen and assuring them that she would make a comeback leaked. “She (Sasikala) is not with the AIADMK. She stated before the elections that she was quitting politics. She is not talking to any AIADMK leader or cadre. She is only talking to the AMMK cadre. But some people are trying to create confusion in the AIADMK by using Sasikala,” Palaniswami told reporters in Chennai at the party headquarters after meeting party leaders. Pannersevlam was not present at the meeting although he was in Chennai.In response, Sasikala’s team shared with reporters more audio clips of her conversations with her supporters and attached their AIADMK membership cards. A telephonic conversation with S Anbu from Madurai and his AIADMK ID card was released.Sasikala is heard speaking to Anbu about how party founder MG Ramachandran and his successor and her close aide J Jayalalithaa ran a cadre-based party. “Some people failed to understand that this is a cadre-based party,” said Sasikala. “Cadre like you have been writing to me about your pain. I can clearly see that all you cadres are on my side. Amma said the party has to govern for a 100-years. Shouldn’t I protect that vision? I did my best before I left the next day at 11am (to prison in Bengaluru). For me, the party has to be good, cadre have to be happy. We have to work together to take forward what Amma left behind. That’s my only intention. This will surely happen. Soon, I will meet you all,” Sasikala could be heard telling Anbu.Anbu tells Sasikala that she believed Edappadi and he betrayed her to which Sasikala just smirked. Sasikala had picked Palaniswami to be chief minister after she was convicted in the disproportionate assets case and she too had to surrender in Bengaluru prison in February 2017. Palaniswami and Pannerselvam who were both Sasikala’s loyalists who turned against her at different times, united their warring factions and expelled her and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran who founded AMMK with her supporters. Palaniswami, who is the co-coordinator of the AIADMK and was recently made leader of the opposition (LoP, held a Covid-19 consultation meeting in the city Friday with his party’s district secretaries. Pannerselvam was absent. To this, Palaniswami dismissed that there was any rift between them and said that Pannerselvam had a housewarming ceremony to attend. He added that it wasn’t a formal meeting but he came to the party headquarters as it was an auspicious day. Palaniswami and Pannerselvam have been working independently so far from their native districts in Salem and Theni respectively. The duo always had tensions between them which came out in the open when Pannerselvam put up a fight twice and eventually gave in for Palaniswami to be the 2021 elections chief ministerial candidate and after their loss on May 2, to become the LoP. For the elections, the dual leadership put up a united front to keep Sasikala’s family away. However, Pannerselvam’s stance has always been softer on Sasikala’s re-entry into the party. The cracks in the dual leadership emerged as Pannerselvam has been feeling sidelined and less powerful compared to Palaniswami who has solidified his position in the party. “Channels of communication are open between Pannerselvam and Sasikala,” said a senior AIADMK leader who is a Pannerselvam supporter. “You can expect some announcements from us soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-united-against-sasikala-s-comeback-attempt-palaniswami-101622834659239.html
05-06-2021||India||Covid-19 main focus in Kerala’s revised budget||Thiruvananthapuram Kerala finance minister K N Balagopal on Friday presented the maiden budget of the second Pinarayi Vijayan government, announcing a second Covid-19 stimulus package of ₹20,000 crore and setting aside ₹1,000 crore to vaccinate all above 18 years of age in tune with the government’s pre-poll promise that vaccines will be made free to all residents of the state. An additional amount of ₹500 crore would be spent to ensure related equipment and facilities for free vaccination, the minister announced. No new tax was suggested in view of the pandemic. Presenting the revised budget, Balagopal said the government would ensure food for all and would do everything possible to avert a third wave of the pandemic. He added that money would not be a constraint and that new sources of revenue would be found once the pandemic situation improved. “We will consider the concerns over the third wave of the pandemic. The health emergency existing is a challenge to the development prospects of the state,” he said. “Money won’t be a constraint in meeting the health needs of the people. We will do everything possible to avert a possible third wave,” he added.The previous government had allotted ₹20,000 crore which had been fully utilised to fight the pandemic, he said.From the new Covid-19 relief package, ₹2,800 crore was allocated for emergency health situations and ₹8,900 crore for distribution among those who lost their livelihood. An amount of ₹8,300 crore was announced towards interest subsidy for loans provided to various sectors to tide over the crisis. Besides this, the finance minister also announced a revival package for coastal areas and aid for the successful women-oriented poverty eradication programme ‘Kudumbhasree’. Balagopal’s predecessor T M Thomas Issac had presented a full budget in February and the one announced on Friday was a mere continuation of his proposals. “Those budget proposals will continue.We have made some additions to that considering the Covid-19 situation and to boost the economy of the state.Health is our priority, then food.After that we need to revive our economy and for that we need more jobs. In order to achieve that, our aim is to give thrust to the agriculture, industries, tourism, IT, knowledge economy sectors,” Balagopal told reporters later in the day. The minister said several foreign countries have vaccinated their people and their economies are open.“If people are vaccinated, tourists will show interest in visiting our state.If all are vaccinated at the earliest, we can revive our economy.For that purpose we have allocated ₹1,000 crore for vaccines and ₹500 crore for related purposes,” he said. The opposition called the budget a “sly jugglery of figures sans any substance.” “It is a mere jugglery of figures to hoodwink people. The government has made no fund allocation in the budget to boost the Covid-damaged economy. And it has no idea how to increase its revenue,” leader of the opposition in the state assembly V D Satheesan said. BJP state chief K Surendran termed the budget as a disappointment and said the state government was renaming and implementing the central projects.“The financial assistance of ₹20,000 crore package which was announced in the last year’s budget was repeated this time.....the finance minister should explain how much money was spent for what purpose from that package,” he said. The two main revenue earners of the state, liquor and lottery, are currently in limbo due to the pandemic. The state beverages corporation, which runs foreign-made Indian liquor outlets, had recently said that it had suffered a loss of ₹1,000 crore in the last two months. The state has been under lockdown since April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-main-focus-in-kerala-s-revised-budget-101622834538632.html
05-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech visits Chengalpet vaccine complex||Chennai: A day after meeting with chief minister M K Stalin in Chennai, a top team from Bharath Biotech International Limited, the makers of Covaxin, visited the integrated vaccine complex (IVC) in Chengalpet Friday. A five-member team led by MD Suchitra Ella and executive director Sai Prasad were in the 100-acre facility which was established HLL Bio-Tech Ltd in 2012 under the union health ministry but final works are still pending. “They visited once a few years ago also. Today they came to see the current status. Nothing has been finalised yet,” said an official of HLL.The team had met Stalin in the secretariat on Thursday to discuss manufacturing vaccines in Tamil Nadu. This came in the backdrop of the union government informing Tamil Nadu that it intends to bring in a partner on its own to operationalise the IVC. Stalin had previously written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for the IVC to be handed over to the state on a lease so it can find a private operator and begin producing Covid-19 vaccines from the facility. The state had also sent two representatives to Delhi to speed up the matter. After the Centre’s reply, Stalin reiterated his request and said whoever finds a player operations have to start at the earliest so it can facilitate mass production of vaccines which are currently in shortage. Meanwhile, HLL had invited tenders for private players to participate which has now closed. “We are in talks with interested companies,” the official quoted above said.The Centre has invested around ₹700 crore for the IVC which is about 63 km from Chennai and has been lying unutilised for want of additional funds to complete the last stages of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-visits-chengalpet-vaccine-complex-101622834538096.html
05-06-2021||India||Kerala govt earmarks ₹20,000 crore in annual budget to tackle Covid-19||Kerala finance minister K N Balagopal on Friday presented the maiden budget of the second Pinarayi Vijayan government earmarking ₹20,000 crore to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. He also set aside ₹1000 core to provide free vaccination to people above 18 years in tune with the government’s pre-poll announcement that vaccines will be made free to all residents of the state. Presenting the revised budget he said the government would ensure health and food for all and it will do everything possible to avert a third wave of the pandemic. He said money won’t be a constraint and new revenue sources will be found after the state comes out of the pandemic. He also announced a revival package for coastal areas and aid to the successful women-oriented poverty eradication programme “Kudumbhasree.” No new tax was suggested in view of the prevailing situation. From the Covid-19 package ₹2800 will be spent towards the health emergency situation and ₹8900 will be disbursed to people who are in crisis due to the loss of livelihood and ₹8300 towards the interest of subsidy provided to various sectors to tide over the crisis. “Money won’t be a constraint in meeting health needs of people. We will do everything possible to avert a possible third wave,” he said. His predecessor T M Thomas Iassac had presented a full budget in February and since the Left Front government returned to power it was a mere continuation of Issac’s proposals. But the opposition called the budget a “sly jugglery of figures sans any substance.” “It is a mere jugglery of figures to hoodwink people. The government has made no fund allocation in the budget to boost the Covid-damaged economy. And it has no idea how will increase its revenue,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. The two main revenue earners of the state, liquor and lottery, are in limbo with the onset of the pandemic. The state beverages corporation which runs foreign-made Indian liquor outlets in the state said recently that it suffered losses of ₹1000 crore in the last two months. The state is under lockdown since April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-earmarks-rs-20-000-crore-in-annual-budget-to-tackle-covid19-101622833758662.html
05-06-2021||India||Man who promised to 'rain money' arrested in ₹52 lakh cheating case||A man was arrested in Mantha in Jalna for allegedly duping a Pune businessman of ₹52 lakh by promising to "rain money" through some rituals, police said on Friday.Kisan Asaram Pawar was held on Thursday by a joint team of Jalna and Pune police, an official said."Pawar, a resident of Hiwarkheda here, was caught with fake money and items used in his rituals. A decoy customer was sent to verify the complaint against Pawar, and he was held after the confirmation was obtained," Inspector Yashwant Bagul of Mantha police station said.Bagul said the original complaint against Pawar was lodged in Sinhagad in Pune by a businessman who gave him ₹52 lakh over a period of time after the accused claimed he could bring about a "money rain" with some rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-promised-to-rain-money-arrested-in-rs-52-lakh-cheating-case-101622832011573.html
05-06-2021||India||Human race facing an existential crisis in Covid-19 pandemic: Delhi high court||“It would not be an exaggeration to say human race in general is facing an existential crisis” in the Covid-19 pandemic, said the Delhi High Court on Friday while expressing anguish over the way things have transpired in the second wave where vaccine shortage is hitting everyone even when the Central government says the best way to fight the pandemic is to vaccinate the entire population.The high court, which was dealing with the issue of Sputnik V vaccine, also said going by the rule book to save human lives in these extraordinary times may be in jeopardy and “one has to look at the bigger picture"."At this moment, flexibility and alacrity has to be the mantra,” and that the officers should not be afraid of audits and investigations and any officer who refused to act in the current pandemic may open himself to being charged for offences against human body, it said.These observations were made by the high court in the order on the issue related to manufacturing of Covid vaccine Sputnik V by India's Panacea Biotec in collaboration with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).While taking note of the fact that there have been a large number of coronavirus cases in India, a bench of Justices Manmohan and Najmi Waziri also expressed displeasure that "there is nothing to show that the government officers had handheld the Indian manufacturers of vaccine and acted as facilitators for use of this untapped infrastructure in India".“Today, we are a bit anguished with the way things have transpired during the second wave. As a responsible citizen you also would be anguished. Vaccine shortage is hitting each and everyone. Even today vaccine is not available in Delhi… You have good products in India, a little handholding will work,” the bench said.It added that someone from Russia has been able to locate infrastructure in Himachal Pradesh but the Centre has failed to do so.Coming on the issue of Sputnik V vaccine, the high court directed the Centre to release arbitral award of over ₹14 crore along with interest from 2012 to Panacea Biotec for manufacturing Sputnik V vaccine in India subject to the condition that the company obtains permission from the government to manufacture the vaccine.The bench said the release of the amount, awarded to the company by the arbitral tribunal, will also be subject to the undertaking of the firm that 20 per cent of its sale proceeds of Sputnik V will be deposited with the court’s registry till the awarded amount is secured.The high court’s order came on a plea of Delhi-based Panacea Biotec seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to prosecute further the execution proceedings instituted by them in relation to an arbitral award, running into crores of rupees, passed in its favour and against the Centre.The company, in its fresh application, sought release of the arbitral award saying it needs funds at the earliest in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of Covid vaccine Sputnik V in collaboration with RDIF and the process of manufacturing scale-up batches is on.At the outset of the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the Prime Minister was one on one talking to other states and even the external affairs ministers was in touch with other countries for arranging vaccines and that the situation is being monitored at the highest level.The bench said in the absence of any documentary proof by the government and the specific denial by the company that it has not been entirely funded by RDIF, the court cannot presume that the firm is provided with fund by RDIF to facilitate manufacture of Sputnik V in India.The court made it clear that in this case it was not examining the government policy on procurement and distribution of Covidd-19 vaccines.It also took note that the Delhi government has been repeatedly making statements about shortage of vaccines at its centres, halting its vaccination drive.The court said from the company’s plea, it was apparent that there is a lot of untapped capacity by way of infrastructure for manufacture of the vaccine in the country.“However, there is nothing to show that the government officers had handheld the Indian manufacturers of vaccine and acted as facilitators for use of this untapped infrastructure in India. Even when a foreign fund is tapped into this untapped infrastructure to manufacture these vaccines, the officers despite being asked in advance have refused to ensure that the vaccines sought to be manufactured are made available for immediate use in India,” the bench said.The court said prima facie there was no justification for insisting bridge trials for domestic manufacture of a vaccine but not for the one manufactured abroad.The court also asked the Central government to consider Panacea's application seeking waiver of trial for Sputnik V which has already been approved for limited use, in accordance with the law.Additional Solicitor General Balbir Singh along with Central government standing counsel Rajesh Ranjan said clinical trials have not been waived off anywhere in the world, including India, but it has only been shortened from 10 -12 months to 8-10 weeks.Senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, representing Panacea Biotec, has said it has only got an advance amount from RDIF and it needs further funds to ramp up its production which has to be 100 million (10 crore) doses per year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-race-facing-an-existential-crisis-in-covid-19-pandemic-delhi-high-court-101622832741423.html
05-06-2021||India||Day after meeting CM Stalin, Bharat Biotech team visits Chengalpet vaccine facility||A day after meeting chief minister MK Stalin in Chennai, a top team from Bharat Biotech International Limited, the makers of Covaxin, visited the integrated vaccine complex (IVC) in Chengalpet on Friday. A five-member team led by MD Suchitra Ella and executive director Sai Prasad were at the 100-acre facility which was established by HLL Bio-Tech Ltd in 2012 under the Union health ministry but final work is still pending. “They visited once a few years ago also. Today, they came to see the current status. Nothing has been finalised yet,” said an official of HLL.The team had met Stalin at the secretariat on Thursday to discuss manufacturing of vaccines in Tamil Nadu. The move came in the backdrop of the Union government informing Tamil Nadu that it intends to bring in a partner on its own to operationalize the IVC. Stalin had previously written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for the IVC to be handed over to the state on a lease so it can find a private operator and begin producing Covid-19 vaccines from the facility. The state had also sent two representatives to Delhi to speed up the matter. After the Centre’s reply, Stalin reiterated his request and said whoever finds a player operations have to start at the earliest so it can facilitate mass production of vaccines which are currently facing a shortage. Meanwhile, HLL had invited tenders for private players to participate which has now closed. “We are in talks with interested companies,” the official quoted above said.The Centre has invested around ₹700 crore for the IVC which is about 63 km from Chennai and has been lying unutilised for want of additional funds to complete the last stages of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-meeting-cm-stalin-bharat-biotech-team-visits-chengalpet-vaccine-facility-101622832618655.html
05-06-2021||India||Indian Navy's lone nuclear-powered attack submarine on its way back to Russia||Indian Navy's only nuclear-powered attack submarine, the INS Chakra, which was taken on lease from Russia, is believed to be on its way back to the country of its origin, people familiar with the development said on Friday.INS Chakra, an Akula class vessel, was taken on lease from Russia in 2012. It was the second nuclear-powered attack submarine that India had taken on lease from that country.The submarine is returning to Russia as its lease period is learnt to be coming to an end, the people familiar with the development said.The first nuclear-powered submarine, also called Chakra, was taken in 1988 under a three-year lease from the then Soviet Union.Some pictures of INS Chakra returning to Russia came out on social media. However, there was no official comment on the matter.In 2019, India sealed a USD 3 billion deal with Russia for leasing another nuclear-powered attack submarine for the Indian Navy for a period of 10 years.Under the deal, Russia will have to deliver the Akula class submarine, to be known as Chakra III, to the Indian Navy by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-s-lone-nuclear-powered-attack-submarine-on-its-way-back-to-russia-101622832395344.html
05-06-2021||India||Dusty winds, rains hit Delhi-NCR, trees uprooted at 80 locations||The national capital witnessed a sudden weather change on Friday evening as dusty winds and rains hit several parts of the Delhi-NCR, uprooting trees at nearly 80 places and causing inconvenience to farmers protesting at the city's borders.The rains brought a much-needed relief to Delhiites reeling under hot and humid conditions. Netizens took to Twitter to share pictures of a rainbow that formed after the showers.Strong winds of up to 60 km/hr swept through the national capital, the meteorological office said.The winds uprooted trees at 67 places in north Delhi, including Civil Lines, Shalimar Bagh and Paschim Vihar, and at 11 locations in south Delhi, including in Kalkaji and Nizamuddin West among others, officials said.Similar incidents were reported in east Delhi as well.It is likely to be the first time since 2014 that the city may not witness a heatwave in the summer season.No heatwave has been recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, considered the official marker for the city, till now.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 39.5 degrees Celsius during the day, a notch below the season's average. The minimum temperature was recorded at 26.1 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.Till 5.30 pm, the Safdarjung observatory had recorded 3.2 mm rainfall.Palam recorded a maximum temperature of 38.4 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 26.2 degrees Celsius along with 9.4 mm rainfall. A hailstorm was also reported at Palam at 5 pm.The Lodhi Road observatory received 1.6 mm rainfall and recorded a maximum temperature of 39 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 25.3 degrees Celsius.The strong winds added to the woes of farmers protesting at the Delhi borders against the Centre's three new farm laws."Around 100 tents have been affected and damaged due to the strong winds and rains. The protesters will spend the night inside trolleys, and the tents will be erected tomorrow (Saturday) morning," farmer leader Gurmeet Mehma said.Another farmer leader, Sarwar Singh Pandher, said food items have also been affected."It happens every time when this kind of a situation comes in front of us," he added.A senior police officer said several incidents of trees uprooting were reported in the national capital on Friday evening after the strong wind and rains."The municipal department was informed about it and the roads were later cleared for the traffic," he added.The weatherman has predicted partly cloudy skies with the possibility of very light rains/thundershowers on Saturday.The maximum and the minimum temperatures will likely hover around 39 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius respectively.On Thursday, the national capital recorded a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below the normal, and a low of 24.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees below the normal temperature for this time of the year. PTI SLB NIT GVS KND IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dusty-winds-rains-hit-delhi-ncr-trees-uprooted-at-80-locations-101622831611030.html
05-06-2021||India||Harsimrat Badal says Punjab govt profited from Covid vaccines, slams Rahul's 'silence'||Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday lashed out at Congress government in Punjab over its order, which was later withdrawn, for providing one-time limited vaccine doses to 18-44 age group population through private hospitals and questioned "silence" of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on the issue.The Shiromani Akali Dal leader levelled corruption allegations against Capt Amarinder Singh government in Punjab and asked if his visit to Delhi was linked to the controversy over vaccine supply in the state."Was he summoned in Delhi to pay ransom to save his chair? These Congress leaders took a cut in uniforms, PPE kits, action for poor and now even vaccines weren't spared," she alleged.Badal, who is MP from Bathinda, targeted Rahul Gandhi for not tweeting about alleged "profiteering" by Punjab government over vaccination by private hospitals."Rahul Gandhi gives suggestions that poor should get vaccine free and when his party's government is getting a profit of ₹650 on each dose why is he silent. Did Rahul Gandhi tweet anything about it? If he is silent on this, this reeks of some settlement between the Captain and high command. If that's not the case he should change health minister, admonish CM and take action against the chief secretary," Harsimrat Kaur Badal told ANI.She accused the Punjab Chief Minister of giving clean chit to all those related to the controversy."You can take this in writing, if there is a judicial probe into this scam, there are chances of truth coming out. Otherwise everyone will be given a clean chit," she said.She said that Punjab government had withdrawn its order providing "one-time limited vaccine doses to 18-44 age group population through private hospitals" following huge furore."If this order was so good why did the government withdraw it? Where is the accountability? Chief Secretary tweeted like a salesperson of private hospitals stating that common people can avail vaccines at cost if ₹900 and ₹1200," she said."What is Punjab government's intention? Do they want to save poor peoples lives or they want to earn profit from vaccines meant for the poor? This is clear that they committed a scam by taking money from private hospitals and traded vaccines meant for the poor. They indulged in profiteering. After this scam came to light, they have taken the order (selling vaccines to private hospitals) back," she said.Badal also targeted Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu over his remarks that he was not involved in the vaccine procurement and distribution process and had nothing to do with the controversy. She said the minister should resign."Can a health minister wash off his hands from orders issued by his department? These circulars are being sent across the state and the health minister isn't even picking calls made to him. Does he mean that this scam was committed by the CM? Or he has no say in his department. If that is the case why doesn't he resign then?" she said.The SAD leader also questioned the silence of AAP over the controversy and accused the party of being B team of Congress. She said AAP has many Congress turncoats and few of them even returned to the party.The former union minister also slammed the Centre over its vaccination policy."The Centre has failed. When other nations were vaccinating their people, the Centre was showing its COVID friendship and was exporting vaccines. And now they are having a shortage of vaccines. Not just vaccines, oxygen and medicines too were in shortage. We earned a bad reputation worldwide for COVID deaths," she said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsimrat-badal-says-punjab-govt-profited-from-covid-vaccines-slams-rahul-s-silence-101622822910166.html
05-06-2021||India||TMC slams Centre over making CVC nod a must to employ ex-bureaucrats||The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal on Friday slammed the Centre’s order making vigilance clearance mandatory for offering post-retirement jobs to bureaucrats, calling it an attempt to impose more control on state government organisations and officials.The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), in an order on Thursday, said all government organisations have to seek clearance before offering post-retirement jobs to bureaucrats. Signed by officer on special duty Rajiv Verma, the three-page document was sent to all central ministries, public sector units, banks and autonomous bodies. “The Centre came up with such an order because it has failed on all fronts. This is an attempt to impose more control on government organisations and bureaucrats,” said TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy.BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “This is a process to ensure that bureaucrats, who take the oath to protect the interests of the nation and follow the code of official secrecy in regard to state and national security, follow rules”.The order, which HT has seen, was issued two days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee employed the state’s former chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay as her special adviser on May 31, the day he retired, amid a tussle with Centre. Bandopadhyay, who was given a three-month extension following an appeal by the state, but was asked to report for duty at the North Block office of the department of training and personnel on his last working day.Banerjee refused to release the bureaucrat and the Centre sent him a show cause letter, accusing him of violating Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, by not attending the meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda on May 28 to review damages done by Cyclone Yaas. Banerjee, accompanied by the bureaucrat, met Modi during the meeting, but left in a few minutes. Bandopadhyay joined duty on June 1 on a three-year contract and replied to the show cause letter on Thursday.The CVC, India’s apex anti-corruption body for government officials and which was formed in the mid-1960s, has said that accepting a job offer without completion of a mandatory cooling-off period will amount to “serious misconduct.”“It has been observed that sometimes government organisations... use the expertise of retired government officials by hiring them on contractual basis, in the capacity of advisor/consultant etc. There is no defined procedure for seeking vigilance inputs before engaging the retired officials…,” said the order, adding this may lead to situations where people with tainted past are engaged by a government organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcslams-centre-over-making-cvc-nod-a-must-to-employ-exbureaucrats-101622831479655.html
05-06-2021||India||Can’t sack staff citing Covid-19: HC to Air India||The Delhi high court said that “the state or its agencies cannot claim financial constraints or impact of the pandemic as a ground for dispensing the services of its employees”, quashing national carrier Air India’s decision last year of terminating 41 pilots.A single judge bench of justice Jyoti Singh, in a 122- page judgment late on Thursday night, said: “State or its agencies under Article 12 of the Constitution cannot claim financial constraints or impact of the Pandemic as a ground for dispensing the services of its employees, in the manner adopted in the present case. State has a fiduciary duty to perform towards the citizens under Article 19(1)(g) and Article 21... and thus it becomes the bounden duty of a welfare State to secure the rights of livelihood of the citizens.”Directing the national carrier to reinstate over 41 permanent and contractual pilots, the judge said it is the duty of the state towards securing the livelihood of the citizens and nothing has been shown on record to show that the termination of the 41 pilots would be impacting their financial crunch.The services of the pilots were terminated last year on account of commercial slowdown in wake of the lockdown.“The financial difficulties expressed by the Respondent (Air India) only qua the Petitioners(41 pilots) and the adamancy in resisting to take them back, only reflects malice in the action of the Respondent, which to a large extent, is substantiated by the file notings,” the court said.“Tested on the anvil of the aforementioned principles of examining an action of a State or its Agency, this Court is compelled to conclude that the impugned action is violative of the well settled legal position and suffers from arbitrariness and unfairness and fails on the touchstone of Article 14...”The pilots had initially moved the court in July last year seeking directions to Air India to accept the withdrawal of the resignations tendered by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-sack-staff-citing-covid-19-delhi-hc-to-air-india-101622831479073.html
05-06-2021||India||Govt investigators sent to get Choksi return from Dominica||A team of government investigators sent to Dominica in a private jet last week to bring back fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi returned to India on Friday after it became clear that legal proceedings in the island’s courts may last several weeks.Publicly available flight data showed that the jet took off from Douglas-Charles airport in Dominica at 8.09pm local time on Thursday and was heading towards India via Madrid at the time of filing of this report. It is likely to land in New Delhi at 11pm on Friday. The investigators are on the flight, said people familiar with the developments.“We have a strong deportation case against Mehul Choksi in Dominica but the whole legal process will take time,” said an officer on condition of anonymity.The team -- comprising two Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers and representatives from the ministry of external affairs -- was rushed along with a cache of documents on evidence against Choksi in a hired Bombardier Global 5000 jet of Qatar Executive last Friday.The officers were sent after Choksi, who fled India in 2018, was detained in Dominica on charges of illegally entering the island and Antigua Prime Minister Gaston Browne said the businessman should be deported directly to India.For about seven days, the jet was parked at the airport to bring back Choksi, who is wanted in a ₹13,500 crore bank fraud case. But the India-born businessman is currently involved in two separate legal proceedings in Dominica, pending which he cannot be repatriated, say experts.A magistrate’s court in the Dominican capital Roseau is hearing the government’s charge that Choksi entered the country illegally. It will be heard next on June 14.Last week, Choksi’s lawyers moved the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, alleging that he was abducted and asking him to be sent back to Antigua. That habeas corpus petition was adjourned on Thursday after judge Bernie Stephenson said she will decide the next date of hearing after meeting both sides.The Indian government felt the team was not required anymore and that foreign ministry officials based in the Caribbean can coordinate the legal formalities with Dominican authorities and the courts, said the people quoted above.The team, they said, already briefed Dominican authorities about the charges and evidence against Choksi, which will be argued by local government prosecutors on India’s behalf whenever the deportation case is taken up. India is not a party yet in either of the court hearings.Choksi approached the high court in Dominica seeking bail in “illegal entry” case. The HC has adjourned the matter to Tuesday.India is pushing for Choksi’s deportation from Dominica directly on the ground that he doesn’t enjoy any constitutional and legal protection there and has an Interpol red notice against him.His legal team approached the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court last week, alleging that he was abducted from Antigua, where he is a citizen, on May 23, tortured and brought to Dominica, roughly 100 nautical miles away.A person with knowledge of developments said three Indian officials and a lawyer, who appeared to have been hired by India, attended Choksi’s bail hearing in the magistrate’s court on Thursday.The whole episode has already taken a political colour in the region, with opposition parties in both countries – Antigua & Barbuda as well as Dominica targeting the respective prime ministers for violating the law of the land.Browne has repeatedly said he will not accept Choksi back and that Dominica should send him back to India. Dominica, however, has not made it clear if it is keen to send Choksi directly to India.India said on Thursday that it was making all efforts to bring back the fugitive. “He (Choksi) is currently in the custody of Dominica with some legal proceedings underway. We will continue to make all efforts to ensure he is brought to back India,” foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-investigators-sent-to-get-choksi-return-from-dominica-101622830157933.html
05-06-2021||India||Lioness dies of Covid, tiger too suspected victim||A 9-year-old lioness, Neela, died in the Arignar Anna Zoological Park or Vandalur Zoo outside Chennai on Thursday after a Covid-19 outbreak among Asiatic lions was reported, the Tamil Nadu government said on Friday. A tiger is also suspected to have died of Covid in a Ranchi zoo on Thursday night.Nine of 13 lions in Vandalur Zoo were tested for the virus a few days ago.“A few of the lions were symptomatic and one of them, a 9-year-old lioness, Neela, succumbed to the disease,” a forest department statement said. A statement from the zoo earlier in the day said the lioness had been asymptomatic and showed nasal discharge on June 2 and was treated symptomatically immediately.The forest department said other lions have been quarantined and senior vets from the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) are supervising treatment, which has started with antibiotics and prophylactic drugs.At Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, a 10-year-old tiger died showing Covid symptoms such as fever on Thursday night, officials said on Friday, adding that a rapid antigen test indicated the animal did not have a Covid-19 infection and the big cat’s samples were being sent for advanced testing. The park, which now has nine tigers, has procured kits to test all the carnivores for Covid.“...we are sending the swab, blood samples and [a] lung [of the tiger] to IVRI [Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly] for more detailed investigation and to find out if the animal was infected with any coronavirus-like disease,” said OP Sahu, a veterinary doctor at the park. Sahu added the tiger’s blood test suggested liver and kidney infection and that the rapid antigen test was conducted on Friday morning.Rapid antigen tests have been found to be less accurate than the polymerase chain reaction tests, which are considered the gold standard for detecting Covid-19. The RT-PCR test results are expected to come by Saturday.Officials said the tiger had a fever on Tuesday which subsided after medication. On Wednesday, the tiger did not eat well. “It did not eat at all on Thursday. Then, we called an expert from Ranchi Veterinary College and a vet from Tata Zoo. We also consulted vets in Hyderabad. The animal was given saline. But it could not survive,” said the park’s director, YK Das. Das said the tiger was genetically weak. “It was suffering from health issues. Its liver and kidney were comparatively weak.”Eight Asiatic lions at the Hyderabad zoo tested positive for Covid-19 in May. It was the first such instance in the country and prompted the Centre to order the closure of all national parks, sanctuaries, and national zoological parks. The lions were isolated and have since recovered while similar cases have been reported from other parts of the country.According to the United States Center for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention, there is currently no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading Covid-19 to humans.It said in an advisory on its website that more studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by Sars-CoV-2, and that Covid-19 can spread from people to animals in some situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lioness-dies-of-covid-tiger-too-suspected-victim-101622830097888.html
05-06-2021||India||Parliament entitled to override SC judgments: AG Venugopal||The Supreme Court on Thursday saw an interesting debate on the power of the legislature to pass laws to override judgements of the apex court, which saw this as undesirable -- a view opposed by the government’s top law officer . The discussion came in a case related to the appointment of members of tribunals, and that it was about a larger issue than just the case at hand was made further clear when Attorney General KK Venugopal submitted a note to the court that said that unless there is violation of fundamental rights or any constitutional provision is violated, courts should not interfere in matters that fall within the executive policymaking domain. He pointed out that Parliament in its wisdom enacts a law after broad consultation among standing committees and expert groups to decide what is in public interest.The bench told Centre, “this is not a game of numbers” reminding the AG that just because Parliament has standing committees, it cannot be a ground to prevent Courts from striking down a law.The exchange comes in the context of the Supreme Court saying last week (in an order on the government’s management of Covid-19) that the Constitution does not see courts as being spectators when the rights of citizens are affected by executive policies -- a response to the governments submission in an affidavit that the “wisdom of the executive should be trusted”.Experts said that given the context of what has been happening -- earlier this week, the court termed the government’s vaccine policy for the 18-45 years age group arbitrary and sought to understand the logic behind it -- such exchanges may continue.The case in question was a petition challenging the validity of a Central Ordinance prescribing tenure, age of retirement and conditions of service of members of Tribunals under the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalization and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021. The ordinance reduced the tenure of chairpersons and members of tribunals to four years instead of the five. Another bone of contention was how the ordinance retrospectively dealt with heads and members of tribunals appointed prior to its passing on April 4.Parliament also went against orders of the Court which allowed lawyers with 10 years of experience to become members of tribunals and said only those over 50 could become members of chairpersons, defeating the intention of the SC to infuse fresh talent. There were other areas of challenge to the ordinance raised in the petition filed by Madras Bar Association. The amicus curiae and senior advocate Arvind Datar summed up the petition and said the executive order was a clear attempt to “override” the Court.Responding to this, Venugopal said SC’s decisions were not based on any existing law. His argument was that if courts found that five years was a reasonable tenure, then Parliament was well within its rights to decide that four years was better.The bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat did not agree. “This Court has struck down the rules relating to the tenure of four years, sending a panel of 2 to 3 candidates per post in the past. If you are bringing them again and again are you not overruling the judgment by way of legislation?”Venugopal said that it was not correct “to proceed on the basis that Parliament is helpless and has to accept Supreme Court judgments.” “Courts can pass any number of judgments. The Parliament can always say that we will not accept it because it is not in the interest of people…. Parliament is entitled to override the judgment of the Supreme Court, within the contours of what is permitted,” he said.The bench reserved judgment on the petition challenging the ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-entitled-to-override-sc-judgments-ag-venugopal-101622829738436.html
05-06-2021||India||Punjab CM appears before Cong panel, defends his style of functioning||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met the Mallikarjun Kharge-led three-member committee looking into infighting in the party’s state unit on Friday, and defended his performance and style of functioning, according to people familiar with the matter.The chief minister had a nearly three-hour meeting with the panel on the last day of the exercise in Delhi that saw about 150 party leaders, including present and former state unit presidents, ministers, MPs and other leaders voice their suggestions and grievances. Singh shared his government’s achievements, progress on the implementation of 85% of poll commitments, his road map for unfulfilled promises and report card of his ministers.The committee, which has All India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as its other members, asked the chief minister about unfulfilled poll promises, his lack of accessibility and “over dependence” on the bureaucracy, and he responded to each point raised by party leaders. He carried dossiers on land deals and interests in mining and liquor businesses of some party MLAs and other leaders, according to the people cited above.The chief minister, who was to meet the panel at 11am, reached 15, Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, on time and before Rawat and Agarwal arrived. After the meeting, he said the meeting was routine introspection before the elections that are six months away.“These are inner-party discussions and I do not propose to share them with you,” he told reporters.However, Rawat, who was more forthcoming, said the chief minister was asked about the challenges and problems faced by party leaders and his (CM’s) road map to deal with them before the polls. He said the committee also took up the sacrilege issue that was raised by several party leaders.“We can understand the sensitivity of their sentiments, and the CM understands it better than us. He spoke about the administrative and legal steps being taken. I am hopeful that in the next few days, results will be seen,” he said.Rawat was clear that there was no talk of an alternative, adding that only the Congress president was authorised to speak on this.Though he refused to comment, there are indications that the party may appoint more than one deputy chief minister, bringing former minister Navjot Sidhu back into the state cabinet and appointing a new state unit chief as part of the peace formula.Singh was open to inducting Sidhu, who quit the state cabinet in 2019 as minister, but has opposed appointing him as the state unit president, a post that the cricketer-turned-politician wants because it will put him in charge of the party in the state.“It was suggested to Capt saab a few months ago to appoint Sidhu and a Dalit leader as deputy CMs. At one stage, he agreed but then changed his mind and nothing happened,” a senior state unit leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-appears-before-cong-panel-defends-his-style-of-functioning-101622829737873.html
05-06-2021||India||Need to buy time till a majority of population is vaccinated: Centre||People will need to be particularly vigilant and states will have to be careful while lifting restrictions as long as India does not have adequate vaccine coverage, top government officials said on Friday, urging citizens and regional authorities to “buy time” in the fight against Covid-19.The remarks, made by Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul come at a time when cities such as Delhi and Mumbai are considering lifting some restrictions after a devastating wave of infections that began in March-April before it eventually crushed the health care capacity.“We need to buy time till we, at the soonest possible time, are able to vaccinate a large population, and in the meanwhile continue to enforce the tools: testing, tracking, isolation, self-discipline, wearing mask, avoiding gathering, avoiding parties, eating together in large groups, and so on,” said Paul, at a Covid-19 briefing on Friday.“If we behave appropriately, we will be gradually pushing the wave away, and there is a good possibility that there will be no next wave. What I am trying to say is that we have to buy time; and we want to buy time particularly to ensure that we achieve a high coverage of our vaccination. That is the time we want to buy; and that is the duration of intense discipline that we want to exercise. And that is my appeal today,” he added.Paul also said that globally, India was better placed in terms of Covid-19 numbers, and this was a result of strong actions taken by the people at every level. “Please appreciate what is working, which is that we are now back to wearing masks more diligently. What is working is that testing is more generous; we have imposed restrictions in many districts that has made it difficult for the virus to spread. There are no crowds, there are no large gatherings; this is the price we pay but this is what has resulted in containing the pandemic,” he said.“The connotation is when we will reverse this process the situation can again become unacceptable, and that is something we have to keep in mind. If our discipline, and if our containment measures, our vaccination scale up; our preparedness slackens again then the situation can again lead to a difficult phase,” Paul added.In terms of vaccinations, global data shows the number of people who received at least one dose of vaccine, India has administered 172 million (17.2 crore) doses, which is more than the US that has administered 169 million (16.9 crore) doses, and the UK has administered 39.5 million (3.95 crore), Paul said.As for the 60 plus population, India has administered at least one dose of the vaccine to 43% of the target population, and it is 37% for those in the 45 years old and above category, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-buy-time-till-a-majority-of-population-is-vaccinated-centre-101622829677812.html
05-06-2021||India||SII gets DCGI’s nod to manufacture Sputnik||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Friday granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) to manufacture Sputnik V, which will allow the production of doses for testing.“The company applied for a test license which has been granted,” confirmed an official in the government familiar with the development, asking not to be named. The actual manufacturing of the vaccine will take time.A test license, as per the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) website, is granted for the import of small quantities of drugs for the purposes of examination, testing or analysis. SII has been given permission to manufacture Sputnik V for the purpose of analysis. The company sought grant of license on Wednesday. The company in its response also said that it has only got preliminary approvals at the moment. “The preliminary permissions are in place. The production will take time. It will take few months,” said a company spokesperson.Sputnik V is currently being distributed in India by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which signed a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which globally markets the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute.As part of the deal, Dr Reddy’s will distribute the first 250 million doses of Sputnik V. RDIF has also tied up with six other local companies to manufacture its vaccine, and its chief executive officer, Kirill Dmitriev, said earlier that it was also in talks with other manufacturers to ramp up production in India that is likely to start sometime in July.As per current estimates, RDIF is looking at a production capacity of about 850 million Sputnik V vaccine doses per annum from India. Apart from SII, the companies with which it has entered manufacturing tie up include Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Stelis Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, and Virchow Biotech.RDIF, in a statement on May 24, announced that Panacea Biotec launched the production of Sputnik V in India.“The first batch produced at Panacea Biotec’s facilities at Baddi will be shipped to the Gamaleya Center for quality control. Full-scale production of the vaccine is due to start this summer. Company’s facilities comply with GMP standards and are prequalified by WHO,” the RDIF statement said. Sputnik V was registered in India under the emergency use authorisation on April 12, 2021, and vaccination against Covid-19 started on May 14 under pilot project.According to Dr Reddy’s Labs, they will soon be launching the vaccine in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-gets-dcgi-s-nod-to-manufacture-sputnik-101622829617919.html
05-06-2021||India||Green law to push infra will hit environment hard, fear experts||The environment ministry is working on a radical change to the country’s environmental law regime, including changes in the important Wildlife Protection Act 1972, senior environment ministry officials said. The move comes amidst concerns among activists and environment groups that the changes are being made to make it easier to develop infrastructure and industrial projects -- even in environmentally sensitive areas.The ministry’s wildlife division has prepared a Cabinet note to amend the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, which is yet to be cleared by the Cabinet; a similar note on the amendment to Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 has also been finalised after circulating it internally among ministries. The FC Act amendment has been finalised with inputs from ministries. The first draft was cleared and is ready to be sent for Cabinet nod, ministry officials said.On April 8, the ministry called for expression of interest from consulting and law firms to prepare a new draft amendment to the Indian Forest Act, 1927. Meanwhile, a private law firm is preparing a draft environmental management act which will subsume the Air Act 1981, Water Act, 1974, and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and serve as an overarching law for all infrastructure and industry projects. This will also cover regulations of the coastal areas and islands through the Coastal Regulation Zone provisions.RP Gupta, secretary at the ministry did not reply to HT’s questionnaire or calls seeking comment. A senior environment ministry official said on condition of anonymity that the idea is to “streamline processes and to remove any ambiguity in provisions. This will make the job easy for everyone.”The amendment in the FC Act, for instance, will mainly focus on finalising the definition of forests. The SC in 1996 in the T N Godavarman Thirumalpad Vs Union of India & Ors case held that the word ‘forest’ must be understood according to its dictionary meaning. It also said that irrespective of whether an area is a forest as per revenue records, it will be covered by the FC Act, and cannot be used for any non-forestry activity without the Centre’s permission if it meets the dictionary meaning.“To avoid any further confusion, we will ensure that states which haven’t yet recognised forests as per dictionary meaning do so immediately and those that have can finalise the area accordingly. It will also clarify that plantation on non-forest land will not be recognised as forest in future. They are a totally different category and can be harvested by people who have planted them. This will also facilitate plantations,” the official cited above added.It isn’t known what changes have been suggested in the wildlife law. “A Cabinet note will be submitted soon where the ministry’s objectives have been summarised,” a second official said on condition of anonymity.“ A cautious, democratic and ambitious environmental agenda is the way forward to uphold social justice as reduce risk to business. Instead, the government has floated at least one legal change every month that is regressive, will increase resource conflicts and will not help defend ecological vulnerabilities. Most of these legal amendments have been designed in close door expert meetings, or instructed through office orders. They look to extract rather than protect the environment,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.Earlier this year, when the second wave of Covid-19 was ravaging the country, the environment ministry issued some contentious circulars. In a letter dated March 22 to additional chief secretary (forest)/ principal secretary (forest) of all state governments and Union territories, the ministry stated that a state government/UT administration will not impose any additional condition on infrastructure projects after in-principle approval has been accorded by the Centre. Independent experts say the move will further centralise powers to monitor infrastructure projects and constrain state government’s decision-making in issues related to forest and wildlife conservation.Last month, the ministry made provisions to expedite forest clearances for “critical infrastructure projects” in Left-wing extremism (LWE)-hit districts and those related to defence and security in border areas by delegating them to the regional offices of the ministry and making clearances time bound. Decisions on major projects such as granting terms of reference (TOR) for a township and area development project proposal on the Great Nicobar Island which is likely to impact turtle and megapode nesting sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-law-to-push-infra-will-hit-environment-hard-fear-experts-101622829317861.html
05-06-2021||India||India clears ₹43,000 crore project to build 6 high-tech submarines||The defence ministry on Friday cleared a project worth ₹43,000 crore for building six advanced submarines in the country under the government’s “strategic partnership” (SP) model to bolster the Indian Navy’s underwater force levels and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet, officials familiar with the development said.The defence acquisition council (DAC), India’s apex procurement body headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, approved the proposal on Friday and the navy is soon expected to issue requests for proposal (RFP) for the programme, called P-75 India, the officials said.The new submarines are part of the 30-year submarine-building programme approved by the Cabinet Committee on Security in 1999.This is a landmark approval as it is the first case being processed under the SP model, the defence ministry said in a statement.“This would be one of the largest ‘Make in India’ projects and will serve to facilitate faster and more significant absorption of technology and create a tiered industrial ecosystem for submarine construction in India. From a strategic perspective, this will help reduce current dependence on imports and gradually ensure greater self-reliance,” the statement said.The SP model envisages indigenous manufacturing of major defence platforms by an Indian strategic partner who will collaborate with a foreign original equipment manufacturer (OEM) to set up production facilities in the country.In January 2020, the defence ministry cleared two Indian and five foreign shipbuilders to take part in P-75I.The Indian strategic partners cleared to collaborate with the foreign OEMs are Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and L&T. The foreign yards they can team up with for the project are the French Naval Group, German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems, Russia’s Rubin Design Bureau, Spain’s Navantia and South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Company.Also Read | Indian Navy approaches defence ministry for Predator drone acquisitionThe new submarines will be equipped with air independent propulsion (AIP) systems that will enable the vessels to stay underwater for longer periods and enhance their combat capabilities, the statement said.With P-75I being cleared, the country has taken a step forward towards achieving the goals of its 30-year submarine construction programme, the defence ministry said.The navy plans to operate a fleet of 18 new conventional submarines and six nuclear-powered boats. The government approved the plan to build six nuclear-powered submarines in 2015, tweaking the 1999 submarine-building programme.“The availability of new technologies and advanced manufacturing capabilities to the industry will be an important step towards enhancing the nation’s quest for self-reliance in modern conventional submarine construction,” the statement said.The project will take time to mature and if all goes well, the first submarine will be delivered to the navy not before 10 years, officials said.The ministry will take the new project forward by issuing RFPs to the shortlisted Indian strategic partners who will then respond with techno-commercial offers in collaboration with one of the shortlisted OEMs. In exceptional cases, rules allow the Indian strategic partner to submit techno-commercial offers in collaboration with two OEMs.The next steps in the long process will involve opening and evaluation of technical offers, trials, staff evaluation, opening of commercial offers of companies technically compliant with the RFP and finally, the selection of the strategic partner with the lowest bid.A minimum of 45% indigenisation has to be ensured by the strategic partner in P-75I, officials familiar with the project said.The strategic partner will also ensure that the sixth submarine has a minimum indigenous content of 60%, they added.“There is an incentivisation model for specific equipment and systems under the hull, engineering and electrical heads wherein achieving indigenous content between 70% and 100% will ensure that an incentive of 5% to 20% of the equipment/system cost is paid to the strategic partner as a reward,” said one of the officials cited above.He added that a two-contract model is envisaged in P-75I -- one contract between defence ministry and the strategic partner, and the second one involving the foreign collaborator.In August 2018, DAC cleared a project under the SP model for building 111 naval utility helicopters (NUH) to replace the navy’s outdated fleet of French-designed Chetak choppers. But there has been no forward movement in the NUH project worth ₹21,738 crore.DAC on Friday cleared another project worth ₹6,000 crore for air defence guns and ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clears-rs-43-000-cr-project-to-build-6-high-tech-submarines-101622799616611.html
05-06-2021||India||No jeans, T-shirts or sports shoes, CBI asks staff to wear only formals||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal has made it mandatory for all officers and staffers of the agency to be formally dressed in the office and said casual wear like jeans and sports shoes will not be tolerated.According to an order, the dress code for men will be shirts, formal trousers, and formal shoes. They are also required to come to the office properly shaved. The women employees of the CBI have been asked to wear only sarees, suits, formal shirts, and trousers. “No jeans, T-shirts, sports shoes, chappals, ad casual attire is allowed in office,” said the order, a copy of which HT has seen. It directed heads of branches of the CBI across the country to ensure these guidelines are strictly followed.Also Read | HC questions CBI claim of bias in Narada case, points to rightsCBI officers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, called it a balanced order and said every officer, staffer always needed to wear formals. “However, over the years, people started wearing casuals... like jeans and T-shirts and nobody stopped it. CBI officers need to at least wear a formal collared shirt, trousers, and shoes,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.People familiar with the developments said Jaiswal, who took over as the agency’s 33rd director last week, is likely to make some important administrative changes to improve the CBI’s efficiency and improve its image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-jeans-t-shirts-or-sports-shoes-cbi-asks-staff-to-wear-only-formals-101622784375639.html
