08-06-2021||India||‘Kejriwal not Natwarlal’: Lekhi asks Delhi CM to not ‘con’ people over ration delivery||Lok Sabha MP and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Meenakshi Lekhi took a swipe at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and asked him to stop “conning” the people of the national capital over the ration distribution process. Lekhi compared Kejriwal to an infamous conman Natwarlal and asked him not to keep the people of Delhi in the dark by writing letters to the Centre.Political fight escalates on ration delivery plan“Your name is Kejriwal and not Natwarlal, so please stop keeping the people in the dark by continuously writing letters to the Centre,” Lekhi said. The MP was referring to Kejriwal’s letter where he had questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the halting of the doorstep delivery of ration.“People have been made to queue up for ration by the governments in the last 75 years. Sir, let not they remain in ration queues for next 75 years. They will never forgive me or you,” Kejriwal said in his letter to PM Modi.Just interested in abusing Kejriwal: Sisodia slams BJP over ration delivery plan“We are ready to make whatever changes the central government wants in this scheme. Kindly allow us to deliver ration to the doorstep of people,” Kejriwal further added referring to the earlier dispute that arose following usage of the word Mukhya Mantri in the scheme.The Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna was renamed Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna. Delhi’s government’s doorstep delivery of ration met a roadblock after the Centre stopped the scheme saying that its approval was not taken. Delhi CM Kejriwal, however, maintained that the Delhi government was not legally bound but it sought Centre’s permission to avoid any dispute.Lekhi alleged that by not implementing the One Nation One Ration Card scheme the Aam Aadmi Party-led government wants to bring middlemen in the process and make room for corruption. The Union food and public distribution ministry on Saturday claimed that the Delhi government wants to ‘tinker’ with the Centre’s nationally administered programme. It also alleged that the Delhi government would be doing so at the cost of Delhi consumers by charging the cost of milling etc. from them, according to a report by PTI.BJP leader Vijender Gupta on Sunday also alleged that four lakh fake ration card holders were identified after the Kejriwal government implemented e-PoS system in January 2018 but it never took any action towards weeding them out. Lekhi said if AAP MLAs do not take action against these people then they are also participating in corruption.“You have been the Chief Minister of Delhi for more than five years. Tell me how many licenses of ration shops you have cancelled, how many people have been sent to jail, how many FIRs have been lodged and what actions you have taken in these years besides writing letters to the Prime Minister. If not done, then it is clear that your MLAs and you yourself are part of the mafia,” the BJP Lok Sabha MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-not-natwarlal-lekhi-to-delhi-cm-over-ration-delivery-scheme-101623174045026.html
08-06-2021||India||Delhi residents travel over 200km to Agra to get Covid-19 jabs||Several people in the 18-44 age group from the Delhi-NCR region are travelling more than 200 kilometres to vaccine administration centres in Agra to get their jabs.Officials of Moolchand Medcity in Agra said that it started vaccinating people from June 4 and out of 450 beneficiaries vaccinated so far, 40% belong to Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida, Meerut, Etawah and Mathura. “After the second wave of Covid-19, people have realised the importance of getting vaccinated. They are even travelling 250 kilometres to get the jabs,” Vibhu Talwar, medical director of Moolchand Medcity was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Noida: Only UP residents eligible for vaccination of 18-45 groupTalwar said that it was a good sign that people are participating in the Covid-19 and said it reflects that citizens are now taking the pandemic seriously. “People have been coming from Mainpuri, Aligarh, Etawah, Mathura, Delhi, Meerut, Gurgaon, Noida, among other places, to get vaccinated. It is a good sign that people are travelling 250 kilometres to get inoculated against Covid-19,” he further added. A person travelled on a bike to Agra to get his jab.Centre fixes rates private hospitals can charge for three Covid-19 vaccines“There is scarcity of vaccines, especially for the 18-44 age group, in Delhi. I consider myself lucky to get my second dose at the Agra hospital. I believe ₹1,800 and above charged by private hospitals is nothing as compared to a person's life,” the person told PTI.The Delhi government has on several occasions flagged the shortage of vaccines and said that it has impacted the speed of vaccination among people aged between 18-44 years. “It is becoming a serious issue as a lot of people in the 18-44 group are nearing their date for the second dose. We have also come across reports about people travelling 100-200 km to Meerut, Bulandshahr to get their shots because there are no vaccines in Delhi,” AAP leader Atishi flagged on Tuesday.But several beneficiaries were not so lucky. On June 3, several beneficiaries returned from government vaccination centres without getting jabs as authorities said that only those having a state residence proof can avail the facility, citing an order by the state’s mission director of the National Health Mission (NHM), according to a report by HT. This rider does not apply to private hospitals in the state.The Centre on Monday said it will provide a fresh supply of vaccines for this age group on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-residents-travel-over-200km-to-agra-to-get-covid-19-jabs-101623172889654.html
08-06-2021||India||Telangana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 19 with some relaxation||The Telangana government has decided to extend the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown in the state by another ten days with effect from June 10. The decision to impose a strict lockdown from 6pm to 6am was taken at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday."The state cabinet has decided to extend the lockdown in the Telangana for another ten days. The cabinet also decided to give relaxation from 6am to 6pm during the lock down and give one-hour grace period till 6pm for people to reach home," an official release said.Also Read: CISF to take over security of Bharat Biotech’s Hyderabad facility from June 14Strict curbs on the movement of people will be in place from 6pm to 6am. In areas such as Satthupalli, Madhira, Nalgonda, Nagarjuna Sagar, Munugode, Devarakonda and Miryalguda assembly segments, the people will be prohibited from stepping out between 6am and 1pm, and a grace time of one-hour will be given to them in between.Here is all that you need to know about the lockdown:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-19-with-some-relaxation-101623167916191.html
08-06-2021||India||‘Rahul Gandhi’s words carry weight, several of his demands implemented later’: Shiv Sena||Terming Rahul Gandhi’s words to be “factually correct”, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut told reporters on Tuesday that most of the demands of the Congress leader were eventually implemented by the Union government."Many things said by Rahul Gandhi in the past were factually correct. Not just that, several of his demands were later implemented by the Union government,” PTI said quoting Raut.Raut also said that Gandhi’s words carry “weight” no matter what he is talking about."Whether he was speaking about vaccination or coronavirus, his comments are true. His words carry weight," he added.Gandhi along with other Congress leaders have been demanding free vaccines for citizens, launching the #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination campaign on social media. The former Congress chief also tweeted a video with the hashtag asking people to upload videos demanding free vaccination for all and called for a new vaccination policy in early April.Veteran leaders like Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for changes to be implemented in India’s vaccine policy.Also Read: Before PM Modi changed Covid vaccine policy, a nudge from the Supreme CourtThe new vaccine policy comes a week after the Supreme Court’s direction to the Union government “to undertake a fresh review of its vaccination policy”.On Monday, the Prime Minister amended the liberalised vaccine policy, where the Centre has been tasked with providing free vaccines to all states on the basis of their population, extent of Covid-19 spread, progress of vaccination, and vaccine wastage, under the new policy states will not have to procure any vaccines.“Vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Government of India will be allocated to States/UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination. Wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively,” a notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-words-carry-weight-several-of-his-demands-implemented-later-shiv-sena-101623167416501.html
08-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Trudeau calls killing of Muslim family in Ontario 'terrorist attack' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘This was no accident’: Trudeau calls killing of Muslim family in Ontario 'terrorist attack'Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Tuesday labelled the killing of four members of a Muslim family in London, Ontario, as a “terrorist attack.” Read moreCISF to take over security of Bharat Biotech’s Hyderabad facility from June 14The Centre on Tuesday accorded a security cover of armed Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) commandos for the Hyderabad facility of Bharat Biotech. Read moreUddhav Thackeray’s one-on-one meeting with PM Modi ‘nothing to be afraid of’, says MVANCP leader Jayant Patil told reporters on Tuesday that reports of a separate meeting between the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “nothing to be afraid” about. Read moreSenate report omits Trump’s role in US Capitol riots, reveals new details on security failureThe US Capitol Police had specific intelligence about then-President Donald Trump supporters’ plan to breach the Capitol weeks ahead of January 6, according to new findings in a bipartisan Senate report. Read moreThere was a lot of controversy, people said he can’t bat in Tests: MSK Prasad on Pant’s evolution as a better cricketerOver the last few years, people have witnessed the rise of wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant as a mature cricketer. The youngster, who had received flak for his on-field failures in the past, is now considered as one of the match winners of Team India. Read morePriyanka Chopra receives personalised gift from brother-in-law Joe Jonas, see picPriyanka Chopra has received a personalised gift from her husband Nick Jonas' brother Joe Jonas. The actor took to Instagram Stories and revealed she received a bag with her initials, PCJ, inscribed on it. Read more WhatsApp notifications on Android are about to change! Check how your experience may be affected by this featureWhatsApp notifications on Android: WhatsApp is planning to make some changes to the notifications that users receive on the company’s Android-based apps. Read moreBhagyashree reveals tips for ‘maintaining good eye health’ amid work-from-homeWe all know that our eyes degenerate due to overuse or age hence, indulging in some eye exercises are crucial especially amid the current work-from-home situation and Bhagyashree is all about rooting for the same. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-canadian-pm-trudeau-calls-killing-of-muslim-family-in-ontario-as-terrorist-attack-and-all-the-latest-news-101623165314739.html
08-06-2021||India||Private hospitals can charge a maximum of ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin, ₹1,145 for Sputnik V||The Centre on Tuesday instructed private vaccination centers to not charge more than ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin and ₹1,145 for Sputnik V jabs. The Centre said that private hospitals can charge up to ₹150 on service charges and the state governments will monitor the prices being charged.Centre says scientific data on Covid-19 vaccine Corbevax is very promisingThe Centre also said that steps are being taken to put the required validations by the CoWIN portal to make sure that prices declared by several private Covid-19 vaccination centres do not exceed that mandated by the government.In its order, the Centre also highlighted that the prices declared by private Covid-19 vaccination centres needs to be reset to the maximum value instructed by the government. "The Co-WIN system will also reset the prices declared by private CVCs to the maximum value indicated, for respective vaccines, wherever the price declared by a CVC exceeds the maximum value," the order said.The government asked the state governments to take strict action against private CVCs wherever instances of over-charging arise.CISF to take over security of Bharat Biotech’s Hyderabad facility from June 14Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, cost ₹600 per dose as declared by the company. The GST on Covishield is ₹30 and with a service charge of ₹150, a beneficiary will not pay more than ₹780 for a jab of the Oxford-AstraZeneca-developed vaccine.Sputnik, which is manufactured by several manufacturers like Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech in partnership with the the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), has set the price at ₹948. With a GST of ₹47.40~Rs47 and a service charge of ₹150, a beneficiary will be charged ₹1,145. Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, costs ₹1,200 per dose as declared by the Hyderabad-based pharma giant. The GST on Covaxin is ₹70 and with ₹150 service charge levied by private centers it will cost the beneficiary ₹1,410.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-can-charge-a-maximum-of-780-for-covishield-1-410-for-covaxin-101623166172810.html
08-06-2021||India||CISF to take over security of Bharat Biotech’s Hyderabad facility from June 14||The Centre on Tuesday accorded a security cover of armed Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) commandos for the Hyderabad facility of Bharat Biotech, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The officials said that 64 armed personnel of the paramilitary force will secure the registered office and the plant of the company. Bharat Biotech, which is one of the major Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers in the country and produces Covaxin, has its registered office and plant in Genome Valley in the Shameerpet area of Telangana’s capital city Hyderabad.CISF deputy inspector general and chief spokesperson Anil Pandey said that forces will be inducted on June 14. CISF understands that facility is vital to the health security of the country and faces terror threats from several elements.“The organisation is an important facility when it comes to ensuring medical and health security of the country and it obviously faces a terror threat from various inimical elements. The CISF, hence, has been tasked to secure the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad,” an official familiar with the developments said.The deployment comes after the Union home ministry sanctioned a proposal to deploy CISF in the Hyderabad facility. Following the sanction, the CISF also carried out a survey.The CISF is allowed to give security to private sites of public importance. This was allowed following the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, where five-star luxury hotels and a Jewish Chabad house were targeted by terrorists from Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba.CISF also guards the Infosys campuses in Pune and Mysuru, the Reliance IT Park in Navi Mumbai and yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali factory in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-to-take-over-security-of-bharat-biotech-s-hyderabad-facility-from-june-14-101623165471085.html
08-06-2021||India||UP government to give smartphones to around 4 lakh Anganwadi workers||All Anganwadi workers will get smartphones in Uttar Pradesh after chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in a high-level meeting, instructed the officials concerned to ensure their distribution in order to help those crucial in implementation of women and child welfare schemes in rural areas.There 1.89 lakh Anganwadi centres in the state and around four lakh workers.The Anganwadi workers have played an important role in the UP model of Covid-19 control, a release issued by the government said. "In order to smoothen their activities, the chief minister on Tuesday directed to provide smartphones to all Anganwadi workers in the state," it said.All data related to women and children schemes will now be in the hands of Anganwadi workers, the release said, adding that the government will also train them n how to use smartphones efficiently for their work. According to an official spokesperson, this will result in maximum transparency in implementation of the schemes. Decisions related to the schemes will be taken on the basis of real-time data, without delay, and the scope for corruption will be minimised, the release read."After being equipped with smartphones, the various schemes in rural areas including nutrition and child welfare, will be implemented in a more effective manner," it added.Meanwhile, CM Yogi also launched 'Mukhya Mantri Bal Seva Yojana' for children who lost their parents due to Covid-19 and those who are suffering from other diseases. "The smartphone initiative will also help in implementation of this scheme," the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-government-to-give-smartphones-to-around-4-lakh-anganwadi-workers-101623160625724.html
08-06-2021||India||House panel meetings to resume from June 21||After a gap of more than two months, Indian parliamentary committees will resume their meeting from June 21, authorities involved in the planning told HT. “The chairpersons of the standing committees have been informed that they can resume panel meetings from June 21,” said a senior MP who heads a panel. Officials maintained that June 21 has been chosen, keeping in mind the lockdowns in some of the states. The authorities expect that by June 21, the remaining lockdowns would be lifted amid an improving Covid-19 situation in large parts of the country. On June 21, the government would also switch over to the centralized vaccine programme in which the Union government would provide free vaccine to the states. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the states would not have to pay for the vaccines and all adults can receive free vaccines organized by the Centre. As the national capital and large parts of the country reels under the overwhelming second wave of Covid-19, many House committees had to cancel their meetings in the past few months and no new meeting have been planned. Indian Parliament could work for only 34 days since the pandemic hit Indian shores in March 2020. The entire winter session of 2020 had to be cancelled while the last three other sessions were cut short.The Labour panel, led by Bhartruhari Mahtab, had planned to meet on April 23 on cotton plantations and scheduled a study tour in April. “We had to cancel both. In my panel, at least 15-16 members are in the NCR region or UP and can travel by road to attend any panel meetings. But some of those members were reluctant to come for meetings,” said Mahtab. The panel will now meet on June 23. Earlier, a meeting of the agriculture committee was similarly cancelled, officials said. Another meeting of the IT panel, led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor had to be cancelled. Usually, three to four meetings of various parliamentary committees are scheduled in a week. Officials said while the Covid-19 situation is preventing some lawmakers living in other states to travel to Delhi, many parliamentary officials too were not attending office and were working from home. “So, even if a panel wants to meet, proper arrangement for that meeting might be a challenge,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-meetings-to-resume-from-june-21-101623164565834.html
08-06-2021||India||IMD forecasts likely formation of low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal around June 11||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast another low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal around June 11. The forecast from the IMD comes as the country witnessed two cyclones -- Tauktae and Yaas -- on the western and eastern coasts respectively during the second half of May 2021.In a press release earlier on Monday (June 7), the weather body said that a low-pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood on June 11. The south-westerly winds over the Arabian Sea is also likely to strengthen from June 10, it further said in its forecast.“Under its influence, Southwest Monsoon is likely to advance into remaining parts of Maharashtra (including Mumbai), Telangana and Andhra Pradesh by 11 June; Odisha, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, East Uttar Pradesh, some parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat state during 11-13 June 2021,” the press release noted.Also read | Central team to visit areas hit by Cyclone Yaas in Bengal todayIf the low-pressure area converts into a cyclone, this would be the third cyclone that the country would witness within a span of weeks. According to the naming conventions shared by the World Meteorological Organisation (specialised agency of the United Nations), it would be named Gulab, a name shared by Pakistan.As part of its weather forecast, the IMD said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely over most parts of eastern India and adjoining central India regions from June 10. Also, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha are very likely to witness isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on June 10 and 11. Similar forecast has been made for Jharkhand on June 11 and for east Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on June 11 and 12. The IMD also warned that isolated extremely heavy falls are very likely over Odisha on June 11 and 12.“Due to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast; enhanced rainfall activity likely along the West coast including Maharashtra and Telangana from 11th June onwards,” the IMD said in a tweet on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-likely-formation-of-low-pressure-area-over-north-bay-of-bengal-around-june-11-101623163299373.html
08-06-2021||India||There are certain fights you can win only by being cautious: Dr Ashutosh Tewari||Dr Ashutosh “Ash” Tewari, chair of the department of urology at Mount Sinai hospital in New York, has mobilised, collected and shipped crucial life-saving equipment to India, driven by the death of a childhood friend in the second wave of cases and inspired by a colleague’s humanitarian work in Honduras.Tewari was himself infected by Covid-19 in the early days of the pandemic, when New York had turned into the epicentre, and spent two weeks in the ICU at the hospital where he works, looked after by his colleagues.Tewari and his colleague, Michael J McCarry, who is senior vice-president of perioperative services, have led a hospital-wide effort that has sent two consignments of 25 ventilators and 100 sleep apnea machines with kits to convert them to ventilators, along with other medical equipment to India, through chartered flights in three separate shipments.Baba Kalyani of Kalyani Forge and actor Anupam Kher have been a great help, Tewari said, in ensuring his help reached the right places and people. Dr Tewari spoke to Hindustan Times recently. Here are edited excerpts from the interview:Could you talk a bit about your own infection? How do you think you might have contracted it?I was in New York, which was the epicentre of the pandemic, and I was always at work, like my other colleagues. I got it and brought it back home to my wife and daughter, who was with us. My daughter got it from me; she had given birth just a few weeks before.Several doctors got it, and I am one of the lucky ones who is here to talk about it.Also Read | Indian experts urge faster inoculations ahead of free Covid-19 shotsWhen was this? It was in the second half of April and first half of May 2020. I was in the ICU for two weeks.And at that stage, there was no remdesivir (a therapeutic medicine that reduced the severity of the illness and brought rare cheer in the grim pre-vaccine world). There were none of these other therapeutics (such as convalescent plasma and dexamethasone, a common steroid that was used to treat then US President Donald Trump)?That’s the reason I complement my own institution. They had initiated a clinical trial on remdesivir. And I got it. When I do clinical trials now, I appreciate why it’s important to go through them.As you recovered, what did you think was going right or wrong in the US at the time?I focus on what we did right rather than what we did wrong. I don’t have the bandwidth to focus on what happens the other way around. I think that with high population density, some places will have more Covid infections. What we did right was to figure it out in terms of the molecular structure, treatment protocols, medications, figuring out different phases of infection, and Covid-19 long-haulers (people who are left with long-term effects from the illness).We became so innovative in my hospital that while we were figuring out how to get more ventilators, my colleagues in the ICU figured out how to use one ventilator between two patients; they figured out how to make an ICU in our hospital lobby; they t figured out how to create a hospital in the Central Park. Just being innovative and then focusing on the only one thing that we have to deal with. My summary of the whole process is that certain fights you can win by being strong and feisty, but there are certain fights where you can be victorious only by being cautious. This is one in which we have to be cautious, don’t underestimate the enemy, take all the precautions you can, and deal with it. If you still end up getting it, don’t lose hope; there is life after Covid.This is a good time to segue to what’s happening in India, which has touched you personally as you lost a childhood friend to the second wave of Covid-19. As a medical professional, what do you think is happening in India?India is facing the same thing which all other big-number countries have had to deal with. I am a big fan of Indian doctors because it’s a very organic system: doctors, nurses, technicians, nursing homes, clinics, hospitals, big hospitals, all those things they combine in a very interconnected way. I know of my friends who are doctors—they were on non-stop phone calls; they created a network of support systems; they were not sleeping. And that inspires me.But there comes a point when the human hand cannot fix everything, specially Covid. They need gadgets (and equipment) such as oxygen concentrators or ventilators. They (shortages) were an issue here as well and there was no surprise that it was happening in India.Share some personal experiences that you had about Covid as regards India, which really motivated you.I know how innovative the Indian system is. But I was sad that people were dying. I did not want people dying because of the lack of access to equipment. I am far from the battlefield right now in India, and my connections are through WhatsApp, video chats, phone calls and text messages. This is not an easy time, and hopefully. things will change. Covid affected people very close to me, and I lost friends.Could you talk a little bit about that, if it’s not too painful to recount?It was late in the night. His adult kids were talking to me about what to do for their father. They tried to go to different hospitals. Nothing was available. They made it to one with great difficulty, but it was not equipped to treat Covid patients; it wasn’t one of the so-called Covid-designated hospitals. They did everything possible, but they did not have all the gadgets that were needed, and he did not live through the night.Which city was this? And was it during the second wave in April?Kanpur (Dr Tewari’s hometown). Yes, it was during the second wave.Was this the tipping point when you decided you needed to do something?That was the trigger. On one side, I was sad, but I can channelise my sadness into something positive. I think this story has, what you call, serendipity. So, it is happening in April, and in early April, I was talking to a friend of mine who is a senior vice-president at Mount Sinai — nothing to do with India — and he told me that he is doing some things for Covid patients in Honduras. He started talking to me about how innovative he has been in terms of modifying the BiPAP machines (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure machine, a non-invasive form of therapy for patients suffering from sleep apnea) and he was telling me that the machine has saved 100 people; and these are small gadgets. So, I was curious about it, and suddenly this happens (his friend’s death). I said I wish I had something (like this) to give to my friend. At that moment, he said, “you should get this”. And then, he spoke to the (hospital) leadership, and I spoke to the dean and the president of the hospital. The next question was, how will I get them to India. That is when I thought of friends who are resourceful. I reached out to Mr Kalyani of Bharat Forge (Babasaheb Neelkanth Kalyani, chairman and managing director).I said, “Baba, I have lots of gadgets, can you get them to India?” He said, “Sure”. I did not care where this equipment went as long as they ended up in good hands. So I reached out to Anupam Kher, whom I had met at social events in New York. He also said, “Why not? I will figure it out”.I started with couple of hundred items, and then the cascade happened. That small consignment led other people to look at what I was doing, and they started reaching out to me. We have sent two consignments, and the third one is waiting to go soon.So you are collecting the equipment, Baba Kalyani is flying it to India, and Anupam Kher is essentially distributing them?That’s right. And then, every now and then if I have requests, I just share the list with them.Have you thought of travelling to India anytime soon?Yeah, as soon as travelling gets easier, I will.And you still have a lot of family there?My mom is there, fully vaccinated; I lost my father some time ago. I have a typical Indian family with lots of chachas, mamas, cousins, mausis and buas (uncles, cousins, aunts). That’s who I am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-are-certain-fights-you-can-win-only-by-being-cautious-dr-ashutosh-tewari-101623162585936.html
08-06-2021||India||Centre tells states to nominate more officers for central deputation||The Centre on Tuesday asked state governments to send more officers to central deputation at the levels of deputy secretary, director and joint secretary, according to an order. The central government cited that it is facing a shortage of officers at these levels.The personnel ministry asked the state governments not to nominate officers who are on the verge of promotion, citing that the promotion often leads to their early repatriation to their cadre to avail the benefit. “It may be ensured that the names of only those officers are forwarded who are likely to remain available under the Central Staffing Scheme (CSS) for full tenure,” the letter issued by the personnel ministry said.“It is, therefore, requested that a larger number of officers may kindly be recommended for appointment at DS/Director/JS level under the Central Staffing Scheme so that the central deputation reserve/ deputation reserves are duly utilised for this purpose,” the communique further said.The CSS allows officers of the level of deputy secretary, deputy director and above to be appointed on central deputation in ministries of the central government or central government’s departments. The personnel ministry in December had asked state governments for officers to be deputed under CSS as well as for the posts of chief vigilance officers (CVOs) and in central public sector enterprises (CPSEs). It also sought officers to be deputed to central ministries and departments.The Centre said that the nomination received after its communique issued in December has been ‘very minimal’.“The number of nominations received so far has been very minimal and as such the representation of officers from various cadres or services especially at DS and Director level is extremely low,” the letter said. It also pointed out that working under the CSS adds to the experience of officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-states-to-nominate-more-officers-for-central-deputation-101623161511285.html
08-06-2021||India||Niti Aayog-Piramal launches campaign to help provide home-care to Covid patients||Niti Aayog and Piramal Foundation on Tuesday launched a Surakshit Hum Surakshit Tum Abhiyaan in 112 districts to assist in providing home-care support to asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients. The campaign is part of a special initiative, Aspirational Districts Collaborative, in which local leaders, civil societies and volunteers work with district administrations to address emerging problems across key focus areas, a press release from Niti Aayog read.Under this campaign, the NGOs will be mobilising volunteers to provide home-care support to those affected, based on the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare. The press release said, “Volunteers will be trained to support 20 affected families each by educating caretakers to follow Covid-19 protocols, provide psycho-social support and timely updates about patients to the administration.”While launching the campaign, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, “Surakshit Hum Surakshit Tum Abhiyaan is a significant initiative that responds to immediate needs and will provide long-term support to India’s poorest communities in the aspirational districts by addressing the lasting impact of Covid-19.”Also Read | Uttarakhand has lowest child sex ratio in the country: Niti Aayog’s SDG index“The campaign is expected to play a key role in district preparedness for managing nearly 70% of Covid-19 cases at home, reducing pressure on the health system, and stemming the spread of fear amongst the people. The campaign will also undertake capacity building of citizens for correct usage of oxygen concentrators that have been supplied to these districts”, the statement read.According to the statement released by the Niti Aayog, the Surakshit Hum Surakshit Tum Abhiyaan will be led by district magistrates in partnership with over 1,000 local NGOs, which will enlist and train over 100,000 volunteers to connect with patients through phone calls.The Piramal Foundation will be working with the district magistrates to support the training of NGOs and volunteers.At the launch of the campaign, Piramal Group chairman Ajay Piramal said, “In line with Piramal Foundation’s value of sewa [service], we aim to reach every affected person in the 112 aspirational districts. We call all stakeholders—government, NGOs, communities, and others—to join hands and offer their service in this initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-piramal-launches-campaign-to-help-provide-home-care-to-covid-patients-101623161085257.html
08-06-2021||India||Centre says scientific data on Covid-19 vaccine Corbevax is very promising||The Centre on Tuesday said that the provisional scientific data of Biological E’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Corbevax, is promising. Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member (health) said that the vaccine is likely to be available by September.“The provisional scientific data of Biological E’s Corbevax is very promising. We shall wait for Biological E to announce the price of Corbevax,” Dr Paul said during the daily Covid-19 press briefing.Paul said that the government has also placed an order to purchase 300 million doses of Corbevax. He also said that the Centre is waiting for Biological E to announce the price of Corbevax and said that the financial aid given by the government will help cover the costs of procuring the doses of the vaccine.Corbevax is a RBD protein subunit vaccine and is currently undergoing its Phase III clinical trials.“We should wait for Biological E to announce the price of Corbevax. It shall also depend on the negotiations with the company and the financial aid that has been given will meet part of the price of the vaccine. The government has placed an order to purchase 30 crore doses of Biological E's vaccine which will be available by September,” Paul said during the press conference.During the briefing, Paul said that the government has placed an order to purchase 440 million doses of Covishied and Covaxin from Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech respectively. Out of these 440 million doses, 250 million doses will be procured from SII and the remaining 190 million doses will be procured from Bharat Biotech. These doses will be available starting from now till December 2021.“The government placed an order for procurement of 25 crores doses of Covishield and 19 crore doses of Covaxin. These 44 crore doses of Covishield (25 crore doses) and Covaxin (19 crore doses) will be available till December 2021 starting now,” he further added.Paul also said that 30% of the advance for procuring these vaccines have been released to both the vaccine manufacturers. The health ministry last week in a release said that it will also make an advance payment of ₹1,500 crore to Biological E.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-scientific-data-on-covid-19-vaccine-corbevax-is-very-promising-101623159248276.html
08-06-2021||India||Indian experts urge faster inoculations ahead of free Covid-19 shots||Indian officials and health experts welcomed a federal government plan to give free Covid-19 shots to all adults as a step in the right direction on Tuesday, but cautioned that vaccinations must be accelerated to prevent new surges in infections.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the federal government would take over the inoculation programme from Indian states and offer free doses to everyone over the age of 18.His announcement on national television followed weeks of criticism of a vaccine rollout that has covered fewer than 5% of India's estimated adult population of 950 million. This has left the country vulnerable to another wave of infections after a surge in April-May which government data showed killed 170,000."Took him 4 months but after much pressure, he has finally listened to us and implemented what we've been asking all this while," Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal state, wrote on Twitter.India has been giving an average of 2.4 million shots a day. Health officials say this is far from adequate for a country as large as India."We need to vaccinate 7-8 million persons per day to meet the target of covering all the eligible persons before the end of December," Giridhara Babu, a member of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country's main health research agency, told Reuters.Babu is part of the national taskforce's working group on epidemiology and surveillance.Daily infections have fallen and officials aim to switch the focus to mass vaccinations. India reported 86,498 new cases overnight, the lowest number in over two months and a sharp drop from a peak of around 400,000 a day in May.India has been inoculating its people with AstraZeneca shots produced at the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin made by Indian firm Bharat Biotech. It is set to commercially launch Russia's Sputnik V in mid-June.One reason for the low coverage is that supplies are tight. At Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram hospital, there are no supplies of AstraZeneca, a hospital executive said.Authorities in Delhi have asked hospitals to stop giving the first dose of home-produced Covaxin to people aged from 18 to 44 and focus instead on the elderly until supplies improve, a spokesperson of the party governing the city said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-experts-urge-faster-inoculations-ahead-of-free-covid-19-shots-101623157002741.html
08-06-2021||India||These assembly polls, Cong lost most candidates to other parties: ADR report||During the recent assembly elections in Puducherry, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, Congress saw the most candidates leave the party, reveals a report by National Election Watch and Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The report also shows that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was their favourite destination.The report, which came out of the analysis of affidavits of 60 candidates and 51 MLAs who changed parties and contested the recent elections in these 4 states and Union Territory of Puducherry, says that the trend suggests that “private interest of politicians” is gaining over “interest of citizens”.Out of the 60 candidates who changed their parties, 8 were from Congress, followed by AIADMK, AIUDF and BJP which lost five candidates each.As far as welcoming turncoats is concerned, the BJP inducted 20 of them. This was followed by Trinamool Congress which welcomed 8, and the Congress that inducted 5.As many as 20 of the 51 MLAs who left their parties belonged to Congress. This was followed by 15 MLAs who left Trinamool Congress to join a different party to contest elections.Also Read | Suvendu Adhikari meets home minster Amit Shah, says discussed several mattersAgain, BJP topped the list by welcoming the most defectors. 20 out of 51 re-contesting MLAs joined the BJP followed by 17 who joined the Trinamool and 7 who joined AMMK.A look at the financial assets also shows that it is mostly the monied politicians who have switched sides. Out of these 60 candidates, 29 are crorepatis with JD(U) defector MV Shreyams Kumar from Wayanad, who joined Loktantrik Janata Dal, being the richest. As per his latest election affidavit, Kumar owns assets worth 88 crore rupees.Similarly, out of 51 MLAs who contested from other parties, 35 are crorepatis. Pointing out the most plausible reasons behind such defections, the report mentions that the absence of value-based politics, non-existence of laws on functioning of political parties have led to “skewing of fundamental principles of Indian democracy”.HT also analysed how these turncoats fared in the elections. Out of 60 candidates who changed parties, 39 lost the elections, with the highest being 19 from Bengal where 25 candidates had left their parties. In Kerala, 7 candidates left their parties and 6 of them lost. Similarly in Tamil Nadu, 13 left and 8 of them lost. In Assam, 13 candidates left their parties but only 5 lost. In Puducherry, one of two defector candidates lost.With regard to MLAs who changed parties and contested, 29 out of 51 lost elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-assembly-polls-cong-lost-most-candidates-to-other-partiesadrreport-101623158685395.html
08-06-2021||India||Fire at Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu; no injuries reported yet||A fire broke out at Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, officials said. However, no injuries were reported in the accident till evening.The fire started from the structure adjoining the sanctum sanctorum, also known as the Bhawan, around 4.15pm. Even as the fire was doused by 5pm it caused damage to a cash counter, officials said. "Some cash and records were gutted in the fire," they said.Jammu & Kashmir | A fire broke out at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra, today"The fire has been brought under control," says CEO Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board pic.twitter.com/rRbBdTR0dsThe cause of the fire is said to be a short circuit.Firefighting squad of the shrine swung into action after CRPF personnel raised an alarm, the officials said. A video of the incident showed thick smoke billowing out of the building as firefighters worked to bring the fire under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-in-jammu-no-injuries-reported-101623156790316.html
08-06-2021||India||Environment ministry gears up to phase out single use plastics by 2022||The Union environment ministry on Tuesday launched a two-month long awareness campaign on single use plastics. A series of events are lined up for the same.The ministry issued a draft notification in March this year to phase out single use plastic products in phases by 2022 by amending the plastic waste management rules. The manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of ear buds with plastic sticks, plastic sticks for balloons, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice-cream sticks, polystyrene [thermocol] for decoration will be prohibited from January 1, 2022. The ban will be extended to single-use plastic (including polystyrene and expanded polystyrene) plates, cups, glasses, cutlery, straw, trays, wrapping or packing films around sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets, and plastic or PVC banners less than 100 micron from July 1, 2022.“Many states have already made legislations to phase out single use plastic. We have decided to curb the use of thin plastic bags below 40 microns thickness and all state governments to keep a check on units manufacturing thin plastic bags,” said Prakash Javadekar, union environment minister in a recorded message. The launch event was disrupted after several international websites faced outages on Tuesday.The campaign will involve behavioural change, policy and regulatory regime for phase out of single use plastics, strengthening waste management infrastructure by engaging other ministries, and partnership with industry associations and with producer, importer and brand owners, RP Gupta, secretary, ministry of environment and forests said.The campaign is in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Programme, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and GIZ, German environment organisation etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-gears-up-to-phase-out-single-use-plastics-by-2022-101623156766470.html
08-06-2021||India||Ramdev’s response to doctors’ body: Statements withdrawn, no merit in notice||Yoga guru Ramdev has responded to legal notice by a medical professionals’ association over his comments against allopathic medicines and doctors, saying it holds no merit as it is based on incomplete information and a segment of the video from an hours’ long meeting. In his response, Ramdev has said his comments were taken out of context and blown out of proportion while he was merely questioning the excessive use of experimental therapy.He added several medical experts have also expressed concerns about the overuse of the experimental therapies and that many of them were later removed from the treatment protocol. Ramdev said he holds no ill will against any discipline of medicine.“The notice issued by you … is completely misconceived, devoid of merits, and has been issued on the basis of incomplete information. Therefore, … you are advised to withdraw your notice immediately,” Ramdev said in his response to the notice by Federation of All India Medical Associations (FAIMA).Ramdev last month said he was “withdrawing” the controversial remarks hours after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to rescind them.Also Read | A year of internal and external challengesEarlier, in a letter addressed to Ramdev, Vardhan said: “People of this country are extremely hurt by your comments against allopathic medicines, and doctors. Your explanation issued yesterday on your comments has not helped much in healing the hurt sentiments of people…”Ramdev referred to his statement that about 10,000 doctors died despite vaccination, and added he was echoing the concern of the masses that medical professionals were dying despite immunisation.At least 646 doctors have died of Covid-19 during the second wave of infections and 753 during the first wave, according to the Indian Medical Association (IMA). IMA has pointed out no vaccines were available during the first wave and most of those who died during the second wave had not been able to take their shots.Suvrankar Datta, general secretary, FAIMA, said they will seek legal opinion on the way forward. “...we shall be working along with... IMA and other Doctor Associations to decide our next course of action. We shall be initiating a nationwide meeting of all major associations this week to decide on the major issues including violence against doctors and how to stop systematic misinformation campaigns against modern medicine by self-proclaimed spiritual leaders,” he said.Several medical associations joined the black ribbon protest called by the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association on June 1 to protest against the statements of Ramdev.The IMA also sent Ramdev a legal notice over the remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdevs-response-to-doctors-body-statements-withdrawn-no-merit-in-notice-101623155325132.html
08-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: CEC asks Centre to take action on proposed electoral reforms and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CEC nudges Centre on pending electoral reforms seeking ban on ‘paid news’, Aadhaar-electoral rolls linkageChief election commissioner Sushil Chandra on Tuesday wrote to Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad urging him to take action on the proposed electoral reforms that are currently pending with the Centre. Read more here.Kareena Kapoor Khan posts glowing no-makeup selfie after ‘beautiful trek’. Kareena Kapoor Khan shared a selfie taken after a ‘beautiful trek’. She wore no makeup on her face in the picture. See it here. Milind Soman's sleeping Vishnu pose, underwater, raises the bar of fitness goalsKeeping his arms, body and legs all in a straight line on the swimming pool’s floor, Milind Soman challenged heavier resistance with his aquatic sleeping Vishnu pose and his underwater Yoga in this awe-inspiring video are the only blues we are accepting this Tuesday. See it here. Why Ashwin is India's biggest weapon against New Zealand in WTC FinalRavichandran Ashwin walks into the playing XI because of his outstanding performances with ball, and bat recently, and for the simple fact that he remains India's biggest match-winner in Test cricket. Read more here. Can you guess how many M&Ms it takes to beat the world record for tallest stack?Guinness World Records is known for being home to unthinkably bizarre records like the fastest wheelie bin, and the largest human mouth gape. Adding to those odd ones is this record of stacking as many M&Ms as one can. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cec-asks-centre-to-take-action-on-proposed-electoral-101623151303745.html
08-06-2021||India||CEC nudges Centre on pending electoral reforms seeking ban on ‘paid news’, Aadhaar-electoral rolls linkage||Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra on Tuesday wrote to Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad urging him to take action on the proposed electoral reforms that are currently pending with the Centre."I have written to the law minister to expedite these proposals and hopefully they will be taken up early by the ministry," Chandra told PTI.These reforms include a suggestion of increasing the jail term of those furnishing incorrect details in their poll affidavit from six months to two years. A jail term of two years can effectively bar the individuals from contesting elections for a period of six years.Also Read: ‘Election Commission has always been neutral and impartial’: CEC Sushil ChandraThe Election Commission proposed a ban on political advertisements on newspapers during the ‘silence period’ -- between the end of electoral campaigning and the day of elections. The poll body also proposed to make “paid news” an electoral offence.All of these proposals require an amendment to the Representation of the People Act, 1951.The commission also suggested an extension of the Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, to bring print media under its purview and ban any political advertisement on the day of polling. Currently, only electronic media is barred from displaying political advertisements during the 48 hours before polls conclude.The poll body sought to link Aadhaar numbers with electoral rolls. The proposal, which was initially suggested in August 2019, wants to empower electoral officers enough to seek Aadhaar details of existing voters as well as new voters. Chandra told Hindustan Times that this is to eliminate duplication and to make it easier for people to transfer their votes when they move to a different constituency. In 2015, the Supreme Court had halted a previous attempt by the election commission to link Aadhar number with electoral data.Prasad had said to the Lok Sabha in a written reply recently that the proposed amendments are under consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cec-nudges-centre-on-pending-electoral-reforms-seeking-ban-on-paid-news-aadhaar-electoral-rolls-linkage-101623150559728.html
08-06-2021||India||Don't think we will have serious Covid infection in children in the future, says AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria||Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said on Tuesday that there is no evidence to suggest that the next wave of Covid-19 will cause serious infection in children. “I don't think we will have a serious infection in children in the future," said Guleria during a press briefing of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Guleria said data collected from both the waves of the coronavirus pandemic in the country showed that neither new variants nor the old ones caused severe infection in children. "No data, global or Indian, has had any observations of children being affected more. Even in the data from the second wave kids who were infected had mild illness or co-morbidities," he said. "In many parts of the world where new waves are happening there's no data to show children are being severely affected," he added.Watch | 'Black Fungus not a new disease': AIIMS doctor demystifies Mucormycosis ﻿﻿The AIIMS director said that the majority of the children who were infected recovered with no hospitalisation unless they had co-morbidities. "The 60-70 per cent of the kids admitted were with co-morbidities, either they were immunocompromised or on chemotherapy. The healthy kids had mild illness and they recovered without being hospitalised," Guleria said.Also Read: Nearly 30,000 children affected by pandemic, says NCPCR’s latest affidavit in Supreme CourtHospitals across the country have started ramping up facilities for paediatric care after experts apprehended that the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic will be more severe for children. Andhra Pradesh released a circular to vaccinate mothers of children below five years of age on priority and a similar step was taken by authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida.Guleria also said that the best way to avoid a subsequent wave of Covid-19 and counter misinformation on subsequent waves causing more harm to children is to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, avoid crowds and break the chain of transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-think-we-will-have-serious-infection-in-children-in-the-future-says-aiims-director-dr-randeep-guleria-101623150076868.html
08-06-2021||India||28 elephants in Tamil Nadu’s Mudumalai Tiger Reserve tested for Covid||As many as 28 elephants of Tamil Nadu’s Mudumalai Tiger Reserve were tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Samples from 26 adults and 2 calves from the Theppakadu camp have been sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Izatnagar in Uttar Pradesh. This has been done as a precautionary measure after nine lions tested positive for Covid-19, and one lioness succumbed to the virus in the Arignar Anna Zoological Park or Vandalur zoo outside Chennai on June 3. Also Read | Tiger covers 100km in 4 months to reach Sundarbans in Bangladesh from IndiaSwabs were collected from the elephants’ trunk and rectum while they were made to lie down. Dr K Rajesh Kumar, forest veterinarian, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, said, “Most of the elephants cooperated . This is a screening process and none of them is suspected to have the virus.” He added that they didn’t have to sedate the elephants or that “would have caused a huge strain on the animal”.Meanwhile, as a preventive measure, the feeding time of the elephants has been staggered. The men working for them are allowed entry only after their temperature is checked. As many as 52 mahouts and 27 kavadis (assistants to mahouts) are present in the camp and are being vaccinated on a priority basis. “12 out of the 52 mahouts have been vaccinated so far,” said KK Kaushal, field director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve.Tamil Nadu forest minister K Ramachnadran had also instructed forest officials to collect samples from all elephants in the Theppakadu camp as well as the Kozhikamuthy camp in Top Slip in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-elephants-in-tamil-nadu-s-mudumalai-tiger-reserve-tested-for-covid-101623150104276.html
08-06-2021||India||Uddhav says Maharashtra needs 120mn doses of Covid vaccine for 18-44 years group||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the state will need at least 120 million doses of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to fully inoculate the 60 million people in the age group of 18-44 years.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray-led delegation meets PM Modi“We require at least 12 crore doses to vaccinate 6 crore people twice who fall under the 18-44 years age group. We attempted to do this earlier but supplies were inadequate and not steady. We are thankful to the Prime Minister for centralising vaccine procurement and I hope everyone gets vaccinated soon,” Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Kashmir village first in country to record 100% Covid vaccinationThackeray along with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Congress leader Ashok Chavan held a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier on Tuesday at his residence in New Delhi. They discussed issues related to the reservation for the Maratha community, political reservation of Other Backward Classes (OBCs), nomination of 12 members to legislative council and issues related to GST compensation. Thackeray also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi separately for 30 minutes after the meeting concluded, according to a report by HT.Maharashtra recently eased some of the lockdown-like restrictions it had imposed since April 22 as the state fought to contain the largest outbreak in the country during the second wave. Thackeray announced a five-level plan on Sunday allowing areas with a positivity rate of 5% or less and less than 25% oxygen bed occupancy to open up completely.At least 20.3 million people in Maharashtra have received their vaccination against Covid-19. It has vaccinated more than a million people aged between 18-44 years with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The state also reported 10,219 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, its lowest count of cases since March 9 this year. Maharashtra has recorded 5.84 million cases of Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-says-maharashtra-needs-120mn-doses-of-covid-vaccine-for-18-44-years-group-101623146610904.html
08-06-2021||India||Bombay HC cancels Amravati MP Navneet Kaur Rana’s caste certificate, says she got it fraudulently||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday cancelled the caste certificate of Navneet Kaur Rana, an Independent member of Parliament from Maharashtra’s Amaravati, saying it was “validated fraudulently”. "Since she got it validated fraudulently from Caste Scrutiny Committee by producing fabricated and fraudulent documents, caste certificate is cancelled and stands confiscated," the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court said, according to news agency ANI.A division bench of Justice RD Dhanuka and Justice VG Bisht directed her to surrender it within six weeks. The bench also imposed a fine of ₹200,000, which she needs to pay to the Maharashtra Legal Services Authority within two weeks.According to PTI, the high court noted her claim of belonging to 'Mochi' caste for obtaining the Scheduled Caste certificate itself was fraudulent. The court also said that it made with an intention to avail benefits given to a candidate from such category, despite knowing she does not belong to that caste.“I respect the court's order as a citizen of this country. I will approach the Supreme Court. I am confident that I will get justice,” Navneet Kaur Rana said after the court’s order, according to ANI.The Bombay High court pronounced the order cancelling the lawmaker’s caste certificate on the complaint filed by veteran Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Adsul. Adsul was defeated in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections by Rana, who won as an Independent candidate with support from the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Rana, a former Telugu actor, contested the election as a Yuva Swabhimani Paksha (YSP) candidate, a political outfit formed by her husband Ravi Rana. It was the second time Rana ran against Adsul after losing to him in 2014. She had fought as an NCP candidate that year.Navneet Kaur Rana, who is one of the eight women lawmakers from Maharashtra, could lose her seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-cancels-amravati-mp-navneet-kaur-rana-s-caste-certificate-101623146185518.html
08-06-2021||India||Goa under Covid-19 lockdown till June 14: All you need to know||The Goa government on Tuesday announced that the state will be put under another lockdown till June 14 in an attempt to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Before the previous lockdown, which was imposed starting May 9, chief minister Pramod Sawant instructed all Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs to set up a "war room" in their constituencies to keep stock of efforts to deal with the pandemic. "The MLAs will also have to start round-the-clock call centres which will be in touch with Covid-19 patients," he said.Goa recorded 418 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 13 new deaths due to the virus on Monday. These took the overall infection tally in the state to 159,811 while the death toll soared to 2,840. As many as 6,397 active cases of the virus are on record while 1,162 recoveries took place in the previous 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 150,574.Here is all you need to know about the Goa lockdown:- This Covid-19 lockdown is an extension of the one imposed in the state on May 9.- CM Sawant said essential shops will be allowed to remain open from 7am to 3pm. In the previous lockdown, essentials were available between 7am and 1pm and takeaway was allowed from 7am to 7pm.- Shops selling tools related to house or building repairs, monsoon preparedness, or rain protection and stationary items will be allowed to remain open.- “Our government has decided to extend the State Level Curfew till 7 AM, 14 June 2021. Timings for essential shops as defined will be increased to 7 AM to 3 PM. In addition, shops/stores related to house/building repairs, monsoon preparedness, or rain protection & stationery items will be allowed to open,” CM Sawant tweeted.- Goa tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, meanwhile, said tourism activities should resume in the state after the entire population is vaccinated. He also said that tourists who have been vaccinated should be allowed entry in the state. Goa has allowed hotels to function but restaurants and other tourism-related activities have been shut due to the curfew which began on May 9.- Laying stress on the importance of tourism for Goa's economy, the minister said, "We can't keep Goa's tourism industry shut forever, as it is an important backbone of our state's economy."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-under-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-14-all-you-need-to-know-101623144860744.html
08-06-2021||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray-led delegation meets PM Modi||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and public works department minister Ashok Chavan met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and discussed various issues, including reservation for Maratha and Other Backward Classes, the nomination of 12 members to legislative council, release of GST compensation dues.The delegation met the Modi for over one-and-a-half hour at the latter’s official Delhi residence. The most important issue raised during the meeting was political reservation for the Maratha community and Other Backward Classes. The state government has requested the Centre to accord reservation to Marathas from the Central quota and remove the 50% ceiling on reservation.Also Read | Maharashtra records 10,219 Covid-19 cases“The Centre has already filed a review petition in the Maratha reservation ruling, challenging the apex court’s ruling that state governments do not have powers to decide the backwardness of any community after the 102nd constitutional amendment. We requested the Centre that empowering the states with the powers to decide the reservation will not be sufficient until the cap of 50% on the reservation is removed. We have requested the Centre to take legal steps to remove the cap, as it has affected not only Maratha reservations, but many others, including political reservation to OBCs,” Thackeray said, while addressing the media at Maharashtra Sadan after the meeting.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state has demanded constitutional political reservation to OBCs. “The political reservation in the local body elections to the OBCs has been struck down recently by the Supreme Court. It was the statutory reservation and has been quashed as it was surpassing the 50% cap. The verdict will impact in all elections across the country. We have requested the Prime Minister to accord constitutional reservation to OBCs,” Pawar said.Pawar said that the delegation also requested that the governor of Maharashtra be instructed to nominate 12 members to the legislative council from his quota. “The names were submitted to the governor around eight months ago. Taking note of a PIL, the high court has asked for a submission. We have requested the PM to instruct the governor for the nominations. We have also requested the PM for the quick release ₹24,306 crore due towards the compensation of losses of GST to the state exchequer,” Pawar said .Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Prime Minister has assured the delegation he will consider the issues raised by them. “He said he will take detailed information on each of the issues and take positive steps,” Thackeray said.After the meeting with the delegation, PM Modi met Thackeray in a one-on-one meeting for around 30 minutes. “Yes, we had a separate meeting. We may not be politically together, but that does not mean that we have snapped our relationship. I did not go to meet Nawaz Sharif,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-led-delegation-meets-pm-modi-101623144764967.html
08-06-2021||India||Stop illegal adoption of kids orphaned by Covid: SC to states, UTs||The Supreme Court has directed states and Union Territories to stop illegal adoption of children who were orphaned or abandoned during the Covid-19 pandemic.Passing a slew of directions on a suo motu petition with regard to protection of rights of children affected by the pandemic, a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said, “The state governments/Union Territories are directed to take action against those NGOs/individuals who are indulging in illegal adoptions.”The court was informed about adoption posts circulating on various social media platforms amid the pandemic that saw several children lose either one or both their parents.The problem of illegal adoption was brought to the attention of the court by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The commission received complaints where the identity of the affected children was disclosed in public announcements by agencies and individuals inviting interested persons to adopt them. Such adoption routes were in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act which prescribes adoption through Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA).An application filed by NGO ‘We the Women of India’ informed the court about adoption requests on social media, which, upon enquiry by the NGO, were found to be fake. The NGO through advocate Shobha Gupta stressed the need for immediate action to be taken by states and UTs to stop the circulation of such posts on social media and take stringent action against persons responsible for making such posts.The bench directed all states/UTs to prevent any NGO from collecting funds in the names of affected children by disclosing their identity and inviting interested persons to adopt them. “Stringent action shall be taken by the state governments/Union Territories against agencies/individuals who are responsible for indulging in this illegal activity. Invitation to persons for adoption of orphans is contrary to law as no adoption of a child can be permitted without the involvement of CARA.Among other orders given by the court, the states and UTs were directed to ensure continuation of education of children affected by Covid-19 in both government and private schools. The directions came on a similar suggestion by amicus curiae advocate Gaurav Agrawal.The bench said, “The state governments/Union Territories are directed to make provisions for continuance of education of the children both in Government as well as in private schools.”On June 1, the Supreme Court had directed states to identify children who were abandoned, orphaned or lost one of their parents during Covid-19 since March 2020 by uploading the information on a website “Bal Swaraj” run by NCPCR. On June 6, NCPCR informed the court that there are 30,071 such children of which 3,621 lost both parents, 26,176 lost one, and 274 were abandoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-illegal-adoption-of-kids-orphaned-by-covid-sc-to-states-uts-101623144643654.html
08-06-2021||India||Kashmir village first in country to record 100% Covid vaccination||Vaccinators trekked 11 kilometres through a forested route to remote mountainous Weyan in Jammu & Kashmir’s Bandipora district for the second time in two weeks and vaccinated every adult there, making it the first village in the country where every person above 18 has got the first Covid-19 vaccine dose.Most of the residents of Weyan, which is cut off from the rest of the world after October and has no roads, power and mobile network, are nomads, who take their cattle to meadows up in the mountains in summer and return only in autumn.Bandipora’s block medical officer, Dr Masraat Iqbal said their team vaccinated the adult residents of the village 100% on Friday last. He added if they waited, then it would have been difficult for them to track the residents in the upper reaches of the Gurez region and they could not have been vaccinated before October. He said the second dose would be given after 12 weeks and they have asked the residents for details of their locations in the meadows where they will be headed to.Also Read | With 977 cases, J&K’s daily count drops below 1,000 after 56 daysIqbal said the residents came forward for the vaccination drive only after proper counselling. “Two weeks ago, when we sent a team there, only six people including the village head came forward for the vaccination.” He said the village head, Lal Bhat, motivated the remaining adults of the village to get vaccinated.He said a 10-member team led by a doctor vaccinated 362 people over the two days it was stationed in the village for the vaccination drive.The health department quoted Bhat saying when other residents saw him taking the jab without any side-effect, they too overcame their hesitancy. Bhat thanked the department for their “tremendous work.”Director general (health, family welfare, and immunisation) Saleem-ur-Rehman said Weyan was on their priority list because the residents of the village are nomads. He said it is among villages in Jammu and Kashmir where their teams have to trek long distances to vaccinate people. “Like Weyan, the department has shortlisted many such villages where 100% population above 18 will be vaccinated.”Rehman said Jammu and Kashmir was doing well in terms of immunisation. “Already 35 lakh [3.5 million] doses have been administered which is a good average and we will try to improve it further in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-village-first-in-country-to-record-100-covid-vaccination-101623144583295.html
08-06-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari meets home minster Amit shah, says discussed several matters||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator and West Bengal leader of opposition Suvendu Adhikari met Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday and discussed various matters pertaining to the state. "Met the Honourable Union Home Minister @AmitShah Ji. Discussed on several matters and seeked blessings for Bengal. Honourable HM assured, he was and he will be there for Bengal always," Adhikari tweeted on Tuesday with an image of him and the home minister.Met the Honourable Union Home Minister @AmitShah Ji . Discussed on several matters and seeked blessings for Bengal . Honourable HM assured, he was and he will be there for Bengal always . pic.twitter.com/K7fzCjjNCu"Shri @SuvenduWB ji called on Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah ji," Amit Shah's office tweeted after the meeting.Adhikari, who was a former minister of the previous Mamata Banerjee-led government in Bengal, joined hands with the BJP in the 2021 assembly elections.Nandigram, the assembly seat saw a ferocious battle between him and his former colleague Banerjee, who contested from the same constituency. Adhikari defeated the now chief minister in the assembly election with a close margin.Last week, the BJP MLA submitted a representation on the post-election violence in the state to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. His meeting with the Union home minister is also expected to have included discussions around alleged violence against BJP workers in the state.Also read | There should not be any report of carcass meat getting sold: Mamata BanerjeeThe BJP has accused the ruling party in West Bengal, Trinamool Congress (TMC), of unleashing violence on the BJP workers and said many have died as a result. The TMC has denied all allegations.Adhikari is also scheduled to meet several Union ministers and BJP leaders later on Tuesday, reported news agency ANI citing people familiar with the matter. He is also likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, as per ANI's report.Adhikari's visit to Delhi comes days after the Cyclone Yaas review meeting controversy after which the chief secretary of the state, Alapan Bandhopadhay, resigned. Mamata Banerjee later appointed him as her chief advisor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-meets-home-minster-amit-shah-says-discussed-several-matters-101623140636170.html
08-06-2021||India||Arunachal officer offers 20 kg free rice to break vaccine hesitancy, it works||An Arunachal Pradesh government officer’s offer of free 20 kgs of rice as an incentive for getting vaccinated against Covid-19 has broken through the reluctance among some residents aged above 45 years and managed to accelerate the vaccination drive in Lower Subansiri district.The incentive was planned by Yazali circle officer Tashi Wangchhu Thongdok, and it successfully lured the residents to the vaccination center. Yazali has a population of around 12,000 and nearly 1,400 of its residents are above 45 years. While 84% of these residents had received their due doses, the remaining 209 residents were unwilling despite the administration’s attempts to vaccinate them at home.“Some were unwilling to give up alcoholic drinks for a few days after vaccination, while others were dissuaded by a fake viral message on WhatsApp which claimed vaccination will lead to death in two years. We carried out awareness drives telling people that the message was false and the benefits of vaccination outweigh minor discomforts,” Thongdok told HT over phone.Since April this year, Yazali has recorded 243 Covid-19 positive cases, including 190 persons who have recovered and 53, who are still active. The area has not witnessed any Covid-19 deaths.“We were lucky to find two sponsors who donated the money needed to procure rice for the 209 people who were yet to be vaccinated. We decided to run the campaign for three days from June 7 to June 9, urging people to visit the vaccination centre at Yazali to get their jabs,” said Thongdok, an Arunachal Pradesh civil service officer from the 2016 batch.Despite heavy rains, on Monday, the first day of the campaign, nearly 50 people turned up, got vaccinated and took their 20 kilos of rice each. The authorities are confident that in the next two days all other eligible beneficiaries will come forward and get vaccinated.“When the circle officer approached me with the idea, I immediately decided to help out. Along with my school friend, Taba Nagu, who is also from Yazali, we transferred the amount needed to procure the rice,” said Licha Birbal, a businessman from Yazali, who is based in Guwahati these days.Till Monday, Arunachal Pradesh recorded 29,696 Covid-19 cases and 125 deaths. The state has a recovery rate of 88% and 3,440 active cases at present. Around 385,000 people in the state have got vaccinated till date with 306,000 persons getting the first dose and nearly 79,000 receiving both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-officer-offers-20-kg-free-rice-to-break-vaccine-hesitancy-it-works-101623144103428.html
08-06-2021||India||Tourist guides struggle to make ends meet as pandemic hits sector hardest||Faheem Khan, a government-registered tourist guide, familiarised foreign tourists to Delhi at Archaeological Survey of India (ASI)-protected monuments in the city until March last year when the Covid-19 pandemic prompted a nationwide lockdown. As someone who largely guided foreign tourists, Khan could not fully resume work even after lockdown restrictions were eased. The surge in Covid-19 cases this summer worsened the situation of guides such as Khan. They say they do not expect the situation to get better as foreign tourists were unlikely to return anytime sooner. “International flights were stopped... Since then, our work has halted,” said Khan, a Persian language expert with a doctorate from Jawaharlal Nehru University.Financial distressWith all his savings drying up and no source of income, Khan returned home in Bihar last month and took up farming for survival. “There are zero work opportunities for people like me who were dependent on international tourism. We are struggling to make ends meet. I returned to my village and have taken up farming for sustenance,” said Khan, who is from Sarai in Bihar’s Vaishali district.He said tourism was among the first sectors to be affected and has not seen any recovery. “Most other sectors picked up post unlock [easing of lockdown norms]. There was no revival or change in circumstances for guides who rely on international travellers,” he said.Domestic tourism picked up slowly post the lockdown, but it hardly made any difference to the lives of tourist guides such as Khan. International visitors are a major source of income for them since the percentage of domestic tourists availing of their services is negligible. “Within the country, a major section of tourists are budget travellers. They do not hire guides. We have waited for hours at monuments but hardly anyone approached us. Foreigners working in India are the only ones who approach us but even those opportunities have been curtailed...”Pleas for financial supportDildar Singh, another tourist guide, said he has been without work since last year. Singh guided tourists of different nationalities due to his ability to speak at least seven languages. “The market is broken. On top of that, the lockdown is another added burden. We have been sitting idle at home for the past one and a half years. There is no stipend or medical support either,” said Singh, who is in his 60s.Also Read | Delhi lost over 300 trees in three weeks. Experts explain what needs to be doneFinancial support has been extended to guides in places such as Kerala and Jammu & Kashmir, but there has been no such assistance in Delhi. “Nearly 90% of tourists visiting the country visit Delhi and other cities in the northern region but no support has been given to us,” said Singh.Government Approved Tourist Guides’ Association president Sanjeev Kumar said the guides, who are at the lowest rung of the tourism sector, have been badly hit and 17 of their associations sought financial support in March last year but received no response. “There are around 500 registered guides in Delhi-NCR [National Capital Region] alone and nearly 4,000 in the country. The government has not provided any monetary support.”Sanjay Sharma, president of the Tourist Guides Federation of India, said the government ignored their demands. “The guides are the front-line warriors of the tourism industry but unfortunately we have not received any support despite reaching out to the tourism minister, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and everyone else. They have not even acknowledged our grievances.”Online course, a new challengeKumar said the introduction of the Incredible India Tourist Facilitator Certification Programme last year to create more opportunities in the tourism industry has added to their woes. Participants, who have cleared their Class 12 exams, are eligible to become certified tourist facilitators under the tourism ministry after completing the programme.Kumar said they are facing a double whammy of the pandemic and the government apathy. “It is ironic that when the government should be supporting us to overcome the hardships due to Covid-19 pandemic, it is trying to abrogate our licenses,” said Kumar. He blamed the government for failing to guarantee a minimum of 90-day work required by the ministry’s guidelines. “The world is thinking about ways to restore the employment of at least a part of the people engaged in tourism, but our government is thinking of creating further employment which is nothing but a farce.”Singh said the pandemic snatched their livelihood and the introduction of facilitators was a threat to people who have spent decades in the sector. “Most old guides are graduates, post-graduates, or PhD holders with fluency in multiple languages. The government has approved [as guides] even [those who have just cleared Class 12 exams]... How can facilitators be equal to guides? This is a cruel joke since registered guides like us are unable to get any work,” said Singh. He called tourist guides cultural ambassadors of any country and asked the government to help them amid the crisis.Also Read | Centre releases revised Covid-19 vaccination drive guidelinesAn ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said the government started the online certification programme last year, but more clarity on it would be available once the Covid-related restrictions are lifted.The tourism ministry did not respond immediately to an HT request for comments.Tour operatorsThe pandemic has also hit tour operators and travel agents. Paharganj, a popular destination for tourists and a hub of low-budget hotels, restaurants, and shops, has been wearing a deserted look since last year.Anil Bhardwaj, a travel agent and moneychanger, has not reopened his shop in the market since March 21, 2021. A Haryana native, he has fallen back upon farming. He is among those whose businesses in the market have been shuttered in the absence of foreign tourists, their primary clientele. “I have not opened my office since last year since there are no foreign tourists. My work is 99% dependent on foreign tourists. Nearly 50% of the market is deserted. Paharganj is on the verge of devastation,” said Bhardwaj, 53. He said the entire tourism ecosystem, from hotels to cabs, has been hit. “I get daily calls from cabbies from other cities who used to get clients through me. Hotels are barely surviving with two staff members. Our future looks uncertain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourist-guides-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-as-pandemic-hits-tourism-sector-hardest-101623142843201.html
08-06-2021||India||Centre revises vaccine policy; healthcare, frontline workers to be prioritised||Even though the Central government revised its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination policy to provide all vaccine doses free to states, it has advised them to prioritise free doses for healthcare workers, followed by frontline workers, citizens above 45 years, and citizens above 18 years whose second dose is due, according to the revised guidelines for implementation of national Covid-19 vaccination programme.The guidelines also encourage the use of non-transferable electronic vouchers that can be redeemed at private vaccination centres, to enable people to financially support the vaccination of economically weaker sections at private vaccination centres. The guidelines have been accessed by HT.Also Read | Free vaccines, food to cost India additional $11 billion: Official“Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, States/UTs may decide their own prioritization factoring in the vaccine supply schedule. Vaccine doses provided free of cost by Government of India will be allocated to States/UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination. Wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively,” the guidelines say.The government of India will provide states and Union territories advance information of vaccine doses to be supplied to them. States will have the flexibility to further allocate doses well in advance to districts and vaccination centres.States have been advised to put information in the public domain about the availability at district and vaccination centre level, and widely disseminate it among the local population,In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers have been given the option to also provide vaccines directly to private hospitals.“This would be restricted to 25% of their monthly production. States/UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. Based on this aggregated demand, Government of India will facilitate supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority’s electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance,” the guidelines said.Each vaccine manufacturer will declare the price of vaccine doses for private hospitals, and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance. The price to offer the service has been capped by the government at a maximum of ₹150 per dose as service charge.State governments have been directed to monitor the amount that private hospitals are charging. While all citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free vaccination, the government encourages those with the ability to pay to use private hospital’s vaccination centres.The revised guidelines will come into effect from June 21, 2021, and will be open to review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-revises-vaccine-policy-healthcare-frontline-workers-to-be-prioritised-101623140862979.html
08-06-2021||India||In Centre's revised guidelines, Covid vaccines for states based on population, cases||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the Centre will take back the charge for procuring Covid-19 vaccines and distributing them to states, the Union government on Tuesday released revised guidelines for the national vaccination programme. According to the new guidelines, Covid-19 vaccine doses, to be given free of charge by the Centre, will now be allocated to states and Union territories based on criteria like their population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination drive. The decision will be implemented in two weeks time by June 21.“Wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in the revised guidelines.Also read | How Centre will vaccinate all 940 million adults against Covid by DecemberHealth care and frontline workers, those above 45 years of age, citizens whose second dose has become due and people of 18 years and above, will be given priority in respect of the free vaccine doses to be provided by the Centre to the states. “Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, States/UTs may decide their own prioritization factoring in the vaccine supply schedule,” it said.Prime Minister Modi announced a centralised vaccine drive saying that the Centre will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country. The Centre will also procure 25 per cent of Covid-19 vaccines that was to be done by states. PM Modi also said that the system of 25 per cent vaccines being procured directly by the private hospitals will continue.State governments will monitor that only ₹150 service charge is levied by the private hospitals over the decided price of the vaccines. Prime Minister Modi also announced free shots for all adults starting June 21, in another attempt to speed up the massive inoculation drive.Everyone, irrespective of their income status, are entitled to free vaccination, and those who have the ability to pay “are encouraged to use private hospital's vaccination centres”, it said.Also read | Correcting the vaccine course“To promote the spirit of “Lok Kalyan”, use of non-transferable Electronic Vouchers which can be redeemed at private vaccination centers, will be encouraged. This would enable people to financially support vaccination of Economically Weaker Sections at private vaccination centres,” it added.All government and private vaccination centres would also provide onsite registration facility for individuals as well as groups of individuals, for which “detailed procedure is to be finalised and published by States/UTs, in order to minimize any inconvenience to citizens.”Also read | ‘Right thing, at last’: Congress leaders react to PM Modi’s announcement on Covid-19 vaccinesThe Union health ministry said on Tuesday that the Centre has provided more than 240 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to states and Union territories so far. "More than 24 crore (24,65,44,060) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far, through Government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category and of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 23,47,43,489 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," it said.The ministry said that 1,19,46,925 vaccine doses are still available with the states and Union territories. It added that 23,61,98,726 doses of the vaccines have been administered so far across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-revised-covid-19-vaccination-drive-guidelines-101623137874686.html
08-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Akhilesh Yadav says will get vaccinated against Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In a U-turn, Akhilesh Yadav says will get vaccinated against Covid-19Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, who said in January he won't get the shot against Covid-19 and called it a "Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) vaccine," announced on Tuesday he will take a jab against the coronavirus disease. Read MoreTwitter blocks local access to accounts of Jazzy B, 3 others on govt requestTwitter has blocked local access to accounts of Punjabi singer Jazzy B and three others in response to a legal request from the government on Sunday under the Information Technology (IT) Act, according to the Lumen database that collects and analyses complaints and requests for removal of online material. Read More2 elephants electrocuted in Odisha in 2 days while searching for foodA day after an elephant was found electrocuted in a mango orchard in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, another tusker died after coming in contact with high tension wire in Ganjam district on Monday. Read MoreUP govt announces relaxations in Covid curfew in all 75 districtsThe Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday gave relaxations in 'corona curfew' in all 75 districts of the state. Read MoreKohli, Pujara, Williamson or Conway - who will be top run-getter in WTC final? Former players name their picksThe World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand will be a showdown among some superstars of cricket. The likes of Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma will face the pace of Trent Boult. Read MoreLamborghini Huracan Evo RWD Spyder launched in India at ₹3.54 croreLamborghini has driven in the Huracan Evo Rear-Wheel-Drive (RWD) Spyder to India today and has launched the open-top rear-wheel-drive model based on its popular Huracan Evo at a price of ₹3.54 crore. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-akhilesh-yadav-says-will-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news-101623136074550.html
08-06-2021||India||100% Covid vaccination: Kashmir village is India's first to inoculate all adults||A remote village in Jammu and Kashmir’s Bandipora district has become the first one in the country to vaccinate all its adult population against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Officials have said that vaccination in Weyan village was covered under the J&K model, a 10-point strategy to inoculate everyone who is eligible for the shots at a faster pace. The Union territory has achieved 70 per cent vaccination for those in the 45+ age group despite the initial vaccine hesitancy, almost double the national average, they added.Officials have said healthcare workers faced a number of hurdles but worked hard to inoculate every adult in Weyan. "The village is located only 28 kilometres away from Bandipora district headquarters, but a distance of 18 kilometres has to be covered by foot as there is no motorable road,” an official of the health department was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also read | J&K to form district-level task force to look after Covid affected, infected kidsAnother challenge the health workers faced was reaching out to all the 362 adult residents of the village. An official said the village consists of nomadic families who go to higher reaches to graze their cattle."There is no internet access in the village. So it was not possible for the residents to get appointments for vaccination like the way people in urban areas do," Bashir Ahmed Khan, Bandipora’s chief medical officer, told PTI.Also watch | J&K health workers cross river to conduct vaccination drive in remote areaYatish Yadav, media advisor to Jammu and Kashmir government, said the Union territory was raising the bar in the Covid vaccination drive. "#JammuAndKashmirModel. And we thought up to now that Everest was the highest and toughest peak of Himalayas. But, some journey brings a new light, a new life. Team J&K raising the bar on vaccination drive," Yadav tweeted, according to PTI.On Monday, Jammu and Kashmir recorded less than 1000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time in two months. This was for the first time since April 12 that Jammu and Kashmir recorded less than 1000 fresh daily cases of the coronavirus disease.The Union territory registered 997 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 fatalities which taken the number of infected people to 301,487 and death toll to 4090. The number of active cases has dropped to 23,524 in the Union territory and 273,853 patients have recovered so far, official data showed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-covid-vaccination-kashmir-village-is-india-s-first-to-inoculate-all-adults-101623135634563.html
08-06-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray meets PM Modi, discusses Maratha quota, GST compensation||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday reached the national capital to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Thackeray led a delegation which had deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Congress leader Ashok Chavan.In the meeting, the Maharashtra leaders discussed range of state issues with PM Modi, including Maratha and OBC reservation, GST compensation, caste-based census and classical language status for Marathi.Addressing the media at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi after the meeting, Thackeray said, "It was a cordial discussion between us, keeping the politics aside. We discussed various issues with the Prime Minister. He has assured us to look into them. We discussed the transfer of the Kanjur Marg plot for Metro car shed."Also read: Uddhav Thackeray says difficult to trace Covid-19 in second wave. Then explains"We requested the PM to intervene to remove the 50 per cent cap on the reservation. We requested the PM to press for it in the court. The 50 per cent cap is affecting various reservations including OBC reservation in elections," Public Works Department minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan said outside Maharashtra Sadan."Centre has been empowered to decide on the reservation to backward classed. We expect Centre to take a call on it," Chavan added.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, also a part of the delegation that met PM Modi said that they have requested PM Modi to give the constitutional reservation to OBCs in politics.The Maharashtra government ministers also requested for the release of GST compensation dues of ₹24,306 crore, Pawar said."We also requested to PM to instruct the Maharashtra Governor for the nomination of 12 members to legislative council from Governor quota," Pawar said.Also read | 'Never wanted to be the CM': Uddhav opens up on BJP-Sena rift in MaharashtraThackeray also said that the delegation requested PM Modi to change the NDRF norms for relief provided to people affected by natural calamity.Thackeray landed at Indira Gandhi International airport in Delhi on Tuesday morning and reached Lok Kalyan Marg - the prime minister's official residence.Last month, Uddhav Thackeray wrote to PM Modi requesting him to take steps to declare the Maratha community in the state as Socially and Educationally Backward (SEBC) to enable them to claim the reservation in education and public employment at least to 12 per cent and 13 per cent respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-reaches-pm-modi-s-delhi-residence-maratha-reservation-cyclone-tauktae-on-table-101623135448853.html
08-06-2021||India||Twitter blocks local access to accounts of Jazzy B, 3 others on govt request||Twitter has blocked local access to accounts of Punjabi singer Jazzy B and three others in response to a legal request from the government on Sunday under the Information Technology (IT) Act, according to the Lumen database that collects and analyses complaints and requests for removal of online material.The other three accounts are hip-hop artist L-Fresh the Lion, California Sikh Youth Alliance, and @Tarande61695394.There was no immediate response from Twitter to an HT request for comments.HT on Monday reported the number of the government’s orders to social media companies to take down posts and accounts under Section 69 (A) of the IT Act has risen steeply over the last couple of years. Nearly 6,000 orders such orders were issued until the first week of June this year up from around 3,600 in 2019 and over 9,800 in 2020. The government has sent Twitter two non-compliance notices for failing to act against certain accounts in the last six months over posts on the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read | Committed to complying with new IT rules: TwitterIn January, the government asked Twitter to take down content on the farmers’ agitation that carried a controversial hashtag regarding the Prime Minister, saying that it was a threat to public order. While Twitter withheld access to the posts, it refused to take down content by activists and journalists saying that it violated the tenets of free speech. A month later, as the impasse between the government and Twitter continued over the demand to block 257 accounts and posts related to farmers’ protests, the government asked the company to take over 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”.In April, the government issued emergency blocking orders to take down over 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including an official Facebook page of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The government faced pushback against the orders with many arguing that the posts ordered to be blocked were critical of the government’s handling of the Covid pandemic.Twitter will have to face “unintended consequences” including losing the legal protection from criminal liability that it currently enjoys if it does not comply with the new rules for digital content, according to a “last notice” issued on Saturday as a “gesture of goodwill” by the government to the social media firm.The warning escalated a worsening standoff between the government and the social media company, which has previously urged the Centre to give it more time to comply with the new IT rules and raised concerns over the “core elements” of the norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-blocks-local-access-to-accounts-of-jazzy-b-3-others-on-govt-request-101623135342521.html
08-06-2021||India||Free vaccines, food to cost India additional $11 billion: Official||India will need to spend an additional 800 billion rupees ($11 billion) to provide free vaccines and food to millions of people devastated by the deadly coronavirus wave, people with knowledge of the matter said.The government will earmark an additional 700 billion rupees for providing food to the poor and other eligible groups until November, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the numbers aren’t public. The administration will need an extra 100 billion rupees to provide free vaccinations, they said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed Monday to provide free inoculations, reversing a policy where states ended up competing for supplies for certain age categories, leading to severe shortages. His administration also has been criticized for its handling of the second wave of the virus, which has killed thousands of people in India.In an address on national television, Modi said all Indians above age 18 can be vaccinated for free starting June 21, to speed up the inoculation drive.The government may not have to tap the bond market for the funds, the people familiar said, citing the 991.2 billion-rupee dividend the government received from the central bank and expected inflows from asset sales. With the extra money, the government will end up spending a total of 1.3 trillion on providing food, the people said, and has set aside 350 billion rupees for vaccinations in the budget.A finance ministry spokesman declined to comment.Even after accounting for the bumper dividend from the Reserve Bank of India and better growth numbers that should result in higher tax revenue, the “fiscal math will likely worsen,” said Madhavi Arora, an economist with Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai. That’s because of higher payouts on food and fertilizer subsidies as well as for a rural jobs-guarantee program. There’s also a risk that the asset-divestment program could raise less money than anticipated.“Amid various push and pull there is a likelihood of fiscal slippage, to the tune of around 0.5% from the initially budgeted 6.8% of gross domestic product,” she added, referring to the expected fiscal deficit.India has administrated 232 million doses since the world’s biggest vaccination drive began Jan. 16, with 3.4% of the population now fully immunized. At that pace, it will take another 22 months to cover 75% of the population, according to the Bloomberg Vaccination Tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-vaccines-food-to-cost-india-additional-11-billion-official-101623134161328.html
08-06-2021||India||Before PM Modi changed Covid vaccine policy, a nudge from the Supreme Court||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that the Central government will resume procuring 75% of vaccines made in the country and giving them for free to states from June 21 to vaccinate all adults in the country.PM Modi’s announcement, which marks a significant departure from the liberalised policy introduced on May 1, comes less than a week after the Supreme Court’s strong disapproval of the Centre’s policy along with a direction to the Union government “to undertake a fresh review of its vaccination policy”.On June 2, a 32-page order by a bench comprising justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat underscored that the Union government’s vaccination policy, which put the entire onus of giving doses to adults in the below-45 year age group on the states and private hospitals, was “prima facie arbitrary and irrational”.The bench said the policy, which required people in the 18-45 age group to pay for the vaccine, “conflicts with the constitutional balance of responsibilities between the Centre and states” in conducting free vaccination themselves for groups under the first 2 phases.The court’s June 2 order was a culmination of its proceedings on May 31 when the bench pressed for a review of the vaccination policy, observing that “policymakers must have their ears to the ground”.To be sure, the Centre’s second-most senior law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, strongly opposed judicial review of the vaccination policy, contending that “any overzealous judicial intervention” by the Supreme Court may lead to unintended circumstances.But the bench rejected this argument, highlighting that the Constitution did not envisage courts “to be silent spectators when constitutional rights of citizens are infringed by executive policies. Judicial review and soliciting constitutional justification for policies formulated by the executive is an essential function, which the courts are entrusted to perform.”Mehta also asked the bench to desist from commenting on the pricing policy but the judges were emphatic on the lack of rationale and equity behind the “dual pricing” that requires states to pay at least twice as much as the Centre for the vaccines. The judges said the government should negotiate and buy vaccines for the entire country “in a national crisis” rather than leave states in the lurch.Hearing a suo motu (registered on its own motion) case on the management of second Covid-19 wave, the court pointed out that if the Union government’s “unique monopolistic buyer position” was the only reason why it was getting the vaccine doses at a lower price, it was important for the so-called liberalised vaccination policy to be examined under Article 14 of the Constitution since “it could place severe burdens, particularly on states/UTs suffering from financial distress”. Article 14 guarantees the fundamental right to equality in India.Nudging the Centre to utilise its position as the monopolistic buyer in the market and pass the benefit to all persons in the country, the court said that the “avoidable expense” due to the differential pricing will eventually hurt the welfare of individuals residing within those states and UTs.Another cause for worry for the top court was the distinction drawn between those above 45 and those in the 18-45 age group under the Centre’s liberalised policy. The court asked why inoculation was open for 18-45 group in the third phase on a payment basis even though the experience of the second Covid-19 wave showed people of this age group were also affected.“Can there be a justification for the Centre to now say that we will only take care of those who are above 45? We are aware that we don’t have time to enter the realm of policy-making but your policy has to be logical and reasonable,” the bench had asked the SG, seeking instructions if the Centre was ready to act like a national body for procurement of vaccines.The court also asked the Union government to explain how ₹35,000 crore, earmarked for procuring vaccines in the Union Budget for 2021-2022, had been spent so far and why this amount could not be utilised for vaccinating persons in the 18-45 age group.The bench will hear the case next on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-pm-modi-changed-covid-vaccine-policy-a-nudge-from-the-supreme-court-101623134442210.html
08-06-2021||India||UP govt announces relaxations in Covid curfew in all 75 districts||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday gave relaxations in 'corona curfew' in all 75 districts of the state. According to guidelines announced by the state government, districts with less than 600 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can get relaxations. The Covid-19 numbers in all the districts of Uttar Pradesh are now below the threshold."Uttar Pradesh lifts Covid-imposed curfew from all districts. Active caseload in the state stands at 14,000 with less than 600 active cases in each district," a statement from chief minister's Yogi Adityanath's office said on Tuesday.A state government spokesperson said that there will be relaxation in coronavirus curfew in all the districts of the state from Wednesday onwards, from 7am to 7pm, for five days. However, the night curfew - 7pm to 7am and weekend curfew (for entire day) - will continue.The decision was take after a high-level virtual meeting chaired by Adityanath on Tuesday.The 'corona curfew' was clamped on April 30 after a surge in cases of Covid-19. The state government allowed relaxations from June 1.Uttar Pradesh reported 727 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday. It was the first time since the second wave of the infection started wreaking havoc in the state that the daily caseload went below 1,000.The fresh cases have declined by more than 37,000 from its peak of 38,055 on April 24, the state government said.The state also recorded 81 fatalities in the same period. Of these, 24 were reported from Kanpur Nagar, nine from Gorakhpur, seven from Bareilly, five from Prayagraj, four from Meerut, three each from Saharanpur and Mathura, and two each from Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Jhansi, Deoria, Agra and Mau.Uttar Pradesh also recorded a positivity rate of 0.3 per cent in a 24-hour cycle. It has been below 1 per cent for more than two weeks in a row. The recovery rate in the state has reached 98 per cent, the UP government said.It added that due to regular teleconsultation, timely provision of free medicine kits and medical oxygen to patients in home isolation, the number of such patients has gone below the 10,000-mark. There are 9,286 Covid-19 patients under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-announces-relaxations-in-covid-curfew-in-all-75-districts-101623133297015.html
08-06-2021||India||2 elephants electrocuted in Odisha in 2 days while searching for food||A day after an elephant was found electrocuted in a mango orchard in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, another tusker died after coming in contact with high tension wire in Ganjam district on Monday.District forest officials said the tusker, aged between 20--25 years, was likely to have come in contact with a 11 KV electric wire in a cashew orchard near Dhaupalli village under North Ghumsur forest division in Ganjam district. The carcass of the elephant was spotted by local residents on Monday.“There is a sagging 11 KV power transmission line that passes through the orchard. The elephant, part of an eight-member herd, may have touched the electric line while searching for food,” said Sudarshan Badi, assistant conservator of forest of North Ghumsur forest division.On Sunday, a tusker was similarly electrocuted in a mango orchard at Gobindaprasad village under Sadar forest range of Dhenkanal district. Though people claimed the elephant died after coming in contact with the solar fencing around the orchard, forest officials said the farmer must have charged the fence with high voltage since the fence doesn’t normally carry enough voltage to kill a huge animal like an elephant. The orchard owner was later arrested.“We are waiting for the post-mortem report. Action will be taken based on the post-mortem report,” assistant conservator of forest Rashmiranjan Swain said.Since April 1, at least 13 elephants have died in Odisha due to electrocution and poaching.Wildlife conservationists claim Odisha has turned deadly for elephants. “Many are getting killed as they cross human habitations to find food. The vast forests have been reduced to tiny forest patches with very little left for elephants,” alleged wildlife conservationist Biswajit Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-elephants-electrocuted-in-odisha-in-2-days-while-searching-for-food-101623133482018.html
08-06-2021||India||India has administered over 235 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 235 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday, June 7. In his address to the nation, PM Narendra Modi also announced that all those eligible for vaccination will be getting it for free and that the Centre would be procuring them for the states. The new vaccine policy will be launched on June 21, said the PM.The day also recorded a drop in the number of daily cases, logging 85,801 cases. The number dropped below 100,000 for the first time in 64 days.Also Read | Gangrene, hearing loss point to Delta variant of Covid-19 being more severeBy 7pm on Monday, the number of doses administered was 235,939,165.In the 18-45 year age group, 1,607,531 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on the day while 68,661 received their second dose during the day.Cumulatively, 30,245,100 persons in the 18-45 age group across the country have received their first dose and 237,107 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose to more than 1 million beneficiaries each of the age group 18-45 years.Meanwhile, the Centre on Monday allowed the gap between two doses of Covishield to be reduced from 84 days to 28 days for those who need to travel abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-235-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101623131981761.html
08-06-2021||India||Institute tests hamster, mice models resembling human Sars-CoV-2 infection||Researchers at Bhubaneshwar’s Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) have developed and tested hamster and mice models that resemble human Sars-CoV-2 infection for pre-clinical studies of Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics. The models can only be used within animal biosafety level three labs, which are present at the institute.The models will likely be used for research by the National Institute For Research In Reproductive Health (Mumbai), Indian Institute of Technology Indore, Institute For Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (Bengaluru), National Chemical Laboratory (Pune), and Center of Innovative and Applied Bioprocessing (Pune), etc.Such models are needed to understand the virus and to test therapeutic agents for safety and efficacy before human trials. A team of researchers from the institute tested the hamster Sars-CoV-2 model using local virus isolate. The study of proteins shows similarities between the infection in hamsters and humans.Also Read | Gangrene, hearing loss point to Delta variant of Covid-19 being more severeThe clinical parameters and tissue samples analysed also show the similarity in infection. “This provided strong molecular evidence that supports the clinical relevance of this model in Covid-19 research,” said a ministry of science and technology statement.The platform at ILS has been established with the support of the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council under Mission Covid Suraksha.ILS has also established K18-h ACE2 transgenic mice colonies, mice in which the ACE 2 receptor is added so that the Sars-CoV-2 virus can attach to it just like in humans. So far, the transgenic mice needed for Covid-19 research were being imported to the country.This facility will be available on a fee-for-service or partnership mode to researchers, industry, and start-ups from India and abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/institute-tests-hamster-mice-models-resembling-human-sars-cov-2-infection-101623131561650.html
08-06-2021||India||With a reference to Punjab, Union minister jabs Rahul Gandhi for questioning Centre's change in vaccination policy||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday took a jibe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the Centre's change in Covid-19 vaccination policy. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation on Monday, Gandhi tweeted to ask why people would still have to pay for jabs at private hospitals."One simple question - If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?" Gandhi asked in his tweet.Responding to it on Tuesday, Puri asked if the Congress leader is actually trolling his own party's government in Punjab."Sh Rahul Gandhi has been going around asking “If vaccines are free for all, why should pvt hospitals charge for them?” Is he actually trolling his own party’s government in Punjab?" said the Union minister tagging Rahul Gandhi's tweet.Sh Rahul Gandhi has been going around asking “If vaccines are free for all, why should pvt hospitals charge for them?”Is he actually trolling his own party’s government in Punjab? pic.twitter.com/h6A9uaLprsThe Punjab government faced flak from the Centre and state opposition parties for selling Covid vaccines to private hospitals at a premium. Hindustan Times was first to highlight how the vaccine, procured on state government rate of ₹400 per dose, was sold to private hospitals at the rate of ₹1,060 per dose. The private hospitals were further selling the dose at ₹1,560.The Centre wrote to the Punjab government, seeking a clarification over reports that it had earned a profit by selling jabs. Union minister Prakash Javdekar also criticised the Punjab government’s decision.After the attack and Centre's tough words, the Punjab government asked the private healthcare facilities to return all the stock.On Monday, PM Modi announced that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments, while private sector hospitals can continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent but cannot charge more than ₹150 per dose over the pre-fixed price.Along with Gandhi, many Congress leaders also criticised the PM's announcement saying the goal of universal free vaccination against Covid-19 has still not been achieved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-he-trolling-cong-govt-in-punjab-puri-jabs-rahul-gandhi-101623130821959.html
08-06-2021||India||In a U-turn, Akhilesh Yadav says will get vaccinated against Covid-19||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, who said in January he won't get the shot against Covid-19 and called it a "Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) vaccine," announced on Tuesday he will take a jab against the coronavirus disease.Also Read: ‘How can I trust BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine’: Akhilesh Yadav won’t get vaccinated for now"Sensing people’s anger, the central government finally, instead of politicising the Covid-19 vaccine, announced it itself would provide vaccines against Covid-19. We were against the BJP vaccine, but I welcome the government of India's vaccine," a rough translation of Yadav's tweet in Hindi read. “I will get vaccinated and also request those who couldn't get a shot due to shortage of jabs, to get inoculated as well,” he said.जनाक्रोश को देखते हुए आख़िरकार सरकार ने कोरोना के टीके के राजनीतिकरण की जगह ये घोषणा करी कि वो टीके लगवाएगी।हम भाजपा के टीके के ख़िलाफ़ थे पर ‘भारत सरकार’ के टीके का स्वागत करते हुए हम भी टीका लगवाएंगे व टीके की कमी से जो लोग लगवा नहीं सके थे उनसे भी लगवाने की अपील करते हैं।The tweet was in reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Monday when he said the Centre will procure the shots for the states and announced free vaccinations for all adults in the country.Also Read: India sees less than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases for first time in over 2 monthsA day before, Akhilesh Yadav's father and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav took his first shot against the coronavirus disease at a hospital in Gurugram. "SP chief patron and former chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav ji, thank you for taking the jab of the swadeshi (indigenous) vaccine. That you took the vaccine is a testimony that the SP national president Akhilesh Yadav spread a rumour about the vaccine. Akhilesh ji should apologise for it," Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh's deputy chief minister, tweeted in Hindi on Monday.सपा संरक्षक व पूर्व मुख्यमंत्री श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव जी स्वदेशी वैक्सीन लगवाने के लिए आपका धन्यवाद।आपके द्वारा वैक्सीन लगवाना इस बात का प्रमाण है कि सपा के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री अखिलेश जी द्वारा वैक्सीन को लेकर अफवाह फैलाई गयी थी। इसके लिएअखिलेश जी को माफ़ी मांगनी चाहिए। pic.twitter.com/GVZHifo9OdIn January, Yadav, also a former CM of the northern state, proclaimed thrice he won't take the “BJP's vaccine." "We have full confidence in the abilities of our scientists but we don't have any faith in the BJP's unscientific mentality, as well as its vaccination system which has become dormant during these Covid-19 times. I will not take this political vaccine. The SP government will provide free vaccines,” he said.हमें वैज्ञानिकों की दक्षता पर पूरा भरोसा है पर भाजपा की ताली-थाली वाली अवैज्ञानिक सोच व भाजपा सरकार की वैक्सीन लगवाने की उस चिकित्सा व्यवस्था पर भरोसा नहीं है, जो कोरोनाकाल में ठप्प-सी पड़ी रही है।हम भाजपा की राजनीतिक वैक्सीन नहीं लगवाएँगे।सपा की सरकार वैक्सीन मुफ़्त लगवाएगी। pic.twitter.com/yo328VLXZkThe BJP, which currently has a government in the state and at the Centre, displaced the SP from power in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Uttar Pradesh will vote early next year and the state government's handling of the Covid-19 situation is likely to be a major factor in the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-u-turn-akhilesh-yadav-says-will-get-vaccinated-against-covid19-101623127474752.html
08-06-2021||India||ICMR to start 4th national sero survey this month||Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) fourth round of sero survey to detect prevalence of Sars-CoV-2 , the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will begin this month in 70 districts across the country. In a letter to the states, ICMR director general also said that this survey will include children aged 6 years and above.Apart from the general population, blood samples will also be collected of health care workers in district hospitals of these 70 districts in 21 states.In the letter written on June 4, ICMR director general, Balram Bhargava, said, “ICMR will be conducting the fourth round of ‘National sero-survey for Covid-19’ in June 2021. This sero survey will be conducted in the same 70 districts in which the first three rounds were conducted. The survey will cover general population aged 6 yrs and above and health care workers working in district hospitals of these districts.”“The findings of the sero survey will help in ascertaining the current Covid-19 situation in India,” the letter further read.Also Read | High immune response from Covishield and Covaxin: StudyThe 21 states where the samples will collected from select districts for sero survey include Andhra Pradesh (Krishna, SPSR Nellore, Vizianagram), Assam (Udalguri, Kamrup Metropolitan, Karbianglong), Bihar (Muzaffarpur, Purnia, Begusarai, Madhubani, Buxar, Arwal), Chhattisgarh (Bijapur, Kabirdham, Surguja), Gujarat (Mahisagar, Narmada, Sabar Kantha), Jharkhand (Latehar, Pakur, Simdega), Karnataka (Bengaluru urban, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi), Kerala (Palakkad, Ernakulam, Thrissur), Madhya Pradesh (Dewas, Ujjain, Gwalior), Maharashtra (Beed, Nanded, Parbhani, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, Sangli), Odisha (Rayagada, Ganjam, Koraput), Punjab (Gurdaspur, Jalandhar), Haryana (Kurukshetra), Rajasthan (Dausa, Jalore, Rajsamand), Tamil Nadu (Tiruvannamalai, Coimbatore, Chennai), Telangana (Kamareddy, Jangaon, Nalgonda), and Uttar Pradesh (Amroha).Blood samples in a sero survey are tested for the presence of IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies that determine a past infection due to the virus. Sero surveys are also important to determine whether the disease has entered the community transmission stage or not. ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai has been the nodal agency for all past surveys and will most likely supervise the fourth one as well. The earlier sero surveys suggested that a significant size of the population was still susceptible to catching the viral infection, and India was far from achieving herd immunity. The first one was designed as a cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or more from 21 states, where the districts were categorised into four strata according to the reported Covid-19 cases per million population .In the second and third rounds, all other parameters were the same except for the age bracket — samples were taken from people aged 10 and above. The third sero survey, conducted between December 17, 2020, and January 8, 2021, found 21.4% of those aged 10 and above infected with the virus. In the second round, nearly one in 15 (6.6%) people above the age of 10 was found to be exposed to the virus till August 2020. The first survey conducted in May last year had found the infection rate to be 0.73% nationally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-to-start-4th-national-sero-survey-this-month-101623130661825.html
08-06-2021||India||‘Shortage of both oxygen, humanity’: Rahul, Priyanka hit out over reports 22 died in Agra hospital's ‘mock oxygen drill’||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday slammed the government over reports that a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra allegedly cut off oxygen supply for five minutes in a "mock drill" in April. Priyanka Gandhi also tweeted the video in which Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Paras Hospital, is heard saying that the oxygen supply was cut off for five minutes and 22 people died during that period.“There is a severe shortage of both oxygen and humanity under the BJP rule. Action should be taken immediately against all those responsible for this dangerous crime,” Rahul Gandhi also posted on Twitter. “My condolences to the families of the deceased in this hour of grief,” he added.Also read | Capacity enhancement proposed for new oxygen plants in Ghaziabad“PM: 'I made sure there was no shortage of oxygen' CM: 'There’s no shortage of oxygen. The property of those spreading rumours about shortage will be confiscated.' Minister: 'Give just enough oxygen patients need. Don't give too much oxygen.' Agra hospital: 'There was no oxygen. Mock drill was conducted by turning off oxygen for 22 patients.' Who's responsible?” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.PM: “मैंने ऑक्सीजन की कमी नहीं होने दी”CM: "ऑक्सीजन की कोई कमी नहीं। कमी की अफवाह फैलाने वालों की संपत्ति जब्त होगी।"मंत्री: “मरीजों को जरूरत भर ऑक्सीजन दें। ज्यादा ऑक्सीजन न दें।”आगरा अस्पताल: "ऑक्सीजन खत्म थी। 22 मरीजों की ऑक्सीजन बंद करके मॉकड्रिल की।"ज़िम्मेदार कौन? pic.twitter.com/DbiqtILE27Paras Hospital’s Dr Jain, who is not visible in the video, is heard saying in the 1.3-minute audio clip that they were told that even the chief minister cannot provide oxygen so they should start discharging patients."Then I decided to try something out - a mock drill of sorts - and asked the staff to identify those whose oxygen supply can be cut. That way, we will get to know who will die and who will survive,” Jain is heard saying in the video.“The mock drill happened at 7am, no one knows about this. Twenty-two patients started gasping for breath and their bodies began turning blue. We came to know that they will not survive," he added.Also read | ‘We’re better prepared for next wave’: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi AdityanathOfficials in Agra said they have ordered a probe after the video surfaced and district magistrate Prabhu N Singh denied that 22 patients died that day. “Seven patients, including Covid infected, died in a private hospital due to alleged oxygen shortage on April 26 and 27 There were 22 critical patients admitted in the hospital but have no details of their death. We will look into the video which has surfaced about their death,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey also said only seven patients died in the hospital during that period and the the health department has began an investigation into the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-priyanka-hit-out-after-reports-22-died-in-mock-oxygen-drill-in-agra-101623128858672.html
08-06-2021||India||Commercial sex workers largely left out of welfare measures amid Covid: NGOs||Commercial sex workers have largely been left out of welfare measures for the vulnerable sections of the society during the pandemic, NGOs working in Goa, Maharashtra, Delhi, and West Bengal have found.The finding is based on consultations NGOs Diksha (Kolkata), SPID Society (New Delhi), Anay Rahit Zindagi (ARZ) in Goa, and Prayas (Mumbai) have conducted. The NGOs found commercial sex workers faced a complete loss of livelihood because of the pandemic and lockdown. The stigma they face also prevented them from approaching the government or well-meaning people for help, they added.Also Read | 200 trans people, sex workers vaccinated at special camp in GurugramThe Supreme Court last year directed the supply of dry rations to sex workers without insistence on identity documents amid the pandemic.Arun Pandey, who runs ARZ and coordinated the consultation in Goa, said most of the sex workers have not benefited from the Supreme Court’s direction. He said many have taken up alternative livelihoods or are jobless and without financial support. “Most of them being bread earners for their families have to earn for themselves and their families. Due to loss of employment/source of earning, the sex workers...and their families are facing hunger, sexual exploitation and are vulnerable to trafficking.”The consultations were conducted with the sex workers in Goa and the top three sources of trafficking to the state--Delhi, Maharashtra, and West Bengal--to understand their situation during the pandemic and benefits they have received as per the Supreme Court direction and under government schemes.A report based on the consultations said the loss of income was reported by all. “Those engaged in commercial sex lost customers due to the lockdown and the economic crises... Those who had moved away from commercial sex were reconstructing their lives on their own, with minimal or no external support. Family support was often absent. As a result, they had to fend for themselves, even with lack of education and vocational skills,” the report said.A commercial sex worker told one of the NGOs that they did not even have soaps. “We did not have money and we had no clients to attend to. The ration was given but there are other expenses... We were given tea leaves, but no milk.”The report said participants with family members reported that many of their immediate family members also lost jobs. “Participants who earned from commercial sex after the lockdown was lifted reported that their earning had drastically reduced, and they were still not able to meet their basic needs.”Most participants said they found it difficult to pay rent. Some shifted out of their residences to live with friends in larger groups, others moved to families who resented their return without income. Many took loans to meet these expenses. “Medical needs had to be compromised upon, because the government hospitals were now Covid-care centres and thus could not attend to other patients – leaving participants to search for private health facilities which most could not afford, or because there was no money for medicines or travel to hospitals during the lockdown,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commercial-sex-workers-largely-left-out-of-welfare-measures-amid-covid-ngos-101623124421071.html
08-06-2021||India||India sees less than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases for first time in over 2 months||India’s daily Covid-19 tally dropped to less than 100,000 cases for the first time since April 6 as 86,498 infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data showed on Tuesday. The country’s tally rose to 28.99 million while Covid-related deaths rose by 2123 to 351,309, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesAccording to a statement by the Union government, the 86,498 new Covid-19 cases represent the lowest single-day rise in 66 days.Also Read: How Centre plans to vaccinate all 940 million adults against Covid-19 by DecemberOn April 6, the country added 96,982 fresh infections and 446 fatalities from the preceding 24-hour period. A day ago, on April 5, the daily Covid-19 tally topped the 100,000-mark for the first time, as the infection tally rose by 103,558 cases, along with 478 deaths.Also Read: US report concluded Covid-19 may have leaked from Wuhan lab: ReportTuesday’s data showed an addition of 182,282 recoveries from the coronavirus disease, taking the nationwide recoveries to 27,341,462 and a further improvement in the recovery rate to 94.30%. Active cases fell by 97,907 to 1,303,702, and comprise 4.50% of the overall caseload, according to the latest bulletin.Also Read: Maharashtra records 10,219 Covid-19 casesData released by the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday showed 1,873,485 samples were tested on June 7, as against 1,587,589 a day before. With this, 368,207,596 samples have been tested till now, ICMR said.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/mzUwJLpeDzThe number of vaccine doses administered against Covid-19 saw a single-day rise of 3,364,476 and are currently at 236,198,726. In an address to the nation on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the central government will now provide vaccination to the beneficiaries on behalf of the state governments as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-less-than-100-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-in-over-2-months-101623123412358.html
08-06-2021||India||Andhra CM Reddy writes to PM Modi, seeks infrastructural help in PMAY colonies||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking help in incorporating the creation of basic infrastructure in greenfield colonies as part of assistance given to state governments under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).In his letter to PM Modi, Jagan said that more than three crore houses have been sanctioned to Andhra Pradesh in the last seven years by the central government. Reddy also said that the Centre assisted the release with almost ₹3 lakh crore.Referring to the government's promise of 'Housing for all', Reddy said that the Andhra Pradesh government has acquired 68,381 acres of land and allotted house sites to almost 31 lakh beneficiaries spread across 17,005 greenfield colonies.The state government, CM Reddy said, is assisting the beneficiaries to construct 28.30 lakh pucca houses with an estimated cost of ₹50,944 crores under PMAY rural and urban schemes.The state government has created a post of 'Joint Collector Housing' for the development of these greenfield colonies.Reddy highlighted that the state government cannot bear the huge cost of developing basic infrastructure in such colonies."Presently, the PMAY Urban and Gramin programme envisages the development of basic infrastrusture in all these greenfiled colonies by the state governments. In this regard, I would like to humbly submit that it will be difficult for state governments to bear such huge cost," the chief minister wrote.In his letter, Reddy asked the prime minister to 'visualise a scenario wherein, houses will be completed and fir for occupancy but due to lack of basic infrastructure, couldn't be occupied by the intended beneficiaries.'He also requested PM Modi to direct ministries of housing and urban affairs and the rural development ministry to incorporate the creation of basic infrastructure in greenfield colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-reddy-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-infrastructural-help-in-pmay-colonies-101623121759996.html
08-06-2021||India||How Centre plans to vaccinate all 940 million adults against Covid-19 by December||Along with changing its Covid-19 vaccination strategy, the central government has prepared a plan to vaccinate all 940 million people above the age of 18 by December 2021. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said 536 million vaccine doses are available for vaccination till July, while arrangements are being made to have 1336 million more doses between August-December to inoculate all 940 million beneficiaries.According to Bhushan, of these 536 million vaccine doses, nearly one-third or 180 million doses were purchased directly by state governments or hospitals. "From August to December, 500 million doses of Covishield, 386 million of Covaxin, 300 million from Biological E, 100 million of Sputnik V and 50 million from Zydus Cadila will be available," the Union health secretary said.With this, the total number of vaccine doses used in the country's vaccination drive, from January to December, would reach 1872 million, which Bhushan said, would be adequate to vaccinate 940 million people. The number of doses available will further increase if doses from companies like Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson etc. are available, along with those from domestic firm Gennova as well as the nasal spray being developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the firm behind Covaxin.The health secretary also said that in the coming days, the pace of vaccination will pick up as 120 million doses are available for June, as against 80 million in May.According to the Centre, chief ministers from 10 states wrote to it in May, requesting for vaccine jabs to be procured by the Union government itself. These were chief ministers from Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha and Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-centre-plans-to-vaccinate-all-94-crore-adults-against-covid-19-by-december-101623120235960.html
08-06-2021||India||Maharashtra records 10,219 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 10,219 Covid-19 infections while the active cases have declined to 174,320. This marks around 73% dip compared to that a month ago on May 7 when the state had 654,788 active cases.Factors such as ramping of tests, faster diagnosis as well as availability of medication are believed to have contributed to this decline.Pune has the highest active Covid-19 (19,645) down from 120,512 on May 7, followed by Kolhapur (18,520). On May 7, Kolhapur had 14,491 active cases.Also Read | Probe ordered after 22 die in ‘mock oxygen drill’ at Agra hospital: ReportMumbai had 17,791 cases on Monday, down from 54,162 a month ago.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid-19 management, attributed the fall in active cases to the reduction in daily Covid-19 cases. “The lockdown as well as other factors such as ramping up of tests and regular supply of medicines ensured reduction of cases. In areas like Kolhapur, the virus came late and hence, active cases there will come down in the next 15 days,” said Salunke.Dr Jeevan Jain, a physician who has treated over 15,000 Covid patients, said it indicates that Covid has peaked and is on decline. “We will see fewer number of active cases in the coming days. We are also seeing good recovery rates. It indicates the second wave is waning and will soon become history,” said Dr Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-10-219-covid-19-cases-101623122740819.html
08-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to decide on lockdown extension today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar lockdown to be extended? CM Nitish Kumar to decide todayThe Nitish Kumar government in Bihar will take a decision on Tuesday regarding the Covid-19 lockdown in the state, which is ending today. According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, the curbs are likely to be extended in the state. Read moreAssam govt approves ₹160cr rehabilitation package for former Bodo rebelsThe Assam government on Monday approved a ₹160 crore package to rehabilitate 4,036 former cadres of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), one of the main Bodo rebel outfits of the state. Read moreBombay high court to hear Maharashtra's plea against CBI FIR in Anil Deshmukh caseThe Bombay high court will on Tuesday take up for hearing a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking to drop two topics from the purview of investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the corruption charges against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Read more20 killed due to lightning in West Bengal, Centre announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratiaThe Centre on Monday announced ₹2 lakh ex-gratia from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for families of people who were killed in lightning in different parts of West Bengal. At least 20 people were killed in lightning strikes in three southern districts of the state. Read more2019 ODI World Cup final loss in England does not affect New Zealand's morale ahead of WTC Final: Kane WilliamsonThe 2019 World Cup final between England and New Zealand in London just a couple of years ago was a memorable encounter, to say the least. The controversial game between two of the best teams in the world saw a Super Over finish, which was decided by boundary count rule - a rule that was scrapped just a few months after the event because of its controversial nature. Read moreWhen Raj Kundra showered Shilpa Shetty with gifts but she told him 'nothing could happen between' themActor Shilpa Shetty turns 46 on Tuesday. She has been married to Raj Kundra for 12 years now and they have two children - son Viaan and daughter Samisha. She often shares fun videos with her husband on social media. Read moreWatch: Elephant gives tribute to mahout in his funeral, leaves netizens misty-eyedIn a heartwarming incident, an elephant was seen giving a tribute to its deceased mahout at his funeral. Shared on Twitter by IFS officer Parveen Kaswan, the clip has grabbed much love and exclamation from netizens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101623120826500.html
08-06-2021||India||Assam govt approves ₹160cr rehabilitation package for former Bodo rebels||The Assam government on Monday approved a ₹160 crore package to rehabilitate 4,036 former cadres of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), one of the main Bodo rebel outfits of the state. The package was approved by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma during a meeting in Guwahati to review implementation of the Bodo Territorial Region (BTR) accord signed in New Delhi in January last year with four NDFB factions. The rehabilitation package will be conceptualised and designed by the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), which administers the four districts that fall in BTR, in association with State Institute for Panchayat and Rural Development. “Under the programme, skill development training would be imparted to 4,036 NDFB cadres in several parts of BTR for their socio-economic development,” said a state government release. As per the accord, which is the third one signed after the previous deals in 1993 and 2003, all the four NDFB factions will abjure violence, surrender their weapons and disband their armed organizations within one month in return. The Central and Assam governments will rehabilitate the cadres of all four factions through measures like a lump sum payment of ex-gratia, funding of economic activities through existing schemes, vocational training and recruitment in government jobs as per eligibility. The deal also stipulates that criminal cases against NDFB cadres for non-heinous crimes will be withdrawn, but cases involving heinous crimes will be reviewed on a case by case basis as per the existing policy on the issue. Following the accord, over 1600 cadres belonging to the four factions laid down arms at a ceremony in Guwahati. Many cadres from the outfits had surrendered to government agencies earlier and also after the accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-approves-rs-160cr-rehabilitation-package-for-former-bodo-rebels-101623121720418.html
08-06-2021||India||Monsoon to cover all of east India by June 13: IMD||A low pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood around June 11. It will help advance the monsoon to all of east India, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Under its Influence, monsoon is likely to advance into most parts of Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand and some parts of Bihar during June 12, 13.Also Read | Industries cannot operate without prior environment clearance, says NGTWidespread rainfall activity is very likely over most parts of east India and adjoining central India from June 10 onwards under the influence of this low pressure area. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha during June 8 to 11; over Gangetic West Bengal on June 10 and 11; over Jharkhand on June 11 and over east Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, and Chhattisgarh till June 11. Extremely heavy rain is also very likely over Odisha on June 11. Enhanced rainfall activity is likely along the west coast, including Maharashtra, from June 11 onwards. Due to strengthening of southwesterly winds and other favourable meteorological conditions, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely over northeastern states during the next 4-5 days. Under the influence of the offshore trough (area of low pressure) at mean sea level from north Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast; widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Dust raising strong surface winds (30-40 kmph) are very likely to prevail over plains of northwest India during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-cover-all-of-east-india-by-june-13imd-101623120940360.html
08-06-2021||India||'22 dead after oxygen supply cut as mock drill', report shows hospital owner as saying in video. Probe ordered||District authorities in Agra have ordered a probe after a video of owner of a private hospital surfaced in which he claimed to have cut off the oxygen supply of patients on April 26, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.In the video tweeted by Livehindustan, the owner of Paras Hospital Dr Arinjay Jain is heard telling some people that the oxygen supply was cut for five minutes as part of a "mock drill". Twenty-two people may not have made it out alive on that day, Livehindustan reported.Watch the videoDr Jain, who is not visible in the video, is further heard saying that the there was an acute shortage of oxygen on that day, and the hospital administration asked people to get their patients discharged but no one was ready. "Then I decided to try something out - a mock drill of sorts - and asked the staff to identify those whose oxygen supply can be cut. That way, we will get to know who will die and who'll survive. The mock drill happened at 7am, no one knows about this," said Dr Jain, according to the video tweeted by Livehindustan."Twenty-two patients started gasping for breath and their bodies began turning blue. We came to know that they will not survive. Seventy-four others who survived in the ICU ward were told to bring their own oxygen cylinders," he added.District magistrate Prabhu N Singh denied that 22 patients died that day. He said that on April 26 and 27, only seven patients died in Paras Hospital. "There was an oxygen shortage on these days, but it was augmented by diverting supply from Mathura refinery," Singh was quoted as saying by Livehindustan.The district magistrate said that they have taken the cognisance of the vide and investigation has started, adding that action will b taken against those found guilty.Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey also said that seven patients died in the hospital in the said time period. The health department has, however, launched an investigation, said Dr Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-after-22-die-in-mock-oxygen-drill-at-agra-hospital-report-101623118861775.html
08-06-2021||NA||Covid-19 Highlights: Jharkhand reports 603 new cases, 13 deaths in last 24 hrs||India's coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload currently stands at over 28.99 million after the country registered 86,498 new cases on Tuesday, the lowest in 63 days, according to the Union health ministry data. After witnessing the devastating wrath of the second wave of the disease, the country is now seeing a declining trajectory of new infections and active cases, as it reported less than 200,000 cases for the 12th straight day on Tuesday, the health ministry said. The active caseload saw a net decline of 97,907 Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate stands at 4.50 per cent, according to government data.More than 23.61 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far, since the beginning of the vaccination drive on January 16, according to the health ministry. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that free vaccination will be available to everyone above the age of 18 from June 21.Globally, more than 173 million people have been affected by the virus to date and over 3.7 million lost their lives to the disease, according to the John Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker. The pressure on China for transparent communication regarding the Covid origins continues. US national security advisor Jake Sullivan said the United States in coordination with the international community will continue to press China to be transparent and forthcoming with data and information, reported AP. The World Health Organisation (WHO), meanwhile, warned about overpriced Covid vaccines and substandard products from intermediaries saying that countries should buy only WHO-certified vaccines and make sure to identify the origins of the product, reported ANI.Follow all the updates here:US President Joe Biden asks Americans to get vaccinatedFolks, the Delta variant — a highly infectious Covid-19 strain — is spreading rapidly among young people between 12 and 20 years old in the U.K. If you’re young and haven’t gotten your shot yet, it really is time. It’s the best way to protect yourself and those you love: US President Joe Biden.Covaxin stock for 45-plus age group almost over: AtishiNo Delhi government hospital and vaccination centre would administer Covaxin to people aged 45 years and above from Wednesday as the vaccine stock for the age group got "almost over" on Tuesday, said senior AAP leader and legislator Atishi.Jharkhand logs 603 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths in last 24 hoursJharkhand reports 603 new COVID cases, 803 recoveries, and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 5,099Total recoveries: 3,32,007Death toll: 5,073 pic.twitter.com/1qDbNN9J68With 603 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours, Jharkhand's death toll climbed to 5,073, reports ANI.Nearly 27,600 MT of medical oxygen delivered via Oxygen Express trains: Govt#IndiaFightsCorona:#OxygenExpresses deliver nearly 27600 MT of LMO to the nation.Oxygen Expresses transported 1603 tankers of LMO so far and bring relief to 15 States.Details: https://t.co/EHIj825QQC#StaySafe #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/cwp3tGXNUaThe Union government said that nearly 27,600 MT of medical oxygen have been delivered to states via the Oxygen Express trains. So far, 1,603 tankers have been transported to 15 states.EMA to decide in July regarding approval of Moderna for beneficiaries in 12 to 17 age groupEMA starts evaluating the use of #COVID19Vaccine Moderna in young people aged 12 to 17. The vaccine is currently used for preventing #COVID19 in people aged 18 and older. https://t.co/G1q6lQmz8V pic.twitter.com/5G1SOUya3cThe European Medicines Agency has started evaluating the application for the use of Moderna Covid-19 vaccine on people between 12 and 17 years of age. The outcome of the assessment is expected in July unless further information would be necessary, the EMA said.Telangana extends Covid restrictions till June 10Telangana government extends COVID restrictions for 10 more days from June 10; night curfew (6 pm-6am) to continueHimachal Pradesh reports 596 cases of Covid-19, 13 deathsHimachal Pradesh reported 596 cases on Tuesday, the state-wide tally now stands at 1,96,351. 13 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll in the state now stands at 3312, as per the state health bulletin.Maharashtra records 10,891 fresh Covid-19, 295 deathsMaharashtra reported 10,891 cases of Covid-19, taking the caseload to 5,852,891. 95 fatalities were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 101,172.Tamil Nadu reports 18,023 cases of Covid-19, 409 deathsTamil Nadu reported 18,023 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally of cases in the state to 22,74,704. 409 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 27,765, while the number of active cases in the state are now at 2,18,595, according to the state health bulletin.Kerala records 15,567 cases of Covid-19, 124 deathsCOVID19 | 15,567 new cases, 124 deaths and 20,019 recoveries reported in Kerala today.Andhra Pradesh reports 7,796 Covid-19 cases, 77 deathsAndhra Pradesh reported 7,796 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally of cases in the state to 17,71,007. 77 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 11,629, according to the state health bulletin.Provisional scientific data of Biological E's Corbevax is very promising, says govtDr VK Paul, Niti Aayog (health) member, said on Tuesday that the provisional scientific data on Biological E's Corbevax, the new Covid-19 vaccine, is very promising.New guidelines will go a long way in galvanizing vaccination, says govtThe new guidelines will go a long way in galvanising the ongoing vaccination drive, the government said in a press briefing on Tuesday.Order for 25 cr doses have been placed with SII, says govtThe Union govt said on Tuesday that an order for 25 crore doses have been placed with the Serum Institute of India on June 8, to be used August onwards.Delhi reports 316 Covid-19 cases, 41 deathsDelhi reported 316 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of cases to 14,29,791. 41 deaths were also reported, the death toll now stands at 24,668, reported news agency ANI.Kerala to vaccinate bedridden and debilitated patients at their residenceThe State will vaccinate the bedridden and debilitated patients, who can't be moved out and those for whom mobilizing might worsen their present health condition, at their residence: Government of Kerala #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/7MAVE96yu5Kerala government has taken the decision to vaccinate disabled and bedridden individuals at their residence for whom mobilisation might worsen their present condition, reported ANI.Andhra Pradesh to vaccinate mothers with children below 5 years of ageIt is decided to vaccinate all mothers having children below 5 yrs of age. All District Medical and Health officers requested to instruct the Medical officers to prepare a list of such mothers: Department of Public Health & Family Welfare, Government of Andhra Pradesh #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/c9EocIXk8XTaking cognisance of a possible third wave of Covid-19, Andhra Pradesh has decided to vaccinate all mothers who have children below 5 years of age, reported ANI.Puducherry logs 545 new Covid-19 casesPuducherry saw a rise of 545 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, while new fatalities dropped to 6. The tally stands at over 110,000, reported PTI.China administered over 794 million Covid-19 vaccine doses as of MondayChina administered over 16.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses on Monday taking the total number of administered doses to 794.13 million, Reuters cited the data from the national health authority.Centre releases revised guidelines for national Covid-19 vaccination drive, states to get doses based on populationThe Centre on Tuesday releases revised guidelines for national Covid vaccination program, to be implemented from June 21. "Vaccine doses to be allocated to states/UTs based on population, disease burden and vaccination' progress. Wastage will affect allocation negatively," the guidelines read.Ladakh reports 61 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload drops to 1,011Ladakh logged 61 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The tally now stands at 19,258, while active caseload dropped to 1,011, PTI quoted an official as saying.UP lifts Covid-19 curbs, night curfew from 7pm to 7am to continueUttar Pradesh government on Tuesday lifted Covid-imposed curfew from all districts, however, night curfew from 7pm to 7am will continue. Active caseload in the state stands at 14,000 with less than 600 active cases in each district, the chief minister's office said. Mizoram reports 317 new Covid-19 casesMizoram reported 317 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the tally to 13,996, PTI quoted an official statement.Over 3.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in last 24 hours: Health ministry#IndiaFightsCorona:📍𝑴𝒐𝒓𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒏 33.6 𝒍𝒂𝒌𝒉 (33,64,476) 𝒗𝒂𝒄𝒄𝒊𝒏𝒆 𝒅𝒐𝒔𝒆𝒔 𝒂𝒅𝒎𝒊𝒏𝒊𝒔𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒅 𝒊𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒍𝒂𝒔𝒕 24 𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒓𝒔.➡️Together we can win the battle against #COVID19.#We4Vaccine#LargestVaccinationDrive#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/7LH5YMWEZ7Over 1.8 million samples tested for Covid-19 in last 24 hours: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/mzUwJLpeDzIndia reports 86,498 new Covid-19 cases, 2,123 deathsIndia on Tuesday reported less than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases and 2,123 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry data.Odisha: 70 inmates, 5 employees test positive for Covid-19 in Gunupur jail so farAround 70 out of 113 inmates and five employees of Gunupur sub-jail in Odisha's Rayagada district tested positive for Covid-19 so far, ANI quoted Kamakshya Prasad Pati, jail superintendent of Gunupur sub-jail as saying.UK could delay easing Covid-19 restrictions by 2 weeks: ReportThe UK's plan of easing coronavirus restrictions on June 21 could be delayed by two weeks as the chief medical officer and chief scientific officer gave a ' fairly grim' briefing to the cabinet ministers, highlighting the concerns over rate of transmission of new variants. The officials also said that the vaccinations didn't give 100 per cent protection, Bloomberg reported citing a report by the Times of London.Need to increase Covid-19 vaccination production capacity globally: BlinkenAs the US decides to send millions of Covid-19 vaccines to nations across the globe, the secretary of state Tony Blinken said there is a need to increase production capacity on a regional basis worldwide. Chile reports nearly 7,000 new Covid-19 cases, toll crosses 30,000-markChile's Covid-19 death toll crossed 30,000-mark on Monday as it reported 121 deaths in the last 24 hours. Chile logged 6,958 new coronavirus cases that took the tally to 1,434,884, according to the health ministry, reported ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-june-8-2021-101623114990427.html
08-06-2021||India||Bombay high court to hear Maharashtra's plea against CBI FIR in Anil Deshmukh case||The Bombay high court will on Tuesday take up for hearing a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking to drop two topics from the purview of investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the corruption charges against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.The high court had asked the investigating agency to not take action till the next hearing.The earlier hearing was adjourned on May 27 after the CBI demanded hearing of the plea by the bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, which ordered a preliminary inquiry in the matter on April 5.The hearing is expected to take place at 10.30am by the bench headed by Justice Datta.The Maharashtra government's petition seeks to quash two paragraphs in CBI's FIR, in which the agency has sought communication about the reinstatement of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze and alleged undue influence over the transfer of police officers by the home department."The April 5 order of Bombay High Court had not mandated this matter to be investigated, so, in these circumstances investigating a matter which is not mandated by HC or a prior consent of state is not taken before investigating, this is an illegal act as per law," the plea stated.In the previous hearing on May 21, the state had objected to the scope of the investigation by CBI saying these issues had nothing to do with the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh. It also said that CBI had not followed procedure and had gone beyond the norms laid down in its manual of taking prior approval of the state.The CBI had initiated a preliminary enquiry (PE) against Deshmukh on the high court's order on April 5. The order was given by the court on the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh.Singh, in his letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, had alleged that Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month. Vaze for initially suspended, and then dismissed from service last moDeshmukh had resigned from his post after the Bombay high court directed the CBI to initiate an enquiry within 15 days into allegations levelled against him by Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-case-bombay-high-court-to-hear-maharashtra-s-plea-against-cbi-fir-on-tuesday-101623115965781.html
08-06-2021||India||Bihar lockdown to be extended? CM Nitish Kumar to decide today||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar will take a decision on Tuesday regarding the Covid-19 lockdown in the state, which is ending today. According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, the curbs are likely to be extended in the state.Chief minister Nitish Kumar will chair a meeting of disaster management group to discuss the restrictions to be continued and relaxations to be given, according to Livehindustan. An order is then expected, which will be effective from June 9, it further reported.The Bihar government had on May 31 extended Covid-19 lockdown till June 8, following a review of the situation by Kumar and state officials. This was the fourth extension of the lockdown that began on May 5.According to norms set by the state government, all shops and business establishments were allowed to open alternately from 6am till 2pm. The district administration was asked to decide the days for the shops.Earlier, certain shops including grocery and vegetable kiosks were allowed to open from 6 am till 10 am.The government offices were allowed to function in Bihar with 25% staff strength, but private offices were asked to remain closed.Less than 800 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported in Bihar on Monday, in yet another indication that the second wave was on the wane in the state.According to the health department, 762 people tested positive in the last 24 hours, the lowest figure for the state for the past couple of months. Forty-three fatalities were recorded in the same time span, which pushed Bihar's death toll to 5,424.Total number of confirmed cases has risen to 7,13,879 and 7,00,224 people have, so far, recovered. Recovery rate has reached 98.09 per cent and active caseload has dropped further to 8,230, the health department said.More than five lakh people in the state have been infected since April and over 4,000 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-lockdown-to-be-extended-cm-nitish-kumar-to-decide-today-101623112547721.html
08-06-2021||India||Telangana cabinet to meet today to decide Covid-19 curbs extension||Telangana state cabinet under the chairmanship of the chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao is scheduled to meet on Tuesday to assess the Covid-19 situation and take a decision regarding the ongoing lockdown in the state.The meeting, which is scheduled to begin at 2pm, is also likely to discuss media, health, agricultural affairs and the economic situation of the state in the wake of coronavirus-induced lockdown, the chief minister's office (CMO) said on Sunday.Also read | 66 doctors succumbed to Covid-19 in Telugu states during second wave: IMAThe state government extended the ongoing Covid-19 curbs on May 31 that were supposed to conclude on the very day. The curbs were further extended for 10 days to contain the spread of the disease.The cabinet may discuss the actions to be taken as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state witness a declining trend. In the wake of the threats looming from the upcoming third wave of viral disease, the state cabinet is likely to discuss the precautions to be taken by the state medical department to effectively deal with the situation, the CMO said.The cabinet will also discuss agrarian issues like crop investment assistance to farmers, measures to curb adulterated seeds and availability of fertilizers and pesticides following commencement of monsoon, according to the CMO.Telangana on Monday reported 1,933 new Covid-19 cases that took the tally to 593,103, while 16 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours. The death toll in the state stands at 3,394, according to a PTI report that cited state health bulletin.Also read: Former Telangana health minister Eetala Rajender resigns from TRSThe Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the highest number of new infections at 165, as per the bulletin.The chief minister has decided to inaugurate diagnostic centres in major government hospitals in 19 identified district headquarters in the state on Wednesday. Earlier, the inauguration was supposed to happen on Monday. These diagnostic centres would conduct 57 tests, which will include tests for coronavirus at no cost, the CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cabinet-to-meet-today-to-decide-covid-19-curbs-extension-101623109841711.html
08-06-2021||India||20 killed due to lightning in West Bengal, Centre announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia||The Centre on Monday announced ₹2 lakh ex-gratia from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for families of people who were killed in lightning in different parts of West Bengal. At least 20 people were killed in lightning strikes in three southern districts of the state."My thoughts are with all those who lost their near and dear ones due to lightning in parts of West Bengal. May the injured recover at the earliest," PM Modi tweeted on Monday evening.The Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet, "PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from the PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to lightning in various parts of West Bengal. Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured."According to West Bengal State disaster management authority, Murshidabad, Hooghly and Purba Medinipur district were among those affected. While nine people died each in Murshidabad and Hooghly districts, two others lost their lives in the Purba Medinipur district, an official of authority said.Three people were injured in the lightning strikes in the Murshidabad district and were admitted to the Jangipur hospital.Expressing his heartfelt condolences over the tragedy, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Twitter, "The loss of lives due to lightning in different parts of West Bengal is deeply saddening. My sincerest condolences to the families of those who have lost their loved ones. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured."According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), thunderstorms with lightning and gusty wind occurred in several districts of the state. A squall passed over the Alipore observatory in the city at 4.25pm on Monday from the northwesterly direction with the highest gust of 59 kmph and it lasted for two minutes, it said.The weather office forecast a generally cloudy sky in Kolkata and neighbourhood on Tuesday with the possibility of rain or thundershowers.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-killed-due-to-lightning-in-west-bengal-centre-announces-rs-2-lakh-exgratia-101623109263683.html
08-06-2021||India||Daily new Covid-19 cases drop below 100K after 64 days||There were 85,801 new cases of Covid-19 across India on Monday, the first time fewer than 100,000 infections were added since April 5.The country recorded 3,000 deaths, the lowest since April 26. India continues to record the highest numbers in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-new-covid-19-cases-drop-below-100k-after-64-days-101623095612681.html
08-06-2021||India||States won’t have to pay for vaccines: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that the Union government was taking back the responsibility for procuring vaccines and distributing them to states, in response to a growing chorus of demands from the states, sharp criticism by the Supreme Court, and amid increasing concerns that supply shortages and the insistence of foreign vaccine makers that they would only deal with the Union government could derail India’s vaccine drive.The Union government will continue to allow private hospitals to buy up to 25% of vaccines made in India, although it has capped the service charge they can levy on these at ₹150 a dose. The details of India’s new vaccine policy will be worked out in consultation with the states in the next two weeks, and it will be launched on June 21, Modi added.The Union government will bear the cost of vaccinating everyone over the age of 18 years (the population currently eligible for vaccines), he said.Some chief ministers welcomed the move. “The decision of free vaccination will decrease the financial burden of the state governments,” Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, praised the move.The Delhi government said that if the Centre wanted, it could have taken this decision a long time ago. “We express our gratitude to the Supreme Court. After its intervention, free vaccines will be available to all age groups across the country. If the central government wanted, it could have done this long ago. But due to the policies of the Centre, neither the states were able to buy the vaccines, nor the central government was giving it,” Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia said in a tweet.In his address to the nation, the Prime Minister also defended his government’s vaccine policy, pointing out that it was “decentralised” only in response to demands from many states that they be allowed to manage the vaccine drive, and buy directly from both Indian and foreign manufacturers. The Union government, therefore, allowed this from May 1, he said, pointing out that health was a state subject.In phases till then, the Union government had managed the vaccine drive for health care workers, frontline workers, people over the age of 60 years, and those over the age of 45 years but with co-morbid conditions that made them more vulnerable to Covid-19. But in response to the demand from the states, it decided to allow states to offer vaccinations to all starting May 1.The Prime Minister’s speech comes ahead of a hearing in the Supreme Court on the Covid-19 situation and the state of vaccination in the country. In its previous hearing, the apex court said the Union government’s coronavirus vaccination policy that put the onus of giving doses to adults in the below-45 years age group entirely on states and private hospitals was “prima facie arbitrary and irrational”. It ordered the Union government last week to submit within two weeks “all relevant documents and file notings” on the thinking and process behind the strategy.India bore the brunt of the second wave in May – it added 9 million cases, or 31.2% of its total cases to date, and saw 120,071 deaths, 34.4% of the total, in the month – and this, combined with the supply situation, made the vaccine drive chaotic. States also found it impossible to deal with foreign manufacturers, many of whom wanted the Union government to provide them protection from lawsuits for adverse events (discussions on this are on). In just a few weeks, the PM claimed, states realised the old system was better.India has already administered in excess of 230 million doses, Modi said, and its vaccine drive is among the fastest in the world, but the new policy will make it faster. Till Monday, a total of 46.6 million people in the country have been vaccinated fully, and another 142.8 million vaccinated with one dose.K Sujatha Rao, former Union secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, said: “It was time that they changed the vaccination policy, which had already been badly delayed. A lot of precious time was already wasted in states trying to float global tenders.” Dr Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals, said: “Central procurement of the vaccine would certainly strengthen our vaccination drive as the Centre would have a lot more clout in dealing with the multinationals and also the procurement of vaccines from the other manufacturers rather than individual states or smaller players directly negotiating with these companies. Also, free vaccination for 18 and above is a welcome move. As far as the private sector is concerned, not much would change at present.”To be sure, apart from the unwillingness of foreign companies such as Pfizer and Moderna to deal with the states, and their inability to get anywhere with their global tenders – at least six states raised these, but most received little interest – the states were significantly hampered by the sheer lack of supply. With demand increasing manifold suddenly – there are 600 million Indians between the ages of 18 and 45 years who became eligible for vaccines on May 1 – and supplies not keeping pace, this was always going to be a problem.The situation has improved in June, with the government anticipating supplies of at least 120 million doses, and the number is expected to increase even more in the coming months.The Union government has said that 2.16 billion vaccines will be available in India between August and December, but this number includes aggressive estimates for the production of some existing vaccines, and some vaccines that are still in different stages of development and testing.At least 710 million of the 2.16 billion expected doses are of vaccines yet to be approved. Reuters said in a report that Serum Institute of India will likely miss its target of 750 million doses in these five months by 27% (or 200 million), and Bharat Biotech’s scale-up to 550 million doses is clouded in ambiguity, with the company saying last month that there is a lag between production and availability, which means doses made in April will only be available in July. The actual availability in that period may instead be around 1 billion, according to an analysis by The Ken.India has approved three vaccines (one locally developed, a second made under licence, and a third imported as well as locally made by at least half a dozen companies under licence) and most experts are convinced that vaccine supply will improve in the coming months, especially with the local production of Sputnik V, which India is currently importing.The PM referred to this in his speech and said there were seven vaccines in various stages of development and three in final trials, including a nasal vaccine (being developed by Bharat Biotech, again), which, if approved, would significantly speed up the pace of vaccinations. Among the vaccines in late stage trials is one developed by Biological E, for which India has already placed an advance order for 300 million doses. Two vaccines are also being tested on children, the PM said.The government has told the Supreme Court that it plans to vaccinate all eligible Indians by the end of this year, something that will require it to deliver 238 million doses a month, according to an HT analysis.Responding to criticism of India’s vaccine strategy, Modi said that the government set up a vaccine task force as far back as April 2020, supported vaccine makers through trials and through funding, and planned a phased delivery starting with health care workers, something that helped them work without fear during the second wave.Describing the coronavirus pandemic as a “once in a 100-year” epidemic, the PM said he understood that many Indians had lost people to Covid-19, and that his sympathies were with them. The disease was “unprecedented in the modern world” but India fought it together, he added, “building hospitals, increasing ICU capacity, making ventilators, creating new health infrastructure…”And then, he said, when, during the second wave, the country saw the kind of demand for medical oxygen that it had never seen before, it sourced liquid oxygen and concentrators from all parts of the world, deploying its navy and air force, using trains to move oxygen tankers, and working on a manifold increase in oxygen manufacturing capacity.At a time such as this, Modi added, “politicking” isn’t good. It is important that states focus on the task at hand, he said – vaccinating everyone, including the last person in line. Some people have been consistently spreading misinformation about vaccines, he added, leading to fears and hesitancy among people. Such people, he added, are “playing with the lives of innocents”.The Union government has repeatedly targeted opposition politicians for their comments on vaccines and said this could lead to hesitancy.The Congress said the announcement marked yet another instance when the Modi government has done a “somersault” on the vaccination policy. “The people opposed the government’s policies, the Congress party opposed it, and Supreme Court bitterly reprimanded them and asked them to file an affidavit. Now, they have taken a third summersault. The policy is also flawed even now. Why should citizens of India be made to pay in the private sector? Do we make you pay for DPT injection or a pulse polio injection in the private sector?” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi should share details on which states made the demand of being able to buy vaccines for the 18-44 age group. To my knowledge, no state made such a demand... I am happy that the PM had to change his old decision keeping in view the public sentiments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-won-t-have-to-pay-for-vaccines-pm-modi-101623095410385.html
08-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi names ‘abductors’, hints at role of a politician||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi has named a woman, Barbara Jarabica, two Indians he identified as Narender Singh and Gurmit Singh, and “unknown persons” as his abductors in his complaint filed with the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda.Hindustan Times has seen a copy of the five-page complaint in which the 62-year-old has claimed that once he was brought to Dominica, he was informed by his abductors that a high-ranking Indian politician would speak with him.In his complaint filed with the commissioner of police of Antigua on June 3, Choksi said he was on friendly terms with Barbara Jarabica for the past one year. She initially lived opposite his residential complex at Jolly Harbour, but later shifted to Coco Bay Hotel. She was friendly with Choksi’s staff too, and they used to meet regularly, often going out for evening walks, he added in the complaint.On May 23, the day he went “missing” from Antigua, Choksi says, Jarabica asked him to deviate from their normal schedule of meeting at a public place and asked him to pick her up from her house.Antigua’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne has said the island nation has started investigations into Choksi’s abduction allegations, even though he doesn’t believe that the businessman was abducted.The businessman, wanted in India for defrauding, with his nephew Nirav Modi, the Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore, added in his complaint that he reached Jarabica’s residence around 5-5.15pm and was invited in by her. She told him that they would step out after she finished her glass of wine. Once he entered, about 8-10 heavily built men appeared from all sides. “They claimed to be Antiguan police and that they know about me and have been watching me for a while,” Choksi said, adding that they wanted to take him to St John’s police station.He alleged that the men beat him up with bare hands and tased him, and also took away his Rolex watch, cellphone, and wallet containing $1,500. He was then put on a wheelchair in an unconscious state, gagged and his face covered, the complaint said. When all this was happening, Choksi said, Jarabica didn’t even attempt to help him, which “clearly points to the fact she was an integral part of this entire scheme to kidnap me”.He was then placed on a small watercraft, and then a larger boat, but when he resisted, he was threatened at knifepoint, the fugitive businessman said.On the boat were two Indians and three people of Caribbean descent, according to him. Their appearances suggested, Choksi claimed, that the two Indians were highly trained mercenaries, hired specifically to abduct him. “One of the Indians said I was under observation for almost a year. They knew intimate details about my household, such as where I would walk, my favourite restaurants, my daily schedule, etc,” he said.Another Indian asked him detailed questions about his finances and offshore bank accounts and threatened of dire consequences if his answers were not satisfactory, Choksi said. “I was also made to speak on the phone with a man who identified himself as Narender Singh. He said he was the chief agent on my case. He began to pressurize me to say I had cooperated with my captors and that I accompanied them of my own free volition which of course was not true,” Choksi’s complaint read. This person, Choksi alleged, also asked him to leave Jarabica out of the matter as it would lead to a public scandal.Choksi claimed the boat reached Dominica 15-17 hours after his ordeal began, which was roughly 9.30-10am Antigua time on May 24.“...I was told that I have been brought to this special location to give an interview to a high-ranking Indian politician. He also told me that my citizenship would be ‘fixed’ in Dominica and that I would soon be repatriated to India,” the complaint read.Choksi said he was received by a battery of police officers in Dominica, including the chief of police, who informed him that he was arrested on an Interpol red notice. In Roseau police station, the complaint said, Choksi was kept in a cell and was denied medical treatment or legal representation.Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “Truth and false are both five-letter words and not even a single letter is common. My client, Mr Choksi, by giving detailed narration of events, has stated his truth. Now (the) false, which was state sponsored, will get exposed if investigated honestly.”In his first statement since Choksi was caught in Dominica on May 24, the island’s Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit said on Monday that the “rights of Mehul Choksi will be respected as has been done thus far”. Skerrit also referred to Choksi as an Indian citizen. “The matter with this Indian citizen is before the courts, the courts will decide what happens to him,” the local media quoted him as saying||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-names-abductors-hints-at-role-of-a-politician-101623095183523.html
08-06-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India ended Monday with fewer than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases, the first time since April 5 that it registered cases below this benchmark. Low as this number may look — everything is relative — compared to the peaks of early May (yes, it was just a month ago), it is worth remembering that at its peak, India’s first wave did not see cases crossing 100,000. Back then, that seemed like a large number; right now, it seems like a low one.India also ended Monday with 46.6 million people vaccinated fully, and another 142.8 million vaccinated with one dose — a significant milestone because this means at least 20% of the population eligible for vaccines (those over the age of 18 years) now has some form of protection against Covid-19. The supply of vaccines is expected to increase from this month — it is not likely to reach the rather optimistic projections provided by the government, but vaccinating 4 million people a day (the likely number this month) is still a significant achievement — and a combination of non-pharmaceutical interventions, Covid-19-safe behaviour and partial restrictions on movement and activities, should help India ensure there isn’t a third wave of the pandemic.The chaos and confusion over India’s vaccine drive, and recent scientific revelations point to the need for some changes in how India procures vaccines, and how and when it administers them. The Union government, on Monday, addressed some of these.On procurement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in an address to the nation, the Union government will procure vaccines, and then allot them to the states. The move came after most states, including those that wanted to procure vaccines on their own, said they wanted the Union government to take over the task. India is one of the few countries allowing private hospitals to directly procure vaccine doses from manufacturers, and it has decided to continue to allow this, with the existing 25% ceiling on the number of doses that can be thus acquired.But there are other changes that should be discussed.On administration, for instance, it makes no sense for the country to open up vaccination to those under the age of 18 years till it covers at least 75% of the addressable population over that age. That’s 705 million people, and once they are fully vaccinated, the vaccine drive can move on to those under the age of 18 years. If supplies are going to be a constraint, it is important to prioritise who gets the vaccine (and when) and sequence the drive. If supplies are not a constraint, then the government should open up vaccinations to all.The drive also has to factor in new scientific revelations that both doses of two-dose vaccines are required to effectively combat variants of the coronavirus, including the so-called Delta variant first identified in India, and which, it is now clear, was behind the surge of cases during the second wave in the country. India would do well to ensure the gap between two doses of Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, which is currently being administered to the majority of people in the country, does not exceed 12 weeks.Equally important to factor in is new research that shows that vaccine-provided immunity fades faster than natural immunity acquired from an infection, pointing to the need for booster shots. Some of the vaccine companies, including Pfizer, have also said that boosters are required. More data on this will become available in the next few months when the first recipients of vaccines (in clinical trials) will complete a year after being vaccinated. It is becoming clear that the first generation of vaccines may be effective only for a year at the most.This means India will have to plan for two, maybe three simultaneous vaccine drives in 2022: one, for those who need to be given booster shots (which is pretty much every one of the 940 million adults in the country, although not all of them need it); two, for those who were either not covered by the first drive, or chose not to be vaccinated, in 2021; and three, for those under the age of 18 (even in the most optimistic scenario, India is unlikely to fully vaccinate 705 million before October, which means that even if this phase is launched immediately after, it will continue into 2022).The process will require a realistic assessment of capacities and supplies (not cheery projections), the placing of advance orders, and a phased vaccine administration plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101623094724933.html
08-06-2021||India||Covaxin for 18-45 bracket only for 2nd dose, HC told||The Delhi government on Monday told the Delhi high court that it has directed all state-run vaccination centres, private hospitals and nursing homes that Covaxin shots will only be administered to those due for their second dose in the 18-45 age group, a day after it passed an order to this effect, even as residents of the Capital who booked slots for a first dose of Covaxin complained that their appointments were cancelled.Advocate Anuj Aggarwal, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told justice Rekha Palli that an additional 40,000 vials of Covaxin were arranged for the city on June 6 so that beneficiaries can be inoculated within the stipulated four-to-six-week period.The submissions came while the court was hearing individual petitions by three Delhi residents who said they were not able to get their second Covaxin dose in the city and had to travel to other cities, such as Meerut and Chandigarh, to get the jab within the mandated time-frame.Aggarwal told the court that the Delhi chief secretary in the June 6 order said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) directed that all private hospitals and nursing homes administering Covaxin to ensure jabs are given only to those in line for the second dose.The Delhi government’s health department on June 3 issued similar directions to all government Covid-19 vaccination centres.During the hearing, the petitioners said no Covaxin doses were available in the city between May 25 and June, and that the six-week period to get the second dose will end on June 14 for several people.The court asked the Centre and the Delhi government to take instructions to examine whether the slots being opened for second dose vaccination can be increased and posted the matter for June 11.The Centre, in its affidavit filed through advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, said the CoWin system provides the list of beneficiaries due for the second dose on a given day, along with their name and contact details to enable state and district officials to actively track these recipients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-for-18-45-bracket-only-for-2nd-dose-hc-told-101623093277218.html
08-06-2021||India||Fee order stands, parents must pay 1st instalment: HC||City private schools on Monday assured the Delhi high court that they will give 15% concession on development fee and annual charges for the current academic year, and that these can be paid in six monthly instalments, even as a bench of justices Rekha Palli and Amit Bansal rejected a Delhi government plea to stay an earlier order allowing schools to levy such charges.In a statement before the court, the Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools (ACURPS) — a body of 450 private unaided schools in Delhi — said they will, till the next hearing, follow principles laid down by justice Jayant Nath in his order on May 31. Justice Nath ruled that schools may collect these charges for the last academic year, on a monthly basis, but only after a 15% reduction in the payable amount, in lieu of unutilised facilities (such as water and electricity) during the lockdown.The state challenged the ruling on Friday, arguing that “schools being charitable organisations are adopting an inhumane approach by charging parents more in the unprecedented time of the pandemic”.The bench on Monday said, “We are rejecting the stay application,” adding that the parents should pay the first instalment.It also remarked that the state government should not be “populist”, and asked them to give subsidies to the schools since they have to pay taxes.“Please don’t just be a populist government saying that oh we have done this. It’s not a short term lockdown; things were different last year… The Delhi government should give some money (subsidy) to the schools,” justice Palli said.Justice Nath, in his order, quashed two orders issued by the Delhi government, on April 18 and August 28 last year, which restricted private schools in the city to collect additional charges. He, however, said students should not be barred from attending classes over the non-payment of the fees.Advocate Kamal Gupta, representing the private schools, said, “Schools have been standing right besides the parents in these tough times and in continuation to that have extended the reduction of 15% as also instalments system for this year’s tuition and development fee”.Advocate Santosh Tripathi, standing counsel of the Delhi government, said the government will challenge the order as “it is in the teeth of several judgments of the division bench of the high court and the Supreme Court”.Senior advocate Shyam Diwan, counsel for (ACURPS), told the court on Monday that they will follow the principles laid down by the single judge for this academic year also.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for the Delhi government, argued that the extra charges such as the development fees was suspended as upgrades, improvements and maintenance are not required when schools are shut for more than a year-and-a-half and since there is no wear and tear in the furniture and fixtures.Opposing the stay application, Diwan told the court that the Delhi government did not have the powers to issue such a diktat. He said the schools have not indulged in commercialisation and profiteering which has been noted by the single judge.Advocate Khagesh B Jha, appearing for four private parties challenging the judgment, also said parents have received bills of around ₹1 lakh per child.The court noting the submissions declined to grant stay and issued notice to the private schools on the plea by the city government.The Delhi government did not respond despite repeated requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fee-order-stands-parents-must-pay-1st-instalment-hc-101623092938990.html
08-06-2021||India||I stand corrected, says P Chidambaram after attack on PM Modi over Covid vaccine||Former Union minister P Chidambaram on Monday rebutted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion that the Centre allowed states to buy vaccines in response to demands from states but backed down after a February letter by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee appeared on social media.“I told (news agency) ANI ‘please tell us which state government demanded that it should be allowed to directly procure vaccines’. Social media activists have posted the copy of the letter of CM, West Bengal to PM making such a request. I was wrong. I stand corrected,” Chidambaram said on micro-blogging site Twitter.In this letter to PM Modi, Mamata Banerjee wanted Bengal to be allowed to procure vaccines on its own to fulfil its requirements for the vaccine.Also read | ‘Not right to go into the past and seek credit’: Congress on PM Modi’s address“We would request you to kindly take up the matter with appropriate authority so that State government is able to purchase the vaccines from designated point(s) on top priority basis because the West Bengal government wants to provide vaccination free of cost to all the people,” Banerjee said in her February 24 letter. It is a point that she reiterated in subsequent months as well.Chidambaram was one of the many from the opposition to criticise PM Modi after his address to the nation, insisting that PM Modi was trying to blame the opposition for his mistakes.“Nobody, but nobody said that [the] Centre should not procure vaccines. He (PM) now blames state govts saying - they wanted to procure vaccines so we allowed them. Let us know which CM, which state govt, on what date demanded that he should be allowed to procure vaccines,” Chidambaram had said, according to an ANI tweet.Banerjee’s letter surfaced soon after.To be sure, in her reaction to PM Modi’s address, Mamata Banerjee did not refer to her demand that Bengal be allowed to directly procure vaccines. Instead, she focused on PM Modi’s announcement that the Centre would provide the vaccines to all adults free of cost and recalled that she had, on multiple occasions, made this demand.“Took him (PM) 4 months but after much pressure, he has FINALLY listened to us & implemented what we've been asking all this while,” she tweeted.In his address, PM Modi said the Union government is taking back the task of Covid-19 vaccination from the states. He said that the Centre, which was procuring 50% of the vaccines produced in the country and letting the states buy another 25%, would now procure 75% of the vaccines. Private hospitals and institutions will continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-stand-corrected-says-p-chidambaram-after-attack-on-pm-modi-over-covid-vaccine-101623092045962.html
08-06-2021||India||Muslim families living near UP temple likely to be relocated over ‘security’||LUCKNOW Muslim families living in the vicinity of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur are likely to be relocated in the wake of the state government’s plan to bolster security around the complex. Though nine families in the area (Purana Gorakhpur Tappa, Kasba Pargana Haveli, Tehsil Sadar, Gorakhpur) have agreed to transfer their houses and land in favour of the state government, two have rejected the district administration’s offer for compensation and allotment of land at an alternative site. District magistrate (Gorakhpur) K Vijendra Pandian said there was no coercion by the district administration on the 11 families to vacate their houses. “The administration will acquire their property only after their consent. The houses are being vacated on the direction of the state government, on the basis of the report submitted by security agencies. The families will be given adequate compensation and the district administration will facilitate their relocation also. There is no religious angle in the shifting of these families,” he said. A district administration officer said the boundary wall of the Gorakhnath temple runs parallel to the 11 houses located on the south-east corner of the temple premises. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is the head priest of the temple, stays in the residential complex on the temple premises during his visits to Gorakhpur. “Hence, security agencies are reviewing and assessing the CM’s security during his stay on the temple premises,” Pandian said. On the basis of the security agencies’ report, the state government directed the district administration to shift these families. “There is no plan to demolish or shift the religious structures in the area. Strict action will be taken against anti-social elements who are trying to disturb communal harmony,” he added. A local trader, Mohammad Islam, said the Muslim families have been living near the Gorakhnath temple for generations. “For livelihood, a majority of them run commercial establishments in a portion of their houses. If the state government shifts them to another location, they will face problems of livelihood. The state government should also give employment to one member of each family whose house is being acquired,” he said. Meanwhile, a delegation of Congress members led by UP Congress Committee vice-president Vishwa Vijay Singh met the 11 families on Sunday. “We told the families that the Congress will fight for their rights. We will oppose their suppression by the district administration. The state government should adhere to the demand of the families,” Singh said. The families themselves have remained silent during the controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-families-living-near-up-temple-likely-to-be-relocated-over-security-101623092076827.html
08-06-2021||India||Bengal governor, Moitra continue to trade barbs||Kolkata: The war of words over the alleged appointment of his relatives at Raj Bhavan escalated on Monday after West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar termed the charges by Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra as “factually wrong” and called it a “distraction strategy” from the “deteriorating law and order situation in the state”. The TMC legislator, however, refused to withdraw her remarks and urged the governor to explain the appointments of six officers on special duty (OSDs), who she alleged are related either to him or other Raj Bhawan officers.On Sunday, Moitra claimed that three of Dhankhar’s own relatives, two relatives of a former aide-de-camp (EDC) and one relative of his present EDC were appointed as OSDs at the governor’s house. She added that the law and order situation in Bengal would improve if the governor left with his “extended family”. Responding to the allegations through a series of tweets, the governor on Monday said that none of the six appointees were part of his close family and that four of them belonged to another caste. “Assertion @MahuaMoitra in tweet & Media that six coterminous appointee OSDs in personal staff are relatives is FACTUALLY WRONG. OSDs are from three states and belong to four different castes. None of them is part of close family. Four of them are not from my caste or state,” he posted on Twitter. The governor added that the TMC legislator’s tweets were a part of the “distraction strategy to divert attention from the deteriorating law and order situation in the state”. “This is unfolding of ‘distraction strategy’ to divert attention from alarming law and order scenario @MamataOfficial. Would continue undeterred and with zeal to serve the people of state and vindicate my oath of office under Article 159 of the Constitution,” Dhankhar tweeted. Taking note of one of his tweets, Moitra urged the governor to explain how the six OSDs were appointed to Raj Bhavan. “Asking Uncleji to lay out right here what antecedents of the appointees are & how each one got into Raj Bhavan. Do it NOW. BJP IT Cell can’t get you out of this one Uncleji.. And I don’t think Vice President of India also happening for you,” she tweeted. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “Raj Bhawan officials are appointed by the state government, not the governor.”Dhankhar assumed charge as Bengal governor in July 2019. Leaders of the ruling TMC have time and again accused him of being “an agent” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and criticised his allegedly partisan behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-moitra-continue-to-trade-barbs-101623092016888.html
08-06-2021||India||SC panel finalises draft rules for live-streaming trials||Courts across the country may soon open their doors to cameras. In a major step towards making courtrooms accessible to more people, the e-Committee of the Supreme Court has finalised draft rules for live-streaming and recording of court proceedings of the high courts, trial courts and tribunals, finally taking forward the promise of a three-year-old judgment. The committee, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, has written a letter to chief justices of all 24 high courts in the country, seeking inputs and suggestions on the draft rules for live-streaming and recording of court proceedings by June 30. “The right of access to justice, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, encompasses the right to access live court proceedings. To imbue greater transparency, inclusivity and foster access to justice, the e-Committee has undertaken the project of live streaming of court proceedings on priority,” stated the letter. Live-streaming, added the letter, will enable access to live court proceedings, including on matters of public interest to citizens, journalists, civil society, academicians and law students on a real-time basis, something otherwise constrained by geographical, logistical or infrastructural issues. The e-Committee, which is working with the Department of Justice under the National Policy and Action Plan for implementation of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the Indian judiciary, has also invited suggestions and inputs from all stakeholders by June 30. The Supreme Court in 2018 held in a judgment (Swapnil Tripathi and Indira Jaisingh) that telecast of important cases to an audience outside the courtroom would usher in greater transparency and aid accountability, but little moved since. The finalisation of the draft rules is a leap towards letting lights and cameras inside the public institutions. Speaking to HT, justice Chandrachud said that the rules provide for a legal framework and a balanced regulatory structure for live-streaming and recording of court proceedings. “Going forward, infrastructural requirements such as cloud storage and adequate bandwidth will have to be met. The committee is working towards ensuring proper infrastructure so that high courts across the country have an efficient platform to stream the proceedings.” Justice Chandrachud added that the draft rules have been framed with a view to realise the vision of the 2018 judgment and to make certain the courts are open and accountable to the community. The draft rules place a presumption in favour of broadcasting of court proceedings except in a defined range of circumstances. Cases relating to matrimony, sexual offences, gender violence, recording of evidence and those that may provoke enmity among communities have been kept out of the ambit of live-streaming. Besides, the high court may decide in its wisdom some other category of cases or specific cases where streaming will not be allowed. “There shall be a delay of ten minutes in streaming, which may be changed as per the direction of the Court. A remote-control device shall be provided to the presiding judge on the bench to pause or stop the live-streaming at any time,” said the rules. Under the draft rules, parties have been given the option of raising objections to live-streaming by specifying their reasons. “The final decision as to whether or not to allow the live-streaming of the proceedings or any portion thereof will be of the Bench; however, the decision of the bench will be guided by the principle of an open and transparent judicial process,” stated the draft rules, adding the decision of the bench shall not be justiciable. In cases where the proceedings are not live-streamed, the draft rules states, the recording shall be maintained for usage by the courts and can be given to the parties at appropriate stages after required redaction and filtration. The draft rules said that the content of the recording will be vetted and shall be posted, usually within three days of the conclusion of the proceedings, on the courts’ website or made available on such digital platforms, as directed by the court. “The live stream shall not, without the prior written authorisation of the court, be reproduced, transmitted, uploaded, posted, modified, published, or republished in any form,” stated the rules, underlining any unauthorised usage of the live stream will be punishable as an offence under the Indian Copyright Act, Information Technology Act, and other provisions of law, including the law of contempt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scpanel-finalises-draft-rules-for-live-streaming-trials-101623091898515.html
08-06-2021||India||Cong panel failed to resolve issues: Pilot||NEW DELHI: Last year’s crisis in Rajasthan that the Congress papered over by setting up a committee to address the issues raised by then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot against chief minister Ashok Gehlot have resurfaced, with the former expressing his displeasure at the lack of action.“It has now been 10 months. I was given to understand that there would be swift action by the committee, but now half of the term is done, and those issues haven’t been resolved. It is unfortunate that so many of the party workers who worked and gave their all for getting us the mandate are not being heard,” said Pilot, refusing to elaborate on his next move. One of his key supporters, MLA Hemaram Choudhary, resigned suddenly last month.HT learns the central leadership of the Congress is trying to work out a cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan.Pilot told Hindustan Times that the Congress high command has failed to deliver on the promises that were made to him when he along with 18 legislators returned to the party after a month-long drama. In July last year, Pilot and his supporters left Jaipur to camp at a secret location in Haryana, threatening the stability of the Ashok Gehlot government. Pilot was removed as Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president, and it was only when the Gandhis intervened and set up a committee under general secretary Ajay Maken that he returned to the fold. However, the dilemma for the central leadership now is to find a solution that is acceptable to both chief minister Gehlot and Pilot. “It is not the right time for me to speak,’’ said Maken when contacted by HT. “However, there are vacancies in the Rajasthan government, and they are likely to be filled soon,” he added. A cabinet reshuffle isn’t a straightforward solution. There are nine vacancies in the Rajasthan cabinet as there can be 30 ministers but only 21 currently. Of the nine vacancies, three were created when Pilot supporters were sacked last year for the rebellion. Now, Pilot may want more of his supporters to find a place in the cabinet, but Gehlot is pitching for independents and former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislators who saved his government during the floor test last August.“Just like Pilot may have been promised that his grievances will be heard, these independent legislators were also promised they would be accommodated if they supported the Congress. This cannot be ignored ,” said a Congress leader on condition of anonymity.The leader quoted above said that they appreciated Pilot’s contribution which led to a consolidation of Gujjar votes for the Congress in the state, but the chief minister had also proved himself by winning the recent bypolls. He attributes the 10-month delay to the death of senior leader Ahmed Patel , as he was the crisis manager working out the details of Pilot’s return. But the January reorganisation of the state party unit accommodated Pilot’s team . For example, of the eight general secretaries, at least three are Pilot’s candidates and one of his team members has also been made vice president, this leader added. “Ashok Gehlot is the senior most Congress person that we have right now as he is a three-time chief minister and was a Union minister before that. He also got 10% more votes in the bypolls than he did in 2018, so how can we not go with him?” asked this person. However, there is agreement within the party that a solution acceptable to Pilot will have to be found, and that might mean that one of the two leaders takes on a bigger role in the central organisation. The chief minister’s office did not immediately respond to a request seeking comment. ‘’The only way to sort things out will be a genuine commitment of both of them to work with each other, which is easier said than done. Gehlot has to show a large heart and accommodate Pilot who must — on his part — be comfortable to contest the 2023 election under Gehlot’s leadership. Till a public announcement of this kind is made, these exercises of cabinet reshuffle will be cosmetic and in fact, will end up creating more problems for both camps,’’ said political commentator Sanjeev Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-panel-failed-to-resolve-issues-pilot-101623091717400.html
08-06-2021||India||18 workers charred in Pune factory fire||Pune: At least 18 people were charred to death in a major fire that broke out at an industrial plant in Urawade village near Pirangut, around 40 kilometres from Pune, on Monday, officials familiar with the matter said.While 41 workers had reported to duty, 18 of them were trapped inside the plant when the fire broke out, Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional officer of Maval, Mulshi area, said.“We have so far recovered 18 charred bodies. Two people were found alive and moved to a private hospital on Karve Road, Pune, for treatment,” Shirke said.  The victims, which included 15 women, were local villagers working at the plant, officials said. The fire, officials added, broke out at around 4pm in SVS Aqua Technologies which manufactures chemicals used in water purifiers. The fire brigade department of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) pressed eight fire tender units to douse the flames which was brought under control by around 6:45pm.“The company will be in a better position to tell why most of them were women,” Shrike said.Suhas Diwase, PMRDA chief executive officer, said the bodies recovered were beyond recognition and were sent to Sassoon general hospital. “We will know about their identity after the medical examination,” Diwase said.  Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in a statement said that an inquiry has been ordered to find out the cause of the fire. He also announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to kin of each of the deceased.Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have constituted a committee to inquire into the fire incident. Details such as the cause of the fire and safety-related aspects will be probed.” Urawade has around eight industrial units, most of them producing chemicals, which locals claimed were not inflammatory. “The firm is involved in manufacturing chemicals required for purification of water. This chemical is not inflammable and we suspect a short circuit as the cause of the incident,” Nikunj Shah, director of SVS Aqua Technologies, said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the incident. “Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a factory in Pune, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-workers-charred-in-pune-factory-fire-101623091596717.html
08-06-2021||India||Covishield dose gap cut for special cases||The Union health ministry on Monday allowed the gap between two doses of Covishield vaccine to be reduced from 84 days to 28 days for those who need to travel abroad for work, study, or to represent India at the Tokyo Olympics scheduled for July.Through a press statement, the ministry said the matter was discussed by the Empowered Group 5 (one of the six groups formed last year to monitor the Covid response) and “appropriate recommendations” were received for allowing the administration of the second dose of Covishield to those who need to travel abroad for the specified reasons, but whose planned travel dates are earlier than the mandatory 84-day interval between the two doses.This special concession will be available to “students who have to undertake foreign travel for the purposes of education; persons who have to take up jobs in foreign countries; athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of Indian contingent attending the International Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo...,” the statement said.However, the ministry specified that the facility will be available for travel up to August 31 this year.Serum Institute of India locally manufactures the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield. It is one of the two vaccines currently being provided under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme and has been granted emergency use listing by the World Health Organisation.According to current guidelines, based on the recommendations by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, the second dose of Covishield has to be administered at an interval of 12-16 weeks (or 84 days) from the first.All states have been directed to designate a competent authority in each district to allow the expedited second dose. They will have to ensure that there is a minimum gap of 28 days between the two doses and the purpose of travel is genuine. Documents pertaining to admission offers from universities abroad, job offer letters, or nomination papers to participate in the Olympics will be verified.The health ministry’s standard operating procedures have advised the use of the passport as one of the identification documents for vaccination. The passport number will be printed on the vaccination certificate. But it doesn’t matter if any other identity paper was used to obtain the first dose.All technical protocols, including adverse events following immunisation monitoring, will have to be strictly followed.“The Co-WIN system will soon provide the facility for administration of 2nd dose in such exceptional cases…,” the health ministry statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-dose-gap-cut-for-special-cases-101623091295017.html
08-06-2021||India||Centre issues advisory for rational use of Remdesivir||The Union health ministry on Monday issued an advisory for rational use of antiviral drug remdesivir in treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19), underlining that the drug must be advised by senior faculty members directly involved in the patient’s care.“If remdesivir has to be advised/ ordered during odd hours, it should be done by the duty doctor after telephonic consultation with a senior faculty member/ specialist/ unit in - charge. Advise/order for remdesivir must be written and bear the name, signature and stamp of the concerned doctor,” said the advisory.India has allowed use of remdesivir only in select moderate to severe hospitalised Covid-19 patients on supplemental oxygen, as it is a reserve drug approved by the drugs controller general of India under the emergency use authorisation only.According to the advisory, every hospital needs to set up a special drug committee (SDC) to review the use of remdesivir. “The Special Drug Committee should share their findings with the clinicians periodically to ensure rational and judicious use of remdesivir...,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-advisory-for-rational-use-of-remdesivir-101623090587910.html
08-06-2021||India||Central teams visit Yaas-hit Bengal, Odisha||Two separate central teams on Monday visited areas hit by Cyclone Yaas in the coastal states of Odisha and West Bengal to assess damage and submit reports to the Union government.In Odisha, an interministerial team led by joint secretary, home affairs, Sunil Kumar Barnwal toured Bhadrak and Balasore for on-the-spot assessment of damages. Bhadrak district collector Gyana Das said the team saw saline inundation of agricultural lands and houses damaged in Dmara. At least 8,000 houses in Bhadrak suffered damage from the cyclone. The team held discussions with the local administration and the affected people during the assessment of damages, he added.On May 26, Yaas hit the coast between Balasore and Bhadrak districts with a sustained wind speed of 130-140kmph, gusting up to 155kmph. The storm caused very heavy rainfall in Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts, affecting over six million people in 11,000 villages. Three deaths were reported, the lowest among cyclones that have hit the state since the 1999 super cyclone. The teams will visit Mayurbhanj and Kendrapara districts on Tuesday for further assessment. There has been large-scale destruction of trees by the cyclone at Similipal tiger reserve in Mayurbhanj district. The central teams before leaving for Delhi will hold a meeting with Odisha chief secretary SC Mohapatra.Special relief commissioner PK Jena said the Odisha government has not sought any immediate funds from the Centre for Yaas relief. “We have sought assistance for a permanent solution for disaster risk reduction by having a disaster-resilient power sector and long-term coastal protection,” he said.Another seven-member central team visited areas hit by Yaas in West Bengal and will be visiting several places in the next two days. The team arrived at Kolkata on Sunday. Cyclone Yaas severely affected the state.“The central team visited South 24 Parganas on Monday and East Midnapore on Tuesday. On Wednesday the team would visit the adjoining areas of Kolkata. They would also hold a meeting with top officials of the state government to assess the damage before submitted a report to the Union home ministry,” said a senior official of the state government.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already handed over a preliminary report to PM Narendra Modi on the damage caused by the cyclone in the state-- estimated to the tune of ₹20,000 crore. Modi announced financial assistance worth ₹1,000 crore for relief activities, which will be released on the basis of the damage, according to the Prime Minister’s Office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-teams-visit-yaas-hit-bengal-odisha-101623089376549.html
08-06-2021||India||Data protection bill: Prasad, panel members spar over draft report||Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday clarified that the joint parliamentary committee examining the personal data protection bill is yet to submit its report, hours after Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that panel members were yet to see a draft.Ramesh’s comment was in response to Prasad’s comments, quoted in The Hindu that “the select committee has given their report and have done a good job; Covid-permitting, in the next session I will like to push it”.“I am amazed. On March 8th I had been assured by Mrs Meenakshi Lekhi the Chairperson that the draft report will be circulated for comments by members. That is still awaited,” Ramesh said in response.Prasad then clarified that the report was yet to be finalised. “I appreciate their (the committee’s) hard work. I look forward to their final report so that the Parliament approves a Data Protection Law soon.”Ramesh’s party colleague and panel member Manish Tewari also hit out at the delays in the finalisation of the report. “The select committee finished it’s deliberations in December 2020. There is no final report for 6 months now. Any idea why @rsprasad? Truth is at times stranger than fiction,” Tewari wrote on Twitter.According to people familiar with the matter, the deliberations of the committee have resulted in some very “serious differences” between the original bill and draft report. “The report that is likely to be finalised is going to be very different from the original bill that the committee set out to debate,” one person familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Lekhi did not respond to a request for comment.The joint parliamentary committee has 20 members from the Lok Sabha and 10 from the Rajya Sabha. The committee was set up in 2019 to review the Personal Data Protection Bill, which was introduced in the 17th Lok Sabha. It first sought and received an extension till the winter session last year. It then received an extension till the first week of the second half of the budget session. HT reported on March 9 that the panel was looking at another extension before finalising the report. The report is now likely to be submitted in the monsoon session.The committee has met various stakeholders as it debates far reaching reforms for personal data protection. It has also carefully analysed the bill that covers cross border transfer of data and the use of personal data by government and private companies. Provisions of the bill related to localization of data within the country and curbs on data sharing across borders have come in for criticism from global technology companies, but like many other countries in the world, India wants to ensure the data of its citizens is safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-prasad-panel-members-spar-over-draft-report-101623089197242.html
08-06-2021||India||Committed to complying with new IT rules: Twitter||Social media company Twitter has told the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) that it is “committed to complying” with all clauses of the intermediary guidelines and asked for a week’s time, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday, days after the government issued an ultimatum to the company.The government on Saturday said Twitter would have to face “unintended consequences” that can involve it losing its legal protection from criminal liability for user content if it does not comply with the new rules for digital content.“The company has highlighted that there have been some difficulties in making appointments for some key personnel and sought a week’s time to comply with most of the provisions, while saying that it will implement all provisions as soon as possible,” said a ministry official, who asked not to be named.The official added that the platform has also informed the ministry that it is looking to set up an office in the country, as required under the new rules that seek a physical address for significant social media intermediaries, or companies running networks with more than 5 million registered users from India.The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, was notified in February, with all clauses of it coming into force on May 25. These guidelines require digital companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Twitter said in a statement on Monday that the company is making every effort to comply with the new guidelines while continuing a constructive dialogue with the government. “Twitter has been and remains deeply committed to India, and serving the vital public conversation taking place on the service,” a Twitter spokesperson said, adding, “We have assured the government of India that Twitter is making every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and an overview on our progress has been duly shared.”There have been several instances of confrontation between the United States-based company and the government of India, particularly around government’s content takedown orders and Twitter’s actions against prominent people linked to the Bharatiya Janata Party for violation of its terms of use.Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the stand-off last month, with the microblogging website earlier asking for more time to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the norms, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after a visit by the Delhi Police the same month.“Our intent was always clear: the company is free to do business in India, but it has to comply with the law of the land,” the official mentioned above said. The ministry earlier echoed this sentiment when it had said, “Leave alone proactively creating such a mechanism, Twitter Inc is in the inglorious bracket of refusing to do so even when mandated by law.”Hindustan Times reported on May 29 that other significant social media intermediaries that have 5 million users or more, such as WhatsApp, Facebook, and Google, have shared the details with the ministry.Under criticism over the past few months, the government has maintained that the new IT rules make companies more accountable for the online content posted on their websites and protects users from abuse. But the companies, several experts and Opposition parties believe that the norms may have a bearing on the right to free speech and privacy.WhatsApp has challenged the rules in the Delhi high court, calling it unconstitutional and a threat to Indians’ fundamental rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-complying-with-new-it-rules-twitter-101623089136487.html
08-06-2021||India||SC seeks Covid orphans’ data from Delhi, Bengal||The Supreme Court on Monday told Delhi and West Bengal governments to share full information about the number of orphans and vulnerable children who were abandoned or lost single parent during the Covid-19 pandemic since April 2020.A tabular chart presented to the Court by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) contained a list of 30,071 children across states/union territories who lost either or both parents for the period from April 1, 2020 to June 5, 2020. Delhi reported unusually low figures of five orphans and 12 children who lost either parent. The figure was even low in West Bengal with just three orphans and eight children who lost one of their parents. This information was listed by the respective district or state level officers on the NCPCR portal “Bal Swaraj”.The “Bal Swaraj” portal requires states to provide information about orphans, abandoned children or those needing care and protection on account of losing a parent or guardian in six stages.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for NCPCR singled out Delhi and West Bengal and said, “We are concerned about these two states/UTs as they are not at all cooperating in filling up the data on our portal. Rest of the states/UTs are reasonable in their figures.”“If information is not given to NCPCR, continuous monitoring of these children becomes difficult,” the law officer said.The concern expressed by the ASG was palpable. The death toll due to Covid-19 in West Bengal has already crossed 16,000 and in Delhi, in just two months (April-May 2021), there were over 13,000 deaths.The figures appeared unusually low to the court too which sought an explanation from the two governments. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said, “Delhi can’t be similar to Andaman and Nicobar Islands or a state like Sikkim. How do you explain your figures?” The court put this query to West Bengal government as well seeking an explanation.Advocate Chirag Shroff appearing for Delhi informed the Court that this data has been procured from the Child Welfare Committees (CWC) where children in need of care and protection (CNCP) (including orphans and abandoned children) have to be produced. Shroff said, “In the last 15 days, we have written to all departments and police to provide the data. In other states, the district magistrates directly provide this information.”The bench told Delhi government to upload the information on NCPCR website at the earliest and reach out to the children by providing their immediate needs. “States have constituted Special Task Forces having people from local administration and police at district level to identify these children. Do it in Delhi too,” the bench added.West Bengal was represented by advocate Sayandeep Pahari. Pahari said that the officials in the state were confused on whether the information sought pertained to children affected by Covid-19 or of CNCPs under the Juvenile Justice Act. “Don’t take refuge under confusion,” the bench replied, adding, “If all states have been uploading information as per our June 1 order, how can it be that West Bengal alone is not understanding.” The court directed the state to immediately upload the data on NCPCR portal.On June 1, the court had ordered the Centre to provide details about the PM CARES for Children scheme announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look after children left destitute or without care giver during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre informed the court that modalities of implementing the scheme are being worked out and sought further time. The bench heard amicus curiae advocate Gaurav Agrawal and state governments on the immediate directions to be issued for catering to the needs of children affected by the pandemic. An order in this regard is expected to be passed on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-covid-orphans-data-from-delhi-bengal-101623088717214.html
08-06-2021||India||800mn to receive free ration till Diwali: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday a fourth extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till Diwali in November this year, to help an estimated 800 million people retain access to free food grain and cope with the impact of the second wave of the pandemic and any future surge in Covid-19 infections.“Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana will be extended till Diwali. This means 80 crore people will get free ration in fixed quantity every month till November. The government stands with the poor people in all their needs. We are doing this so that my brothers and sisters and their families don’t have to sleep hungry,” said Modi in his address to the nation.Terming it a “big decision”, the Prime Minister added, “last year when we had to impose a lockdown, PMGKAY served 80 crore people for eight months. This year, it was extended to May and June due to the second wave.”The scheme, rolled out last year, provides five kilogram of free food grain to 800 million people already covered under the National Food Security law -- the world’s largest subsidised food support programme. The PMGKAY handouts come over and above the federal food law’s subsidised allocations.The decision was welcomed by members of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance.“The decision to provide free ration to all ration card holders by extending the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana till Diwali is useful and commendable. Thanks to the Hon’ble Prime Minister for this. This will be helpful in winning the war against Corona,” said Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the decision “fulfils the mantra ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’”.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, attacked the PM, saying, “The Prime Minister has talked about vaccination, talked about the poor, but one of the biggest problems is emerging in the country regarding black fungus, what will he say about it, The black fungus under the nose of the Modi government The injection of fungus is being directly black marketing and the government is once again asleep.”The central government announced the first phase of the welfare programme, along with a slew of measures including a job package for returnee migrant workers, in April last year. The latest extension is aimed to cover the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that has gripped the nation since March.Last year, too, the PM extended the special scheme for food handouts till Diwali, to cover the entire festive season amid uncertainties looming large.According to the reports presented by the agriculture ministry last year, the scheme has been a “highly successful programme”. “During April-November 2020, 32.2 million tonnes of food grains were allocated, and 29.8 million tonnes were distributed, which is 93% of the allocation,” said the ministry in its report.Experts, however, said that a significant section of the beneficiaries have not got the benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/800mn-to-receive-free-ration-till-diwali-modi-101623088657178.html
08-06-2021||India||28,252 cases of black fungus logged during 2nd wave: Govt||India has reported about 28,252 cases of mucormycosis, a fungal infection, following the second wave of Covid-19, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday while chairing the 28th meeting of the group of ministers (GoM) on the pandemic.Mucormycosis, often also referred to a black fungus infection, is an opportunistic infection that is believed to be taking hold in people with suppressed immunity. Experts are trying to understand why there has been a spurt in cases, and suspicion has fallen on overuse of steroids and immunosuppressants as well as uncontrolled diabetes during Covid-19.“Twenty eight states have reported 28,252 cases of mucormycosis till now, out of which 86%, that is 24,370 cases, are having a history of Covid-19. Around 62.3% cases, that is about 17,601, are having history of diabetes. We have the maximum number of cases from Maharashtra which is about 6,329, followed by Gujarat with 5,486 cases, and then MP, UP, Rajasthan etc are affected,” he said.The health ministry also said that close to 30,000 Covid-19 samples have undergone whole genome sequencing in 10 laboratories that are a part of the INSACOG network. In total, there are 28 labs that are a part of the network meant to perform genome sequencing – a process that helps scientists understand if and how the virus has mutated.The Centre set up a consortium of 10 laboratories under INSACOG in December last year after the first of variants of concern appeared globally.“INSACOG sequencing labs are looking at the mutants which have significant potential of severely affecting the disease transmission. As of now, 10 national labs under INSACOG have sequenced around 30 thousand samples. 18 more labs have been added to the consortium recently to boost the capacity,” said the health minister.VK Paul, member (health), Niti Ayog presented a brief snapshot of the Covid-19 vaccination status, preparedness for paediatric Covid-19 care, and on steps to prevent a third wave.According to Paul, India took 141 days to deliver 230 million doses, which remains the second highest in the world after the US.Also, India is one of the world’s fastest countries in terms of number of doses administered so far, he said, although experts have called on the government to see these metrics in terms of proportion of population covered.“Out of 88.7 crore (887 million) people who have been administered at least one dose globally, India accounts for 17.9 crore(179 million), which is 20.2% of the global coverage. India is fully prepared to deal with paediatric Covid-19 care but caution remains the key as we deescalate (curbs). The third wave can be prevented if we continue following the Covid-apropriate behaviour such as wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene, and avoiding large-scale gatherings,” said Paul.As for the declining number of cases, the health minister said: “About 83% of active cases are in 10 states and the remaining 17% in 26 states and Union Territories. At least seven States— Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand— have less than thousand cases… Even the most affected states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have observed decline in the number of cases at a significant rate. Growth rate has declined from 14.7% (5th May) to 3.48% (today).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28252-cases-of-black-fungus-logged-during-2nd-wave-govt-101623088536510.html
08-06-2021||India||Unlocking begins in more states as Covid cases drop||Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Sikkim on Monday joined states such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat in announcing “unlock” guidelines that paved the way for reopening of businesses after the deadly second wave of Covid-19 gripped the country in April and May.Some states announced minor relaxations in restrictions in May but more joined them in the past few days, moving towards ending the curbs fully by the end of this month if there is no spurt in Covid cases. However, some states such as Kerala, where cases are still surging, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh decided to extend the lockdown till June 16.In Kerala, the test positivity rate remained under 15% but the death toll crossed 10,000, according to data released by the state health ministry. The state is under lockdown since May 6 and it was extended twice; the government extended it for the third time when it was about to end on Wednesday.Karnataka is expected to announce “unlock” guidelines after a review of district-wise Covid numbers, state home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday. The state is under lockdown till June 14. Himachal Pradesh has also extended its partial lockdown till June 14 while allowing opening of shops for an additional two hours every day.“Whatever we know from possible scenarios presented by eminent people, it (Covid) will decline and June will be much better but the concerns are when we open up, how do we behave because the virus has not gone anywhere,” NITI Aayog member (Health) VK Paul said last week. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday stressed on maintaining Covid protocols while opening up businesses and work.“The state government is taking a calculated risk and hence people have to take care of themselves. Nothing is going to be eased immediately,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said ahead of the start of the “five-tier unlock process” based on the weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds in districts. Delhi started the unlocking exercise from May 31 and saw further easing of restrictions from Monday, with the government allowing resumption of metro train services at 50% capacity and reopening of markets and malls on an odd-even basis. The Uttar Pradesh government also extended relaxations to 71 districts where shops and markets outside containment zones will be allowed to open five days a week. Haryana has also relaxed norms while continuing with the lockdown till June 14.The Sikkim government, while announcing a state-wide lockdown for one more week till June 14, also allowed relaxations for shops selling groceries and hardware. Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin announced the extension of the state lockdown by a week till June 14 with some easing of restrictions from Monday, except in 11 districts where the number of new cases reported was still high. Goa extended its Covid curfew till June 14 with easing of some curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlocking-begins-in-more-states-as-covid-cases-drop-101623088476441.html
08-06-2021||NA||Highlights: Assam reports 3,803 new Covid-19 cases, 37 fresh fatalities||With a little over 100,000 new infections across India on Monday, daily cases in the country dropped to the lowest level seen in over two months, underlining the country’s turnaround after the brutal second wave of the viral outbreak.Also Read: India logs lowest daily Covid-19 cases in 2 months: DataThe second wave of the pandemic has now seen a steady drop in daily caseload for three straight days across the country and is now the lowest in 61 days. The seven-day average of new infections in the country – which denotes a region’s Covid-19 curve – had touched a peak of 391,819 cases a day on May 9, but has now dropped to 123,232 cases a day in the past week, a drop of over 68% from the peak.Also Read: Delhi unlock: Markets, shops reopen on 'odd-even' basis after nearly 2 monthsSeveral states and Union territories (UTs) have announced relaxations in curbs, which, in most places, come into effect today (i.e. Monday, June 7) and remain in place for a week.Covid-19 dashboard:New cases: 100,636Total cases: 28,909,975Total deaths: 349,186Recovery rate: 93.94%Follow all the updates here:Telangana reported 1,933 new Covid-19 casesTelangana reported 1,933 new Covid-19 cases, 3,527 recoveries and 16 deaths.Active cases: 25,406Total recoveries: 5,64,303Death toll: 3,394Assam reports 3,803 new Covid-19 cases, 37 fresh fatalitiesAssam reported 3,803 new Covid- 19 cases and 37 fresh fatalities on Monday with the caseload rising to 4,38,746, National Health Mission bulletin said.Chhattisgarh reports 1,285 new Covid-19 cases, 26 deathsChhattisgarhs Covid-19 count rose to 9,81,860 on Monday with the addition of 1,285 fresh cases, while the death toll increased by 26 to 13,243, an official said.WHO chief urges vaccine producing nations to share 50% doses with CovaxWorld Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, urged vaccine manufacturing nations to share 50% of manufactured doses with the Covax initiative to help inoculate poorer nations, reported AFP on Monday.West Bengal reports 5,887 Covid-19 cases, 103 deathsWest Bengal reported 5,887 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the state-wide tally of total cases to 14,26,132. 103 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 16,362, according to the state health bulletin.Over 3.04 cr in the age group 18-44 vaccinated with 1st dose: Health ministry #IndiaFightsCorona➡️ More than 3.04 Cr beneficiaries of age group 18-44 Vaccinated for 1st dose.➡️ More than 16.07 Lakh vaccine doses administered to 18-44 age group for first dose today. #LargestVaccinationDrive #We4Vaccine Details: https://t.co/xpUAqZT5x0 pic.twitter.com/28DHozzW1wChandigarh reports 48 cases of Covid-19 in 24 hours COVID19 | Chandigarh reports 48 new positive cases; 60,707 total positive cases & 740 active cases.Maharashtra records 10,219 cases of Covid-19, 154 deathsMaharashtra recorded 10,219 cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state-wide tally to 58,42,000. 154 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 1,00,470, as per the state health bulletin.Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala extended till June 16Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan extended the ongoing lockdown in the state till June 16. Complete lockdown has been announced on June 12-13. Stores selling essential commodities, raw materials for industries (including packaging), construction materials, and banks will continue to function, reported ANI.Covid-19 afflicted Milkha Singh and wife are on the mend, says familMilkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Kaur who have been battling Covid-19 in the intensive care unit are improving, reported PTI. The 91-year-old sprint icon is admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), while his 82-year-old wife is being treated at Fortis Hospital in Mohali.Delhi records 231 fresh Covid-19 cases, 36 deathsDelhi on Monday reported 231 new cases of Covid-19, lowest in almost 100 days. 36 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health department bulletin.Punjab extends Covid curbs to June 15, orders graded relaxations from tomorrowPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh extended the ongoing Covid restrictions in the state till June 15 with certain relaxations, allowing shops to open till 6pm and private offices to function at 50% strength. Night curfew will remain in force from 7 pm to 6 am on weekdays. Europe's drug regulator issues guidelines for treating Covid-19 vaccine-linked clotsThe European Medicines Agency (EMA) asked not to use the blood thinner heparin to treat rare blood clots and low blood platelets in people inoculated with AstraZeneca or Johnson & Johnson vaccine, suggesting usage of alternative anti-coagulants include fondaparinux or argatroban instead, reported Reuters.West Bengal government cancels board exams for classes 10 and 12 in view of Covid-19 pandemicThe West Bengal government on Monday cancelled the board exams for classes 10 and 12 in view of the Covid-19 disease situation in the state, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said.Covid curfew extended in Andhra Pradesh till June 20The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday further extended the Covid curfew across the state till June 20. The curfew duration, however, has been curtailed by two hours a day and will be in force from 2 PM to 6 AM after June 10. Read moreRussia records 9,429 new Covid-19 cases, 330 more deathsRussia on Monday reported 9,429 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and 330 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,135,866 and 124,117 respectively, according to official figures. Monday's case count is 266 more than that of Sunday's when 9,163 people tested positive for the viral disease.Shops in Delhi reopen with relaxed Covid-19 curbsDelhi: Shops at Janpath market begin to reopen as govt eases COVID restrictions from today. pic.twitter.com/GYSEiTGjtwGet vaccinated where you vote, urges Kejriwal, announces door-to-door awareness campaignDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched the government's Covid-19 mass vaccination programme. Addressing a press conference, he said that people will be able to get shots of Covid-19 vaccines at booths where they voted in elections.Daily Covid-19 recoveries in India have outnumbered new cases since May 14: Health minister Dr Harsh VardhanUnion Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan addresses the meeting of the Group of Ministers on the COVID19 situation in the country"As of today, we have 14,01,609 active cases in the country," he says pic.twitter.com/zxtRkeNDZ4Supreme Court starts hearing case on Covid-19 infection in children protection homesSupreme Court starts hearing suo motu case involving contagion of Covid-19 virus in children protection homes across the country and also the issue of rehabilitation of orphaned children.20 new black fungus cases, three deaths reported in DehradunUttarakhand's Dehradun district on Sunday reported 20 new cases of black fungus and the death of three patients during treatment.According to a bulletin of the Health Department, the total number of black fungus patients in the state has gone up to 299, 47 patients have died and 18 patients have recovered so far.India reports 1,00,636 new Covid-19 cases, 2,427 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia's daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) declined for a third straight day, as 100,636 cases were detected in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data, updated on Monday morning, showed. With this, the nationwide infection tally has risen to 28,909,975, as per the updated data.US calls on China to cooperate in 'getting to bottom' of Covid-19 originsThe United States needs to delve deeper into the origins of Covid-19 and hold China accountable, said the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, in an interview aired on Sunday amid calls for a fresh probe into the origins of the virus.Bus services in Mumbai to resume from todayThe Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) on Sunday informed that the local bus service will resume in Mumbai from Monday onwards.The decision has been taken following the 5-step unlock which is currently in process in the Maharashtra capital city.DGHS advisory drops all medicines from revised Covid-19 management guidelinesThe Union health ministry’s directorate general of health services (DGHS) has overhauled Covid-19 treatment guidelines and removed all medicines, except antipyretic (fever) and antitussive (cold), for asymptomatic and mild cases.The revised guidelines, issued on May 27, effectively dropped all drugs that doctors have been prescribing even to asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients such as hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, doxycycline, zinc, multivitamins, etc. The guidelines also dissuade medical practitioners to prescribe unnecessary tests such as CT scans. Read More‘Unlock 2.0’ in Delhi from today, Metro services to resumeDelhi will begin unlocking further from the Covid-19 induced lockdown on Monday as more relaxations will come into effect on the day. The announcement in this regard was made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday, who also announced the extension of the lockdown for now, except for the sectors in which relaxations have been announced.Markets and malls can open on an ‘odd-even’ basis from 10am-8pm, while standalone shops can open on all days. Read MoreThese states have eased or extended Covid-19 curbs. Check listAs daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have started to decline, several states and Union Territories (UTs) have announced relaxations in curbs, which, in most places, will remain in place for a week. Some state governments have, however, extended the curbs in a bid to further break the chain of transmission. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-live-news-updates-death-toll-india-world-june-7-2021-monday-101623029547903.html
08-06-2021||India||6k social media content takedown orders this year||The number of orders issued by the central government to social media companies to take down posts and accounts under Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act, 2000, has seen a steep rise over the last couple of years, with nearly 6,000 orders issued until the first week of June this year, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.The number, said officials, has gone up from being around 3,600 in 2019, to over 9,800 in 2020. The posts asked to be taken down have been spread out across social media companies, including prominent players like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.“The posts concerned various issues including the recent farmers’ agitation, Kashmir, Khalistan and the pandemic that could have been a threat to public order or violated section 69(A) of the IT Act,” an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity, adding, “The orders were sent to Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, WhatsApp, Pinterest, Telegram. 99% of the orders have been complied with.”Section 69(A) of the IT Act allows the government to act against social media posts and accounts that may pose a threat to public order or India’s sovereignty and integrity, defence of India, security of the State, and friendly relations with foreign states.The order to block a post/account is issued by a designated officer appointed by the central government, who chairs an inter-ministerial committee comprising officials from the ministries of law and justice, home affairs, information and broadcasting and the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In). The committee approves requests from different stakeholders, including states and central agencies, and also gives the intermediary a hearing. The designated officer at present is Pronab Mohanty, the deputy director general of UIDAI.According to a reply filed by the ministry of electronics and information technology in Parliament on March 10, 9,849 URLs/accounts/web pages were blocked in 2020, up from 3,603 in 2019; 2,799 in 2018; and 1,385 in 2017. Of these, 1,717 orders were sent to Facebook and 2,731 to Twitter.The government has already sent Twitter two non-compliance notices for failing to act against certain accounts in the last six months that had posted on the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year in June, the government invoked this very provision to block access to over 250 mobile applications, mostly of Chinese origin, including popular short video streaming platform TikTok and game PUBG in the wake of increased tensions with the People’s Republic of China.In January this year, the government asked Twitter to take down content on the farmers’ agitation that carried a controversial hashtag regarding the Prime Minister, saying that it was a threat to public order. While Twitter withheld access to the posts, it refused to take down content by activists and journalists saying that it violated the tenets of free speech. A month later, as the impasse between the government and Twitter continued over the demand to block 257 accounts and posts related to farmers protests, the government asked the company to take over 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”.In April, the central government issued emergency blocking orders to take down over 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including an official Facebook page of Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The government faced pushback against the orders, which included blocking access to accounts of Congress’ Pawan Khera, Revanth Reddy, TMC’s Moloy Ghatak, a West Bengal state minister and filmmaker Vinod Kapri, with many arguing that the posts ordered to be blocked were critical of the government’s handling of the Covid pandemic.Apar Gupta, Internet Freedom Foundation trustee, said that the trends are related to the increase in the number of internet connections and rising online advocacy of subjects concerning citizenship laws and farm laws. “With respect to the examining committee, these orders earlier were restricted to specific posts to social media. But now some of these orders also require accounts to be blocked,” Gupta said. “ The continuing practice of lack of transparency and secrecy continues to be a problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6k-social-media-content-takedown-orders-this-year-101623014539309.html
