09-06-2021||India||Problems of students vaccinated with indigenously developed Covaxin raised with US||Problems faced by Indian students vaccinated with the Covaxin jab in planning a return to US educational institutions figured in a meeting between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and US chargé d’ affaires Daniel Smith on Wednesday, people familiar with developments said. Shringla had a “productive meeting” with Smith on India-US relations, regional issues and cooperation at the UN, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet. They also discussed the Covid-19 situation, supply of vaccines and cooperation in combating the pandemic, Bagchi said without going into details. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that the issue of travel by Indian students vaccinated with the indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine, which hasn’t been authorised by the World Health Organization (WHO), was raised by Shringla. The people added that Smith indicated India’s concerns would be conveyed to US authorities. Covaxin and Covishield are the two main jabs being used in India’s vaccination programme. Covishield, which is the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, has been granted an emergency use listing by WHO, and is accepted under the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines for entry of foreign travellers. With many US universities opening up to international students and planning in-person classes from autumn, students are required to be fully vaccinated. According to guidelines posted on the CDC website, foreign travellers are considered fully vaccinated two weeks after the second dose of a two-dose vaccine such as the Pfizer or Moderna jabs, or two weeks after a single-dose vaccine such as the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. “If you don’t meet these requirements, you are NOT fully vaccinated,” the guidelines state. Of the vaccines being used in India, the CDC approves only the AstraZeneca jab. Indian students planning to join campuses in the US and European countries, where too Covaxin isn’t approved, have raised this matter with the government, especially the external affairs ministry. Bharat Biotech, the makers of Covaxin, intends to provide additional documentation needed for WHO’s emergency use listing of the vaccine by June. The status of the application for emergency use listing of Covaxin by WHO was assessed at a virtual meeting late last month that was joined by Shringla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/problems-of-students-vaccinated-with-indigenously-developed-covaxin-raised-with-us-101623263289835.html
09-06-2021||India||CBI searches for ex-TMC leader with Interpol help||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is trying to locate former Trinamool Youth Congress leader Vinay Mishra, wanted in multi-crore scandals pertaining to cattle smuggling and illegal mining of coal in West Bengal, based on an Interpol red notice issued against him about two months ago, people familiar with the development said.Reports suggest Mishra may have settled in Vanuatu, a small island nation in the South Pacific, east of Australia.“We are not sure where exactly he is, but we have alerted Interpol authorities in the region. If he is located, we will ask Interpol and local law enforcement agencies there to arrest him”, said an officer, requesting anonymity.Mishra, through his lawyers, filed an affidavit in the Calcutta high court on Monday, saying he left the country in September 2020, much before investigation into the cases had even begun. He also said that he has already renounced his Indian citizenship in December 2020, which has been accepted by the Indian consulate.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Mishra, said on Wednesday: “There is no question of fleeing here because he left India before the probe started. In fact, he is pleading that he wants to come back. But he fears that he will be caught if he travels.”Mishra, said to be close to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, has sought to appear before the agencies through video conferencing owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-searches-for-ex-tmc-leader-with-interpol-help-101623263024435.html
09-06-2021||India||More girls may have been sexually abused at J’khand shelter home: Police||An investigation into the alleged sexual abuse of two minor girls at a children’s home run by a state government-approved NGO, Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT), has found that more girl inmates were being abused there for over four years, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police Dr M Tamil Vanan has said.Police said they have expanded the scope of the investigation in the light of the findings.Police on Tuesday said an FIR under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code was lodged on the complaint of the two rescued girls against Harpal Singh Thapar, director of the home, his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, who is also the chairperson of East Singhbhum district child welfare committee (CWC), warden Geeta Singh, her son Aditya Singh, and another staff member Tony Singh. All the accused are on the run.Vanan said that the two girls, aged 16 and 17, have given video-recorded statements in which they have reiterated all the charges made in their statements to the special Pocso court. The girls said they were physically and mentally tortured at the home and made to give in to the sexual demands of the perpetrators.Police said the details are horrifying. “Investigation has found that Thapar allegedly had physical relations with the 19-year-old daughter of the warden, and he, along with others, used to sexually abuse and exploit the woman on a regular basis,” said Dr Vanan.The girls said they were in the children’s home for the past four years, but no action was taken despite repeated complaints to Tirkey, the CWC chief, the SSP said, adding that the police were looking at the involvement of some other suspects as well.The death of a three-and-a-half-year-old girl due to brain tumour in the home 25 days ago is also being investigated. “This little girl was the daughter of a rape survivor who didn’t want to keep her. Thapar and his wife didn’t inform the police or the district administration about the death, which they were legally bound to,” SSP Dr Vanan stated in his report to the Jamshedpur deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar.Police are still awaiting medical reports of the two rescued girls to determine if they were raped.MTWT is a Jharkhand-government-approved NGO. It has no links with Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity. The shelter home located at Shamsher Tower in Kharangajhar had 23 girls in two rooms on the second floor, while the warden lived in another room on the same floor with her daughter and son. Thapar and Tirkey lived on the first floor, while 22 boys lived on the ground floor.Police has recommended to the district collector to act against MTWT and CWC chief Tirkey, and to rehabilitate the girls. Twenty-one girls are being taken care of by the Seraikela-Kharsawan CWC for the time being.Vanan said police were also probing allegations that Thapar and Tirkey used to transfer government funds and private donations into their personal accounts. “The girls told us that they took away the money donated to them by many people for clothing, food and other items. All the five named accused will be arrested soon as different teams are raiding possible hideouts,” he said.In a similar case at a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, which came to the fore in three years ago, 12 people, including main accused Brajesh Thakur, were sentenced to life imprisonment in February 2020 by a Delhi court, which heard the case following orders from the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-girls-may-have-been-sexually-abused-at-j-khand-shelter-home-police-101623261969095.html
09-06-2021||India||Need union of states to take on Centre: Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that in a federal structure, there should be a union of state governments to take on the Centre if any state is harassed.Banerjee, whose third term in office began on a confrontational note with the Centre, was speaking after meeting delegation of farmer leaders led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Rakesh Tikait at the state secretariat, Nabanna. In it, Banerjee, who is also the Trinamool Congress supremo, extended her support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws.“We are ready to support the ongoing farmers’ protest till the time the demands are met. They (farmer leaders) have requested me to speak to other chief ministers (of non-BJP ruled states) so that together we could hold a virtual conference with the farmers. I will surely speak to chief ministers so that we can send a letter unanimously. This will give them some strength before the Lok Sabha polls,” Banerjee said .“She urged every chief minister of states not ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to stick together. “I would urge every opposition party to unite (against the BJP) to save democracy,” Banerjee said.The chief minister lashed out at the Centre for its vaccination policy and the spiralling fuel prices and said in a federal structure, it isn’t right for the Centre to try to bulldoze the states.“The Prime Minister need not take credit for giving free vaccines. This is not BJP’s money. It is people’s money. Even the Supreme Court has directed the Centre to give more importance to the states and the federal structure. But still the Centre hasn’t come up with any guidelines,” she said.The Bengal CM also renewed her demand that the Centre should withdraw the three farm bills — The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.In a joint press conference held after the meeting, Tikait requested Banerjee to extend her support to the farmers’ protest.“We have urged Mamata Banerjee to turn West Bengal into a model state where farmers get the maximum benefits by doing away with the middlemen who siphon off all the profits. Other states may follow the model. The farmers have been hit during the pandemic,” Tikait said.The farm agitation has been on for over six months now.TMC had recently announced that it would expand its footprint beyond West Bengal. Abhishek Banerjee, the party’s general secretary and the CM’s nephew, had said on Monday that the party would come up with a national plan within a month.The BJP-led central government has defended the new farm laws and held 11 rounds of talks, the last being on January 22, with the unions to end the farmers’ protest over the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-union-of-states-to-take-on-centremamata-101623261729046.html
09-06-2021||India||Assam to raise 10 commando battalions on lines of NSG to fight crime, border issues||The Assam government decided on Wednesday to raise 10 new commando battalions on the lines of the National Security Guard (NSG) to strengthen the state police in its fight against crime. The decision was one of the several taken at a day-long meeting of chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who holds the home portfolio, with superintendents of police at Kaziranga. “Assam police will have 10 new commando battalions. They will be stationed at critical places including the Assam-Nagaland border where we have a boundary row, the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) etc. They would be a special unit comparable to NSG,” Sarma told the media after the meeting. As part of introducing reforms in the state police, the meeting decided to introduce two-shift duty in all police stations and start a new recruitment drive to implement that. “Sometimes policemen have to be on duty 24 hours. So, ideally we need three shifts, if not two-shifts in a day. We will start a new recruitment drive this year to implement this,” said Sarma. Free health check-up and one month of compulsory leave in a year for policemen posted in police battalions are some other decisions taken. The meeting also decided to set up seven new forensic laboratories in the next six months in order to handle the large number of cases registered as part of the police drive against illegal drugs. “We will work to ensure that Assam doesn’t act as a transit route for illegal drugs and also bring down its consumption. Smuggling of cattle to the state from other states will not be allowed. Our response on these two issues will be very aggressive. There will be zero tolerance and we will strike at the root (of these problems),” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-raise-10-commando-battalions-on-lines-of-nsg-to-fight-crime-border-issues-101623260529643.html
09-06-2021||India||Centre discourages use of Remdesivir in treatment of Covid-19 in children in latest guidelines||The Centre has set out comprehensive guidelines for the management of Covid-19 in children, according to which, Remdesivir drug has not been recommended for usage and also, the rational use of HRCT imaging (CT scan) has been suggested. The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) under the union ministry of health and family welfare, issued the new guidelines. It also said that the usage of steroids in treating asymptomatic and mild cases of infection is harmful.Also, usage of steroids was recommended under “strict supervision” only for hospitalised moderately severe and critically ill Covid-19 cases. “Steroids should be used at the right time, in the right dose and for the right duration. Self-medication of steroids must be avoided,” the DGHS said.Remdesivir, an emergency use authorization drug, is not recommended for treatment of children, the new guidelines also said. “There is lack of sufficient safety and efficacy data with respect to Remdesivir in children below 18 years of age,” according to the guidelines. The drug has been used to treat Covid-19 patients and its demand ballooned during the second wave of Covid-19 in India.Also read | If Covid-19 trends continue, it will be years before virus is controlled: PAHOSuggesting only a rational usage of high-resolution CT (HRCT) scan for knowing the extent and nature of lung involvement in Covid-19 positive patients, the guidelines said “However, any additional information gained from HRCT scan of the chest often has little impact on treatment decisions, which are based almost entirely on clinical severity and physiological impairment. Therefore, treating physicians should be highly selective in ordering HRCT imaging of the chest in Covid-19 patients.”Meanwhile, the new guidelines also noted that antimicrobials have no role in the prevention or treatment of uncomplicated Covid-19 infection, which is a viral infection. However, the guidelines also noted that antimicrobials should not be prescribed for moderate and severe cases unless there is clinical suspicion of a superadded infection. It also clearly said that antimicrobials are not needed for treatment or prophylaxis in asymptomatic and mild cases.Covid appropriate behaviour and a nutritious diet were suggested for asymptomatic infection in children while no specific medications were mentioned in the guidelines. For mild infection in older children and adolescents, paracetamol dose every four to six hours for fever and throat soothing agents and warm saline gargles for cough have been recommended. However, initiating immediate oxygen therapy has been recommended for moderate infections.The guidelines also said that if acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) develops in severe Covid-19 infected children, then necessary management needs to be initiated. It also recommended a six-minute walk test for those above 12 years of age under the supervision of parents or guardians. "It is a simple clinical test to assess cardiopulmonary exercise tolerance and is used to unmask hypoxia. Attach a pulse oximeter to his/her finger and ask the child to walk in the confines of their room for six minutes continuously," the guidelines said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-discourages-use-of-remdesivir-in-treatment-of-covid-19-in-children-in-latest-guidelines-101623259979822.html
09-06-2021||India||Barbara Jabarica says Mehul Choksi first to approach and befriend her||Fugitive Indian diamantaire Mehul Choksi’s alleged girlfriend Barbara Jabarica on Wednesday said that the businessman was the first to approach and befriend her, contradicting his wife Priti’s previous claim, news agency ANI reported. “Raj (Mehul Choksi) was the one who approached me, asked my number and 'befriended me', totally the opposite of what his wife says,” ANI quoted Barbara Jabarica as saying.Barbara further alleged that Choksi had introduced himself with a different name (Raj) to her. “I have known him (Mehul Choksi) since last August and met with him in Jolly Harbour when I rented Airbnb accommodation near where he also lives. He introduced himself as Raj. Between August and April, he was always texting me but I replied to him once a month,” she had earlier said in an interview to ANI.Mehul Choksi, currently in custody in Dominica, went missing from Antigua earlier on May 23 and was eventually caught after the Antigua police launched a manhunt. Police in Dominica had charged Choksi with illegal entry into the country, following his escape from Antigua in his possible attempt to avoid extradition to India.In his complaint to the police commissioner in Antigua, Choksi had claimed that he was allegedly attacked by eight to ten men when he was on his way to meet Barbara Jabarica, with whom he claimed he has ‘friendly terms,’ according to a news report by ANI.A week ago on June 2, Priti Choksi had said that Choksi’s rumoured girlfriend was known to him and his other acquaintances. “The woman was known to my husband and to his other acquaintances. She walked with my husband periodically when she was visiting Antigua. From what I have understood from people who have met her, the woman shown on media channels is not the same woman that they knew as Barbara,” she had said following Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne had said that Choksi went on a ‘romantic trip’ to Dominica with his ‘girlfriend’ while he was caught.The Antigua government had also asked for the direct extradition of Choksi from Dominica to India, where he is accused in the Punjab National Bank fraud case worth ₹13,500.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barbara-jabarica-says-mehul-choksi-first-to-approach-and-befriend-her-101623259553003.html
09-06-2021||India||Minority affairs ministry to counter vaccine hesitancy among communities||The Union ministry of minority affairs has begun a pan-India campaign to tackle concerns and myths about the inoculation drive that have resulted in vaccine hesitancy among minority communities. According to an official aware of the details, a national level awareness campaign has been organised especially in areas that have a high percentage of minorities and where people have shown reluctance to take the vaccines to prevent the Covid-19 infection. “In some areas the ministry is relying on women’s self-help groups to drive away misconceptions about the vaccines. The ministry has also reached out to religious and social organisations to help remove doubts and fears about the vaccines,” said the official quoted above. More than 3.84 lakh women, who have been provided training under Nai Roushn scheme, and Women Self Help Groups associated with them have been running the campaign to create awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic and are now being roped in to create awareness about the benefits of the vaccine. Citing an example of areas with vaccine hesitancy, the official said administration in several districts of Uttar Pradesh such as Sultanpur, Amethi, Aligarh and Moradabad and in Haryana’s Mewat has reported reluctance towards vaccines based on dogmas, religious reasons and rumours. “In Moradabdad because of locals not turning up for vaccines, we found people from the cities showing up for inoculation. Since the administration is making efforts, vaccine hesitancy is slowly ebbing. It also helps that Islamic countries have said they won’t allow entry without vaccines. Even for performing Haj, pilgrims will need to be vaccinated and should not have been hospitalised six months prior to travel,” the official said. The official said in some areas such vaccine hesitancy was promoted by the statements of some opposition leaders who raised doubts about the Indian vaccines. “In Amethi and Rae Bareily some people said since the Congress leaders have not taken the vaccines, they too were skeptical of taking the shots,” the official said. The BJP has accused SP leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav of promoting vaccine hesitancy by dubbing the Indian vaccines as “BJP vaccines”. Union minister Prahlad Joshi told news agency ANI, “When we started vaccination in January, Congress leaders raised questions on vaccine efficacy. Now, they’re taking the vaccine. As per my knowledge, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi haven’t taken the vaccine. They don’t have confidence in the Indian vaccine.” The ministry is also using NGOs, engaged in running various healthcare programmes under the Garib Nawaz Self Employment Scheme, Seekho aur Kamao etc, to assist the administration in carrying out tests and spreading awareness about Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in rural areas. “The campaign is regularly being monitored by a task force comprising of senior officials of the ministry,” said the official. The ministry will also focus on training of health care workers. “In the past 2 years, we have provided health sector training to 1.12 lakh youths. These skilled and trained youths are working in various hospitals and other healthcare centres and assisting in the treatment of Covid-19 affected people,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minority-affairs-ministry-to-counter-vaccine-hesitancy-among-communities-101623259749516.html
09-06-2021||India||90% of India’s biodiversity hotspots lost, shows new statistical analysis||India has lost 90% of the area under its four biodiversity hotspots, with the Indo-Burma hotspot taking the worst hit, a report released by Centre for Science and Environment on Tuesday showed.India has four biodiversity hotspots, including the Himalayas, the Western Ghats, the Indo-Burma region and the Sundaland, that hosts numerous endemic species. Around 24.46% of the country’s geographical area covered by forests and trees.However, the report released by New Delhi-based public research and advocacy group said the extent of vegetation in the Indo-Burma hotspot has been reduced from 2,373,057 square kilometre to a mere 118,653 square kilometre, pegging a loss of 95%.ALSO READ: Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar IslandsThe report, titled State of India’s Environment in Figures 2021, shows at least 25 species have also gone extinct in these hotspots. The International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List monitors 1,212 animal species in India and have tagged 12% as endangered.“There is drama in numbers, especially when these numbers give you a trend on things getting better or worse. It is even more powerful when you can use the trend to understand the crisis, the challenge and the opportunity,” CSE director general Sunita Narain said.The CSE report points out that 16 states – including Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand – have witnessed a significant rise in number of forest fire alerts.“India has seen a drastic rise in forest fires since the start of 2021. As of May 1, the number of fire alerts recorded by the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) is 433,581. This is quite a jump, even though the official forest fire season of the country is from February to June. Forest fires are influenced by temperature and rainfall in the preceding monsoon. The year 2016, the hottest on record when India’s annual temperature rose 0.71°C above the annual average of 25°C, saw 541,135 forest fires -- the most in a decade,” the report read.ALSO READ: Oil palm push in the northeast may impact biodiversity, water table, say experts“At a time when we are witnessing an alarming fall in the timber and non-timber forest produce services in Indian forests -- implying overuse of resources -- climatic cycles are combining with other factors to result in a dramatic rise in forest fire alerts. We must learn to connect the dots,” said Richard Mahapatra, the managing editor of Down To Earth magazine published by the CSE.The report adds: “Rainfall during the 2015 monsoon was 765.8 mm, 14% less than the normal 880mm, as per the India Meteorological Department. In 2021, too, India sees unusually warm weather along with 8.7% surplus rainfall last monsoon that leaves adequate humidity for fires to spread.”India experienced warmer than usual winter, monsoon and post-monsoon seasons in 2020, which was also the eighth warmest year on record, with 2016 being the warmest, followed by 2009 and 2017. The annual mean land surface air temperature for India in 2020 was 25.78°C, which was 0.29°C above the 1981-2010 period average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-of-india-s-biodiversity-hotspots-lost-shows-new-statistical-analysis-101623258048532.html
09-06-2021||India||Foreign minister S Jaishankar’s surprise stopover in Doha to meet Qatari NSA||External affairs minister S Jaishankar met the Qatari National Security Adviser during a stopover in Doha while on his way to Kuwait on Wednesday, with the meeting coming against the backdrop of separate interactions in Qatar involving US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban negotiators.There was no prior announcement about the foreign minister’s transit halt in Qatar, which has played a crucial role in US-Taliban negotiations in recent years, and no official word from both countries on the meeting between Jaishankar and NSA Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned.The only details about the meeting emerged in a tweet from Jaishankar: “A pleasure to meet Qatari NSA Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned. Appreciate his insights on developments in the region and beyond. Thanked him for the support and solidarity in India’s fight against Covid.”Jaishankar embarked on a three-day visit to Kuwait on Wednesday, carrying a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Sabah on ways to boost bilateral ties. He is scheduled to travel from Kuwait to Kenya.Hours after Jaishankar’s stopover in Doha, senior Qatari officials held separate meetings with Khalilzad, the US special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, and a team of Taliban negotiators.Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, the Qatari foreign minister’s special envoy for counter-terrorism and mediation in conflict resolution, met Khalilzad and his delegation and discussed the “peace process in Afghanistan and ongoing talks in Doha between the Afghan parties”, Qatar News Agency (QNA) reported.Qahtani held a separate meeting with Sheikh Abdul Hakim, who was last year appointed the Taliban chief negotiator by the group’s chief Hibatullah Akhunzada last year. This meeting too reviewed the peace process in Afghanistan, QNA reported.Khalilzad and an US inter-agency delegation, including the National Security Council, department of defense and USAID, began a visit to Afghanistan, Qatar and the region on June 4 to give a boost to the stalled Afghan peace process amid the rapid drawdown of American forces in Afghanistan.The delegation will “underscore enduring US support for Afghanistan’s development and a political settlement that will end the war”, the state department said in a statement ahead of the visit. In Qatar, Khalilzad will “continue to encourage both sides to make tangible progress towards a political settlement that protects the gains of the last two decades”, the statement added.While in Kuwait, Jaishankar will thank the country’s leadership for supporting India’s response to a second wave of Coronavirus infections by supplying a large quantity of medical oxygen. This is his first visit to Kuwait as foreign minister and follows a trip to India by his Kuwaiti counterpart Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah in March.Under an air and sea bridge arrangement, Indian Navy ships have transported 425 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Kuwaiti ports to India. Kuwait has supplied more than 5,000 oxygen cylinders, 66 oxygen concentrators, 11 ventilators and other materials such as medicines, oximeters, masks and gloves to India.Kuwait is among the largest suppliers of oil for India and also home to nearly 900,000 Indian expatriates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-s-jaishankar-s-surprise-stopover-in-doha-to-meet-qatari-nsa-101623257829250.html
09-06-2021||India||Bangladeshis, Rohingyas involved in Bengal’s post-poll violence, says Suvendu Adhikari||Infiltrators from Bangladesh and Rohingyas from Myanmar are involved in post-poll violence in Bengal, alleged Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Wednesday. “I told Modi Ji about the atrocities BJP workers are facing in the state. As many as 25 women have been raped. Bangladeshis and Rohingyas are involved in these crimes. Thousands are homeless. At Ausgram (in East Burdwan district) 26 families are hiding in a jungle,” Ghosh, who is the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, told the media in Delhi. He was scheduled to meet Union home minister Amit Shah for the second consecutive day. The BJP has been alleging for a long time that Rohingya refugees were given shelter by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government but the ruling party always denied such claims. Adhikari said he will take part in the state-wide agitation that Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh announced on Tuesday after a meeting of state office bearers. “We will meet the President with our petition,” said Adhikari. After meeting Shah and BJP president JP Nadda on Tuesday, Adhikari said he personally feels that the situation in Bengal is much worse than what is required to enforce Article 356 but his party has not taken a formal stand on this issue. Under Article 356 of the Constitution of India, the Union government can take direct control of the state machinery if a state government is unable to function according to Constitutional provisions. Questions were raised about Adhikari’s absence at the office bearers’ meeting when Ghosh said he was not aware why Adhikari had been called to Delhi. “There are no differences between us. I am part of the decision taken by Ghosh. We will carry out agitations from June 23,” Adhikari said on Wednesday. During the day, three BJP Lok Sabha MPs from Bengal, Arjun Singh, Saumitra Khan and Nisith Pramanik flew to Delhi to meet national leaders regarding law and order situation in the state. “There is no rule of law. Police are not accepting complaints. On Sunday, when a man was murdered at Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas, some shops were looted in the local market but no action was taken,” said Singh, who is the local MP. Dismissing Adhikari’s allegation, Bengal cabinet minister Firhad Hakim said, “Adhikari is trying to save himself from the ire of BJP leaders. The BJP thought inducting him would automatically ensure its victory in the Bengal polls. Adhikari is now trying to pacify the party bosses.” Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year and defeated Mamata Banerjee in the recent assembly polls at Nandigram, the seat he held in East Midnapore district. His father and younger brother are TMC Lok Sabha MPs from the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladeshis-rohingyas-involved-in-bengal-s-post-poll-violence-says-suvendu-adhikari-101623255789083.html
09-06-2021||India||15 days casual leave for Central govt employees whose parents test positive||The Centre on Wednesday announced that its employees will be able to get 15 days of special casual leave (SCL) in case their parents or any other family member dependent on them test positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to an order issued by the personnel ministry.The personnel ministry also said that following the expiry of the casual leave the employee can take additional leave in cases of hospitalisation of any of the family members and parents. “In case of active hospitalisation of any of the family members/parents even after 15 days of the expiry of SCL, the government servants may be granted leave of any kind due and admissible beyond 15 days of SCL till their discharge from hospital,” the order said.The order also said that in case of a government servant testing positive, the employee shall be eligible for commuted leave up to 20 days. “In case of a government servant testing Covid-19 positive and is in home isolation and has also been hospitalised, he or she shall be granted commuted leave/SCL/earned leave (EL) for a period up to 20 days starting from the time having tested positive,” the order said.“In case of hospitalization beyond the 20th day from his testing Covid-positive, he shall be granted commuted leave, on production of documentary proof of hospitalization,” it further added.The order has been issued to all central government ministries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-days-casual-leave-for-central-govt-employees-whose-parents-test-positive-101623254926450.html
09-06-2021||India||BL Santhosh on ‘routine’ Goa visit amid talk of rift between Goa CM, minister||Panaji: Bharatiya Janata Party general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh arrived in Goa on Wednesday on a two-day visit that has been described by the state BJP leadership as a “routine” visit.BL Santhosh’s visit coincides with reports of increasing differences between Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane.Goa BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade said Santhosh’s visit didn’t have anything to do with speculation about relations between the two party leaders.“He (Santhosh) is here for organisation (work). We undertake many programmes as a party organisation, he will discuss that. He will hold meetings with the booth, mandals, and state party officials,” Tanavade said. Goa is expected to vote early next year before the 40-member assembly’s term expires in March.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said there was no rift.“There are no differences between me and the health minister. There is no misunderstanding. We may have different views on issues, but when it comes to the cabinet, when it comes to the government, when it comes to the state, it is one,” Sawant said. Sawant and Rane were once leaders of rival political parties before Vishwajit Rane crossed over from the Congress to the BJP in April 2017 and became health minister in the government led by Manohar Parrikar. Pramod Sawant went along with Rane when he became chief minister but the two are not believed to be on the best of terms.Their perceived differences widened when Covid-19 cases were rising in the state. Vishwajit Rane was seen to obliquely blame Sawant for not imposing restrictions in the state that led to a spike in Covid cases. When deaths linked to oxygen supply disruptions were reported at the state’s premier Goa Medical College and Hospital ran last month. Chief minister Pramod Sawant made it a point to emphasise that the problem wasn’t shortage of oxygen but ‘mismanagement’, a remark that was seen aimed at the health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bl-santhosh-on-routine-goa-visit-amid-talk-of-rift-between-goa-cm-minister-101623253448853.html
09-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Director of SVS Aqua Tech remanded to police custody in Pune fire case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pune fire: Director of SVS Aqua Tech remanded to police custodyThe director of SVS Aqua Tech, Nikunj Shah (39), has been remanded to custody of the Pune rural police on Wednesday by a local court. Read moreCovid-19: Karnataka to ease restrictions in phased manner, no unlock in one go, says ministerCovid-19 restrictions in Karnataka, would be relaxed in a graded manner in four or five phases starting from June 14, state revenue minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday. Read moreImam killed in blast at Bihar mosqueA high-intensity explosion ripped through a madrasa (seminary) in Bihar’s Banka district on Tuesday morning, killing an imam (religious teacher) and damaging other houses in the locality, police said. Read moreYuvraj Singh hints at India's possible openers for WTC final, gives special advise to bat in English conditionsAt a time when there is speculation about India’s opening combination for the World Test Championship final against New Zealand, former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh hinted he would perhaps go with Rohit Sharma and Shubman Gill. Read moreStep inside Mini Mathur-Kabir Khan's flowers-inspired family room that is 'happy, airy, bright, sunny'Showing off her 'happy, airy, bright and sunny' home to her Instagram followers, Mini gave details of where she bought all the items from. Read moreCop rescues man who slipped while boarding moving train at Mumbai's Kurla. WatchAn alert RPF constable is being termed as a hero after a video of him saving a passenger from falling under a moving train was shared online. Read more‘Farmers don’t want to discuss the weather…’: Congress seeks Tomar’s resignationThe Congress on Wednesday asserted that the only way to end the ongoing farmers' protest is to withdraw the three contentious farm laws, and demanded Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's resignation over what it said was his "egoistic" stance on the issue. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-director-of-svs-aqua-tech-remanded-to-police-custody-in-pune-fire-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101623251176841.html
09-06-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee’s new proposal to counter Centre is a union of state govts||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that in a federal set-up there should be a union of state governments, which would unanimously take on the Centre if any state was harassed. “In a federal structure, there should be a union of state governments. If any state is harassed then other states would fight for it. Every chief minister (of non-NDA ruled states) should stick together. I would urge every opposition party to unite (against the BJP) to save democracy,” she said. The Bengal chief minister, who has extended her party’s support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three controversial farm laws, met a delegation of farmer leaders led by Rakesh Tikait, at the secretariat during the day. “We are ready to support the ongoing farmers’ protest till the time the demands are not met. They (farmer leaders) have requested me to speak to other chief ministers (of non-NDA ruled states) so that together we could hold a virtual conference with the farmers. I will surely speak to the chief ministers so that we can send a unanimous letter. This would give them some strength before the Lok Sabha polls,” she said while renewing her demands that the Centre should withdraw the three farm laws. In a joint press conference held after the meeting, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader requested Banerjee to extend her support to the farmers’ protest. “We have urged Mamata Banerjee to turn West Bengal into a model state where farmers get maximum benefits by doing away with middlemen who siphon of all the profits. Other states may also follow the model. Farmers have been hit hard during the pandemic,” he said. The Trinamool Congress has recently announced that it will expand its footprint beyond West Bengal. Abhishek Banerjee, the party’s general secretary who also happens to be the chief minister’s nephew, had said on Monday that the TMC will come up with a national plan within a month. Taking a swipe at the Centre over its vaccination policy and the steep hike in fuel prices, the chief minister also said that it was not right on the Centre’s part to try to bulldoze the states every time in a federal structure. “The Prime Minister need not take credit for giving free vaccines. This is not BJP’s money. It is people’s money. Even the Supreme Court has directed the Centre to give more importance to states and the federal structure. But still the Centre hasn’t come up with any guidelines,” she said, while adding that the BJP had promised even before the Bihar assembly elections that the Centre would provide free vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-new-proposal-to-counter-centre-is-a-union-of-state-govts-101623252548683.html
09-06-2021||India||Assam gets 2 new national parks; total goes up to seven||Two new national parks in Assam have got officially notified taking the total number of such protected areas in the state to seven. The two new national parks are Dihing Patkai and Raimona. Assam already has five national parks—Kaziranga, Manas, Dibru-Saikhowa, Nameri and Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park. “With the new notifications, Assam will have the third highest numbers of national parks in the country after Madhya Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” Assam forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya said. Located in Kokrajhar district of the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) in lower Assam, Raimona national park will be spread across 422 sq km. With Phipsoo wildlife sanctuary in Bhutan to its north, Buxa tiger reserve in West Bengal to its west and Manas national park in Assam to its east, Raimona is located in a 2300 sq km trans-boundary landscape which is essential for long-ranging animals like elephants and tigers. Raimona is home to elephants, tigers, golden langurs, clouded leopard, wild buffalo, spotted deer, over 150 species of butterflies, 170 species of birds including the white bellied heron and nearly 380 species of plants. “Conservation of this area will provide water security to more than 2 million people downstream in Kokrajhar and Dhubri districts, will open opportunities for community-based tourism and focused wildlife management,” said a state government release. Falling in Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts in upper Assam, the Dihing Patkai national park will be spread over 234 sq km. Known earlier as the Dihing Patkai rain forest, it used to have an area of 111 sq km and was considered the “last remaining stretches” of the Assam Valley tropical wet evergreen forests. Till date, 47 mammal species including tiger, 47 reptile species and 310 species of butterflies have been recorded in Dihing Patkai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gets-2-new-national-parks-total-goes-up-to-seven-101623250328582.html
09-06-2021||India||Amid row, Bharat Biotech says it will conduct phase 4 trial of Covaxin, phase 3 data to be out in July||Amid the Twitter war between Bharat Biotech's Raches Ella and Kolkata researcher Dr Aswadhesh Kumar Singh over Covaxin versus Covishield, Bharat Biotech on Wednesday informed that the company will conduct a phase 4 trial of its vaccine to check the real-world effectiveness of Covaxin. Its phase 3 trial data will be published in July, the company said, after which it will apply for full licensure.Covaxin versus CovishieldWhile the Centre has said that these two vaccines can not be compared as they are made differently, researchers have not stopped finding out the answer to the question: which vaccine is better between Covaxin and Covishield. A pre-print study, which is yet to peer-reviewed, has recently claimed that both the vaccines showed a good immune response after two doses. But Serum Institute of India's Covishield produced more antibodies than Covaxin.Bharat Biotech versus researcherOpposing the reporting of the study, Bharat Biotech's business development head Dr Raches Ella took to social media and said the study has its limitations.Dr Aswadhesh Kumar Singh, one of the researchers, pointed to the fact that the "whole country is getting vaccinated even without a preprint phase 3 result — lest forget published one".Brother, whole country is getting vaccinated even without a preprint phase 3 results - lest forget published one. We owe a sincere gratitude to Bharat Biotech but that doesn’t mean one should raise finger on others effort. Of course we will produce published results finally! 🙏🏽😊The company officially issued a statement on Wednesday against the study. "A recent comparative report on an evaluation of immunogenicity responses to spike protein after the first and second dose of Indian manufactured vaccines study had lots of flaws. The journal that stated the comparative report said more antibodies produced by Covishield than COVAXIN®[?]. This is not a peer-reviewed publication, nor do it a statistically and scientifically designed study. The study design and conduct reflect an ad hoc analysis, rather than a predetermined hypothesis," the company said.Phase 3 data to be out in JulyThe company on Wednesday said that the data will be out by July. First, the data will be submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, followed by peer-reviewed journals. Then Bharat Biotech will apply for full licensure, the company said.So far, the vaccine's overall efficacy on 78 per cent and its efficacy against hospitalisation is 100 per cent.The 4th phase trials will be also be conducted to ensure that Covaxin met every rigorous standard, the company said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-row-bharat-biotech-says-it-will-conduct-phase-4-trial-of-covaxin-phase-3-data-to-be-out-in-july-101623243679048.html
09-06-2021||India||Ex-PM PV Narasimha Rao’s OSD Ram Khandekar passes away at 87||After battling a prolonged illness, Ram Khandekar, who worked as Officer on Special Duty to the former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao, passed away at his Laxminagar residence in Nagpur early Wednesday morning. He was 87. He is survived by his son, Mukul, daughter-in-law, and two grandchildren. The family said his last rites were performed at Amazhari crematorium at 10am. A distinguished bureaucrat, Khandekar worked as the personal secretary to former Maharashtra chief minister and former defence minister YB Chavan. Later, he was engaged by then Union minister, PV Narasimha Rao, to manage his Lok Sabha constituency of Ramtek in Nagpur district in 1985. In 1991, when Rao became the Prime Minister of the country, Khandekar was inducted into the core committee of the Prime Minister’s Office and was appointed as his OSD. He was considered Rao’s closest confidante and worked with the former prime minister till the latter’s death. Also Read | Ludhiana DSP who sought CM’s help for post-Covid lung transplant deadApart from his bureaucratic career, Khandekar often wrote for scores of Marathi newspapers and penned at least 60-70 articles for different Diwali issues of mainstream Marathi newspapers. These articles were based on his experience working with the former prime minister and other political leaders of the time. In 2018, he started writing a weekly column for a Marathi daily. He penned down the intricacies of living in the shadow of power and public life in his over five-decade-long career. A compilation of the same was published as a book in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expm-pv-narasimha-rao-s-osd-ram-khandekar-passes-away-at-87-101623241387580.html
09-06-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown in Nagaland extended till June 18||Nagaland extended the ongoing lockdown in the state by a week to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The extension of lockdown from June 11 to June 18 was announced by the Nagaland’s High-Powered Committee (HPC) following a discussion with district task forces.Several districts of the state will also witness relaxations during the extended lockdown, depending on the Covid-19 situation there, government spokesperson Mmhonlumo Kikon said while announcing the decision on Twitter.The High Power Committee after thorough discussion with all the District Task Forces has decided to extend the lockdown till June 18 with further relaxations.Respective DTFs will issue necessary orders for relaxations as per the situation in the districts! @Neiphiu_Rio"The High Power Committee after thorough discussion with all the District Task Forces has decided to extend the lockdown till June 18 with further relaxations. Respective DTFs will issue necessary orders for relaxations as per the situation in the districts!" he said.Also Read: Capital begins life after lockdownBefore the HPC met, there was no consensus between the representatives of districts over whether the lockdown should be extended. While a few districts sought relaxations, others suggested extension of the lockdown in view of the rising infections.Nagaland on Tuesday reported 133 fresh infections, which pushed the tally to 23,051, a health official told the news agency PTI. "The demise of three coronavirus patients, two in Kohima and one in Mon district, has increased the death toll to 432," the official said.As many as 36 cases were detected in Dimapur, 28 in Mokokchung, 27 in Wokha, 16 in Kohima, 8 in Mon, 7 in Phek, 5 in Longleng and 3 each in Kiphire and Zunheboto, said Nyanthung Kikon, state nodal officer for integrated disease surveillance project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-in-nagaland-extended-till-june-18-101623239077262.html
09-06-2021||India||Nikhil Jain won't comment on Trinamool MP Nusrat Jahan's statement, explains why||Businessman Nikhil Jain against whom Trinamool MP Nusrat Jahan on Wednesday brought serious allegations of mishandling her finances said he won't comment on the statement as the matter is subjudice. According to reports, Nikhil has already filed for an annulment of his marriage with Nusrat, which Nusrat said was never legal in India. "I have never commented or will not comment anything on what she has said. The matter is subjudice. The civil suit in courts is in process. They are doing their job well," Nikhil told Hindustan Times.Amid rumours of Nikhil-Nusrat marriage falling apart, reports of the Trinamool MP dating actor-politician Yash Dasgupta started doing the rounds ahead of the West Bengal election. The rumours took a backseat after Yash's defeat in the election from Chanditala constituency by Trinamool candidate. A few days ago, reports claimed Nusrat and Yash are expecting a child.On Wednesday, the MP issued a statement and without taking any name, she clarified that she won't require a divorce as the marriage was never validated under the Special Marriage Act. In 2019, the duo tied the knot in Turkey as per Turkish Marriage Regulation. But in India for an interfaith marriage to accepted, it requires validation under the Special Marriage Act which, according to Nusrat, never happened. So, it was a live-in relationship, which ended a long time ago, she said.The duo was last seen together in October 2020.In her statement, Nusrat has accused Nikhil of withdrawing money from her bank accounts illegally, even after the separation. The MP also said her clothes, bags, accessories are still with Nikhil's family. Even all the family jewellery that was gifted to Nusrat by her parents, friends and other family members are "illegally" held back by Nikhil's family. "Being rich does not always give a man the right to act as a victim and belittle the woman alone in this society. I have made my own identity by my sheer hard work; thus I would not allow anyone not related to me to share the limelight or a title or followers, based on my identity," the MP said.After Nusrat's statement, social media was awash with reactions with some people pointing out that Nusrat's marital status in Parliament records is married and she also took the oath in the Lok Sabha as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nikhil-jain-won-t-comment-on-trinamool-mp-nusrat-jahan-s-statement-explains-why-101623240036462.html
09-06-2021||India||4G spectrum for Indian Railways gets Cabinet nod||Following a Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Union government on Wednesday announced that Indian Railways will now be provided with 4G spectrum for communication, thereby replacing the current 2G spectrum, to facilitate faster communication channels. It also added that the government will be improving the automatic train protection mechanism in India by installing the collision avoidance systems in the trains for the safety of passengers. “Until now the railways were using optical fibres for communication but now this modern spectrum will bring radio communication to railways and with the help of such setup, real time communication can be established. This will increase safety to a great extent and will transform the railways greatly...,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, while addressing a press conference.He added that the signalling system for the trains is being renewed as well.Also Watch | Petrol in Delhi over ₹95/litre, above ₹100/litre in six statesJavadekar added that automatic train protection is also being strengthened in Indian railways by the introduction of collision avoiding systems.“The matter of pride for India is that these collision avoiding systems for railways have been designed by four Indian companies. This is a beautiful brainchild of the Make in India campaign,” he added.Javadekar said that both these decisions are aimed at increasing the safety of passengers and making more trains available. “By speeding up train signalling, more trains will be running on the tracks now,” he said.Defining a timeline for these projects, Javadekar said that all this work will be completed in the next five years. “Ninety-six per cent of total traffic in India runs on these 34,000-kilometre-long railways lines and [this is] where such communication and signalling set up will be installed over the next five years,” he said.He added that the total expected expenditure on these projects is around ₹25,000 crore.Meanwhile, referring to a subsidy scheme for fertiliser companies, Javadekar said that the Union government had decided to enhance the production of urea in the country, large quantities of which had to be otherwise imported earlier. Telangana-based fertiliser manufacturing firm Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited was granted the benefit of this subsidy scheme, which had ceased to exist in 2019. Javadekar said that the firm is projected to produce over 1,200,000 metric tons of urea annually.“This too is a step towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat as this factory will reduce the burden of urea import,” he said, adding the government was looking to establish more such factories through more subsidy schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-spectrum-for-indian-railways-gets-cabinet-nod-101623239227438.html
09-06-2021||India||J&K: Gupkar Alliance leaders to meet at Mufti’s residence today||An alliance formed last year to fight for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status is due to hold a meeting for the first time since December at former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s residence at 5 pm on Wednesday.National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah was among those expected to attend the meeting of the People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). “...there is a meeting of PAGD today (Wednesday) and leaders of all the PAGD constituents have been invited,” said Suhail Bukhari, a spokesperson for Mufti’s Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).Also Read | With 11 deaths, J&K registers lowest daily fatality count in 47 daysThe agenda of the meeting was not immediately clear, but it comes in the backdrop of speculation following the arrival of additional companies of paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force in Kashmir. Officials have clarified the troops were on poll duty in West Bengal and have now returned.The PAGD held meetings in Jammu, Kashmir, and Kargil last year and participated in the District Development Council (DDC) polls. It won 110 out of the 280 DDC seats. The Bharatiya Janata Party won 75.The People’s Conference of former minister Sajad Lone has since quit the alliance.Jammu & Kashmir was stripped of its semi-autonomous status in August 2019 and split into two Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-gupkar-alliance-leaders-to-meet-at-mufti-s-residence-today-101623236766953.html
09-06-2021||India||Govt hikes MSP for kharif crops, skews them toward scarce items||The Union Cabinet has raised minimum support prices (MSP) of summer-sown crops, increasing them by 1.8% and 6.7%, in keeping with a policy to offer farmers at least 50% returns over the cost of cultivation, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said Wednesday.The new rates come amid ongoing protests by farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, who want the government to scrap three agricultural laws passed in September 2020 and offer a legal backing for MSPs. The MSPs announced Wednesday are geared toward nudging farmers to shift away from plentiful cereals, by setting higher prices for oilseeds and pulses, whose output and supply are relatively scarce. For instance, India imports up to two-thirds of its vegetable oil to meet domestic demand.“We have been saying all along that there should be no doubt over MSP. The MSP system has been there and will be there,” Tomar said. The new rates will offer returns of between 50% and 62% over cost of cultivation, he said.MSPs are federally-fixed floor prices for crops aimed at avoiding distress sale by farmers and signaling a benchmark rate for private traders.Also Read: Govt’s 7 years of NDA report to list govt’s achievementsThe agriculture minister said the government has not closed the doors on negotiations with protesting farm unions. “We are willing to talk and are committed to farmers’ welfare. We had 11 rounds of talks. We have appealed to the farmers to point out specific objections in the legislation. Neither any opposition leader in the house (Parliament) nor the protesting farmers have come up with any specific objection,” Tomar said. The government buys large quantities of cereals from farmers at MSP rates and distributes them to beneficiaries through the public distribution system at subsidized rates. This is primarily how farmers benefit from the MSP system.Also Read: Farm sector unscathed by 2nd Covid waveFarm economist KS Mani, a former faculty with The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said he broadly agreed with the pricing differential between produce that are abundant and those in short supply. “The underlying aim is crop diversification. This will work if the government also buys oilseeds and pulses in sufficient quantities.” Among key crops, the MSP for paddy has been raised from ₹1868 to ₹1940 a quintal, a hike of 3%. The rates for coarse cereals jowar and bajra were hiked by ₹118 or to stand at ₹2738 and 2250, which translate to a raise of 21% and 5% respectively. The prices of urad, a lentil, has been increased sharply by ₹300 to stand at ₹6300 a quintal.The highest increase over the previous year was for sesamum, an oilseed, whose MSP was raised by ₹452 a quintal, to stand at ₹7307 a quintal, up from ₹6855.The next largest increase was for two lentils, tur and urad, whose MSPs were increased by ₹300 a quintal each. Prices of groundnut and nigerseed have been increased by ₹275 per quintal and ₹235 a quintal respectively. In all, prices were raised by up to 62%.To fix MSP, the government uses a measure of cost, called A2 + FL, which refers to the cost of cultivation plus the value of family labour.Farmers have been demanding a legal guarantee for MSP that is calculated using a broader and more comprehensive measure of costs called C2, which includes the assumed cost of capital invested, including machinery, and rent on land.“Across crops, the increase in absolute numbers doesn’t even match the inflation rate,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a farm activist.“The government is doing its usual trickery on farmers. First, they did not use the C2 cost concept and used A2+FL. In maize, the increase is as low as ₹20 per quintal, compared to last year. MSPs are meaningless if the government cannot ensure that all farmers get at least this price. That is where the demand for a legal guarantee comes in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-hikes-msp-for-various-kharif-or-summer-sown-crops-by-up-to-62-101623236047457.html
09-06-2021||India||Juhi Chawla now 'welcomes 5G' in 1st reaction after court dismissed her plea||Actor-turned-environment activist Juhi Chawla on Wednesday released a video on social media platforms and said she is not against 5G technology. Instead, she welcomes 5G technology and her petition was only to seek the government's certification that 5G is safe, she said in the video. "In the hullabaloo of the past few days, I could not hear myself and the main message got lost," she said."We are not against 5G. We are welcoming it. Please bring 5G. All we are asking is that the authorities should certify 5G safe. That's what we are saying... that please publish your research in the public domain. So that the fear of the general public is addressed. We just want to know it is safe for children, for pregnant women, for unborn children, for people who are old and infirm, for flora fauna," she said.Hear 👍 pic.twitter.com/S0ypfWmS2EOn May 31, Juhi Chawla approached the Delhi high court against the setting up of 5G networks expressing concerns over its impact on animals, children. In the plea, filed by Juhi, Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani, it was said that if the 5G technology comes to fruition, no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure.The Delhi high court on June 4 dismissed the plea and slapped a fine of 20 lakh on Juhi Chawla and the co-petitioners and said that the plea was only for publicity. The court noted that this plea was a "textbook case of how not to draft a plaint". That the actor shared the hearing link on her social media account, which led to several disruptions on the day she joined the hearing, also proves that it was for popularity, the court noted.After the petition was dismissed, the Cellular Operators' Association of India said that 5G in India is safe. India has strict norms the radiation permitted in the country is one-tenth of what is globally accepted, the association said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/juhi-chawla-says-not-against-5g-in-1st-reaction-after-court-asked-her-to-pay-rs-20-lakh-101623234260827.html
09-06-2021||India||Odisha couple going to meet ailing father killed in road accident||A couple on their way to meet the man’s ailing father died in a car crash in Puranakatak area of Odisha’s Boudh district early Wednesday morning, while three others in the car were injured.5 persons including Surendra Nayak and his wife Namita Nayak of Mandar village under Belaguntha Block of Ganjam district were rushing to meet Surendra’s ailing father in Rourkela, when the car they were travelling in, hit a tree by the roadside at Charichhak after the driver lost control of the vehicle. The incident happened at about 4 am, said police inspector of Purunakatak police station.“Another couple, Bhagaban Kampa and his wife Rina Kampa, who were in the car too, were injured in the incident along with the fifth passenger Jyotshna Kumari,” said the inspector.A 108 ambulance took the injured to a healthcare centre at Purunakatak. After primary treatment, they were shifted to the Boudh District Headquarters Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-couple-going-to-meet-ailing-father-killed-in-road-accident-101623234531886.html
09-06-2021||India||Anup Chandra Pandey takes charge as Election Commissioner of India||Former Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Anup Chandra Pandey took charge as the new election commissioner of India on Wednesday after being appointed for the post by the President.The post fell vacant in April following the retirement of former chief election commissioner Sunil Arora.The 1984-batch IAS officer graduated from Chandigarh’s Punjab Engineering College holds a master’s degree in business administration from Panjab University (Chandigarh) and a doctorate in ancient history from Bihar's Magadh University.He was appointed as the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh from September 2017 to August 2019 and was earlier the state's industrial development commissioner.The former bureaucrat has also served in the central government for four years as a joint secretary.“In pursuance of clause (2) of article 324 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Shri Anup Chandra Pandey, IAS (Retd.) (UP: 1984) as the Election Commissioner with effect from the date he assumes the office,” a gazette notification released by President Ram Nath Kovind office late Tuesday evening read.With Pandey’s appointment, he will join Sushil Chandra and election commissioner Rajiv Kumar, filling the top posts at the Election Commission of India (ECI). His joining comes ahead of next year's elections in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anup-chandra-pandey-takes-charge-as-election-commissioner-of-india-101623234203543.html
09-06-2021||India||Covaxin effective in neutralising Delta, Beta variants of Covid-19: Study||Researchers at Pune’s Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV) found that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is effective in neutralizing the Delta (B.1.617.2) and Beta (B.1.351) variants of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The paper, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, is titled - “Neutralization against B.1.351 and B.1.617.2 with sera of COVID-19 recovered cases and vaccinees of BBV152” - and has been authored by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the ICMR-NIV and Bharat Biotech.“The study demonstrated that despite a reduction in neutralization titers with BBV152 vaccinees sera against B.1.351 and B.1.617.2, its neutralization potential is well established,” the study pointed out, claiming that the vaccine developed by the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company is effective against these two variants which caused widespread concern among doctors for its increased severity.“Another reason of global concern is the recent emergence and detection of highly transmissible B.1.617.2 variant from 44 countries including India. An inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, BBV152 is currently rolled out under the national COVID-19 vaccination program in India. The neutralization potential of the BBV152 has been already studied with the B.1, B.1.1.7, B.1.1.28.2, B.1.617.1 and found to be effective against these variants,” the study further added.In order to conduct the evaluation of how Covaxin performs against these variants, the researchers at ICMR-NIV collected sera from 20 recovered patients and 17 people who had received the Covaxin Dose number 2, 28 days earlier.ICMR-NIV isolates another 'variant of interest'Earlier on Tuesday, scientists at the ICMR-NIV said that they have isolated the B.1.1.28.2 variant of SARS-CoV-2. The researchers believe that immunisation with Covaxin will help individuals against this variant which showed an increased disease severity when tested in hamsters.The World Health Organisation (WHO) classified the variant as a ‘variant of interest’ and the researchers from ICMR-NIV Pune also highlighted that there is need for screening the current vaccines for their efficacy against this variant. The variant was isolated from two travellers in December and January who returned from the UK and Brazil respectively.These two samples of B.1.1.28.2 variant are the only ones of its kind isolated by Indian labs so far, according to a report by news agency PTI. Researchers highlighted that this variant induced body weight loss, viral reproduction in the respiratory tract, lung lesions, and caused severe lung disease in the hamsters which were tested. Researchers also pointed out that the variant currently does not pose a public health problem for the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-effective-in-neutralising-delta-beta-variants-of-covid-19-study-101623233592645.html
09-06-2021||India||Why did Jitin Prasada leave the Congress?||Years after his father, Jitendra Prasada, challenged Sonia Gandhi in the election for the Congress president’s post in 2000, Jitin Prasada, 47, quit the party to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday. With this, another high-profile young Congress leader has left the party.Congress insiders and people close to Jitin Prasada said he was increasingly unhappy with the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh, where assembly polls are due next year, and particularly Shahjahanpur, his home turf. “He told us that he was hardly consulted for UP [Uttar Pradesh] matters and what irked him was the change of guard in the Shahjahanpur district Congress unit without his knowledge,” said a person aware of the matter, pleading anonymity.Also Read | Congress leader Jitin Prasada joins BJP, says ruling party best suited to serve peopleA leader, who worked closely with Jitin Prasada, said: “He would often allege that former SP (Samajwadi Party) leaders who joined the Congress in Shahjahanpur were given more importance than people who served the party for years.”Jitin Prasada, who was a Union minister in the previous Congress-led government, won Lok Sabha elections in 2004 and 2009. He lost the 2014 and 2019 elections while continuing to be Congress’s prominent Brahmin face in Uttar Pradesh. He was also among the 23 Congress leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi last year demanding sweeping changes in the party’s functioning.Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who worked with Jitin Prasada closely during the March-April Bengal polls, said he knew the latter as a good person. “He was a prominent Brahmin face for our party. He must have joined the BJP for greener pastures.”Also Watch | ‘Only one true party’: Jitin Prasada quits Congress, joins BJP before UP pollsJitin Prasada was once considered an integral part of team Rahul Gandhi. He has left the party when Gandhi is expected to return to the helm in a few months. Jitin Prasada’s exit comes months ahead of the party’s organisational election. He focused on West Bengal as the in-charge of the party in the state. But there too, he hardly campaigned and virtually had no say in the matters related to alliances, campaign, and poll management.“He held a series of meetings in Delhi to strategise the poll campaign and pick an agency run it. Eventually, all his plans gathered dust as Bengal veterans of the party started controlling everything,” said another Congress leader.In 2020, another prominent young leader, Jyotiraditya Scindia, left the Congress to join the BJP.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who also defected to the BJP from Congress, welcomed Jitin Prasada to his party. “The wrecked and rudderless ‘Titanic’ continues to sink! Welcome @JitinPrasadaji to the BJP Family,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-did-jitin-prasada-leave-the-congress-101623231951733.html
09-06-2021||India||CBI case against Avantha Group's Gautam Thapar for Yes Bank fraud worth ₹466cr||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a case against Gautam Thapar of Avantha Group for an alleged fraud worth ₹466 crore with Yes Bank.The case pertains to loan taken by Oyster Buildwell Pvt Ltd, a holding company of Avantha Realty Limited, and its misappropriation between 2017 and 2019.A complaint was filed for "having committed criminal breach of trust, cheating, criminal conspiracy and forgery for diversion/misappropriation of the public money during the period from 2017 to 2019, thereby, causing loss to the tune of ₹466.51 crore to the Yes Bank," the official complaint read.The CBI officials said raids were carried out at a dozen places in connection with the case.In March 2020, the central agency had registered a case against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his wife Bindu Rana Kapoor and Gautam Thapar among others for “illegal gratification in lieu of favours extended in connection with official work".This case was in connection to a lavish 1.2-acre bungalow at 40, Amrita Shergill Marg in New Delhi which was allegedly bought at half its market price by Kapoor as “bribe” from Thapar in lieu of extending loan worth around ₹1,900 crore to his group company.It is alleged that ₹307 crore bribe was involved in the sale of the bungalow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-case-against-avantha-group-s-gautam-thapar-for-yes-bank-fraud-worth-rs-466cr-101623230819650.html
09-06-2021||India||What is Covid-19 vaccine e-voucher? Can you gift it? All you need to know||The Centre has decided to bring vaccine procuration under its purview in a major change in the vaccination policy, which will come to effect from June 21. Vaccination will become free for all, except those who will get inoculated at private hospitals. The price has been capped at private hospitals too.Apart from this, a few changes have been introduced. Here is all you need to know.Who will be given priority in vaccination under the new policy?As it was before, healthcare workers will be the priority of the vaccination, followed by frontline workers, and citizens above the age of 45 years. After that, people who have already got their first dose will be prioritised. The citizens above 18 years will be considered.But state government and Union territories can decide their own prioritisation depending on the vaccine supply, the Centre has said.Will you have to pay?If you are going to a private vaccination centre, then you will have to pay but not more than ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin and ₹1,145 for Sputnik V. Those who can afford to pay for the vaccines are encouraged to used private centres.What is a vaccine e-voucher? Can you gift the Covid-19 vaccine?Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul on Tuesday said the Centre is coming up with a provision of non-transferable electronic vouchers, where one can buy the vaccine slot at a private hospital for another person. "Promoting the spirit of Lok Kalyan, people can financially support vaccination of economically weaker sections at private vaccination centres through the use of non-transferable electronic vouchers which can be redeemed at private vaccination centres," Dr Paul said.Will there be an on-site registration option?Yes. Apart from Co-Win, the provision for on-site registration is being made available at all government and private vaccination centres.Can you edit the vaccine certificate?Yes, Co-Win has introduced a feature where one can edit the vaccine certificate but only once. maximum two details out of the name, year of birth and gender can be edited.Can you take 2nd dose of Covishield before 12 weeks?Yes, but only under four conditions. Students, professionals and foreign job applicants with scheduled foreign travel within 12 weeks after the first dose is administered and athletes who will be taking part in the Tokyo Olympic Games can take their second dose of Covishield prior to the schedule. This option is not yet included in Co-Win. As of now, it has to be done by the local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-vaccine-rules-explained-can-you-gift-covid-19-vaccine-can-you-take-2nd-covishield-dose-before-12-weeks-all-you-need-to-know-101623230669258.html
09-06-2021||India||Jitin's shift to BJP shows future of party bright, says UP finance minister||Soon after former Union minister Jitin Prasada left the Congress to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at its headquarters in New Delhi on Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh’s finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna said the party’s future is bright.“We are always ready to welcome anyone who joins the BJP. And you can see, our mass base is increasing. BJP’s future is bright,” Khanna said at a virtual press conference.The 47-year-old leader, who earlier represented Dhaurahra parliamentary seat, switched to the BJP ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Praadesh.Party insiders and people close to Prasada said that he was getting unhappy with the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh and particularly Shahjahanpur, his home turf. “He told us that he was hardly consulted for UP matters and what irked him was the change of guard in Shahjahanpur district Congress without his knowledge.”Seizing the opportunity, Khanna further said, “If someone joins our party fold and is attuned to our policies and ideology, we will offer them the responsibility that they deserve.”Prasada was a Union minister during the UPA tenure and had won two elections in 2004 and 2009. Since then, he lost all his elections while continuing to be a prominent Brahmin face of the Congress in Uttar Pradesh. He was also a part of the G23 leaders who shot a letter to Congress president last year demanding sweeping changes in the party’s functioning.He is the second Rahul Gandhi aide to cross over to the saffron party, after Jyotiraditya Scindia who left following the assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jitins-shift-to-bjp-shows-future-of-party-bright-says-up-finance-minister-101623231271890.html
09-06-2021||India||Congress leader Jitin Prasada joins BJP, says ruling party best suited to serve people||Former Union minister and Congress leader Jitin Prasada joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday, saying the ruling party is the best suited to serve people during the current challenging times. He called his move a new chapter in his political life and a well-thought-out decision. “Our family has been associated with the Congress for three generations, but during the last 8-10 years, I felt that if there is any national party, it is the BJP,” he said. Prasada, who earlier met Union home minister Amit Shah, added other parties have been reduced to individuals or regional entities. He said if a party cannot be of help to people, then there is no point in continuing with it.Union minister Piyush Goyal praised Prasada for continuing to help the people of his constituency despite no longer being their representative in Parliament. Prasada, a two-time Congress member of Parliament, lost the 2014 elections to BJP’s Rekha Sharma.Also Read | Congress to hold nationwide protest on June 11 against fuel price hikeThere was speculation about the possibility of Prasada joining the BJP ahead of the 2019 elections. But he dismissed it then saying he would not address “hypothetical questions” about crossing over to the BJP.Prasada, a Brahmin, hit the headlines in 2019 when he claimed his community was facing persecution and being largely ignored by the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh. He also started a Brahma Chetna Samvaad to reach out to the community and offer a platform to give voice to the community’s aspirations.Brahmins account for around 13% of Uttar Pradesh’s voters and are considered electorally influential in the state. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which has a strong cadre drawn from the Dalit communities, and Samajwadi Party have also reached out to Brahmins. In 2007, of BSP’s 206 lawmakers, 20 were Brahmins. The party also altered its poll slogan to Haathi nahi, Ganesh hai; Brahama, Vishnu, Mahesh hai to woo the so-called upper castes.BSP chief Mayawati and the Samajwadi Party have made overtures towards the Brahmins by promising grand statues of Lord Parshuram ahead of the polls due in the state next year.Last year, Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who was among the signatories to a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational changes, alleged Prasada was being targeted in Uttar Pradesh and called it unfortunate. Prasada was also a signatory to the letter. He did not find a place in Congress’s committees formed for the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. In 2020, the Lakhimpur Kheri district Congress unit passed a resolution seeking action against Prasada for alleged anti-Gandhi family stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-jitin-prasada-joins-bjp-101623229251490.html
09-06-2021||India||India has administered over 238 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 238 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Tuesday, June 8. The Centre has also ordered 440million doses of vaccine – 250 million doses of Covishield and 190 million doses of Covaxin. It also announced price cap on vaccines being given by private centres. The maximum price of each dose of Covishield has been fixed at ₹780; of Covaxin at ₹1,410; and of Sputnik V at ₹1,145.Meanwhile, by Tuesday 7pm, 238,840,635 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,995,552 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,891,662 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 16,380,521 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,726,071 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Delhi polling stations now vaccination centres, people happy: CM KejriwalIn the 45-60 year age group, 72,546,765 people have got their first dose and another 11,534,478 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 61,275,505 people have been administered their first dose while 19,436,078 have had their second dose as well.In the 18-45 year age group, 1,332,471 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine and 76,723 got their second dose on Tuesday and cumulatively, 31,737,869 of this age group have had their first dose while 316,134 have got their second dose as well across the country.As many as 2,558,652 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 2,267,842 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 290,810 beneficiaries received their second dose as wellMeanwhile, on Wednesday India recorded 92,596 fresh cases, taking the cumulative tally in the country to 29,089,069, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-238-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101623228351735.html
09-06-2021||India||Career bureaucrat, new EC Anup Chandra Pandey also holds doctorate||Anup Chandra Pandey, 62, who was appointed as the new election commissioner on Tuesday, is a retired 1984 batch Uttar Pradesh cadre Indian Administrative Service officer. He has held positions at both the state and the Central levels over his nearly 35-year career. Pandey served as Uttar Pradesh’s chief secretary under chief minister Yogi Adityanath from July 2018 to August 2019. He was earlier the state’s industrial development commissioner.Pandey’s appointment restores the Election Commission of India’s full strength ahead of elections in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh due next year. An election commissioner’s post was vacant since April when former chief election commissioner Sunil Arora demitted office. Pandey will join Sushil Chandra, who succeeded Arora, and election commissioner Rajiv Kumar.Also Read | Suvendu Adhikari to meet PM today, expected to discuss post-poll violencePandey, who served as a joint secretary for four years at the Centre, graduated from Chandigarh’s Punjab Engineering College. He holds a master’s degree in Materials Management from Panjab University (Chandigarh) and a doctorate in ancient history from Bihar’s Magadh University.According to his LinkedIn profile, he played a key role “in introducing Abolition of Child Labour Act and ratification of ILO (Internation Labour Organisation) convention 138 & 182 on Child Labour” during his tenure at the Centre. It highlights his contribution to conducting the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Uttar Pradesh, organising the Kumbh Mela and the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas during his stint as the top bureaucrat in the state. “The peaceful, transparent & incident-free conduct of Lok Sabha elections 2019, where tensions between various stakeholders were very high was certainly a very big achievement.”The career bureaucrat has also been a part of the National Green Tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/career-bureaucrat-new-ec-anup-chandra-pandey-also-holds-mba-degree-doctorate-101623227631511.html
09-06-2021||India||Nusrat Jahan says her marriage was not valid in India, 'No comment,' says Nikhil Jain||Trinamool MP Nusrat Jahan on Wednesday issued a statement saying her marriage with Nikhil Jain was never valid as an interfaith marriage in India requires validation under the Special Marriage Act, which never happened. As the marriage was not legal, valid and tenable, there is no question of divorce, she clarified. "Our separation happened long back, but I did not speak about it as I intended to keep my private life to myself," the Basirhat MP said.Actor-turned-politician Nusrat Jahan got married to businessman Nikhil Jain in Bodrum of Turkey in 2019 after she made her political debut, winning the Lok Sabha Elections in the same year. A reception was also held in Kolkata which chief minister Mamata Banerjee attended. The wedding ceremony was done as per Turkish Marriage Regulation, the MP clarified.Of late, speculations of a rift in the marriage have been rife as reports claimed Nusrat started dating fellow actor-politician Yash Dasgupta, who was a BJP candidate in the 2021 election in Bengal. A few days ago, rumours of Nusrat expecting Yash's child started doing the rounds in media and on various social media platforms to which writer Taslima Nasreen commented in a long Facebook post, where she said if the rumour is true, then Nusrat should get divorced from Nikhil.Nusrat Jahan, TMC MP, dances as husband plays ‘dhaak’ on Durga AshtamiWhile Nusrat's statement clarifies her stance on the "marriage", without naming Nikhil, she accused him of mishandling her money. "The one who claims to be “rich” and “been used by me” has been taking money from my account by accessing my bank accounts illegally and by illegitimate means at odd hours of the night, even post-separation. I have already taken this up with the concerned banking authority and a police complaint shall be filed shortly. In the past, details of all family accounts were handed over to him, upon his requests and none of me or my family members was aware of any instructions given to the bank via our accounts. He has also been mishandling my funds from various accounts without my knowledge and consent. I am still battling it out with the bank & if need be, would release proof of the same," the statement read. The MP also alleged that his family members have illegally held back her assets, the jewellery given to her by her patents."I would never speak up about my personal life or anyone I am not related to. Thus, people who call themselves “normal people” must not entertain anything which is not related to them," Nusrat said.Nikhil Jain is a Kolkata-baed businessman and the duo met in Kolkata during an event, a year before they got married. Recently, as the rumours of Nusrat's pregnancy spread, some news channels contacted Nikhil who said he was not aware of Nusrat's pregnancy as they were not in contact for many months.On being asked to comment on Nusrat's statement, Nikhil Jain on Wednesday said the matter is subjudice. "I have never commented or will not comment anything on what she has said. The matter is subjudice in court. The civil suit in courts is in process. They are doing their job well," Nikhil told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-mp-nusrat-jahan-says-marriage-with-nikhil-jain-was-never-valid-101623224282807.html
09-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Complaint against Instagram for Shiva sticker with mobile and wine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP leader files complaint against Instagram for Shiva sticker with mobile and wineDelhi BJP leader Manish Singh has filed a complaint with the Delhi Police on Tuesday for portraying Lord Shiva in a "bad taste" in one of its GIFs. Read More'Apologise, didn't get a chance to explain': Delhi hospital official on controversial circularThe nursing superintendent of Delhi government-run GB Pant Hospital has apologised for a circular, which asked the nursing employees not to speak in Malayalam at work. Read MoreOutbreaks originating in big cities likely to spread faster across nation: PaperDistance is not a good predictor of the infection spread with outbreaks in bigger cities such as Delhi and Mumbai likely to affect Bengaluru in just 2.38 days while those in a closer place like Tirupati are likely to reach there in 5.06 days. Read MoreWe were all 'bloody Indians' to them': Farokh Engineer recalls his encounter with racism in EnglandFormer India wicketkeeper Farokh Engineer has revealed how he faced casual racism in England during his time as a Lancashire player. Read MoreSofia Hayat slams Salman Khan, says she deliberately didn't share Bigg Boss stage with him; earns KRK's praiseFormer Bigg Boss contestant Sofia Hayat has slammed actor Salman Khan, revealing that she chose not to appear on stage at the Bigg Boss finale with Salman because '(her) morality and truth is stronger than (her) ego'. Read MorePakistani serial features Rabindra Sangeet, viral videos wow peopleHave you ever heard the saying “Music has no borders”? The words couldn’t be truer in case of these videos from a Pakistan TV show. Read MoreHyundai Alcazar bookings officially opened at ₹25,000; launch expected soonHyundai Alcazar bookings have been officially open at all its dealerships and interested customers will have to pay an amount of ₹25,000 to book a unit. Read MoreWatch: From 'Long Covid', to liquor & smoking: Dr Rommel Tickoo answers your queries||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-complaint-against-instagram-for-shiva-sticker-with-mobile-and-wine-and-all-the-latest-news-101623223542502.html
09-06-2021||India||Same-sex love: The family abuse that led to the Madras HC order||Two university students, whose plea for police protection in the Madras high court (HC) resulted in a landmark order on Monday, suffered months of family harassment and abuse and even a concerted violent bid before approaching the judiciary, conversations with the petitioners, lawyers and their activists revealed.The two women – aged 20 and 22 — met in 2019 and fell in love but battled fierce disapproval from their conservative families who lived in the rural parts of Tamil Nadu’s Madurai district. Facing increasing strictures, they ran away from home in February 9 this year to Chennai.In Chennai, they tried to live independently and reached out to lawyers to file a petition in the high court. But back in Madurai, both sets of families filed missing person FIRs in two separate police stations, prompting policemen to travel to Chennai to track them down.Also Read | When a judge learns — and teaches“This is a common tactic used by families to force queer people to come back, and intimidate them,” said Manuraj S, the petitioners’ lawyer.The family response Things came to a head in the second week of March, when both sets of parents, along with roughly 10 policemen showed up in cars in the locality where the two women were living. “They caught hold of the women and threatened them to go back,” said Manuraj.After a heated altercation, the women escaped and approached the International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care’s (PCVC) safe home in Chennai. But despite the bitterness, the petitioners said they are ready to stay with their families if accepted with dignity and tolerance.“We are ready to live with our parents but if only they accept us and our love and feelings,” said the 22-year-old petitioner, who declined to be named because her safety continues to be a concern. “We have been insulted by everyone but now we need to grow and succeed in life, and live our life in front of everyone,” she added.But such reconciliation may be difficult because the court-mandated counselling failed to break any ice with the parents.Psychologist Vidya Dinakaran, who counselled the families, found that both sets of parents felt a great amount of shame, fear and social disdain upon them because of their daughter’s same-sex relationship.“Both parents felt let down that their daughters have not paid heed to their sentiments and belief. Both parents expressed concern over the safety, security and future of their children. However, they also expressed their belief that their daughter’s homosexual relationship would cause damage to their future,” the court order read.“Among the queer and trans people we work with, many want families to not cut them off, but eventual reconciliation is not possible because the parents refuse to see same-sex relationships as anything but abnormal and fear that it will isolate them from immediate social circles and bring shame,” said Swetha Shankar, director of client services at PCVC.During the court hearings, the parents met the women on two separate occasions but without any success. “It was very emotional, they were trying to change our minds, but we were strong in our love,” said the petitioner.Where prejudice collides with law Such predicament is common for queer people in India, who continue to live in fear of social censure and violence despite the decriminalization of homosexuality by the Supreme Court three years ago. Since 2018, same-sex couples have approached high courts in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bengal, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, seeking protection from their families.In all cases, the courts have sided with the couples. But this hasn’t always meant the end of hardships for couples.Rekha Bairwa knows it only too well.The 24-year-old Dalit woman from Rajasthan’s Dausa district approached the high court in February 2019 to seek protection for herself and her partner, Usha Bai Mahavar. Bairwa and Mahavar met six years before in their native village, Gudha Ashikpura, and slowly fell for each other.After the apex court struck down Section 377, they went to a local temple and got married. Almost immediately, they started receiving threats from both families and local families. Both their relatives warned that they would be killed for their transgression, and the local police refused to interfere into what it saw as a family matter.When their petition came up on February 26, justice Kanwaljit Singh Ahluwalia noted that both the women were adults and asked the police to provide protection. “The case was a landmark for us too because we had never argued such a unique case. The women were very happy with the order,” said Bhim Sain Bairwa, their lawyer.But two years on, little has changed for the Dalit women. Bairwa and Mahavar are still apart and find no way to live together due to social censure and family hostility. They are not financially sound enough to run away.“We see each other once in a while, whenever I can find time from my NREGS shifts. Some villagers call us slurs and abuse me when I go out; they are forcing Usha to marry, but we still love each other,” said Bairwa over phone.Two thousand kilometres away, the two women petitioners are aware that their fight isn’t over. Manuraj said they are still worried about their protection and safety, and the women haven’t left the safe house yet. But they have big dreams: of jobs and a home together. “We want to...live our life in front of everyone. And help others like us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samesex-love-the-family-abuse-that-led-to-the-madras-hc-order-101623223971438.html
09-06-2021||India||'New chapter of my political life': Congress leader Jitin Prasada joins BJP||Congress leader Jitin Prasada on Wednesday joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi in presence of Union minister Piyush Goyal.The development came shortly after BJP spokesperson and Uttarakhand MP Anil Baluni announced the "joining of an eminent personality" into the party's fold on micro-blogging site Twitter.Terming his exit from Congress and induction in BJP as a fresh chapter, Prasada said that there is only one national party in India. "In the last 8-10 years, I have felt that if there is one party that is truly national, it is the BJP. The other parties are regional but this is a national party," Prasada said, addressing the media at BJP headquarters.Prasada said that his decision to leave the Congress comes after a lot of deliberation, adding that his connection with the party spans three generations."The question today is not which party I am leaving, or which party am I coming from. I have joined BJP today with the intention of contributing to the new India that PM Modi is building," the former Union minister said.Alleging that he was not allowed to work in Congress, Prasada said, "I felt that what is the relevance of staying in a party if you cannot work for your people or protect their interests."I felt I was unable to do that at Congress. I thank people in Congress who blessed me all these years but now I will work as a dedicated BJP worker," Prasada said.Before switching to the saffron party, Prasada reached Union minister Piyush Goyal’s residence in Delhi and met him.The 47-year-old, a former Union minister, was among the signatory dissenter in the Congress party who sent the letter to high command seeking an active and full-time party president. Prasada is also a special invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC).After Prasada dissented, the Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress reportedly passed a resolution demanding action against him, a leader from Uttar Pradesh, and accused his family of being against the Gandhi family. Jitender Prasada, the father of Jitin, had also unsuccessfully contested for the post of Congress president against Sonia Gandhi in the past, the district Congress committee reportedly said.Prasada's last assignment was to handle the West Bengal elections where the Congress performed poorly. His party has set up a committee to look into the reasons behind this loss, however, the Bengal post-mortem is pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-jitin-prasada-set-to-join-bjp-in-delhi-101623221085530.html
09-06-2021||India||Bengal to evacuate 20k people ahead of new moon, full moon tides||The West Bengal government plans to evacuate at least 20,000 people from parts of South 24 Parganas district as the sea and river water may gush into some of the low-lying villages again through the breaches caused by cyclone Yaas to embankments. The water levels are expected to rise because of the monsoon and the spring tides linked to the new and full moon on June 11 and June 25 respectively.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has directed the district administration of South 24 Parganas to carry out the evacuations from the low-lying areas of Mousuni and Sagar islands before the tides hit.A state irrigation department official said while embankments have been breached in around 317 places, around 50% of them could be plugged. “A stretch of 7.5 km in Mousuni and Sagar islands cannot be repaired till July-end. The water during the tides could gush in through these breaches. Hence people need to be evacuated,” said the official, requesting anonymity.The state undertook one of the biggest evacuations drives ahead of cyclone Yaas, which hit the neighbouring Odisha on May 26, and evacuated around 1.5 million people to 14,000 relief camps.Also Read | Suvendu Adhikari meets PM Modi, a day after meeting Shah, NaddaAs the water levels have receded, people are returning to their homes to reconstruct them. But an area under over 60 village panchayats in 14 blocks in the coastal districts and Sunderbans are still inundated.“Over and above this if the river and sea waters gush in, because of the monsoon and spring tides of the new moon and full moon on June 11 and June 25, then once again the villages would get flooded,” said an official of the state disaster management department.The tidal height at Sagar may reach up to 5.67m on the morning of June 25. During a normal high tide, the water level rises up to around 4.5m.The water levels during spring tides (on the new moon and full moon) remain at least 1m-1.5m higher than the daily high tide level. Cyclone Yaas triggered a storm surge that was 2m-4m high over and above the spring tide level.“We have suffered more damage this time because of the inundation and flooding than the damage caused by cyclone Amphan in May 2020,” Banerjee said at a review meeting last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-evacuate-20k-people-ahead-of-new-moon-full-moon-tides-101623222891216.html
09-06-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s ties up with Rockwell for 500 freezers to store Sputnik V vaccine||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has entered into a strategic partnership with Hyderabad-based Rockwell Industries, specialising in commercial cold chain appliance manufacturing, to provide vaccine freezers for storing Sputnik V, the Russian-made Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, across India. The deal has been closed to supply at least 750 Covid-19 vaccine freezers to various hospitals and institutions across the country; 500 of these being specifically for Sputnik V. Dr Reddy’s earlier tied up with the Russian Direct Investment Fund that markets Sputnik V globally, to distribute first 250 million doses of the vaccine.On May 14, Dr Reddy’s announced a limited pilot soft launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India, ahead of the commercial launch later in June to test, among other things, cold chain facilities for storage. The freezer plays a critical role in the safety of vaccine and its potency. Sputnik V vaccine requires a temperature of -18°C to remain stable and potent. Also Read | India Covid-19 tally up by 92,596 fresh infections, 2219 new deaths recordedAccording to Rockwell, it develops freezers as per the WHO PQS (World Health Organisation - Performance, Quality and Safety) standard, and those can handle various harsh usage conditions, in rural locations too, and maintain desired temperature range, thus breaking the vaccine cold chain hurdle. “This is a huge endorsement for our Covid-19 vaccine freezer. Our technology ensures that Sputnik V’s storage management at vaccine centres meets the stringent refrigeration standards set forth by Sputnik V manufacturers,” said Ashok Gupta, managing director, Rockwell Industries Ltd. In addition, Rockwell will provide end-to-end logistics and after sales service support for the vaccine freezers across India “Rockwell is working closely with Dr. Reddy’s to develop & provide wireless IOT based controllers and data loggers which can give access to real time data of temperature and performance for the Vaccine Freezers assuring the vaccine storage conditions in each location across the country” said Prateek Gupta, director Rockwell Industries Ltd. Many hospitals, such as AIG Hospitals, Apollo, Omega and Care Hospitals, are already using these vaccine freezers for storage and many more hospitals and institutions are likely to do so in coming weeks as the Sputnik V vaccine is launched commercially in India. “We have a capacity to manufacture about 1,000 machines per day. We are in the process of exporting our Vaccine Freezers to various developed countries including an initial pilot deal with Japan,” added Prateek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-ties-up-with-rockwell-for-750-freezers-to-store-sputnik-v-vaccine-101623222471454.html
09-06-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari meets PM Modi, a day after meeting Shah, Nadda||A day after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda, Bengal BJP MLA and the Opposition leader of the West Bengal Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The meeting comes at a time when the Bengal BJP is planning to petition President Ram Nath Kovind over the post-poll violence in the state. West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday claimed 40 BJP workers have been killed so far after the results of the election were announced on May 2. Around 25,000 BJP workers have been forced to leave their houses, Ghosh claimed.Delhi: BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari arrives at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg, Prime Minister's official residence, to meet PM Narendra Modi. pic.twitter.com/IxE5bQgMs7The post-poll violence in West Bengal has become a new flashpoint between the state and the Centre. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar summoned chief secretary HK Dwivedi on June 7 to review the administrative steps being taken in Bengal to bring restore peace.On May 5, as chief minister Mamata Banerjee took the oath, she said incidents of violence were reported in those areas where the BJP won.The BJP has planned a state-level protest against the violence on June 23, the death anniversary of Syama Prasad Mookerjee.Adhikari arrived in Delhi on Monday, a visit which has been dubbed by the Trinamool as an attempt to 'save his skin' from the CBI investigation in the Narada case. "Adhikari is staging a drama before the public; he will have to parrot what his party is saying. He met Shah as he wanted to save his skin from prosecution in the Narada sting case, TMC state general secretary and party spokesman Kunal Ghosh said on Tuesday. "We don't attach much importance to these meetings. People of this state happen to stand firmly behind the TMC. They will not take it lying down if there is any attempt to disturb the government," Trinamool MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-meets-pm-modi-a-day-after-meeting-shah-nadda-101623221850110.html
09-06-2021||India||BJP leader files complaint against Instagram for Shiva sticker with mobile and wine||Delhi BJP leader Manish Singh has filed a complaint with the Delhi Police on Tuesday for portraying Lord Shiva in a "bad taste" in one of its GIFs where Shiva can be seen with a glass of alcohol in one hand and a mobile in the other. The BJP leader said if the Delhi Police do not take any action against Instagram for "hurting the sentiments" of the Hindus, he will go to the Instagram office and launch a sit-in until the sticker is withdrawn and an apology is tendered.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, "We have received a complaint and an inquiry has been initiated. All the aspects in the complaint are being verified and looked into. As of now, no first information report (FIR) has been registered.""See the audacity of Instagram. It has dared to show Mahadev with a glass of alcohol in one hand and a mobile in the other. Instagram will have to pay the price for this. I have filed a complaint with the Delhi Police. If required, I will go to the Instagram office and protest," the BJP leader said on Twitter, posting the complaint letter.ये @instagram का साहस देखिए। महादेव की तस्वीर को किस रूप में दिखा रहा है, एक हाथ मे शराब और दूसरे हाथ में मोबाईल। इंस्टाग्राम को इसका परिणाम भुगतना पड़ेगा। @DelhiPolice को इस मामले की शिकायत की है, और आवश्यकता पड़ने पर इंस्टाग्राम के कार्यालय पर भी धावा बोला जाएगा। @rsprasad pic.twitter.com/raG0iXE7s8"Lord Shiva is venerated by millions and millions of Hindus as the Supreme God...By the way of the above GIF, the accused is deliberately and intentionally hurting the feeling and sentiments of the millions and millions of Hindus, including the complainant...the GIF has been done with the sole intention of inciting the followers of the Hindu community and in the process promote disharmony, hatred and enmity," the complaint said urging the Delhi Police to file a case against Instagram CEO and other officials under Section 153A and 295A of the Indian Penal Code.Instagram is a US-based photo and video sharing social media platform, which was launched in 2010, In 2012, Facebook acquired Instagram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-files-complaint-against-instagram-for-shiva-sticker-with-mobile-and-wine-101623219277545.html
09-06-2021||India||Outbreaks originating in big cities likely to spread faster across nation: Paper||Distance is not a good predictor of the infection spread with outbreaks in bigger cities such as Delhi and Mumbai likely to affect Bengaluru in just 2.38 days while those in a closer place like Tirupati are likely to reach there in 5.06 days, according to a model developed by researchers at Pune’s Indian Institute of Science, Education, and Research. The model is part of a paper, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, and is based on mapping of air, train, and road travel patterns from cities with over 10,00,00 population.Most of the models to date have used air travel as an indicator for the infection spread. But in the Indian context, other modes of travel are equally important as a significant proportion of the population travels by trains.Also Read | India must procure vaccines in full measure to keep children safe: Sisodia“Remarkably, even in a heterogeneous country like India, where air travel is by far the least popular mode of transport, accounting for less than 1% of all mobility, the linearity holds good,” says the paper. The paper explains that this is because air transport has the largest reach.“If only the mobility by air is considered with Bangalore (Bengaluru) as an outbreak city, then even the farthest cities like Delhi, Kolkata, and Mumbai display high hazard values. In comparison, if train mobility alone is considered, most of the high hazard cities in the Top-10 list are located within south India. It must be noted that cities like Mumbai and Delhi would still have significant hazard values, but they do not figure in the Top-10 list,” the paper says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outbreaks-originating-in-big-cities-likely-to-spread-faster-across-nation-paper-101623218750965.html
09-06-2021||India||Low-income frontline workers burned by rising fuel prices||Rizwanudeen, a 37-year old worker who delivers food in the southern Indian city of Chennai, struggles to pay his rent and loan instalments at the end of every month as he has been hit by the double whammy of higher fuel prices and fewer food orders.Millions of weekly wage earners like Rizwanudeen who make their living ferrying goods or people throughout India have been hit hard by record high fuel prices which are among the highest in Asia, having risen by a third in the 15 months since the coronavirus first struck the country.The average cost of a litre of gasoline in Mumbai has risen above 100 rupees ($1.37) this month, 50 to 70% more than in Bangkok, Hanoi and Manila. State and federal taxes, which have doubled since Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, account for more than 60% of India's retail fuel price.With the federal government facing ballooning healthcare costs tied to its ongoing battle with Covid-19, and committed to vast farm and other subsidies, a finance ministry official said there was little scope for a meaningful tax cut that might ease the pain on low earners."I used to spend 1,500 rupees ($20.58) a week on petrol before the pandemic, now I spend 2,000 rupees. I am already earning less due to fewer orders due to lockdowns," Rizwanudeen lamented, saying a third of his earnings went on fuel.For an Indian earning the average national wage, a litre of gasoline would take up a quarter of their daily income, according to Reuters calculations. Federal government fuel tax revenues have risen 80% to 2.55 trillion rupees over six years ending 2019/20, P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, the finance minister of southern Tamil Nadu state said in a meeting on taxes in May.But tax revenues shared with the states have declined by over 200 billion rupees over that period, he added, echoing a common gripe among state officials over fuel tax allocations.With total federal tax collections hit by the industrial slowdown caused by coronavirus-induced lockdowns, New Delhi has been reluctant to lower fuel taxes, even after oil prices collapsed to multi-year lows last year.State authorities, which have faced soaring healthcare costs this year due to the pandemic, have blamed the federal levies for the higher prices. The federal government in turn has said it would only cut taxes if states-level taxes are cut.INFLATION WARNINGSDespite the standoff over who should move first to lower tax rates, the country's central bank governor Shaktikanta Das acknowledged last week that surging fuel prices posed a threat to the broader economy and required coordinated action by central and state governments.His warnings came after India's wholesale price index surged 10.49% year-on year in April.Further key cost increases are on the way. Rental rates of trucks, which deliver everything from perishable produce to machine parts in India, could rise by 10% this month on the back of higher fuel costs, said SP Singh, senior fellow at Indian Foundation of Transport Research & Training."In May, rentals declined as truckers saddled with monthly instalments for vehicle purchases were absorbing fuel prices in the absence of business. Now, as lockdowns are easing, freight rates are firming up," Singh said.RBI Governor Das also said that while federal and state governments may be inclined to tackle high fuel prices, their options may be limited by their already-tattered budgets.For Selva Murugan, a 35-year old former driver around Chennai for car service Ola, the damage has already been done."I was able to pay my loan dues when diesel cost about 65 rupees a litre. After that, I started feeling the crunch and around the time it touched 75 rupees I decided to sell my car," Murugan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lowincome-frontline-workers-burned-by-rising-fuel-prices-101623217421137.html
09-06-2021||India||Odisha plans to vaccinate 3 lakh persons a day ahead of 3rd Covid wave||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday said it aims to vaccinate 300,000 eligible residents daily, almost doubling the current rate of 140,000-160,000 vaccine doses administered daily. He also stressed on the need to improve paediatric healthcare ahead of a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The second Covid-19 wave is more or less under control in Odisha with cases declining by 0.5- 1% daily.Patnaik reviewed the Covid situation in the state on Tuesday evening and asked the health department to create separate paediatric healthcare wings at existing Covid hospitals keeping in mind that isolation of paediatric Covid-19 cases was not possible in general wards. All district hospitals and sub divisional hospitals have been asked to earmark 10 beds for isolating suspected paediatric Covid cases.Of the 10,736 general beds and 4,072 ICU (intensive care unit) and HDU (high dependency unit) beds in Covid hospitals, at least 15% beds will be reserved for paediatric cases with the aim to make at least 2,850 general beds and 150 ICU beds available anticipating 10,000 daily infections in the third wave, as per the projections made by a government appointed task force.The government said it will also train 1,114 doctors and 1,036 nurses in paediatric Covid care. Currently, there are 454 paediatric specialists employed with the state government apart from 94 doctors, who are pursuing post graduate studies in paediatrics.The government also discussed modalities of lifting the lockdown from districts with low Covid test positivity rate (TPR) after June 17. Though the daily TPR in the state has climbed down to 8.5%, the weekly TPR continued to be high in at least 17 districts with Bhadrak’s TPR at 31.83%. Five districts including Bolangir reported TPR of less than 5%.Odisha’s director of Health Services Dr Bijay Kumar Mohapatra said if the trend of 0.5% to 1% daily fall continues, then the TPR would drop below 5% in 7 to 8 days.On the grim side, the daily Covid-19 fatality count reached 45 on Tuesday, the highest so far.“Many patients are admitted in the ICUs and are on ventilators. The recovery rate of patients on ventilators is very low and that is the reason for [the] rising [number of] fatalities,” said Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-plans-to-vaccinate-3-lakh-persons-a-day-ahead-of-3rd-covid-wave-101623217910370.html
09-06-2021||India||Traders in Odisha town offer 5% discount on groceries to fully vaccinated people||A municipal body in Odisha’s Ganjam district has asked traders to give a one time discount of 5% on purchase of groceries to those who are fully vaccinated, hoping it would encourage indifferent people to participate in the Covid-19 vaccination drive.The initiative was introduced by the executive officer of the Hinjili Municipal Council in chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s assembly constituency of the same name.“We requested the traders to offer [a] discount to the consumers who have been fully vaccinated. At least 10 grocery shop owners have agreed to offer a 5% discount on the purchase of groceries. As some vaccine hesitancy still persists, we hope this would lead to community participation in [the] vaccination drive,” Manoranjan Sahu, the executive officer of Hinjili Municipal Council, said.Several local administrators are coming up with innovative ideas to break vaccine hesitancy, which is proving to be a big hindrance in the fight against Covid-19, especially in rural areas. A district collector in Arunachal Pradesh is currently giving out 20kgs of rice to residents if they come forward to get vaccinated. Information drives are also being carried out across the country to counter rumours and falsities that deter people from getting vaccinated.Sahu, however, clarified that the civic body will not compensate shop keepers for any losses incurred in the process. “It is part of an initiative of community participation to boost the vaccination drive against Covid-19,” Sahu said.In Ganjam district, around 5 lakh residents above 45-years of age have taken the first dose of Covid vaccine while 1.06 lakh have taken both the doses. In Odisha, 8.5 million doses have been given so far including more than 6.91 million first doses and more than 1.59 million second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traders-in-odisha-town-offer-5-discount-on-groceries-to-fully-vaccinated-people-101623216950901.html
09-06-2021||India||India must procure Covid-19 vaccines in full measure to keep children safe: Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the central government must procure as many vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as possible to keep children safe, especially in the backdrop of a potential third wave of the pandemic. Sisodia highlighted that the world has started working on vaccines for children under age 12 and shared a news article involving American pharmaceutical company Pfizer testing its Covid-19 vaccines on a larger group of children of the aforementioned age group.Also Read: China approves Covid-19 vaccine for kids as young as 3Sharing the newspaper report, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted out, "The world has started working on vaccines for children under age 12. Centre Govt should proactively do the needful to procure as many vaccines as possible to keep our children safe."The world has started working on vaccine for children under age 12. Centre Govt should proactively do the needful to procure as many vaccines as possible to keep our children safe. https://t.co/E0vlxMOwgVIt is to be noted that only people aged 18 and above are currently being vaccinated against Covid-19 in India. The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has frequently expressed its concerns over the safety of children in India from the coronavirus disease, citing the opinion of experts that those under age 12 stand a heightened risk of contracting the virus during the potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: AIIMS Delhi begins screening of children for Covaxin trialsThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi has recently started screening children aged between 2 and 18, for the trial of Covaxin, India's first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine. AIIMS Patna had already started the screening process earlier to see if the Bharat Biotech jab is suitable for children. India's drug regulator, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), had granted permission on May 18 for conducting the Phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covaxin in the age group 2 to 18 years.A national expert group has been formed to review Covid-19 infections in children and approach the pandemic in a renewed way to strengthen the nation's preparedness, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul had said at a press conference earlier this week.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-procure-covid-19-vaccines-in-full-measure-to-keep-children-safe-manish-sisodia-101623215298745.html
09-06-2021||India||'No chance': Union minister dismisses speculations of leadership change in MP over alleged Covid mismanagement||Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday dismissed speculation that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to replace chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Madhya Pradesh. "In Madhya Pradesh, BJP has a permanent government and there is no chance of any change in the leadership," the agriculture minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.When asked about the comments being made by some Congress politicians about leadership change in the state over alleged Covid-19 mismanagement, Tomar said, "There is a BJP government in MP and it will decide who will be its chief minister. The party has already decided that Chouhan is a chief minister...Congress has no right to talk about the BJP's CM," the news agency further quoted the central minister as saying."Madhya Pradesh government is handling the Covid-19 situation properly," he added.Earlier on Monday, BJP's general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya rejected the rumours and said Madhya Pradesh will continue to run under the leadership of Chouhan.The BJP took over Madhya Pradesh in March 2020 under Chouhan's leadership after the Congress government led by Kamal Nath collapsed.A series of meetings among senior BJP leaders including the one between Vijayvargiya and state home minister Narottam Mishra led to speculation about the change in leadership i Madhya Pradesh which battled the worst wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.However, after nearly two months, the situation in Madhya Pradesh seems to be improving as the state maintained a positivity rate of less than 1% for the last seven consecutive days. Experts have said that the rate of Covid-19 infection has come down due to the lockdown and people's cooperation.On Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh reported 535 Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths, taking the state's tally to 7,86,302 and the toll to 8,405, the health department said. A total of six out of 52 districts recorded no case during the past 24 hours, the data by health department also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-chance-union-minister-dismisses-speculations-of-leadership-change-in-mp-over-alleged-covid-mismanagement-101623215864290.html
09-06-2021||India||Covid vaccination certificate: Here's how you can correct details through Co-Win||As the Covid-19 vaccination certificate emerges as a crucial document for domestic, international travel, the centre has introduced a new feature to enable beneficiaries to correct any errors in the name, birth year, gender printed on the Co-Win vaccination certificate. "Now you can make corrections to your name, year of birth and gender on your Cowin vaccination certificates if inadvertent errors have come in," the official handle of the Aarogya Setu app tweeted on Wednesday.Here's how you can request a change in the certificate:1. Go to your account on Cowin.gov.in2. Select raise an issue under your account details.3. Select correction in the certificate.4. One can request for changed only in the two fields of name, year of birth and gender. And the changes will be allowed only once.With the restrictions easing, vaccine certificate will become an essential travel document in the domestic sector as well as the civil aviation ministry is considering doing away with the mandatory RT-PCR test for domestic fliers who are fully vaccinated. A correct vaccine certificate with name, gender and year of birth matching with other documents is important for foreign travels too as foreign institutions, workplaces are insisting on full vaccination. The Centre has recently issued a guideline on allowing vaccine certificates to be linked with the passport number of the beneficiaries if needed for international travel. The gap between the two doses of Covishield has also been reduced for such travellers, which will soon be facilitated on the Co-Win system, the health ministry has said.Vaccination status update of Aarogya Setu One can update the vaccination status on the Aarogya Setu app through the mobile number used for Co-Win registration. Aarogya Setu app is mandatory for domestic travel, entrance in office etc. Those who have got a single dose of the vaccine will get a single blue border with vaccination status and a single tick. A 'Blue Shield' with a double tick will appear for those who are fully vaccinated, after 14 days of the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-certificate-here-s-how-you-can-correct-details-through-cowin-101623213710474.html
09-06-2021||India||Govt to digitally integrate PDS granaries across country||The Union government is likely to begin work on a new, centralised system of food storage, digitally integrating state-run granaries and silos across the country, which store and distribute subsidised cereals to nearly 800 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, according to officials of the food ministry.The need for a plan to integrate and technologically upgrade grain storage was revealed by Union food minister Piyush Goyal during a review on Tuesday.The Food Corporation of India (FCI), the country’s main grain handling agency, is the world’s largest stockholder of foodgrains.The FCI, which buys grain from farmers at a state-set guaranteed price, has bought a record 41.3 million tonne of winter-sown wheat so far in the financial year 2021-22, an increase of 12.3%. The food agency also bought 80 million tonne of paddy during 2020-21.Ever-increasing procurement stocks in government-run granaries have posed storage problems in the world’s largest wheat producer after China. Most of the stock is stored in a covered-and-plinth system, which refers to covered storage on raised platforms in godowns. These are frequently fumigated.Also Read | Foodgrain stock highest since 2016: Govt dataUnder the procurement system, the government buys foodgrains from farmers at assured prices and distributes it at subsidised prices to the poor, selling wheat and rice at ₹2 and ₹3 a kg respectively.However, India has fewer modern silos, which are state-of-the storage highly secure facilities that prevent rotting or contamination. According to official data, not more than 0.006% of stored food goes waste in storage, which officials say is well within accepted norms.“Although in percentage terms, this appears small, the absolute amount can be worth a lot,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.In the review meeting, the Union food minister asked key policymakers and officials to come up with a “master plan” for storage facilities and land.“Environment should be created for boosting public-private partnerships and investment,” a statement quoted the minister as saying.The minister called for a “single, technologically modern storage management infrastructure”. He said that they must think in terms of convergence and aggregation of all storage infrastructure in the country.Representatives of the ministry of food processing industries said the ministry was working with the private sector on 228 pre-cooling and chilled storage projects for perishable farm commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-digitally-integrate-pds-granaries-across-country-101623212810802.html
09-06-2021||India||Centre to train ITI grads to run, maintain oxygen plants at hospitals||The Union skill development and entrepreneurship ministry plans to train Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) students for running and maintaining pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants coming up across India. According to a person aware of the matter, at least 84 master trainers have been trained for the purpose and more ITI students will be identified for taking over the running and maintenance of these plants at the district levels.In May, the Union health and family welfare ministry asked all states and private hospitals, where the PSA oxygen plants will be set up, to ensure that they have trained personnel to handle their operations.The Prime Minister’s Office in April announced the allocation of funds from the PM-Cares Fund for 551 PSA medical oxygen generation plants to augment the availability of oxygen to hospitals. The new plants are in addition to the earlier sanctioned 162 plants. They will be set up in government hospitals at district headquarters.Also Read | India Covid-19 tally up by 92,596 fresh infections, 2,219 new deaths recordedA leakage at a storage plant in a civic hospital in Maharashtra’s Nashik in April that killed 22 patients following an interruption in the supply of oxygen highlighted the need to have trained personnel. A similar tragedy in Maharashtra’s Parbhani district was prevented after trained staff managed to shift 14 patients on oxygen support to another hospital when the supply was disrupted by leakage in the pipeline. The instances of leakage coincided with a shortage of medical oxygen when the second Covid-19 wave overwhelmed the country’s healthcare system.“The health ministry has issued instructions that PSA plants should be operated by trained technical manpower. Each hospital had to identify at least 2 to 3 people who are well trained in the operation of the PSA plant and depute them for operating these. The states and Union territories were asked to identify up to 5 master trainers who could in turn train people for employment at the district and hospital level. The skill development ministry... has trained master trainers in collaboration with IIT [Indian Institute of Technology] Kanpur and Naval Dock, Vishakhapatnam...,” said the person, requesting anonymity.Hospitals have also been asked to ensure bedside cylinders for non-critical patients. The ministry will also train staff in the use of concentrators and oxygen cylinders for use in hospitals as well as for home care.“The PSA plant operators will be trained to handle routine maintenance aspects and minor faults such as electrical or technical problems so that they can fix the problems on-site,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-train-iti-grads-to-run-maintain-oxygen-plants-at-hospitals-101623212210602.html
09-06-2021||India||'Not his girlfriend, impossible to abduct someone in Jolly Harbour', says woman named by Mehul Choksi in complaint||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, currently being held in custody in Dominica after his "mysterious disappearance" from Antigua and Barbuda, has triggered a political storm in the Caribbean island nations. Choksi, wanted in a major banking fraud in India, claimed earlier this week that his "friend" Barbara Jabarica was instrumental in his abduction from Antigua and filed a police complaint in this regard. Days after the allegation was raised, Jabarica has now come forward with her statement, debunking Choksi's claims, and clarifying her position.Also Read: Mehul Choksi names mystery woman, abductors; claims he was told an Indian politician will meet himIn an interview with news agency ANI, Barbara Jabarica said that it was "impossible" to kidnap anyone in the Jolly Harbour area in Antigua and Barbuda. She clarified that Choksi had introduced himself to her with a fake name when she met him while staying at a rented accommodation near his residence."No one contacted me. There was no sign of abduction. I said this in other interviews, for people who know the Jolly Harbour area, it's impossible to kidnap anyone there. It's the safest place and in a family area," Barbara Jabarica told ANI when asked if any other Indians, besides Mehul Choksi, was in touch with her.#WATCH | I made this clear in a few interviews that I wasn't his (Mehul Choksi_ girlfriend & he's not my sugar daddy or anything like that. I've my own income & business. I don't need his cash, support, hotel booking, fake jewellery, or anything like that: Barbara Jabarica to ANI pic.twitter.com/LspZTGGR7TChoksi had named Barbara Jabarica as one of his abductors in his official complaint with the police in Antigua, claiming that after they reached Dominica, he was told by his abductors that he was taken there to meet a high ranking “Indian politician”.Also Read: Mehul Choksi found in a suspicious state: Dominica policeJabarica denied the allegations and said that she was only engaging with the 62-year-old Choksi in good faith over business opportunities as she had not followed Indian news and had no idea that he was a fraudster."I have known him (Mehul Choksi) since last August and only met with him in Jolly Harbour when I rented an Airbnb accommodation near where he happened to live. He introduced himself as Raj. Between August to April, he was always texting me but I used to reply to him once a month," she said. "Then closer to date, like April-May this year, we had weekly conversations. We conversed about opportunities to do business together. When I was on the island at that time, we used to have daily conversations," she added.Clarifying her position, Barbara Jabarica said, "I would like to clarify. I made this clear in a few interviews that I was not his girlfriend and he's not my sugar daddy or anything like that. I have my own income and business. I don't need his cash or support, hotel booking, fake jewellery or anything like that.""I am a European. I live in Europe and I don't follow Indian news. I also did not follow the list of fraudsters, so I was not aware of his (Choksi's) real name and background until last week. I believe this would be the case with most people in Antigua. I don't think anyone knew his name or background," Jabarica said.She said that anyone visiting the Caribbean for holidays would not have been able to identify Mehul Choksi as the fugitive businessman from India, since he had changed his appearance. "I saw all these pictures, I can see how he looked before and I think he lost a lot of weight and he looks very different. I don’t think someone is walking in the Caribbean on a holiday and he would spot out that he is the same Mehul Choksi that I read in Indian news," Barbara Jabarica told ANI.Choksi had alleged that Jabarica, who had developed "friendly terms with him" over the past year was an "integral part" of his abduction purportedly orchestrated by musclemen claiming to be Antiguan Police and mercenaries looking like Indians. The absconding businessman, wanted in ₹13,500 crore banking scam in India, is currently getting treatment under detention at the Dominica China Friendship Hospital Roseau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-his-girlfriend-impossible-to-abduct-someone-in-jolly-harbour-says-woman-named-by-mehul-choksi-in-complaint-101623208151397.html
09-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally up slightly with 92,596 fresh infections; 2219 new fatalities in 24 hours||India on Wednesday recorded 92,596 fresh infections of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the cumulative tally in the country to 29,089,069, the health ministry said.The country also recorded 2219 deaths in the last 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 353,528 people have succumbed to the viral contagion in the country since the start of the pandemic.As of Wednesday, India has 1,231,415 active infections across the country, which comprise 4.5% of the total infections recorded so far, the health ministry data showed.A total of 162,664 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative recoveries in the country to 27,504,126. The recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 27 consecutive days.India's daily tally had dipped under than one lakh new coronavirus infections after a gap of 63 days on Tuesday, signalling the receding second wave of infections that threw the country's medical health infrastructure out of gear in the last 2 months.Strengthening its fight against the virus, India has administered 2,39,058,360 Covid-19 vaccine shots in the mass immunisation drive.According to Union Health Ministry, the weekly positivity rate currently stands at 5.66 per cent, the daily positivity rate has dropped to 4.66 per cent, less than 10 per cent for 16th consecutive days.Notably, the recoveries have continued to outnumber the daily Covid cases. As many as 1,62,664 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. The total number of recoveries had reached 2,75,04,126 in the country taking the recovery rate at 94.55 per cent.A total of 19,85,967 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 37,01,93,563, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.66 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-tally-jumps-slightly-with-92-596-fresh-infections-2219-deaths-added-101623208881993.html
09-06-2021||India||Foreign minister S Jaishankar on thank you mission to Kuwait via Qatar||External affairs minister (EAM) Subrahmanyam Jaishankar left on a three-day visitto Kuwait via Doha transit on Wednesday morning to further cement bilateral ties and thank the two countries for supporting India during the raging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic by acting as logistics hub for liquid medical oxygen supplies to western India.While the EAM will be carrying Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal letter for Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Sabah, he will be holding meetings with his counterpart Sheikh Ahmed Nasser al-Mohammad al-Sabah with the objective of deepening ties in energy, trade, investment, manpower and information technology sector.Even though the Indian minister will transit through Doha as he travels Qatar Airways, no meeting has been scheduled as of now at the airport with the Qatari leadership.During the second wave of pandemic in India, Kuwait, which has a robust Indian community of nearly a million, supplied 5,267 oxygen cylinders, 450 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen, 66 oxygen concentrators, 11 ventilators and other items like drugs, oximeters, mask and gloves for India in its hour of crisis. All the medical support from Kuwait came to India from May 4 to June 8.Qatar, which is the largest supplier of LNG and LPG to India, also proved to be the new logistic and transportation hub to the western India. It maintained the flow of passenger flights under the air bubble arrangement since August 2020, especially over the past weeks when many other airlines from the Gulf region closed. In the current situation, we may see Doha becoming a new transit hub for the Indians once the dust of pandemic settles down.On April 27, Qatar Emir Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al Thani called up PM Modi and expressed his country's solidarity with India and conveyed that Qatar would provide all possible support to India. The Prime Minister conveyed that the Indian Ambassador in Doha would coordinate in the matter with his office. The Emir immediately issued directions to his foreign office to ascertain what was required by India and assist in the matter.On April 29, one of the world’s largest cargo operators, Qatar Airways, announced that it would carry essential humanitarian medical cargo free of charge from around the world to India. Qatar Airways provided important air logistics to ferry international medical aid to India. On May 3, Qatar Airways sent three cargo flights - one each to Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai - carrying 300 MT of medical supplies aggregated from around the world. It included ventilators, CPAPS, oxygen concentrators and PPEs.Qatar also played an important role in supplying liquid medical oxygen to supplement India's domestic production. On May 1, Minister Dharmendra Pradhan spoke to his Qatari counterpart, minister of energy Saad Al Kaabi. The latter assured that Qatar Petroleum would make available nearly 400 MT of liquid Medical oxygen every week for India.The 700,000-strong Indian community in Qatar also contributed generously and mobilised 532 fully filled oxygen tanks and 43 oxygen concentrators. The first consignment of 200 fully filled oxygen cylinders and 43 oxygen concentrators was brought by INS Kolkata on May 10 and second consignment of 232 oxygen cylinders of 42 litre and 50 litre capacity were brought on board INS Tarkash on May 12. These have been used in various states, including Nagaland, Odisha, Bihar and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-on-thank-you-mission-to-kuwait-via-qatar-101623209900427.html
09-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi's bail hearing adjourned till June 11||The Dominica High Court has adjourned the bail hearing of fugitive diamond merchant Mehul Choksi till June 11, local media reports stated.Choksi had approached the high court after the magistrate rejected his bail petition.The bail hearing took place before high court judge Wynante Adrien-Roberts through video-conferencing on the plea of Choksi's local legal team comprising Julien Prevost, Wayne Norde, Wayne Marsh and Cara Shillingford-Marsh.The government side represented by Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Sherma Dalrymple "strongly objected" to Choksi's plea calling him a flight risk, Dominica News Online reported.The judge adjourned the matter till June 11, it said.The high court is also hearing a separate matter of habeas corpus filed by Choksi's team in which the hearing has also been adjourned.Choksi had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen.He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend.His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat.The businessman was also brought before a Roseau magistrate on the orders of high court judge Bernie Stephenson, hearing the habeas corpus matter, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-s-bail-hearing-adjourned-till-june-11-101623208593463.html
09-06-2021||India||Congress to hold nationwide protest on June 11 against fuel price hike||The Congress party will stage a nationwide protest on June 11 against the rising prices of petrol and diesel. It will hold a symbolic demonstration in front of petrol pumps across the country, news agency ANI reported.The party workers will also protest against the rising inflation. The epicentre of the protests will be Rajasthan where the petrol price crossed ₹100-mark in February. "Due to wrong policies of the Centre, inflation has become uncontrollable in the country and the prices of all essential commodities, including petrol, diesel and cooking gas, are increasing at an unprecedented rate," Congress president in Rajatasan, Govind Singh Dotasra said.He also claimed that the price of crude oil in the international market in April 2014 was USD 108 per barrel and the price of petrol in the country was ₹71 per litre and diesel ₹57 per litre. But in June 2021, despite the price of crude oil being USD 61 per barrel, the price of petrol is ₹102.82 per litre and diesel ₹95.96 per litre, he said.With brief pauses in between, fuel prices in the country have risen at an alarming rate over the last few months. In the domestic market, the prices of petrol and diesel have been increased three times in the last one week, starting from June 1 to June 6.It is to be noted that fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh.On Wednesday, petrol and diesel saw a hike of 25 paise each. After the revision in prices, petrol was selling at ₹95.56 per litre, while diesel prices touched ₹86.47 in the national capital.In Mumbai, the petrol price was set at ₹101.76 per litre, while diesel price stood at ₹93.85 per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-hold-nationwide-protest-on-june-11-against-fuel-price-hike-101623208414709.html
09-06-2021||India||Chhattisgarh to distribute free rice to BPL families from July to November||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday announced it will give free rice to families in the below poverty line (BPL) category from July to November to help mitigate the economic impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on the poor. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced free food grains to around 800 million citizens till November under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY).Over 25.1m Chhattisgarh residents from 6.79 m ration card holding families will benefit from the scheme announced by the state, a government press release said on Tuesday.The release added that the Chhattisgarh government had distributed rice free of cost to the poor and needy families under the public distribution system (PDS) scheme in the months of May and June as well.“As per the announcement of chief minister Baghel, BPL families will now be provided rice free of cost from the month of July to the month of November this year. This decision would greatly benefit ration card holders of ‘antyodaya’, ‘priority’, ‘annapoorna’, ‘destitute’, ‘disable’ categories. Moreover, all the beneficiaries of the State Food Security Act would be provided rice in quantity equivalent to the Prime Minister Poor Welfare Scheme,” the release added.Under the National Food Security Act, 2013, which governs the public distribution system (PDS), the ration card households are divided into three categories -- priority households (PR), priority state households (PRS), and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) families. The beneficiaries under the PR and PRS categories are entitled to 5 kgs of food grains per month while AAY households receive 25 kgs wheat, 10 kgs rice and 1 kg sugar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-distribute-free-rice-to-bpl-families-from-july-to-november-101623208430253.html
09-06-2021||India||Monsoon to arrive in Mumbai today: IMD||Monsoon is likely to advance into more parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai today; and into Telangana; Andhra Pradesh; some parts of Odisha and more parts of West Bengal during the next two days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). KS Hosalikar, scientist, IMD Pune tweeted that monsoon onset is likely over Mumbai today. A low pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal and the neighbourhood around June 11. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated to scattered heavy rainfall is very likely over most parts of east India and adjoining central India from June 10 onwards. Isolated very heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha from June 10 to 12; Gangetic West Bengal on June 10; Chhattisgarh on June 11 and 12 and Vidarbha on the 12th. Isolated extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) are also very likely over Odisha on June 11 and 12.Also Read | At 34.3°C, Kashmir sees its hottest day of the yearDue to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast; enhanced rainfall activity is likely along the west coast, including Maharashtra and Telangana, from June 11 onwards. Due to strengthening of southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast and the adjoining east India; a cyclonic circulation over central Assam and its neighbourhood and a trough (area of low pressure) from sub Himalayan West Bengal to south Chhattisgarh, fairly widespread rainfall activity is very likely over northeastern states during the next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh on June 9; Assam & Meghalaya from June 8 to 10. Dust raising strong surface winds (30-40 kmph) are likely to prevail over plains of northwest India till June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-advance-further-into-parts-of-maha-andhra-bengal-in-1-2-daysimd-101623207290337.html
09-06-2021||India||Assam to confer own civilian awards on lines of Padma honours||The Assam government on Tuesday decided to start the state’s own civilian awards on the lines of Padma honours to felicitate distinguished personalities from various fields. The Asom Ratna award, which was earlier conferred once every three years, will now be given every year to one person who has made significant contribution to society. Three sets of new awards, Asom Bibhushan, Asom Bhushan and Asom Shree will also be conferred yearly to three, five and 10 persons respectively.“ ₹5 lakh award money will be given to Asom Ratna, ₹3 lakh to Asom Bibhushan, ₹2 lakh to Asom Bhushan and ₹1 lakh to Asom Shree. The awardees will also get benefits like free medical treatment of critical illness, free stay at Asom Bhawans, free travel in Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) buses etc.” Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted.This has been done on the lines of Padma Awards, which are one of the highest civilian honours in the country to recognize achievements in all fields where an element of public service is involved. The Awards are given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher order) and Padma Shri (distinguished service). The awards are announced annually on the eve of Republic DayThe cabinet also decided that from now on all state government offices will have to put up photos of the President, Prime Minister and that of Gopinath Bordoloi, the first chief minister of Assam. The first budget session of the state assembly will be held on July 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-confer-own-civilian-awards-on-lines-of-padma-honours-101623206270347.html
09-06-2021||India||Annular solar eclipse on Thursday, to be visible before sunset in parts of India||This year's first solar eclipse will occur on Thursday, June 10. It will not be visible in India, except in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh, a few minutes before the sunset.The astronomical phenomenon of annular solar eclipse is seen when the Sun, Moon and the Earth come in a straight line and almost on the same plane. But bue to its elliptical orbit, the Moon doesn't cover the Sun entirely, leaving the Sun's visible outer edges to form a "ring of fire".The eclipse will be seen in its complete glory from a vast region of North America, Europe and Asia.For viewers and enthusiasts in India, the sighting appears difficult as the path of the eclipse will just be seen in the North-Eastern extremes of the country in Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh, Director of M P Birla Planetarium, Debiprasad Duari told PTI.In Arunachal Pradesh, Duari said, people will see the eclipse just before the sunset.The sighting will have a minuscule fraction of the Sun covered by the Moon, that is also very low in the horizon, lasting at the most 3-4 minutes depending upon the position, Duari said.In Ladakh, the eclipse will be seen for a short duration but at a comparatively higher altitude."On the northern borders, in Ladakh, a sliver of land in the border region can experience the last phase of the partial eclipse, again for a short duration, but relatively at a higher altitude than the eastern part of the country," he said.A very small part of the solar eclipse from the vicinity of Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Arunachal Pradesh at around 5:52pm, the official said. In the northern part of Ladakh, where the sun will set at around 6.15pm, the last phases of the phenomenon can be seen at around 6pm.First, the partial eclipse will start at around 11:42am Indian Standard Time and the annular eclipse will appear to occur from 3:30pm and will continue up to 4:52pm, though for different intervals for a particular region, depending upon one's geographical location.The partial eclipse will end at around 6:41pm IST, he said.Live coverage of the eclipse is being arranged by various organisations around the world.Dubbed as 'ring eclipse', the upcoming solar eclipse is getting a lot of attention since people wait to watch Sun appear in a very bright ring surrounding the dark disk of the Moon.A total solar eclipse also requires the Moon and the Sun to be in the direct line of the Earth. However, it is visible from a small area since people who see the total eclipse are in the centre of the Moon's shadow when it hits Earth.An annular eclipse differs from a total eclipse based on the distance of the Moon from the Earth. It occurs when the Moon is farthest from Earth, which makes it look smaller than usual and does not block the entire view of the Sun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-eclipse-june-2021-annular-solar-eclipse-is-almost-here-to-be-seen-before-sunset-in-parts-of-india-101623202601269.html
09-06-2021||India||Telangana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 19. All you need to know||The Telangana government, led by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, on Tuesday extended the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-necessitated lockdown in the state by ten more days till June 19. The decision was taken keeping in view the number of Covid-19 cases in a few districts of the state. The extension of the pandemic-induced restrictions will come into effect from June 10. Moreover, some relaxation has also been made in the lockdown timings.Here's all you need to know about the Covid-19 lockdown extension in Telangana:Why was Covid-19 lockdown in Telangana extended?Telangana decided to extend the coronavirus disease-induced restrictions keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases in some districts — more specifically, the assembly segments of Miryalguda, Munugode, Nalgonda, Satthupalli, Devarakonda, Nagarjuna Sagar, and Madhira.The Telangana cabinet said that the spread of Covid-19 in the aforementioned regions "is not under control" and therefore it has been decided that the lockdown will be extended. Moderation in Covid-19 curbsAlthough the Covid-19 lockdown in Telangana was extended till June 19, some moderation in the timings has been made to allow citizens some relaxation.Covid-19 curbs in Telangana will remain relaxed each day between 6am to 5pm during the lockdown, the state cabinet said. Earlier, the relaxation period was between 6am to 1pm. Thus, the state government has extended the relaxation period by four more hours in its latest directives.Moreover, the Telangana government has also allowed an additional one-hour grace period for people to reach home from their offices, once the lockdown comes into effect. So, when shops and other business establishments close down by 5pm, people will be allowed till 6pm to reach home from their offices."Shops and business establishments will be closed by 5 pm and the remaining one-hour grace period is to ensure that people reach home by 6 pm," the state government said.Covid-19 situation in TelanganaTelangana clocked as many as 1,897 new Covid-19 cases and 15 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the state health department informed on Tuesday. This takes the state's cumulative infection tally to 595,000, the data showed.Moreover, the fatality from the coronavirus disease in Telangana has been recorded at 0.57% and the recovery rate at 95.34%, with over 2,982 new recoveries clocked in the preceding 24 hours, the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-19-all-you-need-to-know-101623202678823.html
09-06-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari to meet PM Modi today, expected to discuss post-poll violence in Bengal||Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) member of legislative assembly (MLA) and leader of opposition in West Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari is expected to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Earlier, he met Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda on Tuesday to discuss various issues concerning the state, including post-poll violence.The meeting comes as BJP is stepping up its campaign against the post-post violence in West Bengal after facing a defeat in the state elections that were held in April-May.On Sunday, Jaiprakash Yadav, a labourer, who the party claimed was a BJP supporter, was killed by a crude bomb in the Jagatdal area of North 24 Parganas district. The BJP alleged that with Yadav’s death, the number of party workers killed since the announcement of poll results on May 2 touched 27.Shortly after Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC) secured a third term in West Bengal, multiple incidents of violence were reported in the state. After being sworn in on May 5, Banerjee claimed that the clashes are taking place in areas where BJP won the elections. A day later, Banerjee said that at least 16, mostly of the BJP and the TMC, have lost their lives in post-poll violence in the state. She also claimed that most of the 16 deaths were reported till May 3 when the law and order were under the Election Commission of India.Meanwhile, BJP has been raising the issue of post-poll violence relentlessly, not just in Bengal but other states as well. On Sunday, the issue was discussed at a meeting held at the Delhi residence of Nadda.On Tuesday, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that the party has plans to petition President Ram Nath Kovind over post-poll violence. He said that the party has started sit-ins at the district level to protest against alleged violence on the BJP workers, police inaction and politics over-vaccination.Ghosh also announced the party's plans for a state-level protest on June 23.Suvendu Adhikari was a minister in the last Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government. He switched from Banerjee's TMC to BJP in December last year. He defeated the chief minister from Nandigram in a closely fought battle.After the meeting on Tuesday, Adhikari and Nadda spoke to reporters and called the West Bengal situation "very grim". The leaders also alleged that BJP workers are facing a continuous threat in the state. Assuring support to BJP workers, Nadda said that the party stands firmly with its workers and will do everything possible for their well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-to-meet-pm-modi-today-expected-to-discuss-post-poll-violence-in-bengal-101623202914446.html
09-06-2021||India||'Regret initial glitches': Nanadan Nilekani responds to Sitharaman on new tax website||Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani on Wednesday responded to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman after she asked the IT company to fix technical glitches being encountered on the income tax department's new e-filing website. In a post on Twitter, Nilekani said that the company "regrets these initial glitches" and assured that the system will stabilise in a few days. "The new e-filing portal will ease the filing process and enhance end user experience. Sitharamanji, we have observed some technical issues on day one, and are working to resolve them," Nilekani wrote on the micro-blogging site."Infosys regrets these initial glitches and expects the system to stabilise during the week," he also said.This came after many users flooded the Twitter timeline with complaints regarding the new Income Tax portal that was launched on Monday for e-filing. Paying heed to the complaints, the Union finance minister tagged Nilekani on Twitter asking him to ensure taxpayers do not face difficulties while filing their income tax returns on the new portal. "I see in my TL (timeline) grievances and glitches. Hope Infosys and Nandan Nilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided," she had said.In 2019, Infosys received a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. The new portal (www.incometax.gov.in) went live on Monday evening. It replaced the earlier income tax portal, www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in.The new e-filing portal introduced several new features including free return software, a centralised dashboard for viewing uploads and interactions and a new call centre with chatbots and videos to help taxpayers.The new system will also help taxpayers to make payments on the tax filing website itself so that the amount reflects in the returns. The new system will also be expanded to bring debit cards, credit cards, net banking and the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in its ambit to further help taxpayers. It will also be operable in regional languages.The multinational IT company has also developed the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Network (GSTN) portal, used for payments and return filing. The software major had faced flak for the slow functioning of the GSTN portal at the time of the launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regret-initial-glitches-nanadan-nilekani-responds-to-sitharaman-on-new-tax-website-101623202099457.html
09-06-2021||India||5.40 lakh patients benefit from PM-JAY scheme in UP, state govt says ₹449 crore spent on their treatment||Over 5.40 lakh people in Uttar Pradesh have benefitted from the swift implementation of central government's Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), the state government said on Tuesday. The numbers are from the period before the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) struck the state.Under the scheme, the beneficiaries from poor and vulnerable families were able to get treatment for serious illnesses for up to ₹5 lakh in government as well as private hospitals, which they could not afford otherwise, the UP governmnt said. Out of these, 4.15 lakh patients (77 per cent) got treatment in private hospitals and 1.25 lakh in government hospitals.Besides, 6.32 crore future beneficiaries of the scheme have also been identified whereas golden cards have been made for 1.10 crore destitute people, the state government further said.So far, 2,646 hospitals have been connected to the scheme, of which 1,544 are private hospitals, according to UP government data. The list also includes some of the country's leading private hospitals.The Yogi Adityanath government paid a total of ₹449 crore to the hospitals where the patients from Uttar Pradesh were treated under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana.The PM-JAY, launched on September 23, 2018, is the world’s largest health insurance/assurance scheme fully financed by the Centre. It provides a cover of ₹5 lakh per family annually for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation for public and private enlisted hospitals in the country.More than 100.7 million (10.74 crore) poor and vulnerable families are eligible for benefits.Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting on Covid relief measures across the country where he announced that children orphaned by the pandemic will be enrolled as beneficiaries under the PM-JAY scheme with a health insurance cover of ₹5 lakh, the premium of which will be paid from the PM-CARES fund till they reach 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/540-lakh-patients-benefit-from-pm-jay-scheme-in-up-says-govt-101623198916151.html
09-06-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait to meet Mamata Banerjee today as farmer leaders plan to intensify stir against farm laws||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait is expected to meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata on Wednesday. Tikait will discuss the strategy to further intensify the ongoing farmers' protest against the new central farm laws, news agency ANI reported.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader will also congratulate Banerjee for her party Trinamool Congress' (TMC) win in West Bengal Assembly elections. He had visited Bengal before the elections and campaigned for TMC.Also Read: Govt wants to shift farm agitation from Delhi borders to Jind, says TikaitHe visited Nandigram, from where Banerjee was pitted against her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, and urged the locals to ditch Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and vote for the TMC. Adhikari was the BJP candidate from Nandigram and defeated Banerjee.Tikait has been leading the protest against the Centre's farm laws, demanding that the three acts be withdrawn. Various farmer groups have claimed that the Union government is paving the way for big companies to come to India which would ultimately sound the death-knell for small farmers and fishermen.Also Watch: Farmers mark 6 months of stirTikait, along with hundreds of protesters, has been camping near national capital Delhi since November last year protesting against the farm laws. The rise in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases impacted the farmers' stir, but with the situation improving, the protesters want to intensify their movement.Banerjee has been vocal against the new farm laws and gave her support to the farmers' protest. Several leaders of her party visited the Delhi borders to show solidarity with the protesting farmers.Despite several rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer leaders last year, the deadlock remains.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-to-meet-mamata-banerjee-as-farmer-leaders-plan-to-intensify-stir-101623196373117.html
09-06-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray meets PM Modi on Maharashtra’s issues||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and discussed the Maratha reservation issue, pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the state, and a proposed Mumbai Metro car shed that has been hit by a controversy . This was Thackeray’s second visit to Delhi after taking over as the chief minister in 2019.Deputy chief minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar and Congress leader Ashok Chavan accompanied Thackeray on the visit. While the delegation met the PM, Thackeray also had a one-on-one interaction with Modi.“Issues related to the Maratha reservation, Metro car shed, GST compensation were discussed with the Prime Minister. There were 12 issues that were discussed,” the Maharashtra CM said after the meeting. The Prime Minister’s Office did not issue a statement on the meeting. He said PM Modi assured them that he would look into the issues. “We, all three, are satisfied (with the meeting) because during our meeting there was no political agenda. Whatever issues we raised, he listened to us. I believe there could be some way out,” Thackeray said.Pawar said the delegation also asked Modi to direct Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari to approve the nomination of 12 members to the state legislative council, as decided by the state cabinet. He said this has been pending for eight months.The delegation met the Prime Minister for more than one-and-a-half hours at his official residence in the Capital. The most important issue which was raised during the meeting was related to reservation for the Maratha community in government jobs and education, and political reservation given to Other Backward Classes in local self-governance bodies. The state government has requested the Centre to accord the reservation to Marathas from the central quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-meets-pm-modi-on-maharashtra-s-issues-101623181692715.html
09-06-2021||India||Centre orders 440 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses||The Centre on Tuesday placed fresh orders for 440 million additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines – 250 million doses of Covishield and 190 million of Covaxin – a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Union government was taking back the responsibility for procuring vaccines and distributing them for free to states.These 440 million doses, to be procured from August onwards, are in addition to an advance order of 300 million doses placed with Hyderabad-based Biological E’s vaccine and will be delivered by December, the Union health ministry said. To be sure, the Biological E vaccine has just entered Phase 3 trials.“Following PM’s announcement on change in vaccine policy, we have placed purchase orders for 25 crore (250 million) doses of Covishield with the Serum Institute of India, and for 19 crore (190 million) vaccine doses with Bharat Biotech... So, we have placed an advance order for 44 crore (440 million) doses from August onwards, for which we will be releasing 30% payment in advance,” Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said at the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 briefing on Tuesday.Paul did not specify the price at which Centre will be procuring the doses in the latest order. Officials familiar with the development, who did not wish to be identified, said there is a possibility that the ₹150 per dose cost of vaccine may no longer be applicable, and that the Centre may have to pay more.The Centre last week announced that it placed an advanced order of 300 million doses for Biological E’s RBD protein sub-unit Covid-19 vaccine, which is in clinical trials. “We are hopeful that this innovative vaccine that is being developed with central government’s assistance, will be available by September, and ₹1,500 crore has already been paid to the company in advance. So, 74 crore (740 million) doses have been secured for the national programme,” Paul said.The orders for the 740 million doses are in addition to the 536 million doses of vaccine for which procurement has been arranged till the end of July, he said. To be sure, the 536 million number includes the total doses administered across the country so far. Till Tuesday morning, according to government data, 236 million doses have been administered across the country.This means that including Tuesday’s orders and the 300 million doses ordered of the yet-to-be-approved Biological E vaccine, the country has now administered, procured or placed orders for nearly 1.3 billion doses – 536 million doses administered or procured for July end, 300 million shots of the Biological E vaccine, and 440 million in latest purchase order.The vaccine order placement comes a day after the Prime Minister , in an address to the nation, announced that the Union government was taking over the responsibility for procuring vaccines and would then distribute them free of cost to states, in response to a rising chorus from the states, sharp criticism by the Supreme Court, and amid increasing concerns that supply shortages and the insistence of foreign vaccine makers that they would only deal with the Union government.The latest developments in the vaccine policy change have come close on the heels of a hearing in the Supreme Court on the Covid-19 situation and the state of vaccination in the country. In the latest hearing, the apex court said the Centre’s vaccination policy that put the onus of giving doses to adults in the below-45 years age group entirely on states and private hospitals was “prima facie arbitrary and irrational”.On Tuesday, Paul said that the shift back to the largely centralised vaccine procurement policy was based on feedback over the past month from chief ministers of at least a dozen states. “We respect the Supreme Court’s guidance and concern , but the government was evaluating the implementation of the decentralised model since May 1.”The states that requested for the central procurement are Punjab, Kerala, Sikkim, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura and Maharashtra, along with the Union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands.“We believe, based on specific requests of chief ministers, the new guidelines will go a very long way in galvanising India’s vaccination programme,” he said. “The PM reviewed India’s vaccination progress in two meetings, on May 15 and 21, and directed us to prepare an alternate model. On May 24, a high level expert team, including myself, reached out to the manufacturers... Other teams reached out to states to know their mind and finally we chalked the new roadmap that was presented to the PM who approved it,” said Paul.Experts, however, said steps taken by Centre now should have come much earlier.India has so far administered 236 million vaccine doses to 189 million people since January 16, 2021, when the national Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched. A total of 143 million people have received one dose, while 47 million people have been fully vaccinated. Under the free vaccine doses, the central government has distributed 246.5 million doses so far to states, according to the government data. “A total of 11,946,925 Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered,” said Union health ministry in a statement issued on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-orders-440-million-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101623181445131.html
09-06-2021||India||CJI writes emotional letter to Class 5 girl||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana sent a heartening response to a 10-year-old girl from Kerala, who recently wrote to him in appreciation of the Supreme Court’s intervention to deal with Covid-19 pandemic.Lidwina Joseph, a Class 5 student of Kendriya Vidyalaya in Thrissur, sent a handwritten letter to the CJI on May 20. In the letter, sent in the form of a scroll, Joseph brought up her concerns regarding the pandemic and said she was “very proud and happy” that the apex court initiated effective steps in reducing Covid-19 fatalities.“From the newspaper I understood that your honourable court have intervened effectively at the sufferings and death of ordinary people in fight against Covid-19. I am happy and feel proud your honourable court have moved orders for supply of oxygen and saved many lives. I understood your honourable court have initiated effective steps in bringing down Covid-19 and death rate in our country especially in Delhi. I thank you your Honour for this. Now I feel very proud and happy,” said Joseph in the letter.She also enclosed a coloured illustration with her scroll, which depicted a judge hammering the virus with his gavel, with the Trcicolour, and a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi in the background. Touched by the gesture, CJI Ramana responded to the girl recently. Along with a letter that praised the girl for keeping track of news and events across the country, CJI also sent her a signed copy of the Constitution.“I am really impressed with the way you kept track of happenings in the country and the concern that you have displayed for the well-being of people in the wake of pandemic. I am sure you will grow up into an alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards the nation building. With best wishes and blessings for your all-round success,” stated CJI Ramana’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-writes-emotional-letter-to-class-5-girl-101623181028019.html
09-06-2021||India||Thousands of websites face global outage||Thousands of government, news and social media websites across the globe were coming back online on Tuesday after being hit by a widespread hour-long outage linked to US-based cloud company Fastly.High traffic sites including Reddit, Amazon, CNN, Paypal, Spotify, Al Jazeera Media Network and the New York Times were out of commission. They came back up after outages that ranged from a few minutes to around an hour.The disruption may have caused issues for citizens booking Covid-19 vaccinations, the Financial Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-of-websites-face-global-outage-101623180803149.html
09-06-2021||India||Two women army officers selected to train as combat pilots||Two women army officers have for the first time been selected to train as helicopter pilots at the force’s premier Combat Army Aviation Training School at Nashik in Maharashtra, officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday.The development comes months after army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane cleared a proposal for allowing women officers to opt for the army’s aviation wing. While women officers in the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy fly helicopters, the Army Aviation Corps only inducted male officers until now. Pilots have to go through a stringent selection process.“Fifteen women officers volunteered to join army aviation. But only two were selected after the Pilot Aptitude Battery Test (PABT) and medicals,” said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named.The two women are among the 47 army officers who began their training at the Nashik training school on Monday, said a second officer. They will join front-line flying duties on completion of their training in July 2022.Until now, women officers were assigned only ground duties in the Army Aviation Corps.Raised in November 1986, the Army Aviation Corps operates the Dhruv advanced light helicopter, Chetaks, Cheetahs and Cheetal helicopters. It carries out an important role in supporting the army’s deployment in high altitude areas, including the Siachen Glacier.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace, government figures show.There are 9,118 women currently serving the army, navy and air force, with the services giving them more opportunities for career progression, the government told Parliament in February 2021.“It’s wonderful to see the armed forces open new avenues for women. It will encourage more women to join the military,” said Rajeshwari Kori, deputy controller of Civil Defence (Maharashtra) and a former lieutenant commander who was part of a short-lived Indian Navy experiment to deploy women on warships in 1997.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when IAF decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Earlier this year, the Indian Navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years. India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and fleet tanker INS Shakti are the warships that have been assigned their first women crews since the late 1990s.In May 2021, the army inducted the first batch of women into the Corps of Military Police, the first time that women joined the military in the non-officer cadre. Women have been serving as officers in select branches of the three services since the early 1990s.Tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992Excluding the medical wing in which women have been serving for decades, the army as of February 2021 accounted for 6,807 women officers, the IAF (1,607) and the navy, 704. In percentage terms, women still form a small part of the military -- 0.56% of the army, 1.08% of the air force and 6.5% of the navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-women-army-officers-selected-to-train-as-combat-pilots-101623180458434.html
09-06-2021||India||50-yr-old tortured for information in Panipat police station; dies. FIR filed||KARNAL: A 50-year-old man, a distant relative of a man accused of kidnapping a 22-year-old woman for marriage, died after he was tortured by a police officer and the woman’s family at Panipat’s Quila police station, the district superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said on Tuesday evening.Sawan said a preliminary investigation indicated that Ayub Khan died due to torture in police custody. Assistant sub inspector Dharamvir has been taken into custody, he said.Police officials associated with the inquiry into the death said Ayub Khan was a distant relative of Irshad, 25, who was named as a suspect in a First Information Report (FIR).According to the FIR filed on a complaint by the woman’s family, Irshad Khan kidnapped the woman for marriage on May 27. They lived in the same locality.On Tuesday, ASI Dharamvir, who was investigating the case, is alleged to have called Irashad’s relatives and friends to trace himAyub Khan’s family told the police that he was among those called by the police station and was tortured by the officer and relatives of the woman. He was being interrogated on the roof of the police station building and died around 6.30pm, they said.He was taken to the district’s civil hospital where he was declared brought dead.Panipat deputy superintendent of police Satish Kumar Vats said the ASI and two relatives of the woman, Sumit and Sunil, have been taken into custody.Vats said the three have been booked for murder.There were injury marks on Ayub Khan’s body, he said, adding that they were waiting for the autopsy report before detailing the injuries that led to his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50yrold-tortured-for-information-in-panipat-police-station-dies-fir-filed-101623180227840.html
09-06-2021||India||Anup Chandra Pandey named Election Commissioner||Former Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Anup Chandra Pandey was on Tuesday appointed as the new election commissioner by the President, filing the third post that fell vacant in April following the retirement of former chief election commissioner Sunil Arora.“In pursuance of clause (2) of article 324 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Shri Anup Chandra Pandey, IAS (Retd.) (UP: 1984) as the Election Commissioner with effect from the date he assumes the office,” the gazette notification released late Tuesday evening said.The 1984-batch IAS officer holds a doctorate in ancient history and served as the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary from September 2017 to August 2019. The former bureaucrat has also served in the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anup-chandra-pandey-named-election-commissioner-101623179148578.html
09-06-2021||India||Leadership row in Karnataka’s volatile political turf||Bengaluru: For at least the last two decades, the political leadership in Karnataka’s all three major parties — Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) — has largely hinged on B S Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and H D Deve Gowda, respectively.Known for their astute political acumen and coalition-building skills, these three leaders have used their strengths to rise to power or remain well in control of their respective parties, irrespective of being in power or in opposition.But this consolidation of power has also led to a leadership crisis of sorts within at least the BJP and the Congress, analysts believe, with no real succession plan in place. Smaller but ambitious leaders have seen their attempts to challenge Yediyurappa or Siddaramaiah in their respective parties fade not for the lack of intent but possibly not measuring up in political skill, according to political analysts.“That’s the thing about some of these old politicians. They never fade away and it becomes a way of life for them,” said a Bengaluru-based political analyst, requesting not to be named. Despite the national leadership of the BJP indicating its intent to remove Yediyurappa from the chief minister’s post, the 78-year-old has managed to retain the top chair, thwarting attempts from within his own party, both at the state and central level.“Yediyurappa has made it clear (to the party and high command) that he has the strength of 66 MLAs,” a Bengaluru-based political analyst said, requesting not to be named.The analyst added that Yediyurappa has the ability, as shown in the past, to sabotage the chances of a party.Shortly after his taking over as chief minister for a record fourth term in 2019, Yediyurappa was faced with dissent while picking his cabinet. This exacerbated when most of the turncoats and others were placed in the cabinet while seniors and core-party legislators were left out, sowing the seeds of disgruntlement against the 78-year-old. In recent months, more voices have come up against Yediyurappa over the handling--or the lack of it--of the covid-19 pandemic, corruption, non-performance and allegations that his son, BY Vijayendra was running a parallel administration at the behest of the chief minister. Several legislators have since met national leaders seeking the ouster of the chief minister. A senior BJP national leader told Hindustan Times that Yediyurappa has been surviving on “bonus time”. “Yediyurappa has been given three major concessions: He was reinstated to the post of chief minister despite leaving the party, his age and finally his weakness have all been overlooked. So every day after he became chief minister is a bonus,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting not to be named.M P Renukacharya, a BJP legislator and political secretary of Yediyurappa, on Monday said he had the signatures of at least 66 MLAs from the party who are with the chief minister, indicating that the 78-year-old had the support of a large section of legislators.Moreover, the gag order of the BJP on Monday, restricting any legislator from speaking against the chief minister, has upset a few leaders within the party who have sought for a forum to air out their grievances against what they consider “a faulty system”.“Remarks coming in the media in the last three days are not good for the interest of the party. Few comments from a few people are not the same as that of all MLAs and party workers. We cannot tell our opinion to the media, so we request party leaders to provide us a platform to hear us,” Sunil Kumar, a three-time BJP legislator from Karkala, said in a post on Twitter, tagging senior party leaders like CT Ravi, Arun Singh and Nalin Kumar Kateel.Yediyurappa’s resistance is in many ways unique compared to his counterparts in other states who have rarely challenged the national leadership and towed the party line.Analysts say that both Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa assumed the role of “local chieftains” when their respective central leadership was not very powerful at different points of time.The situation is similar in the Congress where Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar, two of the tallest leaders within the party, have locked horns and their dislike for each other is no secret.Shivakumar has long nursed dreams of being considered for the top job but was denied even a spot in the cabinet in 2013 when Siddaramaiah became chief minister. It is only after the intervention of the top leadership that Shivakumar was inducted into the cabinet in the following year.Shivakumar, as Congress president, has tried to take control of the party but with little success as Siddaramaiah continued to thwart any attempts that appeared as a challenge to his hold, people aware of the developments said.On Tuesday, Shivakumar said the Congress will triumph in the 2023 assembly elections.But even a candidate nominated by Shivakumar for the post of state youth Congress was challenged by Siddaramaiah and other leaders, the people cited above added, indicating the power struggle within the Grand Old Party.Shivakumar brushed aside any reports of a rift within the party.“Joining together is (the) beginning, thinking together is progress and working together is key to success. One person fighting alone cannot succeed but when party leadership and workers put their best foot forward and work in coordination, we all succeed as a team,” Shivakumar said.Shivakumar visited Siddaramaiah at the latter’s residence on Tuesday after the former chief minister, who was suffering from high fever, was discharged from hospital on Monday. The JD(S), helmed by 88-year-old former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, remains an important stakeholder in the state as it is the only party that has allied with both the BJP and Congress. H D Kumaraswamy, Gowda’s son, has been the chief minister both by allying with the BJP and the Congress. However, the family-run party has its own challenges as the BJP continues to make inroads into the Old Mysuru region, a stronghold of the JD(S). Adding to this is the bitter family feud within the Gowda household with the turbulent relationship between Gowda’s two sons, Kumaraswamy and H D Revanna.Karnataka’s volatile political climate has brought down governments but the leadership somehow tends to brave the storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leadership-row-in-karnataka-s-volatile-political-turf-101623178967219.html
09-06-2021||India||Severe blast destroys Bihar madrasa, imam found dead||PATNA A high-intensity explosion ripped through a madrasa (seminary) in Bihar’s Banka district on Tuesday morning, killing an imam (religious teacher) and damaging other houses in the locality, police said.According to superintendent of police (Banka) Arvind Kumar Gupta, the blast took place around 8am at the complex situated in Nautolia locality, pulling down a major portion of the seminary.“The compound’s front portion comprises the madrasa. It was locked from outside. There is a pathway inside which leads to the mosque, the gates of which were found open. The explosion has caused extensive damage to the seminary building,”  Gupta told news agency PTI. A preliminary probe suggested the presence of gunpowder or explosives at the site of the explosion, said Shresthan Kumar, assistant director of the Forensic Sciences Laboratory at Bhagalpur.The madrasa, which had close to 200 students, was shut on May 5 due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The deceased, identified as Mohammad Abdul Sattar Mobin, was from Jharkhand‘s Madhupur district and resided at the seminary as a caretaker.Not a single person, including the imam of the mosque could be traced when a police party reached the spot, added Gupta. Mobin’s body was recovered just outside Navtolia locality. Preliminary investigations revealed that the injured imam died on the way to the hospital, following which his aides abandoned the body in the car and fled, said police.The explosion was so powerful that people staying one kilometre away could hear the sound, said Bibi Rukhsana, who lives in the neighbourhood.Deputy inspector general (Bhagalpur range) Sujeet Kumar said a team of forensic experts and a dog squad are examining the site of explosion to ascertain the cause of the blast. Officials familiar with the developments in the Bihar Police headquarters said the investigating officers will also probe a terror angle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-blast-destroys-bihar-madrasa-imam-found-dead-101623178187039.html
09-06-2021||India||28 elephants in TN’s Mudumalai reserve tested for Covid||Chennai: The swabs of 28 elephants from Theppakadu camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve were collected on Tuesday and sent for Covid-19 testing , days after a lioness died and eight others in the pride tested positive for the infection at a zoo outside Chennai. The samples of 26 adult elephants, five of whom were in the musth stage, and two calves were collected from their trunk and rectum and sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Izatnagar in Uttar Pradesh for testing. “Five of them were in the musth stage so it was difficult but we managed to collect two swab samples from each of the elephants,” Dr K Rajesh Kumar, forest veterinarian, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, said. “The elephants cooperated and only with some of them, we had to spend some extra time. This is a screening process and none of them are suspected to have the virus,” Kumar said, adding that the jumbos did not have to be sedated for the process. “That would have caused a huge strain on the animal.”The feeding time of the elephants has been staggered as they are being fed separately. The caretakers for the elephants are allowed to enter only after getting their temperature checked. As many as 52 mahouts and 27 kavadis (assistants to mahouts) are present in the camp and are being vaccinated on a priority basis. “Twelve out of 52 mahouts have been vaccinated so far,” K K Kaushal, field director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, said. Forest minister K Ramachnadran had instructed forest officials to collect samples from Theppakadu camp as well as Kozhikamuthy camp in Top Slip at Anamalai Tiger Reserve.“The minister launched a special vaccination drive for tribals living in the surrounding areas,” Kaushal said. On June 3, one lioness died while eight lions tested positive for the virus at Arignar Anna Zoological Park or Vandalur zoo outside Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-elephants-in-tn-s-mudumalai-reserve-tested-for-covid-101623178128346.html
09-06-2021||India||Sonia, Rahul don’t trust Indian vaccines, yet to take jabs: Pralhad Joshi||Parliamentary affairs minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday alleged that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi haven’t got themselves inoculated against Covid-19 because they distrust Indian vaccines. The minister told news agency ANI, “When we started vaccination in January, Congress leaders raised questions on vaccine efficacy. Now, they’re taking the vaccine. As per my knowledge, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi haven’t taken the vaccine. They don’t have confidence in Indian vaccine.”Joshi’s reference is to the unprecedented approval given to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, in the absence of any data from Phase 3 trials. Subsequent interim data did show the vaccine to be highly effective. The company is yet to publish final data. Responding to Joshi, the Congress spokesperson steered clear of commenting on whether the Gandhis had taken the shot. Party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala instead accused the BJP ministers of “resorting to diabolical propaganda to divert attention from abject failure of the Modi government to ensure universal free vaccination”. Later, Surjewala spoke with Hindustan Times and said the Prime Minister and his government have endangered the lives of millions of Indians by changing the vaccination policy three times in six months. Joshi’s allegation comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi , in an address to the nation, announced that the Union government was taking over the responsibility for procuring vaccines and would then distribute them free of cost to states, in response to a rising chorus from the states, sharp criticism by the Supreme Court, and amid increasing concerns that supply shortages and the insistence of foreign vaccine makers that they would only deal with the Union government.Last week, Congress launched a campaign for free universal vaccination. As part of it, Rahul Gandhi tweeted a video with the hashtag #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination, asking people to upload videos demanding free vaccination for all. But unlike other Indian politicians, the Gandhis haven’t made their vaccination status public. A Congress leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, explained that the family felt this was a private matter. In April, Rahul Gandhi tested positive for Covid-19, which had kept him out of the Congress Working Committee meeting on May 10. In the event he had not been vaccinated by then, he will have to wait till mid-July to take a shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-don-t-trust-indian-vaccines-yet-to-take-jabs-pralhad-joshi-101623178127706.html
09-06-2021||India||Children’s home director, 4 others booked for sexual harassment of two inmates||htjharkhand@hindustantimes.comJamshedpur: The director of a children’s home, his wife who is also the chairperson of East Singhbhum district child welfare committee, and three other people have been booked for the sexual exploitation of two minor inmates, police said on Tuesday. Jamshedpur assistant superintendent of police Kumar Gaurav said all five have been booked under various sections of Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and the Indian Penal Code. The FIR has named Harpal Singh Thapar, director of Mother Teresa Welfare Trust, his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, caretaker Deepa Singh, her son Aditya Singh and his friend Tony Singh.ASP Singh added that the survivors have recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the special Pocso court of an additional sessions judge.The girls escaped from the children’s home on Saturday, following which Thapar went to the police to file a missing complaint. The police tracked down the girls through their cellphone numbers to a house in Birsanagar late Sunday night. The girls told the police that Thapar and the other men used to sexually harass them while Tirkey used to beat them up. They were students at a girls’ school who were sent to the home after the school closed during the lockdown. Thapar and his wife called the charges motivated and said they were ready for a fair probe. Tirkey also submitted a memorandum to the police on Monday evening. There was already a pending complaint against Thapar, his wife and a few others, filed by a woman who alleged that her husband, a panchayat ward member, was falsely implicated in a case of sexual harassment of a minor girl by Thapar and his wife and sent to jail. In her complaint to the Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police, the woman also alleged that Thapar and his associates were demanding ₹15 lakh to settle the matter. Thapar’s shelter home made news for the wrong reasons on Monday too when a video showing girl inmates working in garbage dumps and other menial tasks went viral, forcing the district administration to take notice. A four-member team of the district labour department led by labour superintendent Avinash Thakur spoke with the children regarding this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/childrens-home-director-4-others-booked-for-sexual-harassment-of-two-inmates-101623178127139.html
09-06-2021||India||Sudhakaran takes over as Kerala Congress chief||Thiruvananthpuram: The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Tuesday appointed K Sudhakaran, a member of Parliament from Kannur (north Kerala), as president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee after intense deliberations. The party high command picked the 73-year old leader for the top post replacing Mullappally Ramachandran after long discussions in the state and in New Delhi.“I know it is a big challenge. My first priority is to strengthen the party at the grassroots level. I am sure the party will be in the reckoning soon bypassing recent setbacks,” Sudhakaran said in Thiruvananthapuram. Sudhakaran told reporters that party leader Rahul Gandhi informed him about the new responsibility over the phone.Soon after the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) suffered a mauling in the recently concluded Assembly polls from the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and settled with just 41 seats, there had been a clamour for leadership change in the state unit of the Congress.Following the humiliating defeat in the state elections, leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala and PCC chief Mullapally Ramachandran had resigned. Senior leader VD Satheesan was later appointed as the opposition leader in the assembly, but the selection of the PCC chief was delayed due to pressure from different groups. Meanwhile, after the elevation of the new PCC president, three new working presidents were also appointed by the AICC -- MP Kodikunnil Suresh, and legislators PT Thomas and T Siddique. The present working president, K V Thomas, has been removed from the post, said the release issued by AICC general secretary (in-charge of organisation) K C Venugopal.Senior party leaders including former chief minister Oommen Chandy, Chennithala and VM Sudheeran hailed his elevation and said his selection will give a right message to the party rank and file. “It is a welcome move. We will all work together to strengthen the party,” Chandy said.An opponent of faction politics, Sudhakaran (73) wields good support among young cadre of the party. Known for his strong position against the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala, the senior Congress leader survived two attempts on his life. He is generally considered as one of the few Congress leaders who are strong enough to take on the ruling CPI(M) in their citadel. According to party insiders, Sudhakaran, who came from grassroots level, always stood with party workers in thick and thin. According to party insiders, the two powerful groups in the Congress in Kerala, one led by Chandy and the other by Ramesh Chennithala, were not in favour of Sudhakaran, but party leader Rahul Gandhi, also an MP from the state, threw his weight behind him. “I will try to take everyone in the party together and seek their support and cooperation to revive the party. The Congress will surely regain its strength and will make a strong comeback in the state,” Sudhakaran said on Tuesday.He started his political career with the Janata Party in 1970s and later joined the Congress at the initiative of veteran leader K Karunakaran. A four-term legislator from 1996 to 2009, Sudhakaran was also a minister in AK Antony cabinet. He was elected twice from Kannur parliamentary seat. Even in his 70s, Sudhakaran is known for his fitness regime.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudhakaran-takes-over-as-kerala-congress-chief-101623178067545.html
09-06-2021||India||ICMR study finds Covaxin effective against Covid variants||The indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine is effective against variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, including the delta variant that was first sequenced in India, a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research has found. The research, which is yet to be peer reviewed, also discovered that the vaccine is thrice as effective in creating antibodies as a previous Covid infection. To be sure, other research has shown that a previous infection does confer stronger immunity . The research found out that Covaxin creates 2.7 times less neutralising titre against the delta variant and three times less neutralising titre against the beta variant of the virus first reported from South Africa. The neutralising titre refers to the level of antibodies created. But the vaccine remained effective against both strains. “Our study demonstrated that despite a reduction in neutralisation titres with BBV152 (Covaxin) sera against B.1.351 (beta) and B.1.617.2 (delta), its neutralisation potential is well established. Lastly, the broad epitope (large number of binding sites) coverage of an inactivated vaccine decreases the magnitude of reduced neutralisation against emerging variants,” the study concluded. Dr Pragya Yadav, senior scientist at the National Institute of Virology-Pune and the lead author of the paper, said, “Although there is a minor reduction in the neutralisation titre, it (Covaxin) will still be able to protect the vaccinated individual and eventually lessen the severity of the disease.”Epidemiologist and vaccine expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said the antibody titres are not predictive of the efficacy of a vaccine. “Even if the antibody level is 1, the person is thought to be seroconverted and protected from the infection. That is what the researchers have shown: despite the reduction in antibody titres, the vaccine works,” he said.  Lahariya said that one likely impact of the lower titres could be that the antibodies might diminish sooner. “But, with Covid-19, protection against the virus is complex. Studies have shown that even after the decline in antibody levels, there is T-cell immunity. A study from the University of Washington has said that this immunity might be life-long for those who had mild infection.” Covaxin, which was developed by Bharat Biotech in association with ICMR, is one of the three vaccines that have so far been approved for Covid-19 immunisation in India, the other two being Covishield made by Serum Institute of India and Sputnik V of Russia. Covaxin uses an inactivated whole virus to elicit an immune response.Covaxin accounts for at least 11% of the vaccine shots given in the country so far, according to data on the government’s CoWIN platform. The company is in the process of scaling up its production, including by licensing its technology, and is likely to contribute a higher share of immunisation in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmrstudy-finds-covaxin-effective-against-covid-variants-101623178067041.html
09-06-2021||India||Centre caps price of jabs sold by private players||The Union health ministry on Tuesday capped the prices of coronavirus vaccines being administered at private vaccination centres, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that private hospitals can procure 25% of the doses manufactured in the country and administer them at the manufacturer’s price of the jabs and up to an additional ₹150 as service charge.An office memorandum issued by the ministry fixed the maximum price per dose of Covishield at ₹780, for Covaxin at ₹1,410, and for Sputnik V at ₹1,145, which is as per the prices disclosed by the vaccine manufacturers at the moment.“The revised guidelines for implementation of National COVID Vaccination Programme issued on 8th June provide that – ‘the price of vaccine doses for private hospitals would be declared by each vaccine manufacturer and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance. The private hospitals may charge up to a maximum of ₹150 per dose as service charges. State governments may monitor the price being so charged,” said the order issued by Vikas Sheel, additional secretary, Union health ministry.“In view of the above, based on the prices currently declared by the manufacturers for the three vaccines currently being administered under the national vaccination drive following price caps are applicable: Covishield: ₹600 (price per dose as declared by manufacturer), ₹30 (GST at 5%), ₹150 (maximum service charge per dose), ₹780 (maximum price that can be charged by the private vaccination centre); Covaxin: ₹1200 (price per dose as declared by manufacturer), ₹60 (GST at 5%), ₹150 (maximum service charge per dose), ₹1,410 (maximum price that can be charged by the private vaccination centre); Sputnik V: ₹948 (price per dose as declared by manufacturer), ₹47.40 or 47 (GST at 5%), ₹150 (maximum service charge per dose), ₹1,145 (maximum price that can be charged by the private vaccination centre)…,” said the order.The Serum Institute of India (SII) locally manufactures Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield; Bharat Biotech manufacturers Covaxin and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has entered a partnership with Russian Direct Investment Fund to distribute first 250 million doses of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine.CoWIN, the digital platform that is the backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine delivery management system, is being currently tweaked for the purpose, and required validations are being put in place to ensure that the prices declared by various private Covid vaccination centres do not exceed the maximum prices indicated by the central government, people with knowledge of the matter said.Since the prices have been capped based on the rates currently declared by each vaccine manufacturer, they are open to review in the future in case the manufacturers change the selling price, they said.The order issued to state administrative heads also directs that prices charged to beneficiaries at private vaccination centres should be closely monitored, and strict action be taken if any centre flouts the order and is found overcharging.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that the Union government was taking back the responsibility for procuring vaccines and distributing them to states, in response to a growing chorus of demands from the states, sharp criticism by the Supreme Court, and amid increasing concerns that supply shortages and the insistence of foreign vaccine makers that they would only deal with the Union government could derail India’s vaccine drive.The Union government will continue to allow private hospitals to buy up to 25% of vaccines made in India, although it has capped the service charge they can levy on these at ₹150 a dose. The details of India’s new vaccine policy will be worked out in consultation with the states in the next two weeks, and it will be launched on June 21, Modi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-caps-price-of-jabs-sold-by-private-players-101623178007556.html
09-06-2021||India||Stalin seeks moratorium on loan, writes to 12 CMs||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday wrote to his counterparts in 12 states urging them to write to the union finance minister and the Reserve Bank of India on the need for moratorium on loan repayment for MSMEs and small businesses. The letter was addressed to chief ministers of mostly non-BJP ruled states of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal. Stating that he had taken up this issue with the Union government, Stalin requested the 12 states to write to the union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Shaktikanta Das, on the issue. Stalin, who has been in office for a month, urged his counterparts “to prevail on them to offer moratorium on repayment of loans for at least the first two quarters of 2021-2022 to all small borrowers with outstanding up to ₹5 crore in view of the lockdowns induced by the second wave of Covid-19.” The MSME industries have demanded extension of loan moratorium for a period of one year as they have not been able to re-pay the loans or installments in the past one year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Industrial associations of Tamil Nadu had written to finance minister Sitharaman on May 28 seeking extension of the moratorium saying they would not be able to repay the loans by June 30, till the existing moratorium continues. Citing the example of how the states’ collective effort in asking for vaccines to be procured centrally and distributed free of cost to states led to the union government to revise its position accordingly on Monday, Stalin urged for states to come together once again. “We need to show our collective strength at this hour of great need,” Stalin said in his letter. Earlier, chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan on May 31 had written to 11 non-BJP ruled states including Tamil Nadu put up a joint effort to get vaccines from the union government and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik too followed suit. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had written to Vijayan urging states to speak in a single voice regarding the vaccines. During April-May last year when the union government had announced the nationwide lockdown, a moratorium was offered on repayment of loans for such borrowers. “However, in April-June, 2021 when lockdowns are being imposed based on local conditions by the respective states similar relief to borrowers is not being provided for,” Stalin said, adding that the absence of such relief measures would force many businesses to close leading to economic distress. “These MSMEs and small businesses are the mainstay of our economy and employment generation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-seeks-moratorium-on-loan-writes-to-12-cms-101623178008183.html
09-06-2021||India||UP probes if Agra hospital cut oxygen supply on purpose||The Uttar Pradesh government sealed a private hospital in Agra on Tuesday and ordered a probe into allegations that hospital authorities turned off oxygen for five minutes on April 26 to see which patients would survive, and left 22 people gasping for breath.The allegations are related to a video that surfaced on Monday where Shri Paras Hospital owner, Arinjay Jain, is heard saying that he conducted a “mock drill” at 7am on April 26 during an acute oxygen shortage in the city and 22 people were “eliminated” after they “turned blue”.Jain denied the allegations on Tuesday and said such an exercise was not done.“An inquiry has been ordered into the oxygen supply incident at Paras Hospital in Agra. The hospital has been sealed. The inquiry committee has been directed to submit its report to the state government. On the basis of the report, further action will be taken,” said state health minister Jai Pratap Singh.Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh ordered that Jain be booked for violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, creating false alarm under the disaster management act and disobeying official orders under the Indian Penal Code. Singh also denied that 22 deaths occurred on April 26.“Shri Paras Hospital had enough oxygen and it is not true that 22 patients died there due to oxygen shortage. However, the video that is being circulated will be examined and the required action will be taken,” he said.All 55 patients currently admitted to Paras hospital will be shifted out, he added.Agra chief medical officer (CMO) Dr RC Pandey said he ordered a probe by two additional CMOs and the report will be submitted within two days.The video, whose authenticity HT could not independently verify, was shot on April 28, at the height of the second wave in the country. At the time, Uttar Pradesh was posting a daily average of 34,000cases and several cities, including Agra, reported an acute shortage of oxygen and medicines.The video doesn’t show Jain but he is purportedly heard telling a gathering of people that in the last week of April, oxygen stocks had dwindled and he asked patients to shift out because suppliers had given up.“Then, I thought of conducting a mock drill to find out who would survive and who would die without oxygen. On April 26, at 7am, we stopped the supply of oxygen for five minutes as part of the “mock drill”. No one came to know …twenty-two patients were eliminated, they turned blue and were gasping without oxygen,” he was heard as saying.In the clip, it is unclear whether Jain meant the 22 people were killed.On Tuesday, Jain denied the exercise but admitted that it was his voice heard in the video clip.“There was no mock drill as such, nor any supply of oxygen stopped for patients. The 22 were those who had high dependency on oxygen and oxygen supply to them could not be compromised,” said Jain“There was an oxygen shortage and we were asked for judicious and rational use of limited oxygen in the third week of April. We thus thought of categorising patients as to how many of 96 patients admitted required high flow,” he said.Officially, four Agra residents died at Paras hospital on April 26 but the reason of death was not oxygen scarcity, said Singh. He added that the toll could be higher if people from other districts admitted in the hospital were considered.Singh said the hospital was supplied adequate oxygen from April 25 to 27, contradicting Jain, who admitted to a shortage.Singh said the administration supplied 149 cylinders to Paras Hospital on April 25, 121 on April 26, and 117 on April 27 with 20 as back-up. “The hospital had no shortage of oxygen and no deaths took place because of scarcity of oxygen at Paras Hospital,” the district magistrate said.This is not the first time Paras Hospital is in the news. The facility was sealed for three months last year after it was found that hospital authorities admitted patients without official authorisation. At the time, a case was registered against Jain and the hospital manager, NAME. But the hospital was designated as a Covid hospital in April, when the second wave of Covid hit the country.Family members of some patients who died on April 26 confirmed that the hospital suffered an oxygen scarcity.Ashok Chawla, 43, said he was told by Jain on April 26 to arrange an oxygen cylinder for his 71-year-old father, who was admitted to Paras Hospital on April 12. He said Jain informed him that the hospital had run out of oxygen.“I managed to get a cylinder but 15 minutes later, Jain said that my father was no more. My brother’s wife died the next day because of laxity of hospital authorities,” said Chawla, a local contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-hospital-sealed-over-o2-mock-drill-101623178007053.html
09-06-2021||India||5-year-old dies of thirst in Rajasthan desert||KOTA: A five-year-old girl in Rajasthan’s Jalore district died crying for water while walking with her grandmother through a desert, police said on Tuesday. The girl’s grandmother, too, fainted due to the heat and was rescued, they added. According to Raniwada Station House Officer, Padma Ram, the incident took place on Sunday morning when Sukhi Devi, 60, and her granddaughter Anjali decided to cover the 15km distance from a relative’s house in Sirohi district to their residence in Dungri village of Raniwada region on foot. After covering about seven kilometres within five hours in 40 degrees Celsius weather, the girl and her grandmother felt thirsty, but with no water to drink and no one around to help, the girl’s condition deteriorated and she passed away crying for water. Her grandmother, too, fainted. A shepherd passing by spotted the two and informed the local village chief. Later, police arrived at the spot and rushed them to the hospital, where Anjali was declared dead. Police said the girl died due to dehydration and cardiac arrest. “The two made the mistake of not carrying water, and choosing to walk through the desert,” said Ram.The incident triggered a war of words between the state government and the Opposition. “It is the misfortune of Rajasthan that an incompetent and corrupt Congress government has transformed it into a land of starvation, unemployment, chaos and mafia raj,” tweeted Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia.Hitting back, Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said the incident was unfortunate and the local administration will probe the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5yearold-dies-of-thirst-in-rajasthan-desert-101623177827072.html
09-06-2021||India||Pune firm owner arrested after 17 die in factory fire||Pune: A day after a major fire inside a local industrial plant at Pirangut claimed 17 lives, Pune police on Tuesday arrested owner of the firm Nikunj Shah for negligence. In the FIR lodged at Paud police station, 39-year-old Shah, one of the directors of SVS Aqua Technologies, has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Shah is among the three partners in the firm with other two being his father and brother, who live abroad at present.Shah was arrested following the probe committee constituted by Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh under sub-divisional magistrate Sandesh Shirke highlighted several lacunae in its preliminary report submitted within 24 hours of the incident. As many as 17 workers, including 15 women, were charred to death in a major fire that broke out inside the industrial plant at Urawade village near Pirangut, around 40 km from Pune. Following the tragedy, Deshmukh constituted a four-member team headed by Shirke to inquire into the cause of fire along with safety related aspects. The committee found negligence on part of SVS Technologies on various counts, including absence of fire safety mechanism despite combustible material being produced at the medium-size plant. The committee highlighted a total of 12 points in its report, which was also accessed by Hindustan Times. “The firm did not follow norms needed to be adhered in the industrial estate. This included fire safety, building permission related norms along with provision of entry-exit point and open space needed to be allotted. The committee also found that SVS Technologies did not take necessary precaution especially when it was producing combustible material like chlorine dioxide,” Pune superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said, adding the report will now be part of the investigation against Shah and his firm. According to eyewitnesses who survived the blaze, there were sparks in the machine used for processing chlorine dioxide, which the firm was using to make powder used for purifying water. The committee also recorded statements of the eyewitnesses, which will also part of police investigation. Before his arrest, Shah had denied his company was producing any inflammable material. “The firm is involved in manufacturing chemicals required for purification of water. This chemical is not inflammable, and we suspect a short circuit as the cause of the incident,” Shah had said on Monday. Police also ruled out that the company was producing sanitisers, as alleged by relatives of victims. “Although we found some barrels of sanitisers, but they were in small quantity and possibly brought for the use of workers during Covid-19,” police said. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil visited Pune and ruled out short circuit as the cause of fire. Meanwhile, the administration revised the death toll in the fire tragedy to 17. “Due to the blast inside, some bodies were found in parts… Initially it seemed like there were 18 victims. However, we have cross checked with company officials and found only 17 missing. Everyone else is accounted for. Therefore, the death toll is 17,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-firm-owner-arrested-after-17-die-in-factory-fire-101623177766995.html
09-06-2021||India||‘Covaxin effective against Covid-19 variants’: ICMR study||The indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine is effective against variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, including the delta variant that was first sequenced in India, a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research has found.The research, which is yet to be peer reviewed, also discovered that the vaccine is thrice as effective in creating antibodies as a previous Covid infection. To be sure, other research has shown that a previous infection does confer stronger immunity .The research found out that Covaxin creates 2.7 times less neutralising titre against the delta variant and three times less neutralising titre against the beta variant of the virus first reported from South Africa. The neutralising titre refers to the level of antibodies created.But the vaccine remained effective against both strains.“Our study demonstrated that despite a reduction in neutralisation titres with BBV152 (Covaxin) sera against B.1.351 (beta) and B.1.617.2 (delta), its neutralisation potential is well established. Lastly, the broad epitope (large number of binding sites) coverage of an inactivated vaccine decreases the magnitude of reduced neutralisation against emerging variants,” the study concluded.Dr Pragya Yadav, senior scientist at the National Institute of Virology-Pune and the lead author of the paper, said, “Although there is a minor reduction in the neutralisation titre, it (Covaxin) will still be able to protect the vaccinated individual and eventually lessen the severity of the disease.”Epidemiologist and vaccine expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said the antibody titres are not predictive of the efficacy of a vaccine. “Even if the antibody level is 1, the person is thought to be seroconverted and protected from the infection. That is what the researchers have shown: despite the reduction in antibody titres, the vaccine works,” he said.Lahariya said that one likely impact of the lower titres could be that the antibodies might diminish sooner. “But, with Covid-19, protection against the virus is complex. Studies have shown that even after the decline in antibody levels, there is T-cell immunity. A study from the University of Washington has said that this immunity might be life-long for those who had mild infection.”Covaxin, which was developed by Bharat Biotech in association with ICMR, is one of the three vaccines that have so far been approved for Covid-19 immunisation in India, the other two being Covishield made by Serum Institute of India and Sputnik V of Russia.Covaxin uses an inactivated whole virus to elicit an immune response.Covaxin accounts for at least 11% of the vaccine shots given in the country so far, according to data on the government’s CoWIN platform. The company is in the process of scaling up its production, including by licensing its technology, and is likely to contribute a higher share of immunisation in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-effective-against-covid-19-variants-icmr-study-101623177465603.html
09-06-2021||India||India keeps an eye on PLA movement in Ladakh theatre||India is keeping tabs on Chinese military manoeuvres, including land and air drills, in the Ladakh-Tibet theatre even as the two sides are negotiating a complex disengagement process to pull back their front-line troops and weapons from friction points in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The Indian military has tracked recently conducted air drills that involved a squadron-plus Chinese fighter jets (over 18 aircraft), an exercise carried out last month, and is also keeping a watch on Chinese training areas that are at a depth of 1,000 km to 1,500 km from the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), said one of the officials cited above.“The Chinese military has been carrying out training drills and activities in their depth areas. We also carry out training activities on our side,” said another official.On May 28, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said his soldiers were on high alert as the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continued to base its troops and mechanised elements in its “immediate depth” across the LAC from where they could be deployed to forward areas at short notice. (Immediate depth in the context of the Ladakh sector refers to a distance of 150 km to 200 km from the LAC.)Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments have not thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector.The air forces of both countries also remain deployed in the Ladakh-Tibet theatre just as they were when the border row was at its peak last year, as reported by Hindustan Times on April 1.The Indian and Chinese armies began negotiations to resolve the border row more than a year ago, but the two sides have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers deployed at friction points.The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6, 2020, to reduce tensions along the disputed border.The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry from Pangong Tso in mid-February after the ninth round of talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-keeps-an-eye-on-pla-movement-in-ladakh-theatre-101623177527058.html
09-06-2021||India||House panel meetings to resume from June 21||After a gap of more than two months, Indian parliamentary committees will resume their meeting from June 21, authorities involved in the planning said on Tuesday.“The chairpersons of the standing committees have been informed that they can resume panel meetings from June 21,” said a senior MP who heads a panel.Officials maintained that June 21 was chosen keeping in mind the ongoing lockdown in some states. Authorities expect that by June 21, the remaining restrictions will be lifted amid an improving Covid situation in large parts of the country.On June 21, the government will also switch to the centralised vaccine programme, in which the Union government will provide free vaccine to the states. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the states will not have to pay for the vaccines and all adults can receive free vaccines organised by the Centre.When the second wave of Covid hit India in March, leaving the Capital and large parts of the country reeling, many House committees had to cancel their meetings and no new meeting were planned.Indian Parliament could work for only 34 days since the pandemic hit Indian shores in March 2020. The entire winter session of 2020 had to be cancelled while last three other sessions were cut short.The Labour panel, led by Biju Janata Dal member Bhartruhari Mahtab, had planned to meet on April 23 on cotton plantations and scheduled a study tour in April. “We had to cancel both. In my panel, at least 15-16 members are in the NCR [national capital region] or UP and can travel by road to attend any panel meetings. But some of those members were reluctant to come for meetings,” said Mahtab.The panel will now meet on June 23.Earlier, a meeting of the agriculture committee was similarly cancelled, officials said. Another meeting of the IT panel, led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, had to be cancelled. Usually, three to four meetings of various parliamentary committees are scheduled in a week.Officials said while Covid situation was preventing some lawmakers living in other states to travel to Delhi, many parliamentary officials too, were not attending office and working from home. “So, even if a panel wants to meet, proper arrangement for that meeting might be a challenge,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-meetings-to-resume-from-june-21-101623177468681.html
09-06-2021||India||‘Ulterior motive’: Rajasthan opposes Asaram plea in SC for treatment in Haridwar||New Delhi: The Rajasthan government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that self-styled godman Asaram Bapu’s request to suspend his sentence so that he can get medical treatment in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar was prompted by an “ulterior motive” and should be rejected.The state government affidavit said Asaram, 83, is admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur but “is not cooperating with the doctors for his ulterior motive of shifting the venue of his custody…Such change (of venue) is an abuse of process of law.”The Supreme Court has asked Asaram to respond to the state by Friday.Asaram alias Anshumal is serving a life term in a Jodhpur jail for raping a minor at his ashram in 2013. He was convicted in April 2018 and sentenced to spend the rest of his life in jail.The self-styled godman, who faces a second rape case in neighbouring Gujarat, approached the Supreme Court to seek suspension of his jail term to allow him to get treatment at Haridwar’s Prakash Deep Institute of Ayurvedic Science. On Friday, the Supreme Court asked the Rajasthan government to outline its stand on Asaram’s request that cited his complicated medical condition, advanced age and a complete distrust of allopathic treatment.The Rajasthan government said Asaram can get Ayurvedic treatment in Jodhpur as well. Jodhpur is one of those “rare” places famous for its excellent treatment of both allopathic and Ayurvedic treatment at Ayurveda Hospital, Jodhpur and AIIMS, the government said.Asaram, who filed his petition through advocate Saurabh Ajay Gupta, has contended that neither Jodhpur nor Rajasthan has proper Ayurvedic treatment and it would not be possible for him to be treated as long as he is in Jodhpur jail.To be sure, Asaram had made a similar plea before the Rajasthan high court which relied on the report prepared by AIIMS doctors who found him “stable and fit”.The state government affidavit also underlined that Asaram refused to take medicines prescribed by doctors at AIIMS or undergo medical processes for his cardiac treatment.He suffered from gastrointestinal bleeding for which HC observed that treatment was available at MDM Hospital in the state.The Rajasthan government said Asaram was trying to shift out of the state since he wanted to delay “the pending trial at Gandhi Nagar (Gujarat) and Jodhpur, by malafidely raising such a plea when he is stable and fit.”In the high court, Asaram said he does not want to take the allopathic line of treatment and should be allowed to undergo ayurvedic treatment at his Jodhpur ashram.After considering all aspects, the high court noted that his release on bail will affect the pending trail in Gujarat. It also noted that whenever the convict is taken out of prison for attending court during trial, his followers would form huge congregations resulting in a law and order situation that would increase the risk of spreading the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ulterior-motive-rajasthan-opposes-asaram-plea-in-sc-for-treatment-in-haridwar-101623177467558.html
09-06-2021||India||Data shows trade between Beijing, New Delhi grew in 5 months of 2021||Beijing/New DelhiTrade between India and China soared by around 70%year-on-year to at least $48 billion in the first five months of 2021, latest data from Chinese customs showed Monday.Publicly available data from India too showed a healthy growth, although the numbers differed from those put out by Chinese state media. According to the Indian data, trade grew 55.83% in the first five months of the year.The reason for the discrepancy in the data isn’t known; both countries denominate the trade in dollars.Calling it a “spectacular growth”, Chinese state media interpreted the increase in bilateral trade as a sign of resilience in trade ties between the two countries despite serious conflict at the border and political differences.“Trade between China and India soared 70.1 % in US dollar terms in the first five months of this year to $48.16 billion, according to Chinese customs data released on Monday. Specifically, Chinese exports to India grew 64.1% year-on-year from January to May, while imports surged 90.2%,” the nationalistic tabloid, Global Times reported.According to the Indian data, imports from China rose 59.13% to $33.49 billion, while exports to China rose 46.09% to $10.41 billion.The trade volume between China and India was higher than the trade that China conducted with other trading partners in this period, the Global Times report said.The latest statistics were released by China’s General Administration of Customs (GAC) on Monday.As per Chinese data, the rise in trade – or specifically Chinese exports to India – rose sharply between April and May. The rise could be attributed to the increase of exports of Chinese medical goods and equipment by Indian companies to fight the surge in Covid-19 cases in the last couple of months.“If anything, these extraordinary growth rates show that China-India trade has largely shrugged off the impact of the political tensions caused by the border friction last year, bouncing back quickly,” the state media report said.India-China trade in 2020 declined by 9.1% to $77.66 billion, though China still overtook the US to become India’s largest trading partner in 2020.Those numbers are for the calendar year. India, follows an April to March financial year and according to government data, Indian exports to China saw a 27.53% jump in 2020-21 , while China’s imports saw a 0.07% contraction. Total India-China trade in the financial year was $86.4 billion, with a $44 billion trade balance in favour of China, a significant 30.15% drop from about $63 billion in 2017-18.According to the Indian embassy in Beijing, though bilateral trade between the two countries grew exponentially overall – notwithstanding a fall last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic -- India continues to be saddled with a big trade deficit.“The growth of trade deficit with China can be attributed to two factors: narrow basket of commodities, mostly primary, that we export to China and market access impediments for most of our agricultural products and the sectors where we are competitive in, such as pharmaceuticals, IT/IteS, etc. Our pre-dominant exports have consisted of cotton, copper and diamonds/ natural gems,” the Indian embassy says on its website under the section “India-China Trade and Economic Relations”.India’s Commerce ministry did not respond to an email query on this matter.According to an Indian official who asked not to be named, the spurt in trade in 2020-21 signified a jump in Indian exports to China and a sharp decline in Chinese imports. “This is a grand success of Make in India and Make for the world aided by competitiveness of Indian industry,” the official said requesting anonymity.To be sure, some analysts also point to the contraction of the Indian economy as the main reason for the fall in Chinese imports last year, although some bit of it was also on account of the situation at the Line of Actual Control.As for the first five months of this year, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the numbers likely reflect the spike in imports of medical equipment from China to cope with the second wave of Coronavirus infections. The people, however, added that this shouldn’t be perceived as “business as usual” against the backdrop of the dragging border standoff.In a phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on April 30, external affairs minister S Jaishankar highlighted the importance of transport corridors and cargo flights remaining open and speedy logistics support from the Chinese side to facilitate the procurement of Covid-19 related products and raw materials.The Indian side has repeatedly said in recent months that complete disengagement at all friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and peace and tranquillity in the border areas alone can lead to normalisation of ties in other spheres such as trade and investment.Rezaul H Laskar in New Delhi contributed to this story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-shows-trade-between-beijing-new-delhi-grew-in-5-months-of-2021-101623177468091.html
09-06-2021||India||Aadhaar-linked voter rolls among reforms being pursued by ECI||The Election Commission of India is pushing for at least five key electoral reforms including making paid news an electoral offence, linking Aadhaar numbers to the electoral roll , and increasing the punishment for filing a false affidavit (to two years of imprisonment), and has written to the government in this regard, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.ECI has written to the law ministry urging it to “expeditiously” address electoral reforms that are pending with the government, which also includes multiple registration dates in a year for new voters, the official added. There are nearly 40 proposals pending with the ministry.Elections in the states of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are due next year.ECI has been considering a wide range of electoral reforms to usher in digitisation, removing duplication of voters and enabling remote voting for non-resident Indians (NRIs), even migrant workers within the country. “The commission on May 17, sent a reminder to the law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to revisit the reforms,” the official cited in the first instance said.Political leaders and experts argue that while some of the reforms mentioned are good, the focus should instead be on countering hate speech and bringing transparency to the electoral bond process. ECI, however, has highlighted these five reforms in its letter.One, it has proposed that the voters who turn 18 should be able to register more than just once in year. At present, only those who turn 18 as of January 1 are eligible to register as voters. “This causes many people to lose out an entire year where they do not get to vote,” the official said. “The Commission has proposed four dates, January 1, April 1, September 1 and December 1 as prospective registration dates instead.”A second EC official familiar with the matter said that the first time a recommendation on multiple dates of registration was made was in the 1970s (when the voting age was 21).Two, ECI wants to get tough on false affidavits. At present, candidates who furnish false information can be punished with up to six months of imprisonment. The Commission has suggested increasing this to two years. “The present jail term does not result in the disqualification of the candidate,” the first official said. “An increased term can lead to the candidate being disqualified for six years.” A historic Supreme Court judgement in 2013 ruled that a lawmaker sentenced to prison for at least two years will lose membership of the house, be disqualified for the period of the sentence, and for six years after that period as well.Three, ECI wants to make paid news an electoral offense.Four, it has also suggested that advertisements in print media (newspapers, journals) be barred during the silent period, wherein candidates are not allowed to campaign.Five, ECI wants to link Aadhaar data to the electoral roll , part of its plan to eliminate duplication of voter ID cards. “It will also ensure that when a person moves to a different state, their voter ID card does not have to be issued from scratch. It can just be transferred,” the first official said.All the proposed reforms will require amendments to the Representation of People’s Act, 1951.BJP MP Rakesh Sinha said that such reforms are essential to strengthen Indian democracy. “There is need to curb fake and bogus voters and the best way is to link voters with their Aadhaar card,” he said. “This will end the prevailing ailment. Anyone contesting election has moral and constitutional responsibilities to reveal required information but deliberate anomalies are blot on democracy. Such representatives cannot be truthful to their constitutional obligations . Therefore, the move of the EC is just .”Congress MP Manish Tewari, however, argued that the Commission was paying “lip service” and should instead focus on regaining its credibility.. “The EC has absolutely lost the credibility and the confidence of the Indian people,” Tewari said. “It is seen as another arm of the government and before it starts pontificating about reforms, it must work to regain its credibility.”Tewari added that ECI needs to be cognizant that the Madras High Court went to the extent of observing that its officials should be tried for murder because of the “cavalier nature” of formulating the election schedule even as the second wave of the pandemic hit. “It has no credibility for the simple reason that any autonomous institution needs to speak truth to power and only then can they inspire confidence. These reforms are nothing but lip service to try and regain its demolished credibility.”RJD MP Manoj Jha said that the Commission was going for low hanging fruit. “The most important electoral reform needed as of now is total transparency in electoral bonds,” he said. “That should be a priority area for the EC.”He added that the Commission has also not done anything substantial to counter hate speech and polarizing speeches.But former CEC SY Queraishi said that these are long pending reforms. “These have been around for a long time,” he said. “I would be happy if a sixth is added that appointment of election commissioners is by a collegium and elevation to CEC is by seniority so that the two (other election) commissioners do not feel that they are on probation.”According to a former chief election commissioner who did not wish to be named, every CEC tries to push through the reforms, but without much success. “What is more important that the Commission remain autonomous,” the former CEC said.“These reforms are neither major nor significant. Linking of voter id numbers with Aadhaar is particularly dangerous and was even quashed by the Supreme Court. Increasing the punishment is okay but one needs to see how many convictions for false affidavits have been made so far. Paid news will be impossible to define and even harder to prove. What is needed is laws that are implementable,” Jagdeep Chhokar of Association for Democratic Reforms, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-urges-centre-to-expedite-pending-electoral-reforms-101623177347012.html
09-06-2021||India||In a huge shift, India opens channels with Afghan Taliban factions and leaders||India has for the first time opened channels of communication with Afghan Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Baradar, against the backdrop of the rapid drawdown of US forces from Afghanistan, people with knowledge of the development have said.The move marks a significant shift from New Delhi’s position of not engaging with the Afghan Taliban in any way and comes at a time when key world powers are veering around to the position that the Taliban will play some part in any future dispensation in Kabul.The outreach is largely being led by Indian security officials and has been limited to Taliban factions and leaders that are perceived as being “nationalist” or outside the sphere of influence of Pakistan and Iran, one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The outreach has been underway for some months, though it continues to be exploratory in nature, the people said.In the case of Mullah Baradar, the co-founder of the Afghan Taliban and one of the group’s main negotiators, the first person cited above said messages were exchanged by the two sides though there was no confirmation of a meeting. There have also been conversations with other Taliban factions despite a lack of trust on both sides, the people said.Also Read: In Afghanistan, India must embrace the role of peacemakerThe outreach to Baradar is significant as he signed the deal with then US secretary of state Mike Pompeo in February 2020 that paved the way for the current withdrawal of American troops. Baradar held various posts when the Taliban was in power during 1996-2001. He was captured by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in Karachi in February 2010 after he began negotiations with the Hamid Karzai government in Kabul. Baradar was freed by Pakistan in 2018 and became the head of the Taliban office in Doha.India is the largest regional contributor to Afghanistan’s reconstruction and development efforts with pledges of $3 billion but has lagged behind other regional players such as Russia, China and Iran in establishing contacts with the Taliban, largely because of the group’s long-standing links with the Pakistani military establishment. However, the perception that the Taliban is no longer a monolithic organisation and some factions may not be completely under the sway of Pakistani generals has gained ground in recent years.“We have tried the earlier option of not engaging the Taliban and putting all our efforts into the Northern Alliance,” said a second person, referring to the united front created by Tajiks and other ethnic groups that was backed by India, Russia and Iran in its campaign against the former Taliban regime in the late 1990s.“But there has been a huge shift since then and there are some who think it might be better to have a line of communication with some Taliban leaders,” the second person said. The people made it very clear that India’s outreach didn’t include the Haqqani Network or members of the Quetta Shura, who are seen as proxies of the Pakistani military.There was no formal response from the external affairs ministry on these developments.The people made it clear the outreach to Taliban leaders was proceeding in parallel with New Delhi’s engagement with different segments of the Afghan leadership, including President Ashraf Ghani’s government and key leaders such as former president Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the High Council for National Reconciliation.A visit to Kabul last month by joint secretary JP Singh, the external affairs ministry’s point person for Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran, was part of the continuing engagement with Afghan leaders. “Singh engaged with various groups and made an assessment of the situation on the ground and got a first-hand sense of things,” the first person cited above said.The people also said sharp differences remained between India’s position on matters such as preserving the gains made in Afghanistan under a democratic system, including the rights of women and minorities, and the Taliban’s insistence on establishing an Islamic emirate. “However, it appears that some Taliban leaders realise that there will need to be some accommodation of India’s role in Afghanistan and such an understanding will also fit in with the Taliban’s efforts to project themselves as a group that the West can work with,” a third person said.As the latest report by a monitoring committee of the UN Security Council pointed out, the Taliban hasn’t cut its ties with al-Qaeda or foreign groups such as the Haqqani Network, and this continues to be a worry in New Delhi. However, the feeling in the Indian capital is that things are better now than last year, when it appeared that India had very little say in the Afghan peace process driven by the Trump administration.“There are worries about the pace of the US withdrawal and the general feeling is that it will be completed well before the September 2021 deadline. But the position isn’t as hopeless as last year when it seemed as if India was being kept out of all the crucial discussions,” the third person said.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said there continues to be a lot of uncertainty about how the situation in Afghanistan will pan out after the withdrawal of US troops. “But what’s certain is civil war and a Taliban takeover of Kabul in months, if not weeks, without a political settlement. Therefore, it appears India is moving to protect its interests by opening a dialogue with the Taliban,” he said.“Moreover, by shedding its traditional reluctance to talk to the Taliban, India is maintaining its relevance in the Afghan peace process. This is the only way by which India can reduce the adverse impact of a deterioration in Afghanistan’s security situation,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-india-opens-communication-channels-with-afghan-taliban-factions-101623165405972.html
09-06-2021||India||Will consider bail if you eat client’s food: SC to lawyer in adulteration case||A lawyer arguing for the anticipatory bail in a food adulteration case was left befuddled on Tuesday when the Supreme Court said it will consider allowing his plea if he and his family were willing to eat what his clients were selling. As the lawyer, Puneet Jain, took time to reflect and the court said that it was not inclined to give anticipatory bail in a case like this, he chose to withdraw the petition.“Will you or your family eat this food? We will consider allowing the bail if your answer is a yes,” a bench of justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah told advocate Jain. The court asked Jain why it was difficult for him to answer such a basic question. “Or is it that let other people die? Why should we bother?”Jain’s clients Prawar Goyal and Vineet Goyal moved the court seeking pre-arrest bail in the case registered against them in December in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district.Jain pressed for their anticipatory bail, saying the charges pertaining to food adulteration were bailable and therefore, it will not serve any purpose to arrest his clients first. He added only the charge of cheating was non-bailable for which his clients were required to secure bail from a trial court. But no such offence was made out as per the First Information Report, he added.The two are accused of selling wheat after polishing it with non-edible golden offset colour. Several thousand kilograms of polished wheat was confiscated from their premises after a raid in December. The two have been charged under the Indian Penal Code sections related to food adulteration and sale of noxious food items.Last week, another bench of the court refused to grant anticipatory bail to an accused in a food adulteration case, observing that these offences were against the entire society.“You are trying to kill not just one person but the entire society by selling spurious food. Such offences cannot be taken lightly,” the bench of justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari commented while refusing bail to one Dibyalochan Behera.Behera’s lawyer argued on June 4 that the ghee he was accused of adulterating was not meant for eating since it was being supplied only to the temples for lighting lamps.Amused by the submission, the bench retorted: “This is just so good. And what was your chilli sauce for? Was it for decorating the deity or for abhisheka (consecration) of the idols? Not a single product of yours is unadulterated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-you-and-your-family-eat-this-sc-asks-lawyer-in-food-adulteration-case-101623154905037.html
09-06-2021||India||Govt looks at shorter monsoon session in July, deferment to August||The government and Parliament authorities are exploring the possibilities of holding the monsoon session of Parliament for a shorter duration in July or deferring it to August-September, depending on the Covid-19 situation, functionaries familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The last three Parliament sessions had to be cut short due to the same reason, with the winter session in both Houses being skipped altogether. The monsoon session is usually held in July.“According to the Constitution, a session must begin within six months of the previous one. So, the government has time till September 24 to call the monsoon session,” said a senior official, adding that no formal discussion on the matter has started.A senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader said that the party has informally discussed the possibility of holding a short session, perhaps in the first half of July. “The numbers have only now started to go down so we will have to wait and watch for some time. There was a suggestion that the session could be held in July so that if there is a third wave in September, which is being anticipated, then Parliament would meet for a fortnight at least,” said the leader, requesting anonymity.Another BJP functionary said the session’s duration will depend on factors such as pending legislative business and the ability of outstation MPs to attend the House. “In some states, the (number of) daily infections are still high so the MPs might not find it easy to travel,” this leader said, asking not to be named.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad recently told Hindustan Times in an interview that the government is keen to push the data protection bill in the upcoming session, Covid permitting.When asked whether their party has had any internal discussion of whether they will attend the session, a Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MP said there has been no official communication from the government so far. “But we got a sense that if numbers come down in June across the country, there might be a shorter, 15-day session in July- August and then another short session in November,” the BJD MP said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-at-shorter-monsoon-session-in-july-deferment-to-august-101623094512282.html
09-06-2021||India||Panel has failed to resolve issues: Sachin Pilot||Last year’s crisis in Rajasthan that the Congress papered over by setting up a committee to address the issues raised by then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot against chief minister Ashok Gehlot have resurfaced, with the former expressing his displeasure at the lack of action.“It has now been 10 months. I was given to understand that there would be swift action by the committee, but now half of the term is done, and those issues haven’t been resolved. It is unfortunate that so many of the party workers who worked and gave their all for getting us the mandate are not being heard,” said Pilot, refusing to elaborate on his next move. One of his key supporters, MLA Hemaram Choudhary, resigned suddenly last month.HT learns the central leadership of the Congress is trying to work out a cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan.Pilot told Hindustan Times that the Congress high command has failed to deliver on the promises that were made to him when he along with 18 legislators returned to the party after a month-long drama.In July last year, Pilot and his supporters left Jaipur to camp at a secret location in Haryana, threatening the stability of the Ashok Gehlot government. Pilot was removed as Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president, and it was only when the Gandhis intervened and set up a committee under general secretary Ajay Maken that he returned to the fold. However, the dilemma for the central leadership now is to find a solution that is acceptable to both chief minister Gehlot and Pilot.“It is not the right time for me to speak,’’ said Maken when contacted by HT. “However, there are vacancies in the Rajasthan government, and they are likely to be filled soon,” he added.A cabinet reshuffle isn’t a straightforward solution. There are nine vacancies in the Rajasthan cabinet as there can be 30 ministers but only 21 currently. Of the nine vacancies, three were created when Pilot supporters were sacked last year for the rebellion. Now, Pilot may want more of his supporters to find a place in the cabinet, but Gehlot is pitching for independents and former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislators who saved his government during the floor test last August.“Just like Pilot may have been promised that his grievances will be heard, these independent legislators were also promised they would be accommodated if they supported the Congress. This cannot be ignored ,” said a Congress leader on condition of anonymity.The leader quoted above said that they appreciated Pilot’s contribution which led to a consolidation of Gujjar votes for the Congress in the state, but the chief minister had also proved himself by winning the recent bypolls. He attributes the 10-month delay to the death of senior leader Ahmed Patel , as he was the crisis manager working out the details of Pilot’s return. But the January reorganisation of the state party unit accommodated Pilot’s team . For example, of the eight general secretaries, at least three are Pilot’s candidates and one of his team members has also been made vice president, this leader added.“Ashok Gehlot is the senior most Congress person that we have right now as he is a three-time chief minister and was a Union minister before that. He also got 10% more votes in the bypolls than he did in 2018, so how can we not go with him?” asked this person.However, there is agreement within the party that a solution acceptable to Pilot will have to be found, and that might mean that one of the two leaders takes on a bigger role in the central organisation. The chief minister’s office did not immediately respond to a request seeking comment.‘’The only way to sort things out will be a genuine commitment of both of them to work with each other, which is easier said than done. Gehlot has to show a large heart and accommodate Pilot who must — on his part — be comfortable to contest the 2023 election under Gehlot’s leadership. Till a public announcement of this kind is made, these exercises of cabinet reshuffle will be cosmetic and in fact, will end up creating more problems for both camps,’’ said political commentator Sanjeev Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-has-failed-to-resolve-issues-sachin-pilot-101623089773631.html
09-06-2021||India||More nominated members joining parties now: RS data||In the long history of the Rajya Sabha, its nominated members have periodically joined political parties — with the trend becoming stronger in recent years, during which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has seen the most nominated MPs join it.Since 1952, 28 of 138 nominated members have joined either the Congress or the BJP and given up their nominated status, according to data available with the Rajya Sabha secretariat; 15 of them joined the Congress and 13 joined the BJP. The numbers stack up in favour of the Congress given its long stints in power.In the last seven years, 9 nominated members joined the BJP including Sonal Man Singh, Shakal Ram, Gopi Suresh, Rakesh Sinha and Raghunath Mohapatra. During the previous NDA government headed by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, 3 MPs, Hema Malini, Narayan Singh and Dara Singh, joined the party.Even Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is now in the Congress, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha in April 2016 and subsequently chose to join the BJP -- but he quit the Rajya Sabha in July after he parted ways with the BJP.The Indian Constitution says 12 people “having special knowledge or practical experience” in respect of such matters as literature, science, art and social service shall be nominated by the President in the Upper House of Parliament. The Constitution also allows any nominated MP to join a political party.The tenth schedule of the constitution says, “...in any other case, be deemed to belong to the political party of which he becomes, or, as the case may be, first becomes, a member before the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of article 99 or, as the case may be, article 188”.This March, nominated member Swapan Dasgupta resigned from the House as he didn’t opt to join the BJP during the window of six months but stood as the party’s poll candidate in the West Bengal assembly election. He has subsequently been nominated as a Rajya Sabha MP again; there is nothing in he rules against members of a party being nominated.Joachim Alva, a prominent Christian leader involved in India’s freedom movement was the first nominated member who joined political party after coming to Rajya Sabha. He became a Congress member in 1968.The Upper House of Parliament has seen stalwarts such as painter MF Husain, mathematician Satyendra Nath Bose, actor Prithviraj Kapoor, writer Amrita Pritam, lawyer Ram Jethmalani, journalist Khushwant Singh, boxer Mary Kom and film-maker Shyam Benegal as its nominated members. These MPs enjoy same privileges as other parliamentarians but they can’t vote in Presidential elections as they are nominated by the President .While a nominated member is free to join a political party, experts say this is not a a healthy trend for parliamentary democracy. “The Constitution says that people of eminence in certain fields will get represented in the House. The system was created to allow these experts to give their free opinion on various policies and legislation,” said former secretary general of Lok Sabha P Sreedharan.“But if they join political parties, they too, would be bound by the party’s views and whip and their freedom would be curtailed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-nominated-members-joining-parties-now-rs-data-101622919565338.html
