10-06-2021||India||Data of millions on CoWIN portal safe, assures govt, denies reports of ‘hacking’||The government on Thursday refuted reports of India’s Covid-19 vaccination registration platform, CoWIN, being hacked and said that the authorities are investigating the matter.The Computer Emergency Response Team of ministry of electronics and information technology (MietY) are currently investigating the matter.“There have been some unfounded media reports of the CoWIN platform being hacked. Prima facie, these reports appear to be fake,” the government said in a release.Dr RS Sharma who heads the CoWIN portal and is also the chairman of the empowered group on vaccine administration also clarified that the reports of hacking of the CoWIN portal are false. “Our attention has been drawn towards the news circulating on social media about the alleged hacking of the CoWIN system. In this connection we wish to state that CoWIN stores all the vaccination data in a safe and secure digital environment,” Sharma said.“No CoWIN data is shared with any entity outside the CoWIN environment. The data being claimed as having been leaked, such as geo-location of beneficiaries, is not even collected at CoWIN,” he further added.Reports of CoWIN being hacked surfaced after a website called Data Leak Market said it was selling a database for Covid-19 vaccination in India. The website also said that the data of 150 million people also included their name, Aadhaar number, and location. They also clarified that they did not originally leak the data and were merely reselling the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-of-millions-on-cowin-portal-safe-assures-govt-denies-reports-of-hacking-101623346611022.html
10-06-2021||India||India in touch with ‘various stakeholders’ in Afghanistan: MEA||India on Thursday said it is in touch with “various stakeholders” in Afghanistan in order to work for the long-term goal of development and reconstruction of the war-torn country. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi was responding to questions at a weekly news briefing on Hindustan Times’ report on India opening channels of communication with Taliban factions and leaders for the first time, and whether there had been a shift in India’s policy on Afghanistan. Bagchi declined to comment on the HT report but said: “We are in touch with various stakeholders...in pursuance of our long-term commitment towards development and reconstruction of Afghanistan.” Describing India’s relations with Afghanistan as historical and multifaceted, he added: “We have been engaging with Afghans across ethnicities. As a friendly neighbour, we are concerned about peace and security in Afghanistan and the region. We support all peace initiatives and have been engaged with several stakeholders, including regional countries.” Bagchi noted that external affairs minister S Jaishankar had virtually participated in the inaugural ceremony for the intra-Afghan talks in Doha last September, while a senior official delegation had attended the same talks. The intra-Afghan talks marked the first time that Indian officials were present in the same venue as a Taliban delegation. Bagchi further said there were “visits by multiple Afghan leaders to India” in the recent past, and the Indian side had made official visits to Kabul. HT reported on Tuesday that India had for the first time opened channels of communication with Afghan Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, against the backdrop of the rapid drawdown of US forces from Afghanistan. The move marks a significant shift from India’s long-standing position of not engaging with the Afghan Taliban and comes at a time when key world powers are veering round to the position that the Taliban will play some part in any future dispensation in Kabul. The external affairs pointperson for Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran, joint secretary JP Singh, visited Kabul last month for meetings with the Afghan leadership. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval made a two-day visit to Kabul in January, becoming the first senior Indian official to travel to Afghanistan since the peace process began last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-touch-with-various-stakeholders-in-afghanistan-mea-101623346519766.html
10-06-2021||India||IMF welcomes India’s efforts in making Covid-19 vaccinations accessible, says country’s growth forecast to be revised||The International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Thursday welcomed the steps taken by the Indian government to facilitate access to Covid-19 vaccinations and to increase the production of essential drugs required in combating the coronavirus disease.During his fortnightly news conference, IMF’s spokesperson Gerry Rice said that the IMF “strongly welcomed” the government’s announcement to enable access to vaccinations. “The IMF welcomes the Indian government's announcement to facilitate access to [Covid-19] vaccinations and to provide additional support to minimise the social costs of the pandemic and to relieve the very human costs of the pandemic. We strongly welcome the government's announcement on that point,” spokesperson Rice said.The IMF welcomes the Indian government’s announcement to facilitate access to vaccinations and to provide additional support to minimize the social cost of the pandemic. #India pic.twitter.com/yG4nZr5EnTRice was answering questions regarding the participation of Kristalina Georgieva, managing director of the IMF and various other topics, when he made the comments regarding the Indian government’s latest announcement. He also said that the second wave of Covid-19 and the lockdown measures induced by it suggested a fall in India’s economic activity.Confirming that the IMF would revise India’s growth forecast in its next update to the World Economic Outlook, expected next month, Rice said “More to come next month when we will be publishing updated forecasts for India in the context of the World Economic Outlook.”Also read | IMF, World Bank ask G7 to release surplus Covid-19 vaccines“India, of course, is an economy that's important to the global economy, due to its large share in global and regional GDP. And therefore, India's growth and economic outlook has broader implications with spill overs working primarily through trade, linkages and global supply chains which are particularly strong, of course, with South Asia and that region,” he further addedEarlier on Monday (June 7), Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Union government is taking over the vaccination process from the states. Modi also said that all beneficiaries above 18 years of age would be immunised free of cost beginning June 21.According to his announcement, the central government would now procure 75% of all vaccines being made and distribute it to the states for free of cost. Meanwhile, private hospitals in the country would continue to procure the remaining 25% of the stock. The government has capped the price of each vaccine dose being used in the country and also the service charge by the private hospitals. Modi also said that the production of essential medicines to fight the pandemic will also be ramped up.Daily new cases in India have remained below the 100,000-mark for the third consecutive day on Thursday as 94.052 people were tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imf-welcomes-india-s-efforts-in-making-covid-19-vaccinations-accessible-says-country-s-growth-forecast-to-be-revised-101623345361149.html
10-06-2021||India||‘Indiscriminate vaccination can lead to rise of mutant strains’: Experts tell PM||A group of public health experts comprising doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Aiims) and members from Covid-19 special taskforce on Thursday said that indiscriminate vaccination could lead to the rise of mutant strains, according to a news report by news agency PTI.Uttar Pradesh vaccinates more than 5 million people in 18-45 age groupThe study also highlighted that there is no need to vaccinate those who had been infected by Covid-19 previously and said that the vaccination of such individuals can be done after generating evidence that the vaccine is beneficial after natural infection. It also said that vaccinating the young population, given the current scenario, will not be cost-effective. The experts also recommended that local level sero-surveys in real time at the end of the second wave should be conducted repeatedly to map the vulnerability at the district level.The Indian Public Health Association (IPHA), Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM) and Indian Association of Epidemiologists (IAE) also submitted the findings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting the need of vaccinating the people who are vulnerable.India has administered 240 million Covid vaccine doses till now“Mass, indiscriminate, and incomplete vaccination can also trigger emergence of mutant strains. Given the rapid transmission of infection in various parts of the country, it is unlikely that mass vaccination of all adults will catch up with the pace of natural infection among our young population,” the study said.Committed to prevent misuse of data regarding Covid-19 vaccines, says Centre“The present situation of the pandemic in the country demands that we should be guided by the logistics and epidemiological data to prioritise vaccination rather than opening vaccination for all age groups at this stage,” the study further added.Allow walk-in Covid jabs, online registration not enough: Rahul Gandhi to Centre“Vaccine is a strong and powerful weapon against the novel coronavirus. And like all strong weapons it should neither be withheld nor used indiscriminately; but should be employed strategically to derive maximum benefit in a cost-effective way,” the report further added.The recommendation also include addition of 17 more laboratories to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) and achieving the target of genomic sequencing of at 3% of the positive samples.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiscriminate-vaccination-can-lead-to-rise-of-mutant-strains-experts-tell-pm-101623344820669.html
10-06-2021||India||In Assam, 81-year-old tea-garden doctor allegedly manhandled, police lodge FIR||An 81-year-old doctor posted in a tea-garden hospital was allegedly manhandled by a few people over enforcement of Covid-19 restrictions in the area, police informed on Thursday. Dr Basanta Kumar Goswami, who is posted at the Majuligarh tea estate in Biswanath district, was allegedly manhandled by a few young men on Wednesday evening while he was returning from his walk. “The workers in the tea estate were upset with the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions that resulted in closure of shops at 12 pm. Some of them went and had a meeting with the management of the estate on Wednesday over this,” said Biswanath superintendent of police Ripul Das. “On the way back from the meeting some young men saw the doctor and thinking that he might have had a role in the early closure of the shops and other restrictions allegedly pushed him to the ground. We have conducted a medical examination and he is stable. A case has been registered and we will take action,” he added. According to the doctor, the tea estate administration had enforced Covid-19 restrictions in the area strictly as 31 positive cases had been detected there. In Assam, all shops and business establishments have to close down at 12 pm daily and there is curfew between 1 pm and 5 am. “I was taking my evening walk near my residence after my duty at the hospital when three youths came towards me and started pushing and jostling me accusing me of closing shops. In the rush, I fell on the ground and hurt the wrist of my right hand and my back,” Dr Goswami told journalists on Thursday. On June 1, several people had brutally assaulted a doctor posted at a Covid Care Centre in Hojai district after a patient had died during treatment. Police had arrested 26 people in connection with the case. Earlier this week, another doctor was beaten up by a patient’s son in Darrang district allegedly due to delay in attending the patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-81-year-old-tea-garden-doctor-allegedly-manhandled-police-lodge-fir-101623345019404.html
10-06-2021||India||India tells China to issue visas to nationals who meet travel requirements||India called on China on Thursday to issue visas to Indian nationals who meet all requirements laid down by Beijing for travel, including getting vaccinated with Chinese-made jabs, so that they could return to their studies or jobs. The government is also taking steps to protect the interests of Indian nationals who work or study abroad but have been stuck in the country because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. The problems faced by these nationals are being taken up with the concerned governments, he said. In the case of China, Bagchi pointed out that Indian nationals have been unable to travel back to resume their work or studies since November last year, even though Chinese citizens are able to travel to India despite the absence of direct connectivity. “However, for Indian nationals, travel to China has not been possible since last November as the Chinese side had suspended existing visas. In March this year, the Chinese embassy issued a notification about facilitating visas for those taking Chinese-made vaccines,” Bagchi said. “It is understood that several Indian nationals have applied for Chinese visas after getting vaccinated in that manner but are yet to be issued visas. Since these Indian nationals have apparently met the requirements laid down by the Chinese side, we hope the Chinese embassy would be able to issue them visas soon,” he said. Indian authorities have been in touch with Chinese counterparts to seek “early resumption of travel” by Indian citizens to China, especially for those who work or study there, he added. “While we recognise the need to ensure safety and strictly follow Covid-related protocols, essential two-way travel should be facilitated, especially keeping in view the fact that Chinese nationals are able to travel to India,” Bagchi said. According to official data, China is home to more than 55,000 Indian nationals, including more than 20,000 students. Many students and professionals returned to India following the Covid-19 outbreak and have been unable to go back to China. In the case of other countries too, the government is aware of challenges faced by Indian students who are unable to return to pursue their studies. The external affairs ministry, in line with the government’s priorities, has been “working actively to protect the interests of Indians residing abroad, be it for education, employment or other reasons”, he added. “We have been taking this issue up with the concerned governments on priority. We have also requested students facing difficulties to contact the external affairs ministry,” he said, referring to a recent initiative launched to gather details of such students from across the country. Responding to a separate question about problems faced by Indians studying or working abroad who have been vaccinated with the Covaxin jab that is yet to be approved by the World Health Organization (WHO), Bagchi said: “We are aware that Bharat Biotech has sought WHO emergency use listing for Covaxin. We hope this process of getting this approval is completed at an early date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tells-china-to-issue-visas-to-nationals-who-meet-travel-requirements-101623344059118.html
10-06-2021||India||Haryana home minister Anil Vij claims ‘secret agenda’ behind farmers protest, amid tussle over further talks||With the protesting farmers leaders sticking to their demand of a complete repeal of the three farm laws, Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij on Thursday expressed suspicions about a “secret agenda” behind the farmers’ opposition to the three legislations.The minister also alleged that while the farmers have opposed the laws, they were not able to support their objections with any “sound logic” during their many rounds of talks with the government. He also highlighted that the Centre never denied further discussions regarding the three contentious laws with the protesting farmer groups and unions.“[Narendra Singh] Tomar Ji has clearly said the doors for talks are open. The government never closed its doors. There have already been 11-12 rounds of talks earlier,” news agency PTI quoted Anil Vij as saying on Thursday. “But farmers' union leaders have not even once been able to point out what their objections to the farm laws are,” he further said, while speaking to reporters."They have not been able to point out the objections. From this, it appears that their agenda is not (repeal of) farm laws, but (they have) some secret agenda," Vij said.Also read | Maharashtra makes its own draft law to protect farmersAnil Vij’s comments came a day after Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the Union government is ready to resume talks with the protesting unions and hear their objections. “Whenever farmers want discussions, the government of India will be ready for discussion. But we have repeatedly asked them to tell the objections in the provisions with logic. We will listen and find a solution,” PTI quoted Tomar as saying at a cabinet briefing.However, farmer leaders have maintained their stance regarding the issue and have categorically said that they are ready for further talks only if the government yields to their demands. “Our stand remains the same. Repeal the three laws, give us a written guarantee on MSP, if the government is ready to talk on this, then we are ready. Now, it is up to the government to decide about the meeting,” PTI quoted farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka as saying.“While the prime minister superciliously says that the government is just one call away, the real anti-farmer attitude of the government is very apparent. Protesting farmers repeat and reiterate that the government's attitude is unjustifiable and unreasonable, and is resting on ego and optics' games. Farmers demand a full repeal of the three central laws and a new legislation to guarantee MSP for all farmers,” the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, another protesting farmer body, said regarding the meetings.Many farmers have been protesting against the government’s three new farm laws for over six months at Delhi’s borders. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court of India has set up a committee to find solutions regarding the issue and has also put a hold on the implementation of the laws until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-claims-secret-agenda-behind-farmers-protest-amid-tussle-over-further-talks-101623342334106.html
10-06-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown in parts of Karnataka may be extended by a week, says minister||The lockdown imposed in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district to arrest the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may be extended by a week, said district-in-charge Kota Srinivas Poojary on Thursday. The ongoing lockdown will end on June 14.The minister was speaking after attending a virtual meeting called by chief minister BS Yediyurappa to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in state.Deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan and state home minister Basavaraj Bommai were also present in the meeting. Deputy commissioners of Hassan, Mysuru, Mandya, Shivamogga, Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru and Tumakuru districts were also a part of the meeting as the test positivity rate was in these districts high last week."The cases have come down due to the stringent measures adopted by the state government during lockdown but they are not decreasing in these eight districts as was expected. The chief minister expressed his anxiety over the increase in cases in rural areas," a statement issued by the chief minister's office said.Officials concerned were asked to bring down the positivity rate in the state to below five per cent, the statement said, adding that the CM instructed them to strictly ensure compliance of preventive measures to contain the pandemic.He also directed them to abide by the guidelines in the micro containment zones, the statement added. "Yediyurappa asked the deputy commissioners to intensify Covid-19 tests, especially in Belagavi, and give the RT-PCR reports within 24 hours of the test," it read."The chief minister today held a meeting with the districts where the number of cases is high. The next course of action will be decided by the CM by either today evening or tomorrow morning," Ashwathnarayan told news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada's Poojary said he has called a meeting of MPs and MLAs in the district on Friday to discuss what exemptions, if any, will to given to people during the next lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-in-parts-of-karnataka-may-be-extended-by-a-week-says-minister-101623332145721.html
10-06-2021||India||'Baseless, derogatory, devoid of truth': Nikhil Jain refutes Nusrat's allegations||Businessman Nikhil Jain on Thursday broke his silence on the claims of invalidity of his marriage with the Trinamool Congress MP and Tollywood actress Nusrat Jahan. Nikhil said all allegations made by Nusrat are "baseless and derogatory and devoid of truth". He claimed that within a very short period of time Jahan's attitude changed towards the conjugal life and she left his apartment along with all her personal belongings and documents in November 2020."Since August 2020 during the shooting of a film, my wife’s behaviour started changing towards me, for reasons best known to her," Jain said.Also read: Did Nusrat lie in Parliament, asks BJP after Trinamool MP says marriage invalidNusrat on Wednesday claimed that her marriage with Nikhil was not legal as they got married in Turkey in accordance with Turkish Marriage Regulation, which is not valid in India.Refuting the allegations made by her, Nikhil said he had requested her to get the marriage registered on multiple occasions but she avoided them. The Kolkata-based businessman also said that he had transferred money from his family accounts to her account after marriage to relieve her from the heavy interest burden of a home loan."After marriage, to get her released from the heavy interest burden of a home loan, I had the same liquidated by transferring money from my family accounts to her account, on understanding that she would return the same shortly by instalments and as and when the funds are available. Any money-transfer made by her from her account to my family account was repayments of the loan which I gave in good faith. Considerable amount is still due to be paid." Nikhil said.In his statement he also said that he filed a civil suit against her in Kolkata’s Alipore Judges' Court for annulment of the marriage after seeing various media reports pertaining to her outings."Since the matter is pending before a court of law, I refrained from giving any statement about our personal life and even today I am unable to disclose about the discord in detail. But her recent statements compelled me to disclose some facts," he said.Also read: ‘My alleged marriage is not legal…’: Nusrat Jahan on rift with Nikhil JainThe MP from Basirhat constituency referring to Nikhil’s statement that he sought a divorce said that the question of divorce does not arise as it was an inter-faith marriage, which requires validation under the Special Marriage Act in India that did not take place.Nusrat and Nikhil got married at a destination wedding in Turkey in 2019. Nusrat had also hosted a grand wedding reception in a five-star hotel in Kolkata in 2019, which was also attended by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baseless-derogatory-devoid-of-truth-nikhil-jain-refutes-nusrat-s-allegations-101623334815136.html
10-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sharad Pawar dismisses doubts over Maharashtra govt's stability and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pawar dismisses suspicions over stability of MVA governmentNCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said he has no doubt that the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its five-year term and will perform well in the next elections. Read moreSputnik V Covid-19 vaccine shows 94.3% efficacy: RDIF cites Bahrain’s health ministry dataThe Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Thursday said that the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine showed an efficacy of 94.3%, based on the data from the health ministry of the Kingdom of Bahrain. Read more'Everyone said I need to improve my footwork but no one told me how': Virender Sehwag names 3 cricketers who helped himVirender Sehwag was all about hand-eye coordination. With minimum feet movement, Sehwag achieved the maximum results. For a batsman who averaged more than 50 for the major part of his Test career, Sehwag was highly unconventional. Read moreAnurag Kashyap's daughter Aaliyah stars in short film Gayatri, made by Imtiaz Ali's daughter Ida. WatchFilmmaker Anurag Kashyap's daughter Aaliyah Kashyap has starred in a short movie, titled Gayatri. The 3.45 minute-long film is directed by Ida Ali, daughter of filmmaker Imtiaz Ali. Read moreGood news from Google! Play Store sign up fee slashed; company starts email campaign, says reportGood news from Google has come regarding Play Store sign-up fee. The tech giant, back in March this year, had announced that it was reducing Google Play Store developer fee by as much as half for most developers. Read moreGoogle search on Sundar Pichai’s birthday has left some people baffled. Here’s whySundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and parent company Alphabet Inc, is celebrating his birthday today on June 10. If you have been on Twitter today, then you may have noticed the numerous tweets that he has received from people all over the world wishing him on this special day. Read moreNew Punjab Dy CM post for Sidhu? What Congress report says on Amarinder tussleAmid news of infighting within the Punjab Congress, Navjot Sidhu and Capt. Amarinder Singh had separately met a panel formed by the national leadership of Congress. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sharad-pawar-dismisses-doubts-over-maharashtra-govt-s-stability-and-all-the-latest-news-101623337673615.html
10-06-2021||India||BJP received ₹785cr in political contributions. Here is a list of donors||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) received over ₹785 crore in contributions from corporates, electoral trusts and individuals between 2019 and 2020, according to the latest contribution report submitted by the party to the Election Commission (EC) in February. The EC made the report publicly available earlier this week.Several corporate houses and party leaders along with electoral trusts contributed to the party fund.ITC, Kalyan Jewellers, Rare Enterprises, Ambuja Cement, Lodha Developers and Motilal Oswal were some of the corporate houses who contributed to BJP’s party fund. BJP leaders Piyush Goyal, Pema Khandu, Kirron Kher and Raman Singh also contributed to the party fund. New Democratic Electoral Trust, Prudent Electoral Trust, Jankalyan Electoral Trust and Triumph Electoral Trust were among the electoral trusts who also funded the party.Opposition party Congress received ₹139 crore between the same time period which is five times lesser than what the ruling party has received.The Communist Party of India (CPI) received the lowest amount of contributions with ₹1.3 crore. Ahead of CPI was the Trinamool Congress which received ₹8 crore in donations. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) received ₹19.7 crore in contributions. The contribution list does not include donations below ₹20,000.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-received-rs-785cr-in-political-contributions-here-is-a-list-of-donors-101623334748381.html
10-06-2021||India||Jailed activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal work to help prison community||To mark one year of incarceration of jailed student activists Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, who are charged with conspiring to orchestrate the 2020 Delhi riots, students’ collective Pinjra Tod on Wednesday released a pamphlet detailing the activities undertaken by the duo in Tihar jail, that include running a computer centre, legal aid centre, and engaging with the women and children in prison. Both Kalita and Narwal are a part of the women’s collective Pinjra Tod since its inception in 2015. “As Natasha and Devangana complete a year in prison, we share with you all a booklet with some of their artwork, excerpts from their prison letters written to us and some of the work they have done within the prison,” the collective said in a statement on Wednesday. The two women are not the only prisoners working behind bars. Convicted prisoners are allotted work within the jail complex -- in places such as jail factory, kitchen and gardens. Under trial prisoners are given a choice if they wish to work and help the prison department in running the complex. They are also paid daily wages. For example --- former Congress leader Sushil Sharma, convicted for his wife, Naina Sahni’s murder, helped prisoners at the legal aid centre. Former Delhi police inspector Anil Kumar convicted in the Connaught Place fake encounter case, worked in the offices within the jail complex and was part of preparing reform activities for prisoners. Almost all prisoners, barring a few, choose to work as it helps them pass their time behind bars and also use their skills in helping the prison department. In the pamphlet released by the collective, both Narwal and Kalita – in separate letters – speak about their experiences in the jail and their work with the prison community involving working at a legal aid centre, computer centre, library, running yoga sessions before the pandemic hit, and working with the children in the prison. Children below 6 years are allowed to stay with their mothers inside the prison. Until last month, there were around 25 children along with their mothers inside the prison. The children and their mothers were released last week to ensure that they did not catch the Covid-19 infection. The two women had also been holding reading sessions of feminist novels before the pandemic and making artwork around it that was shared by the group on Wednesday. Sandeep Goel, Director General Prisons, said, “If the conduct of the inmates is disciplined, we do involve them in several activities as per their area of knowledge. While all activities are suspended now due to the Covid-19 pandemic, some prisoners have been involved in the legal aid cell assisting visiting lawyers or helping with the crèche facilities or even training people to use computer facilities at our computer centre. Inmates are also involved in different cultural activities including Women’s Day.” While the lawyers of the two women have accused Delhi police of arresting them on false charges because they were prominent members of the protests against the Citizenship Law, police have maintained that the two women were active members in the conspiracy to start the riots in parts of northeast Delhi last year. At least 53 people died and 607 were injured when clashes broke out between Hindus and Muslims in February last year. Last month, Narwal’s father passed away after contracting Covid-19 following which the PhD student was given a three-week interim bail. She returned to prison on May 30. The booklet was released a day after Pinjra Tod held a virtual event inviting friends, family, and activists to speak and mark one year of their incarceration. Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Aishe Ghosh said, “We may come from different organisations, but we have seen all these JNU students around, growing up with us and amidst us. Today, they are behind bars and they are organising activities inside prison, helping people.” Prison expert, Sunil Gupta, who was a law officer in Tihar for over three decades, said that except dangerous prisoners, most inmates are involved in various activities inside jails. “Whosoever wants to work with the children of incarcerated women are allowed to do so irrespective of the offence they are facing. Several vocational skills or recreational activities involving music and sports are also held so that prisoners don’t have any negative thoughts and are kept engaged,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-activists-devangana-kalita-natasha-narwal-work-to-help-prison-community-101623333857639.html
10-06-2021||India||‘Will he get ‘prasada’, ‘Always a suspect’: Prasada gets flak after joining BJP||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday asked former party colleague Jitin Prasada if he would get ‘prasada’ for joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or is he merely a ‘catch’ ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections.Jitin Prasada Joins BJPThe question is will he get “ prasada “ from BJP or is he just a ‘catch’ for UP elections ?In such deals if ‘ideology’ doesn’t matter changeover is easy“Jitin Prasada joins BJP. The question is will he get 'prasada' from BJP or is he just a 'catch' for UP elections,” Sibal tweeted.Former Congress leader Jitin Prasada joined the BJP on Wednesday and said that the saffron party is India’s only ‘national party’. He also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision is necessary for the nation’s development and said Congress has lost its connection with the people.Kapil Sibal also said that he will never join the BJP and called himself a true Congressman. “We are true Congressmen. I will never join the BJP and have never in my life have thought of joining the BJP, like over my dead body,” Sibal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“It could happen if the Congress leadership asks me to leave. I may leave when that happens but will never join the BJP,” Sibal further added.Congress needs to undergo major surgery. People with competence and mass base should be given charge of various states: Veerappa Moily, CongressAnother senior Congress leader Veerappa Moily said that he had anticipated that Prasada would leave. Moily also said that Prasada was not secular and wanted to perpetuate casteist politics in Uttar Pradesh. “He was always a suspect. He was not secular and wanted to perpetuate casteist politics in Uttar Pradesh. People who are committed to party ideology should be given responsibilities,” Moily was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Both Moily and Sibal highlighted that every political party needs to be receptive towards feedback. “I am sure the leadership knows about the problems and I hope they listen because listening is needed for survival. No corporate structure can survive without listening and so is with politics. If you don't listen, you will fall into bad times,” Sibal said.Moily said that the party needs to undergo ‘major surgery’. “Congress needs to undergo major surgery. People with competence should be given charge of various states,” Moily further added. Moily, Sibal and Jitin Prasada were among the 23 leaders who also batted for an overhaul of the way Congress was being run as a party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-he-get-prasada-always-a-suspect-prasada-gets-flak-after-joining-bjp-101623332859271.html
10-06-2021||India||Kashmir village learnt its lesson in 2020, emerges unscathed in Covid 2nd wave||Hirpora village in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, which was a Covid-19 hotspot when the first wave of coronavirus infections struck Jammu and Kashmir, has emerged unscathed in the second and more devastating wave of the pandemic, a health official said on Thursday.“Last year it was a hotspot but this year, we only had a few occasional cases as people took precautions and followed all the SOPs (standard operating procedures) to prevent Covid-19 from the very beginning. They wore masks, maintained social distance and used good hand hygiene,” said chief medical officer, Shopian, Dr Arshid Hussain Tak.On its part, the administration also carried out intensive vaccination campaigns for the 45+ age group in the hilly village on the Mughal Road that connects Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu division with Shopian in south Kashmir.Hirpora village, some 65-odd km from summer capital Srinagar, is home to about 3,000 people, most of them fruit farmers and small-time shopkeepers.Tak said the 600 people above the age of 45 got their first vaccine dose within two weeks of the start of vaccination in April, we inoculated all the 600 people above 45 years of age in the village,” he said.As compared to the 110 positive cases reported from the village last year when it was classified as a Red Zone, Tak said this year, the village had reported only 12 cases. Most of the people who tested positive this year were travellers who were tested by the authorities as part of what it describes as its aggressive testing campaign.“Currently we have no positive cases in the village despite our aggressive testing campaign. It is on Mughal Road and all the passengers passing through the area into Kashmir are tested. Passengers may test positive but not the villagers,” he said.“We are the first in the union territory to have 100 percent completion of vaccination of people above the 45 years age group. Our positivity rate in the second wave is now less than 3% while mortality rate is 0.1 percent,” he said.Shopian was the first Kashmir district to vaccinate 100 percent of its population who are 45 years and above with the first dose. It is the least affected district out of the 10 districts of Kashmir valley in terms of Covid-19 cases and fatalities.Overall, the district has recorded 5,466 coronavirus cases and 57 deaths till June 09. It has the second lowest active cases of 569 after Bandipora district.Kashmir has reported 1,87,000 cases and 2,118 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-village-learnt-its-lesson-in-first-wave-emerges-unscathed-in-covid-2nd-wave-101623332897415.html
10-06-2021||India||Consistent HC pressure led to correction of Covid death figures in Bihar||The Bihar government on Wednesday corrected the figures of fatalities due to Covid-19 and put the toll at 9,375 from the first and second waves after verification. The toll was just 5,424 a day earlier.The revision came after repeated reminders from the Patna high court which pulled up the state government over its failure in properly maintaining the record of deaths.Advocate General Lalit Kishore said he would present the details of the updated toll before the court when the case related to Covid management will be taken up for hearing this week. The court is looking at issues such as death registration as well as preparedness for a possible third wave.Dr Sunil Kumar, Indian Medical Association state secretary, said that the actual figure could go further up as the state was still considering only the positive reports of the rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests as the yardstick. He added there were many who just did not go for any tests and were in home isolation or others who tested negative in rapid and RT-PCR tests but were positive as per chest scan.“The data collected in the rural areas is also very weak and so is the level of awareness. We apprehend that the death figures could go higher... A large number of people remained in home isolation and those deaths are not reported in the absence of test reports.”Also Read | Child labour rises 1st time in 20 years, Nobel laureate demands actionA high court bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar on May 18 pointed out the inconsistency in figures of deaths in Buxar, where 81 corpses were found floating in the Ganga and sought details of both Covid and non-Covid deaths in the state.“We are aghast at the manner in which the affidavits are being filed. We notice that the official website maintained... for recording the births and the deaths has not yet been updated. We see no reason as to why the deaths, whatever be the number and wherever they may have taken place, would not have been updated on the official website. Deaths may have also taken place in home isolation, at care centres, private hospitals, etc. Equally, this would apply to all the districts of Bihar,” the bench said.On May 21, the bench was told how delays in the issuance of death registration certificates were causing problems to the kin of victims in availing insurance claims and other compensation.The court said that Buxar was a test case. “If officials of the panchayati raj institutions and others do not comply with the court’s order within a week and fail to update death registration, we will stop their salary and even seize their powers.”On May 25, the bench reiterated it was important that every death was recorded and documented from every village, block, district or town. It added it could go a long way in helping the state prepare for the third wave with an overall view of the ground situation.This prompted the state government to order district magistrates to comply with the orders within 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consistent-hc-pressure-led-to-correction-of-covid-death-figures-in-bihar-101623330556666.html
10-06-2021||India||LPG customers soon to be free to choose distributors. Here's how||The government on Thursday announced that the LPG consumers will now be able to decide their distributors for LPG refill. In the pilot phase, which will be launched shortly, the facility will be available in Chandigarh, Coimbatore, Gurgaon, Pune, and Ranchi."Consumers will be able to choose their “Delivering Distributor” from the list of distributors catering to their address within their Oil Marketing Company (OMC)," the Union ministry for petroleum and natural gas said on Thursday.Also read: LPG price, ITR filing, gold hallmarking: Changes coming into effect from June 1The move is aimed at inspiring healthy competition among distributors to provide the best services and to empower consumers.Here's how consumers can book their LPG refill digitally:The government has also made LPG connection portability easier for the customers. Consumers can now avail portability to another distributor of the same company without visiting the distributorship.Also read | LPG cylinder rates, Axis Bank ATM withdrawal charges: Changes from May 1"The facility is free of cost and there is no fee or transfer charges payable for this facility. 55759 portability requests have been successfully completed by OMCs in May 2021," the statement by the ministry read."Customers using their registered login can choose a distributor of their OMC from the list of distributors serving in their area and opt for the porting of their LPG connection. Source distributor has the option to contact the customer and persuade him/her. If the customer is convinced, he/she can withdraw the portability request within the stipulated time of 3 days. Otherwise, the connection gets transferred to the target distributor automatically," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-customers-soon-to-be-free-to-choose-distributors-here-s-how-101623327153422.html
10-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand defies SC order on road through tiger corridor, contempt plea filed||A contempt petition has been filed in the Supreme Court against the Uttarakhand government for resuming construction of a road project in Rajaji National Park that was stalled by the top court in 2019 for want of statutory forest and wildlife clearances.As the 11.5 kilometre-road cuts through an ecologically sensitive wildlife corridor serving as a crucial link for tigers and elephants to cross between Rajaji National Park and Corbett National Park, the Supreme Court had on July 29, 2019 held, “No road activity shall be undertaking without obtaining statutory approvals under Section 38 of the Wildlife Protection Act.” Section 38 requires approval of NBWL for any project undertaken in a wildlife sanctuary or national park. An expert committee assisting the Supreme Court had opined that the project lacks clearance under the Forest Conservation Act as well.Also Read | Assam gets 2 new national parks; total goes up to sevenThe contempt petition filed by Supreme Court lawyer Gaurav Kumar Bansal stated that the order passed in July 2019 is still relevant as the state is yet to obtain forest clearance. Even the Standing Committee of the National Board of Wildlife (NBWL) has laid down certain Mitigation Measures to which the State Forest Department is not agreeable.The petition said, “Construction of the Laldhang Chillarkhal road by state of Uttarakhand, in absence of the decision by Standing Committee of the NBWL is not only illegal but also amounts to Contempt of order dated July 29, 2019 issued by this Court…Hence the present contempt petition.”Bansal referred to certain news reports to show how the state has resumed work on the road project by giving orders under the Uttarakhand Disaster Management Act. In March 2019 the state government began construction on this stretch to provide a shorter route connecting Haridwar with Kotdwar.The road cuts through the buffer zone of Rajaji National Park, home to tigers, elephants, cheetahs and bears. The petition annexed recent photographs to show tiger pug marks and elephant tracks on the stretch where construction is going on.As per a joint inspection report of the site in question by the Wildlife Institute of India and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) , the project cuts through “crucial tiger movement corridor” between Rajaji and Corbett, and the best mitigation measure proposed is avoidance of the project, followed by the next best method to elevate the entire stretch of road alignment.According to the two expert bodies, “Mortality of wild animals would certainly increase in the area once the road is black topped as it would allow larger number of vehicles to ply over with higher speed thereby creating a barrier to animal movement.” Once the road is ready, traffic of Kumaon area and other cities in central eastern and eastern parts of the state would be diverted to this road due to shorter distance and to avoid taxes levied in Uttar Pradesh, the report stated.Both the NTCA and NBWL have conveyed to the state forest department that forest clearance for the project is inevitable.They have also proposed keeping the underpass at an 8 metre height to allow smooth passage for elephants in the central road stretch of 4.7 kilometres between Chamaria and Siggadi Sot. Additional proposed mitigation measures include speed breakers at regular intervals of 250 to 300 metres in the forested stretches of the road and no traffic movement between sunset and sunrise. The petition stated that Uttarakhand’s chief wildlife warden is not agreeable to the mitigation measures and seeks exemption from forest clearances, he has also suggested that the underpass be made with of 5 metres instead of the proposed 8 metres.On May 28, 2021, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change wrote to the Uttarakhand government asking the state forest department to obtain forest clearance for the road project. Even NTCA wrote to the government on May 31 seeking a factual report on the road project. The NBWL is set to meet on June 11 to decide on the mitigation measures to be complied by Uttarakhand Forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-defies-sc-order-on-road-through-tiger-corridor-contempt-plea-filed-101623329657970.html
10-06-2021||India||Child labour rises 1st time in 20 years, Nobel laureate demands action from world leaders on G7 eve||As the child labour swells for the first time in 20 years, Nobel Peace Laureate and founder of Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation, Kailash Satyarthi on Thursday demanded action from world leaders to eradicate the exploitative practice."On the eve of the @G7, this appalling rise in child labour poses the strongest moral challenge to our world leaders. Will they acknowledge this impact of growing inequality, or conduct business as usual by forgetting our children?" Satyarthi said on the eve of G7 summit.On the eve of the @G7, this appalling rise in child labour poses the strongest moral challenge to our world leaders. Will they acknowledge this impact of growing inequality, or conduct business as usual by forgetting our children? #EndChildLabour2021 #FairShareToEndChildLabourThe United Nations on Thursday said one in 10 children are involved in work worldwide and millions more are at risk due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reported Reuters.The number of child labourers increased to 160 million from 152 million in 2016. Africa saw the greatest rise due to population growth, crises and poverty, said International Labour Organization (ILO) and the U.N. Children's Fund (UNICEF), reported Reuters.Also read: Taj Mahal among 50 'religious places' identified to combat child labour, begging"It is shameful that we are seeing the first rise in child labour in 20 years! New and bold steps must be taken. It is time to create a Global Social Protection Fund and national social protection floors. We need a fair share to end child labour," Satyarthi tweeted with the hashtag #FairShareToEndChildLabour and #EndChildLabour2021."There is no excuse or justification for an increase in child labour! Even before the pandemic began, over 16 million more young children in child labour. In the same 4 years, the world got richer by $10 trillion. Please, wake up!" he added.Citing India's situation, he said his foundation Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), which claims to be a grassroots movement protecting children and ensuring their rehabilitation and education, rescued over 11,000 children along with government authorities during the lockdown. He said India has created strict laws against the practice and urged everyone to come together to make sure "no child is forced to work to survive"."We are losing ground in the fight against child labour, and the last year has not made that fight any easier," Reuters quoted UNICEF's executive director Henrietta Fore as saying ahead of World against Child Labour Day on June 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-labour-rises-1st-time-in-20-years-nobel-laureate-demands-action-from-world-leaders-on-g7-eve-101623325440931.html
10-06-2021||India||India has administered 240 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 240 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, June 10, even as the Co-WIN portal was updated to allow corrections in vaccine certificates.Meanwhile the US said it will buy 500 million more doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine to share through the global COVAX alliance for donation to lower income countries and the African Union over the next year.By 7pm on Wednesday, the number of doses administered was 242,479,167. This includes 10,012,624 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,911,311 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 16,471,228 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,751,277 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Delhi reports 305 Covid cases, 44 deaths in 24 hours, positivity rate at 0.41%In the 45-60-year age group, 73,323,267 people have got their first dose and another 11,622,718 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 61,638,580 people have been administered their first dose while 19,534,203 have had their second dose as well.In the 18-45 year age group, 1,924,924 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine and 86,450 got their second dose on Wednesday and cumulatively, 33,808,845 of this age group have had their first dose while 405,114 have got their second dose as well across the country.As many as 3,131,759 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 2,837,572 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 294,187 beneficiaries received their second dose as wellMeanwhile, India saw a massive jump of 6,148 fresh deaths in the last 24 hours, as the country’s death toll rose to 359,676, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) data showed on Thursday morning. This is the highest number of fatalities recorded in India due to the Covid-19 pandemic in a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-240-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101623328516629.html
10-06-2021||India||Board exams will be held in mid-July if Covid-19 TPR dips below 2%, says Assam CM||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday that the state government would conduct board exams for Class 10 and Class 12 in mid-July only if the Covid-19 positivity rate in the state drops below 2%. The announcement came two days after the state’s education minister Ranoj Pegu said that the board exams for both classes were likely to be held in the first half of August by following Covid-19 safety measures. “Most parents and student organizations in Assam are of the opinion that the board exams should be held. The education department will try and hold the exams in mid-July,” Sarma said in Guwahati. “The questions papers are likely to be multiple-choice ones, allowing students to score good marks. The exams will be held following Covid-19 protocol provided the positivity rate drops below 2%. If it is above that, we will ask schools to evaluate the students,” he added. Sarma said that the exams are likely to be conducted between July 15 and July 20 with boys and girls appearing on different dates in order to ensure social distancing at exam centres. “We can’t put the lives of students at risk. The exact dates of the exam will be announced in the next few days, but it will come with a rider on the positivity rate. We will make an assessment on July 1, if the positivity rate doesn’t drop below 2%, we won’t put lives of students at risk and cancel the exams,” he said. Assam is adding around 3,500 to 4,000 new Covid19 cases daily. The positivity rate, which stood at 9% a month ago, has dropped to around 3% at present. The state is witnessing nearly 40-50 Covid-19 deaths daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/board-exams-will-be-held-in-mid-july-if-covid-19-tpr-dips-below-2-says-assam-cm-101623326776651.html
10-06-2021||India||Police inaction alleged in rape case of mentally challenged woman in TN||Tamil Nadu’s Commissionerate for Welfare of the Differently Abled has sought a report on alleged police inaction in the rape case of a 28-year-old mentally challenged and visually impaired five-month pregnant woman in Krishnagiri district amid reports that she has been married off to her alleged rapist.Johny Tom Varghese, the welfare commissioner for the differently abled, took cognisance of the matter on his own on Tuesday under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act and issued the notice, including to Krishnagiri police superintendent and district social welfare department. He has sought a report before June 22 while questioning whether authorities followed procedures in the case as per the Act.The commission issued the notice before reports of the marriage. The revenue division officer has been asked to find out if she requires protection and legal, medical and psychiatric help.Also Read | Tamil Nadu reverses 100% occupancy order in movie theatres after Centre’s noticeTamil Nadu Association for Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) general secretary S Namburajan said village heads arranged the woman’s marriage with the alleged 35-year-old rapist on June 6. “That is when I alerted the authorities in Chennai,” said Namburajan. “They are protecting the criminal... This will only lead to an increase in such crimes.”Namburajan said they helped the woman’s family file a police complaint on June 3 and claimed no case was registered until June 5. He added locals informed him the woman was married off on Wednesday. R Mahizhnan, the district differently abled welfare officer, led a preliminary inquiry last Friday. “We instructed them several times not to speak for a marriage,” he said. “We gave them our contacts and asked them to come to us for any help and service, but we hear they got her married Wednesday morning,” he said.Police said that they have registered a First Information Report under Indian Penal Code Sections including 417 (cheating), 503 (1) (criminal intimidation), 493 (deceiving a woman to cohabit), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation), and 312 (miscarriage).Sai Charan Tejaswi, the superintendent of police, said if the activists have concerns of omission, they are ready to take action as per complaints. “It is a recent case. We have a stipulated time before we file a charge sheet. So based on the victim’s statement, any section can be deleted or added,” said Tejaswi. “We are in touch with the victim. She was taken to the government hospital today [Thursday] for a check-up. We are providing legal assistance to them.” The officer could not verify reports of the marriage stating that there has been no registration. “The accused is already married to another woman. There are talks between them and their relatives. We can neither stop nor allow the will and wish of the victim. Our purview is to ensure the victim is protected, not harassed, and offer legal support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-inaction-alleged-in-rape-case-of-mentally-challenged-woman-intn-101623326596314.html
10-06-2021||India||Highway heists, bribe allegations, leadership battles: BJP’s Kerala challenges||Since its rout in the recently held assembly poll, in which the party lost its lone sitting legislative seat, the Kerala unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is mired in a series of controversies.Upset with the developments, the party central leadership has summoned state chief K Surendran to Delhi. Coming right after the Kerala Police registered a case against him on Monday for allegedly bribing an independent candidate to withdraw his papers after the intervention of a court in north Kerala, the call from Delhi has triggered speculation about what lies ahead for the party in the state.The defeat and its aftermath Following the poll debacle, in which the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) lost around three per cent of vote share compared to its 2016 performance, the central leadership sought a report from three important leaders — former state police chief Jacob Thomas, Metro Man E Sreedharan (both were party candidates) and former bureaucrat C V Ananda Bose — about the state of affairs in the party. They reportedly recommended sweeping changes in the light of poor performance, factional feuds and subsequent controversies in the state unit.Also Read | Kannur strongman K Sudhakaran is new Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chiefThough the state unit has started a process of damage control, political observers suggest that there remain mounting differences within the party.State leaders have underplayed Surendran’s Delhi visit but speculation is rife here about an overhaul. “It was not summoning, but a planned visit. Besides our political opponents, a section of media is also baying for the party blood,” said party leader M T Ramesh, rejecting the speculation about a change in state party leadership. A party team has also called on Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Wednesday, alleging a ploy to defame the party.The party is in the midst of three raging controversies — a reported highway heist and hawala transactions, alleged pay off to an independent candidate, and a financial transaction with tribal leader C K Janu, a candidate in Wayanad, to remain with the NDA bloc.Highway heist A highway robbery took place on April 3, three days before the state went to the polls. It unfolded after a man named S Shamseer, who was transporting cash, was waylaid by a group of people on Kodakara on Thrisur-Ernakulam highway and looted his vehicle after assaulting him.Four days later (April 7), Shamseer filed a police complaint in which he said ₹25 lakh was stolen from his car, and claimed the money was meant for some property transactions. The police filed a case on April 7 following his compliant.When the police inquired why he delayed filing complaint, his statements were inconsistent and after further interrogation he took the name of one A K Dharmarajan, a local Rashtriya Swaymsevak Sangh leader.Dharmarajan said the money was meant for election activities and he collected it from many persons. But the police subsequently found that ₹3.5 crore was missing, and arrested 20 persons, all history-sheeters, allegedly involved in the heist.The alleged BJP link came to light when police started investigation into the source of money. Dharmarajan reportedly told the police that the money was meant to be handed over to BJP Alapuzha treasurer, K G Kartha, and party state organising secretary, M Ganeshan, was aware of the transportation. Both leaders were questioned by the police.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the case now suspects that the money came from Karnataka through hawala channels and it was allegedly meant for distribution in elections. After money was lost, both (Shamseer and Dharmarajan) made several calls to state unit chief Surendran and his son, call records of both showed. The Enforcement Directorate has sought details of the case from the SIT. Both the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Congress have alleged the ED was going slow since the BJP was involved.Meanwhile, a local court in Thrissur on Wednesday dismissed a plea of Dharmarajan seeking the possession of seized money. Police have so far seized ₹1.75 crore and gold from the accused. While dismissing his plea, the court said the investigation in the case was on and it sought more details from the SIT.Pay-off to independent candidate Even as the party was struggling with highway heist, the alleged pay off to an independent candidate surfaced.Independent candidate K Sundara, who had contested against K Surendran in Mancheswaram (north Kerala), alleged last week that he was under pressure to withdraw his candidature in favour of the BJP leader. He said though he demanded ₹15 lakh, he was paid ₹2.5 lakh and received a smart phone. He also said he was offered a wine parlour and a house in Karnataka once Surendran emerged victorious. After Surendran’s defeat, party leaders were not willing to meet promises made to him, he alleged.After the news surfaced, the CPI(M) candidate V V Ramesan moved the Kasaragod magistrate court, which directed the police to register a case against Surendran. He was later booked under Section 17I (B )of the Indian Penal Code and other sections. But the party said it will challenge the decision in a higher court.“Both the ruling CPI(M) and opposition Congress have joined hands to discredit the BJP. Some of the recent allegations are part of this campaign,” said party leader A N Radhakrishnan. Sundara, who now claimed he is associated with the Bahujan Samaj Party, said he was ready to depose against the BJP leader.Interestingly, in the 2016 assembly elections too, Sundara had contested but he got 467 votes while Surendran lost the seat by a slender margin of 89 votes. Sundara said this time the BJP was more alert and many leaders from Karnataka pressurised him to withdraw from the election. After withdrawing his nomination, he campaigned for Surendran, but did not join the party.But the state president lost the April poll by a bigger margin of 745 votes to Muslim League’s AKM Ashraf. “It is only tip of the iceberg. The ongoing investigation will give a clear picture later. The party spent crores of rupees in recent elections,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.The Congress has sought a court-monitored probe into highway heist and hawala transactions. “Only a court-monitored probe will unravel truth otherwise the state government will weaken in the case in lieu of some of the cases being probed by central agencies,” said party leader K Muraleedharan.Largesse to tribal leader In the middle of these two controversies, another issue surfaced last week after the leader of Janatipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP), an ally of the BJP, alleged that Surendran had given ₹10 lakh to JRP president C K Janu to returning to the NDA fold before the polls. Earlier Janu, a tribal leader from Wayanad, had severed her links with the BJP and NDA but later she became a candidate in Wayanad.JRP leader Praseetha Azeekode said though Janu sought a bigger amount, Surendran gave her only ₹10 lakh. After her disclosure, an audio tape also surfaced in which Surendran was purportedly heard talking to Janu. (HT could not verify authenticity of the tape). But Janu later denied this and said it was part of the electioneering expenses and no payment was involved in her return.“The recent allegations have invited more ignominy to the party than the poll defeat. Infighting in the party played a key role in fuelling troubles,” said political observer A Jayashankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highway-heists-bribe-allegations-leadership-battles-bjp-s-kerala-challenges-101623326116374.html
10-06-2021||India||Monsoon covers nearly half the country in a week, six days ahead of schedule||Monsoon has advanced into parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and remaining areas of Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh six days ahead of schedule, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Monsoon is expected to reach Delhi earlier than expected, IMD added.“In the next 48 hours, monsoon will reach parts of east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In the subsequent two days, the monsoon may cover west Uttar Pradesh and parts of Uttarakhand also. So, the expectation is that it will reach Delhi earlier than expected,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.Monsoon normally arrives in Delhi by June-end.Srivastava said certain conditions will have to be met before they declare the onset of monsoon in Delhi. “It should have rained in a large area for a couple of days, the easterly wind pattern should be established, and it should have covered Bihar, parts of Uttar Pradesh, etc,” he said.Also Read | Monsoon likely to cover all of east, large parts of central India in 2-3 daysRK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre, echoed Srivastava and said that before the early arrival of the monsoon in northwest India, there will be widespread and heavy rains in east and central India. “There is a warning of lightning for central India, Bihar, Odisha, etc. People should be careful.”The arrival of monsoon, which is crucial to the country’s farm-dependent economy, is announced based on factors such as wind speed, consistency of rainfall, intensity, and cloud cover. The monsoon arrived in Kerala on June 3 two days behind schedule. It arrives there first before covering the rest of India by July.The early expected arrival of the monsoon in northwest India including Delhi is expected to bring relief from the muggy weather.IMD said the country has recorded 21% excess rainfall between June 1 and 9. Out of 36 subdivisions, 11 have recorded large excess rains (60% above normal), seven excess (20 to 59%), 10 normal (-19 to 19%).In its second long-range forecast, IMD said monsoon rainfall was likely to be normal at 101% of the long-period average (LPA) after two years of above-average rainfall. LPA is the average rainfall (88cm) recorded in India every year between June and September from 1961 to 2010.Good rainfall has been a prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience for two years, and its ability last year to buck the Covid-19 pandemic.In 2020 and 2019, the monsoon was above normal at 110% and 109% of LPA. In 1996, 1997, and 1998, the monsoon was normal at 103.4%, 102.2%, and 104%, according to IMD. India recorded 18% excess rain during the pre-monsoon period from March 1 to May 31.IMD said the monsoon also advanced to the remaining parts of the Central Bay of Bengal and most parts of the North Bay of Bengal on Thursday. The northern limit of the monsoon passes through Surat, Nandurbar, Betul, Mandla, Bilaspur, Bolangir, Puri, and Bagdogra.IMD said conditions were favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into more parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts Chhattisgarh and Odisha, entire West Bengal and Jharkhand, and parts of Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh and remaining parts of north Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours.Ministry of earth sciences secretary M Rajeevan said the monsoon is very active now and their models indicate that it will be active for another week. “Some of our models are indicating a slight weakening of the monsoon towards the end of the month. Monsoon is normally active during onset, plus a low-pressure area developing over the Bay of Bengal is also helping it progress.”IMD said a cyclonic circulation was lying over the northwest Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours. It is likely to become more marked during subsequent 24 hours and move west-north-westwards across Odisha. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated to scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall was very likely in most parts of east India and adjoining central India from Thursday.Extremely heavy rain (≥ 20 cm) was also likely in Odisha on June 11 and 12, Chhattisgarh during June 11 and 13, east Madhya Pradesh on June 13, Vidarbha on June 12 and 13.Due to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast in association with the low-pressure area, widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy rain was likely to continue in coastal districts of Maharashtra from June 10 to 11 and in coastal Karnataka from June 12 to 15. Extremely heavy rain is also likely in the Konkan region.Due to the west-north-westwards movement of the low-pressure area, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is likely in northwest India from June 12 to 14.Ahead of monsoon onset, fairly widespread thunderstorm activity accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning was likely in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar during the next two days, IMD has warned. Deaths due to lightning are reported in the monsoon season particularly in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.“In monsoon season hydrometeoric (water or ice particles) concentration is more so there is more charge build-up. If it is a very high cloud, then charge neutralisation happens within the cloud also called intra-cloud lightning. If cloud height is high but not extremely high, there is more charge separation and cloud to ground lightning. Cloud life during monsoon is longer and it moves slowly so there are a number of flashes in a small region. Kharif crops are planted in this season. Paddy field acts as an ionic fluid and many farmers get electrocuted at once,” Soma Sen Roy, a member of the ministry of earth sciences’ thunderstorm working group, said last year.India receives about 70% of its annual rain during the four-month monsoon that is crucial for rice, soybean, and cotton cultivation. As much as 60% of the sown area does not have access to irrigation in India, where over 150 million farmers and nearly half of the population are dependent on a farm-based income. The monsoon also replenishes 89 nationally important reservoirs critical for drinking and power generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-covers-nearly-half-the-country-in-a-week-six-days-ahead-of-schedule-101623325876281.html
10-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi's disappearance from Antigua sponsored by state, alleges wife Priti Choksi||Mehul Choksi's wife Priti Choksi on Thursday said the disappearance of the businessman from Antigua and then his reappearance, the claims of "rumoured girlfriend" Babara Jabarica — all are a part of a state-sponsored scheme. But the scheme went wrong as now PM Gaston Browne's "lies" are being exposed, Priti Choksi said. "This Bogey of going to Cuba from the Commonwealth of Dominica is nothing but the result of a botched up google search, where people have confused the Commonwealth of Dominica with the Dominican Republic as Cuba is in the direction of the Dominican Republic and both of them i.e the Commonwealth of Dominica and the Dominican Republic are in opposite directions," Priti said referring Barbara's claim that she never went to Dominica. Antigua PM had earlier claimed that Mehul Choksi might have gone to Dominica with his girlfriend.As contradictory accounts of what happened to Mehul Choksi and how he landed at Dominica are emerging, Dominica has declared him a prohibited immigrant.What Priti Choksi saysPreeti Choksi has trashed Barbara Jabarica's claims that Mehul befriended her with a false name. In this age of technology, anyone's identity can be confirmed on social media, the wife said. She also asked why the CCTV footage of the abduction from Jolly Harbour are not there. Had he been going to Dominica, why would he leave his passport, car keys behind, Priti asked.What Barbara Jabarica saysBarbara Jabarica has said she knew Mehul Choksi by the name of Raj since August. The businessman, wanted in India in a multi-crore scam, wanted her to join the diamond business. Barbara has also said that she was not his girlfriend. Barbara also said that once Mehul Choksi spoke to her about Cuba but it was not like an escape plan.What Mehul Choksi saysMehul Choksi said he was abducted on May 23 evening and named a few persons including Barbara, Gurjit Bhandal and Narendar Singh. Choksi said he was taken on a yacht on May 23 evening. On May 24, he was handed over to the Coast Guard of Dominica on a boat around 10 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-s-disappearance-from-antigua-sponsored-by-state-alleges-wife-priti-choksi-101623325318247.html
10-06-2021||India||Assam's Niharika Das carries Covid-infected father-in-law on back. Photo goes viral||The Covid-19 pandemic has unearthed many stories that inspire or move to tears. The story of Niharika Das is a combination of both. Social media is abuzz with the heroic story of the woman in Assam carrying her Covid-infected father-in-law Thuleshwar Das to the hospital on her back after actress Aimee Baruah shared the young woman's story on her Twitter handle."In an amazing display of women-power today, Niharika Das, a young woman from Raha, carried her Covid positive father-in-law, Thuleshwar Das, on her back while taking him to the hospital. However, she too tested positive later. I wish this inspiration of a woman a speedy recovery," Baruah tweeted with the viral picture of Das carrying her father-in-law.In an amazing display of women-power today, Niharika Das, a young woman from Raha, carried her COVID positive father-in-law, Thuleshwar Das, on her back while taking him to the hospital. However, she too tested positive later.I wish this inspiration of a woman a speedy recovery. pic.twitter.com/pQi6sNzG0IOn June 2, Thuleshwar, who works as a betel nut seller in the Raha area of Nagaon, started showing symptoms of Covid-19, after which his daughter-in-law somehow arranged for an auto-rickshaw to take him to the hospital. Niharika had to carry her father-in-law on her back to the auto as it was not able to enter the narrow streets.Also read| Adopt ‘decent family planning policy’: Assam CM to minority community"My father-in-law was feeling very weak and could not even stand. My husband was in Siliguri for work. So I had no choice but to carry them on my back. The reason for this was also that our street was narrow and due to this, the auto could not come. In such a situation, I reached there with father-in-law," Live Hindustan quoted Niharika as saying in a conversation to The Indian Express.However, after reaching the nearby hospital she was told that her father-in-law needs to be taken to the Covid hospital, located 21km away, as his condition was critical. The mother of a six-year-old son then again had to carry her father-in-law on her back to reach the car and finally, she managed to take him to the car. In such a situation, when Thuleshwar was in a kind of unconscious state, struggling mentally and physically, no stretcher or ambulance was available, Niharika said.Niharika also said that no one came to help and hoped that no one has to suffer through such a situation in the future, reported Hindustan Times' sister concern Live Hindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assams-niharika-das-carries-covid-infected-father-in-law-on-back-photo-goes-viral-101623320258803.html
10-06-2021||India||India to work with Germany on ‘convergent vision’ for Indo-Pacific: Foreign secy||India will work with Germany on a “convergent vision” of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region as part of enhanced strategic engagement between the two countries, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Addressing an event to mark the release of a postage stamp on the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries, Shringla described Germany as one of India’s “most important friends in the European Union”. “Last year, Germany became the second European country to issue guidelines for the Indo-Pacific, which we welcome. We look forward to working with Germany on our convergent vision of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region,” he said. Also Read | US eases travel warning for Japan ahead of Olympics, France, Germany, othersThe post-pandemic global order will require concerted efforts by like-minded countries to ensure that multilateralism and a rules-based international order are respected by all, he said. “India and Germany must therefore continue to enhance the level and quality of their strategic engagement. We both have unique strengths that we can synergise to be a force for good in the world,” he added. Shringla also said the recommencement of negotiations on an India-EU trade and investment agreement augurs well for the future of economic ties with Germany. Regular institutional engagements at higher political levels have lent momentum to India-Germany ties, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chancellor Angela Merkel have met 12 times in the past seven years, Shringla noted. The two countries also consult closely at multilateral and international organisations, and engage on issues such as counter-terrorism, cyber-security and climate change, he said. The virtual event was also joined by German ambassador Walter Lindner and Vineet Pandey, secretary in the department of posts. India established diplomatic ties with the then Federal Republic of Germany on March 7, 1951, becoming one of the first countries to do so. In recent times, the two sides have extensively cooperated in the response to the Covid-19 pandemic in scientific research and supply of health-related products and equipment. In the early days of the pandemic, India supplied hydroxychoroquine and other pharmaceutical products to Germany. Amid the second wave of the pandemic in India, Germany extended much needed support by supplying oxygen-related equipment, essential drugs and raw materials. Shringla thanked the government and people of Germany for this “timely and helpful gesture”. Both India’s department of posts, and Germany’s postage stamp division issued commemorative stamps. The Indian stamp was designed by Gulistan and the German stamp by Matthias Wittig.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-work-with-germany-on-convergent-vision-for-indo-pacific-foreign-secy-101623324616119.html
10-06-2021||India||News updates from HT| 'Got to know from various sources': Bihar govt on gap in Covid-19 toll and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Got to know from various sources': Bihar govt explains gap in Covid-19 tollBihar health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday said the government has been working on revising the Covid-19 death toll for the past few weeks after it came to know from various sources that the death toll due to Covid-19 could be more in number. Read moreAdopt ‘decent family planning policy’: Assam CM to minority communityAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday urged the minority Muslim community in the state to adopt a “decent family planning” policy to bring down poverty and control social problems. Read moreKerala man freed from death row in UAE returns, says got second life45-years old Indian national Becks Kirshnan, who was freed after spending nearly nine years on a death row in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in lieu of blood money paid by an NRI businessman, reached Kerala late Wednesday and said his release gave him a “second life”. Read moreChoksi ‘unlawfully renditioned’ to Dominica so he couldn’t appeal in UK: LawyerIndian fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi was “unlawfully renditioned” from Antigua and Barbuda to Dominica so he would no longer have the option of appealing to the UK Privy Council against efforts to strip him of his Antiguan citizenship, a British lawyer representing the businessman said on Thursday. Read more'Amazing how they now seem offensive': Vaughan slams 'utterly ridiculous' witch-hunt for old social media postsIt has been a turbulent time for English cricketers as several old posts made on Twitter have resurfaced which has started an investigation by the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB). Read moreAfter Indian Idol appearance, Abhijeet Bhattacharya slams reality show judges for being self-centred: 'Is this a joke?'Slamming reality show judges, singer Abhijeet Bhattacharya has said that those who promote themselves aren't 'real judges'. Abhijeet, a popular playback singer in the 90s, recently appeared on Indian Idol 12 as a guest judge, and said that his absence from the reality show scene was because he was unwilling to share the stage with certain people. Read moreSundar Pichai’s birthday: Ramesh Pokhriyal shares special messageThe journey of Sundar Pichai, the CEO of tech giant Google and its parent company Alphabet Inc, from Madurai to Mountain View is a tale that serves as an inspiration to many. Read moreSameera Reddy's Sassy Saasu Manjri Varde whips up Summer feast with mangoesFormer Bollywood actor Sameera Reddy and her Sassy Saasu, mother in law Manjri Varde make for quite a pair, and the duo are often seen on each others social media feeds pulling the most fun antics with each other showing a camaraderie that is often not even seen among mothers and daughters, let alone with a desi Saasu Maa. Read moreWatch | Explained: How Chinese nationals cheated 5 lakh Indians of ₹150 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-got-to-know-from-various-sources-bihar-govt-on-gap-in-covid-19-toll-and-all-the-latest-news-101623323390576.html
10-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine wastage: Jharkhand at top, Kerala, West Bengal in negative||Kerala and West Bengal during the month of May recorded a negative wastage of Covid-19 vaccines in contrast to Jharkhand that reported the maximum wastage of 33.95 per cent, news agency PTI cited the government data. According to the data, Kerala and West Bengal saved 1.10 lakh and 1.61 lakh vaccine doses, respectively.Kerala registered -6.37 per cent vaccine wastage and West Bengal registered -5.48 per cent of vaccine wastage. States in the north like Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, reported 7.08 per cent, 3.95 per cent, 3.91 per cent vaccine wastage, PTI reported citing government data.Also read: Committed to prevent misuse of data regarding Covid-19 vaccines, says CentreIn the increasing order, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh reported 3.78, 3.63, 7.35 and 15.79 per cent of vaccine wastage, respectively.Cumulatively, 790.6 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses were supplied to states and Union territories (UTs) in the month of May, of which total vaccinations were 610.6 lakh, while 685.6 lakh doses were used and the closing balance was 212.7 lakh vaccine doses, as per the data, reported PTI.In comparison to April, May recorded less vaccinations, even though the government under its liberalised and accelerated vaccination strategy began the inoculation process for people above 18 years of age on May 1.In April, a total of 898.7 lakh vaccine doses were administered, 902.2 lakh vaccinations were used and the month had a closing balance of 80.8 lakh, reported PTI citing the data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19As of June 7, the first dose coverage of people above the age of 45 years was at 38 per cent, with Tripura at the top covering 92 per cent of its population. Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh at 65 per cent each, Kerala at 51 per cent, Gujarat at 53 per cent and Delhi at 49 per cent, according to the data, reported PTI.States recording low first dose coverage for people older than 45 years include Tamil Nadu with 19 per cent, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh at 24 per cent each and Bihar at 25 per cent, as per the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-wastage-jharkhand-at-top-kerala-west-bengal-in-negative-101623317224375.html
10-06-2021||India||Adopt ‘decent family planning policy’: Assam CM to minority community||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday urged the minority Muslim community in the state to adopt a “decent family planning” policy to bring down poverty and control social problems. “We want to work with the minority Muslim community to control population. The root cause of issues such as poverty, land encroachment etc., lies in uncontrolled population growth. I think we can put an end to a lot of social problems in Assam if the Muslim community adopts decent family planning norms,” the CM said in Guwahati. Addressing a press conference to mark completion of first month of his government at the state administrative staff college, Sarma appealed to organisations such as All Assam Minority Students Union (AAMSU) and Opposition party All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) to focus on population control initiatives in the Muslim community. “Assam government is going to take a few more steps which should encourage population control. I want to work with AAMSU and AIUDF on this,” he said “We want community support to spread education among Muslim women. You cannot reduce poverty unless you control your population. I hope the community will respect the government’s stand on this and work towards this,” he added. In 2017, the Assam assembly had passed a population and women empowerment policy which prevented people with more than two children from securing government jobs. It also prevented them from contesting panchayat and municipal elections. However, that policy is yet to be implemented. Since coming to power, the state government has started a campaign to remove encroachments from government land and also from religious sites. Anti-encroachment drives in different places have uprooted thousands of settlers from Sipajhar, Sootea, Hojai and Karimganj. “All this encroachment is happening due to an increase in population. If that trend continues, it will lead to paucity of living space and will result on conflict. Some are saying that such eviction drives shouldn’t happen. But we can’t allow people to illegally settle on forest land or land belonging to temples,” said Sarma. Terming Illegal smuggling of cattle as a big problem, the CM said a new law would be passed in the next assembly session on it. He pointed out that since the existing laws in the state don’t consider transit of cattle as illegal and cattle from other states are transported through Assam and smuggled to Bangladesh through the Indo-Bangla border in Meghalaya, the new legislation was needed. “In July, in the next assembly session, we will pass a law making transit of cattle through the state as illegal. With this new legislation, Assam will have to power to fight this menace. In the interim, we have stopped transit of cattle through an executive order. Since coming to power, we have been able to almost end this illegal trade,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adopt-decent-family-planning-policy-assam-cm-to-minority-community-101623322575798.html
10-06-2021||India||Kerala man freed from death row in UAE returns, says got second life||45-years old Indian national Becks Kirshnan, who was freed after spending nearly nine years on a death row in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in lieu of blood money paid by an NRI businessman, reached Kerala late Wednesday and said his release gave him a “second life”.His wife and son were at the Cochin International Airport to receive him.“For me, it is a second life. Never thought I could meet my family again,” emotional Becks told the media. He was sentenced to death (execution by a firing squad) by UAE’s Supreme Court in 2013 after he rammed his car into a group of children in Abu Dhabi in September 2012, killing a six-year old Sudanese boy. He was charged with dangerous driving and murder after examining CCTV visuals and testimonies of witnesses.Krishnan, who used to work as a driver for a private company, pleaded that he dozed off on the wheels due to overwork, however, it was rejected and he was sentenced to death by the apex court in Abu Dhabi.His family approached UAE-based Indian businessman and philanthropist Yusuffali, who negotiated with the family of the victim for nearly six years, convincing them to pardon Krishnan. Finally in January 2021, the victim’s family, which had moved to Sudan by then, agreed to pardon Krishnan.After winning family’s pardon for Krishnan, Ali deposited 500,000 Dirhams (approximately Rs1 crore) in the court as ‘blood money’-- Blood Money or Diyah under Islamic law is a type of monetary compensation paid by an individual who kills someoneKrishnan was freed from Al Wathba jail in Abu Dhabi following the conclusion of the settlement. Ali has also promised a job to Becks Kirshnan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-man-freed-from-death-row-in-uae-returns-says-got-second-life-101623322515917.html
10-06-2021||India||Choksi ‘unlawfully renditioned’ to Dominica so he couldn’t appeal in UK: Lawyer||Indian fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi was “unlawfully renditioned” from Antigua and Barbuda to Dominica so he would no longer have the option of appealing to the UK Privy Council against efforts to strip him of his Antiguan citizenship, a British lawyer representing the businessman said on Thursday. Michael Polak, part of the legal team representing Choksi and an expert in providing legal assistance to foreign nationals around the world, told a virtual news conference that the team has also filed a complaint with the War Crimes Unit of UK’s Metropolitan Police on the ground that Choksi was tortured. Dominica dropped the London-based Judicial Committee of the Privy Council as the country’s final court of appeal in 2015. However, citizens of Antigua and Barbuda voted in a constitutional referendum in 2018 to retain the body as their final court of appeal. Also Read | Dominica declared Mehul Choksi prohibited immigrant, show documentsChoksi’s lawyers contend he continues to be an Antiguan citizen and can appeal against any move to strip him of his citizenship or to extradite him to India in the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. Polak said Choksi wouldn’t have access to this legal protection in Dominica. Polak described Choksi’s case as one of “egregious breach of the rule of law and fundamental fairness”. He said, “What has happened to Mehul Choksi has been terrible. He was lured into a property, kidnapped, a bag placed over his head, beaten, forced on to a boat and unlawfully renditioned into another country.” “In Antigua, he has the right to appeal to the Privy Council in London to determine whether the government is acting properly...against him. In Dominica, he does not have such protection. The motive behind the kidnapping could not be clearer,” he added. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Polak’s comments.Choksi went missing from Antigua while going for an evening walk on May 23. While the Antiguan premier has repeatedly said Choksi fled to Dominica with his girlfriend, the businessman’s wife Priti Choksi and his lawyers – Wayne Marsh and Vijay Aggarwal – have alleged he was abducted by Antiguan and Indian officials, tortured and taken to Dominica in a boat. He has been charged for illegal entry in Dominica and is being treated at a hospital there after a court adjourned his case till June 14. An official complaint filed by Choksi with police in Antigua stated that after he reached Dominica, he was told by his abductors that he was brought there to meet an “Indian politician”. Choksi has named Barbara Jarabica, Narender Singh, Gurmit Singh and “unknown persons” as his abductors. A complaint filed by Polak with the UK Metropolitan Police contends that Choksi’s case should be investigated by the War Crimes Unit as it involves torture. Polak said that under Section 134 of the UK Criminal Justice Act, English courts have jurisdiction over such matters wherever in the world they take place. “The War Crimes Unit of the Metropolitan Police investigates war crimes, torture and genocide wherever it takes place,” he said, adding the Metropolitan Police and Crown Prosecution Service will have the final say in an investigation. According to Polak’s complaint filed with the Metropolitan Police on June 7, Choksi was allegedly lured by Barbara Jarabica and then attacked and taken by force by several men to Dominica in a boat. The complaint has also pointed out that Jarabica and three men allegedly involved in the incident – St Kitts and Nevis national Gurdip Bath, Gurmit Singh and Gurjit Singh Bhandal – are all residents of the UK. Polak told the news conference that Choksi’s case goes beyond the “appalling treatment” meted out to him and represents a “fundamental test for the legal systems of Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica and a political test for Caricom and the Commonwealth on respect for rule of law and individual rights”. He contended there was sufficient proof that Jarabica and the other men involved in the incident had carried out a “reconnaissance or a failed attempt to kidnap” Choksi in April, and said that Choksi should be returned to Antigua. Choksi is an accused in a multi-crore scam in India, having allegedly siphoned off nearly ₹7,080 crore in the ₹13,578-crore Punjab National Bank fraud before fleeing to Antigua in January 2018. He then acquired Antiguan citizenship under the controversial Citizenship by Investment Programme. Asked about Choksi’s alleged role in the scam, Polak replied, “The current case is not about the scams, it’s about due process. We don’t act by kidnapping people, that’s not how things are done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-unlawfully-renditioned-to-dominica-so-he-couldn-t-appeal-to-uk-lawyer-101623322455805.html
10-06-2021||India||PM Modi’s leadership brought development to N-E: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Thursday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing an end to extremism and arms trafficking in the north-east (N-E). He was speaking at the virtual inauguration of a party office in Arunachal Pradesh. He added that under PM Modi’s leadership, there has been a rise in connectivity, infrastructure, sports, and organic farming in the region.Donning an Arunachali Bolup hat, Nadda told party workers,“N-E was earlier known for extremism, blockades, drugs, arms trafficking, corruption, and communal tensions,” but PM Modi’s Act East campaign has brought development to the region.Also Read | Yogi Adityanath in Delhi for 2-day visit to meet PM Modi, Amit ShahHe added that in the last five years, PM Modi visited the N-E about 30 times.Speaking about Covid-19 management, Nadda said India’s current vaccine production of 10 million doses per month will increase to 60-70 million doses by July and to 100 million by September, this year.Be it the extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to provide free ration to the poor or the provision of stipend to Covid orphans, Nadda said, PM Modi has always been at the forefront of the fight. “Even in times when the Opposition played politics over the Covid situation, PM Modi was committed to make the nation stand strong against the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodis-leadership-brought-development-to-nenadda-101623321435411.html
10-06-2021||India||'Got to know from various sources': Bihar govt explains gap in Covid-19 toll||Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday said the government has been working on revising the Covid-19 death toll for the past few weeks after it came to know from various sources that the death toll due to Covid-19 could be more in number. "After consultation with stakeholders, the state government instructed the district administration to identify institutional deaths due to Covid," the health minister told news agency ANI. The intent of the exercise is to reach out to the family members of the deceased, the health minister said.The revision exercise has resulted in a 72.8 per cent increase in the state's Covid-19 toll. The fatalities have been attributed to private hospitals and homes.The health minister said the report was prepared in the last 15-20 days and was released on Tuesday. The government, however, has not given any time frame when these fatalities might have occurred."These deaths occurred 15 days ago and were only uploaded now in the government portal. Action will be taken against some of the private hospitals," an official said to news agency Reuters.Following the revision, Bihar's Covid-19 death toll almost doubled from 5,458 to 9,429.About 38 districts showed a change in the death toll after revision. Kaimur, Saharsa, Begusarai, East Champaran reported over a 200 per cent rise in the toll. While Munger was the only district with no increase, no district reported any decrease in the toll after the revision.The Patna high court has recently flagged incinsistenct in the death figures reported in Buxar. The figure of the state's chief secretary and Patna divisional commissioner did not match following which the judges asked the government to verify facts from all sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/got-to-know-from-various-sources-bihar-govt-explains-gap-in-covid-19-toll-101623320653151.html
10-06-2021||India||Meet Parnika, the 7-year-old who is inspiring kids to campaign for nature||Not every seven-year-old can hope to traverse significant milestones in environment activism at so young an age, but Parnika sure can. One of the youngest campaigners for nature, environment, and recycling in India, seven-year-old Parnika has come up with an initiative -- 'Stars of Mother Nature' -- to encourage children not much older than her to research about the environment and get their writings published on the same. The initiative was launched in partnership with the parenting blog 'The Happy Moms Cafe' and HeyCloudy, a screen-free audio listening and learning app for children.Also Read: Give young environmentalists a voice"Mother Earth is beautiful and so are her many treasures. We need to learn about them. And what better way to do this than through storytelling. Because we kids love to tell stories," news agency PTI quoted Parnika as saying.The 'Stars of Mother Nature -- with Parnika' campaign, as described on the 'The Happy Moms Cafe' blog, is designed for children aged six to 14 years and inspires children to learn about the environment, nature, and recycling and get their short stories published at the same time in five simple steps.Children willing to participate in the initiative are encouraged to do their own research on one or more of the aforementioned themes and write a short story of about 600 words. Every participant is given a 'Star Of Mother Nature' badge in the form of a downloadable pdf file. At the end of the campaign, around eight short stories will be selected and published in the form of an audio series on the HeyCloudy app. The campaign highlights that this is not a "competition" of any sort and that the selection is only for representative purposes, so as to not mar the collaborative storytelling approach.Also Read: Generations at work: Their love for environment knows no ageThe 'Stars of Mother Nature' campaign consists of a few more terms and conditions, all of which can be read with additional detail here."Summer breaks offer time and space for more learning and creativity. We thought this would be a fabulous idea for parents to engage their kids in a meaningful manner," PTI quoted Preeti Chaturvedi, founder of The Happy Moms Cafe, as saying. Chitman Kaur, the founder of the HeyCloudy app, also said that while it is generally accepted that telling children the right kind of stories is a surefire way to change the future world, Parnika's 'Stars of Mother Nature' goes a step further and enables children to, in turn, tell the right stories themselves, which can be a powerful tool of its own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-parnika-the-7-year-old-who-is-inspiring-kids-to-campaign-for-nature-101623319401398.html
10-06-2021||India||Malad house collapse: Owner booked for culpable homicide after 11 die||A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, has been registered by the Malwani Police against the owner of the Malad house which collapsed on a nearby building on Wednesday night. The incident led to the death of 11 people.The owner of the structure has been identified as Rizwan Siddique (48), who owns a food stall in Malad.According to the Malwani Police, the incident took place at about 11:10 pm on Wednesday when a ground plus one house in Malwani slums collapsed on another ground plus one building next to it. The incident also put the nearby three storied structure at risk.ALSO READ | 11 dead, including 8 children, as building collapses in Mumbai’s MaladThe house collapse was reported to the police after which rescue operations began. Eleven people were killed when the building collapsed on the adjacent one and seven more injured. Among the deceased, eight are children, including a 3-year-old.Siddique has been admitted to a hospital as he survived the incident, but he lost nine members of his family who were asleep when the building came crumbling down.Police officers said that Siddique was charged under sections 304(II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336- (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.“We have registered the case and are waiting to record Siddique’s statement who is in hospital at present,” said Shekhar Bhalerao, senior police inspector of Malwani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malad-house-collapse-owner-booked-for-culpable-homicide-after-11-die-101623320835880.html
10-06-2021||India||‘Population control needed for reducing poverty’: Himanta to minority community||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday urged the minority community to adopt proper family planning policy to control population and reduce poverty.Himanta said that stakeholders of the minority community should help the government in alleviating poverty in the community which he claimed was due to continuous increase in population. Himanta was addressing a gathering to mark 30 days of his government in the state.“The government is the guardian of all poor people but the government also requires the support of the government in reducing poverty and tackling the issue of population growth, which is the primary cause of poverty, illiteracy and leads to lack of proper family planning,” Sarma was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also urged community leaders to introspect and asked them to encourage people to focus on population control.Sarma also said that the government will aim to educate women of the community to effectively tackle the issue.Sarma also highlighted that the government is against encroachment of temple lands, Satra and forest lands. He said that community members have assured the government that they do not want encroachment of these lands.The chief minister on Monday visited the Darrang district to survey the riverine areas that were encroached by illegal settlers. “A total 120 bigha land out of Shiva Mandir's 180 bigha area were encroached by illegal occupants and these lands have been freed by police and district administration,” Sarma said.Sarma said that the government is committed to ensure that lands of Satras and temples are not encroached and will take every step to ensure to protect Assam's land, identity, culture, language and heritage from illegal migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/population-control-needed-for-reducing-poverty-himanta-to-minority-community-101623320112173.html
10-06-2021||India||'Mumbai has no river to dump Covid bodies': Mayor Kishori Pednekar's jibe at UP, Bihar||Mumbai is not underreporting Covid-19 deaths, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Thursday claiming that Mumbai will never do that. With her clarification came a veiled attack on BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, where corpses were found floating in the river and some were washed up on the river bank. "We don't have rivers to dump the bodies," the mayor said.The clarification comes on a day India's Covid-19 tally shot up because Bihar revised its Covid-19 fatalities. The revision accounted for around 4,000 additional deaths which were added to the total toll on Thursday. After the revision, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in the state was 9,429 till Tuesday. Before the revision, the number was 5,458. It is not known when did these deaths took place.Maharashtra, the worst-affected state by the pandemic, is witnessing a steady improvement in the Covid-19 situation with daily cases and daily tolls nosediving. Mumbai's toll has dropped below 30 in the past few days. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis earlier accused the civic body and the Maharashtra government of fudging mortality data.In May, reports of bodies floating in the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar surfaced. It was suspected that they died of Covid and their bodies were dumped in the river. On May 17, the Centre asked Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to prevent the dumping of bodies in the Ganga and any other river and called media reports"undesirable and alarming".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-has-no-river-to-dump-covid-bodies-mayor-kishori-pednekar-s-jibe-at-up-bihar-101623317411651.html
10-06-2021||India||UK, Indian scientists jointly develop low-cost sensor to detect SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater||Scientists in the United Kingdom (UK) and India have now come together to jointly develop a low-cost sensor to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus, that causes the infectious coronavirus disease (Covid-19), within the wastewater. This is expected to help several middle-to-low-income countries that are struggling to control the prevalence of Covid-19 in a larger area where it is often spread through wastewater.The sensor was tested with wastewater collected from a sewage treatment plant in Mumbai spiked with SARS-Cov-2 Ribonucleic Acid (RNA). The researchers found that the sensor was able to detect the genetic material at concentrations as low as 10 picograms per microlitre.The low-cost sensor to detect Covid-19 was developed by researchers from the University of Strathclyde in the UK and those from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay in India. “Many low- to middle-income countries face a challenge in tracking Covid-19 in people because of limited access to the necessary facilities for mass testing," said Dr. Andy Ward, chancellor’s fellow in the department of civil and environmental engineering. "Looking for traces of the virus within wastewater would enable public health officials to get a better understanding of how prevalent the disease is in a larger area," he added.How does the Covid-19 sensor work to detect SARS-Cov-2 within wastewater?The sensor developed jointly by UK and Indian scientists can be used with portable equipment that uses the standard Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus. This eliminates the need for the expensive chemicals and lab infrastructure needed for real-time quantitative PCR tests, according to the research published recently in the journal, Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical.Explaining the importance of the technique, Dr. Ward said, "the current gold-standard method of real-time PCR testing (qPCR) requires expensive laboratory equipment and skilled scientists to complete. Furthermore, if resources are limited, testing of human samples would most likely take precedence over wastewater epidemiology surveillance. Therefore, lower cost, alternative approaches are required in order to support wastewater surveillance,” he said.The importance of testing wastewater for the presence of SARS-CoV-2According to Dr. Ward, the testing of wastewater for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid is already widely recognized as a tool to identify areas where the case numbers are likely to be increasing and therefore allow more targeted action to be taken to limit the viral spread in specific regions.Adding to his inputs, Dr. Siddharth Tallur, associate professor in the department of electrical engineering at IIT Bombay, said, “The method we have developed is not just applicable to SARS-CoV-2, it could be applied to any other virus so it’s very versatile." He added that in the future, the focus will be on optimizing the assay further to increase accuracy and integrate it with a portable platform to handle "both PCR reaction and electrochemical measurement".(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-indian-scientists-jointly-develop-low-cost-sensor-to-detect-sars-cov-2-in-wastewater-101623316228382.html
10-06-2021||India||As cases drop, Bengal gears up for possible third wave||The number of Covid-19 cases that peaked during the second wave of the disease on May 14 ( 20,846) in Bengal has been going down since with the state reporting 5,384 infections and under 100 deaths on Wednesday. Officials said they have now started preparations for a possible third wave even as though they are still uncertain whether and when it would hit.An official said they are expecting the numbers to touch the baseline level by June-end or early July and that they do not know when exactly the third wave would come. “But going by the experiences of countries like the UK and Canada, we expect that it may hit sometime around October or November and have hence started our preparations accordingly. We want to utilise the gap we get between the two waves,” said the official, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Bihar’s Buddhist tourism sector sends SOS to Centre, seeks financial bailoutA second official said children accounted for around three per cent of the people infected during the second wave. “...on any given day, there were not more than 200 children in hospitals in the state. But going by the experience of other countries, where the third wave has hit, we apprehend children could get more affected if the third wave hits.”Officials said the number of beds at Paediatric Intensive Care Units (PICU), Sick Neonatal Care Units (SNCU) and Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU) are being increased. “While 250-300 PICU beds would be kept aside for Covid-19 patients, which may be increased up to 500, around 500 HDU units would be kept for them which may be increased up to 1,000. ...we would keep aside around 800 beds initially, which may be increased up to 1,500 according to need,” said a third official.In the 69 state-run SNCUs for infants less than a month old, there are around 2,583 beds. These would also be increased.“The main objective is to set up at least one paediatric unit in each district. An HDU would be also located in nearby locations which would have facilities like BiPAP and high flow oxygen. At some, 2 to 3 beds in normal CCUs could be upgraded by keeping paediatric gadgets to treat children above five,” said the second official.The health department is also in the process of purchasing paediatric pulse oximeters so that they could be distributed uniformly across health centres in advance. Officials said general duty medical officers may also be trained to handle paediatric cases.To be sure, the country’s top experts have said there is no evidence that the third wave will hit children harder. “If we look at the data, and compare both the Covid-19 waves, children are usually protected as the numbers are fewer. Even if they get infection, the disease is usually mild...there is no indication that in the third Covid-19 wave, children will be more impacted,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (New Delhi).“There could also be another theory that says since kids aren’t exposed much yet, in the next wave there’s a possibility that proportionally they may get more affected by virtue of greater exposure.”The Centre has also issued comprehensive guidelines for management of Covid-19 in children, including treatment of mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cases-drop-bengal-gears-up-for-possible-third-wave-101623316635301.html
10-06-2021||India||Jitin Prasada was never ignored in Congress, says Mallikarjun Kharge||The Congress said on Thursday that it was sad that Jitin Prasada, who was a respected party leader, blamed the party and its ideology for allegedly hampering his work. Prasada quit the Congress and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday.Speaking to news agency ANI on Thursday, senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said that Prasada was a traditional Congressman and he was never ignored in the party.“… We gave him respect, he wasn’t ignored. He was the general secretary, Bengal in-charge...was allowed to contest every time. Despite this, if he blames Congress and its ideology for which he and his father [late Congress leader Jitendra Prasada] worked, it’s sad,” Kharge said.Also Read | ‘Congress gave him recognition’: DK Shivakumar takes a swipe at Jitin PrasadaCongress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate questioned Prasada’s decision by asking, “Jitin Prasad Ji, do you feel comfortable standing with those people who have suppressed every democratic institution in the last 7 years?”While joining the BJP, Prasada had said, “I have a three-generation connection with Congress, so I took this important decision after a lot of deliberation. In the last 8-10 years, I have felt that if there is one party that is truly national, it is BJP.”Taking a jab at the two-term Lok Sabha MP, INC Chhattisgarh had also tweeted in Hindi, “Thanks to Jitin Prasad ji for leaving the Congress party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jitin-prasada-was-never-ignored-in-congress-says-kharge-101623315615004.html
10-06-2021||India||'Girls should not use mobile because...': UP women commission member's comment sparks row||A video of a member of Uttar Pradesh state women commission Meena Kumari blaming mobile phones for rape is doing rounds on microblogging site Twitter. In the video, Kumari can be seen responding to a question about rising rape cases in the state as she attributed the rise in crime against women to the overall degeneration of values, including the increased use of mobile phones."Girls should always be under strict vigilance. It should be checked where they are going and with whom," Kumari was seen in the video, shared by the national convener of the Congress, Ruchira Chaturvedi, as saying. "They should not be given mobile phones. They talk on the phone and later elope for marriage," she added.In response to a Question abt rising rape cases, Meena Kumari, Member, UP Women Commission said:“Girls should not be given mobile phones. They talk on phone & later elope for marriage"So after Chowmein, jeans, now mobile phones r responsible for rape.pic.twitter.com/BhOmc9sS2h"In response to a Question abt rising rape cases, Meena Kumari, Member, UP Women Commission said. “Girls should not be given mobile phones. They talk on phone & later elope for marriage" So after Chowmein, jeans, now mobile phones are responsible for rape," Chaturvedi tweeted.The video was also shared by the Delhi Commission of Women chairperson Swati Maliwal. Quoting the video, she called out Kumari and said "the reason for rape is such a bad mentality".Also read: 18-yr-old, 8 minors held for gang raping Class-5 girl in Rewari village"No ma'am, phone in girl's hand is not a reason for rape. The reason for rape is such a bad mentality which increases the morale of the criminals. Prime Minister is requested to sensitize all the women's commissions, one day send them to see the working style of the Delhi Women's Commission, we teach them!" Maliwal's tweet, in Hindi, read.The statement adds to the series of outrageous statements that have been spoken about rape and women's role in it. Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat alleged that ripped jeans worn by women are leading to the increasing rate of crime against women. A few years ago, Haryana's Khap leader Jitender Chattar was reported to have said chowmein leads to "hormonal imbalance, evoking an urge to indulge in (sexual) acts".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girls-should-not-use-mobile-because-up-women-commission-member-s-comment-sparks-row-101623311192401.html
10-06-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath in Delhi for 2-day visit to meet PM Modi, Amit Shah||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is in Delhi for a two-day visit to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said a person in the know of the development. While his meeting with Shah is expected to take place on Thursday, the UP chief minister will meet Modi on Friday morning. The meeting comes in the backdrop of speculation that the BJP central leadership has concerns over the UP government‘s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Also Read | Covid still around, Yogi warns against laxity as UP lifts curbsThere are also reports of friction within the state unit which were escalated to the Centre. BJP general secretary organisation BL Santhosh was in Uttar Pradesh earlier this month to meet party leaders and ministers to hear their concerns as the state prepares for the 2022 assembly elections.The central leadership has, however, ruled out any change in state leadership, throwing their weight behind the Yogi Adityanath administration. The central leadership had also ruled out any change in the organisational structure of the party and said any change to the council of ministers would be carried out following consultation with the chief minister.Following his UP visit, Santhosh had praised the UP government’s efforts during the pandemic. In two tweets, he said the UP administration, within a period of five weeks, reduced the daily case count by 93%. He also praised the decision to vaccinate parents of children below 12 years of age, calling it a wise move considering speculation that if the pandemic’s third wave hits it may affect children more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-in-delhi-for-2-day-visit-to-meet-pm-modi-amit-shah-101623315015104.html
10-06-2021||India||Govt issues guidelines for Covid management in kids, prohibits use of remdesivir||The Centre has issued comprehensive guidelines for management of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among children that prohibit use of antiviral drug remdesivir, suggest an HRCT scan only if symptoms aggravate, and recommend only basic anti-fever medicines and throat smoothening agents for mildly symptomatic cases.The guidelines have been issued by Directorate General of Health Services, the technical wing of Union ministry of health and family welfare. “There is lack of sufficient safety and efficacy data with respect to remdesivir in children below 18 years of age. HRCT chest to be done ONLY if there is worsening of symptoms...,” read the guidelines issued on Wednesday.Also, use of steroids and anti-coagulants is to be prescribed only under strict medical supervision in a hospital. “Exercise caution and see use of corticosteroids and anti-coagulants guide,” it said.For asymptomatic cases under home isolation The guidelines recommend infants and younger children to stay under immediate care of parents or guardians. No specific medication is required for the infection but children should continue medications for other conditions, if any. The infected should strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour (mask, strict hand hygiene, physical distancing). They suggest oral fluids to maintain hydration and a nutritious diet, and advise older children and family to stay connected and engage in positive talks through phone, video calls, etc. In case of deterioration of symptoms, family should immediately consult a doctor. No investigations (tests) are needed.Also Read | Assam opens 300-bed Covid hospital in stadium; built in 20 days by DRDOFor mildly symptomatic cases The guidelines strongly recommend that children also follow Covid appropriate behaviour (mask, strict hand hygiene, physical distancing). For fever, paracetamol 10-15mg/kg/dose that can be repeated every 4-6 hours; and for cough throat soothing agents and warm saline gargles in older children and adolescents is recommend. Children should be given oral fluids to maintain hydration and put on a nutritious diet. No other Covid-19 specific medication is needed, especially no antimicrobial medicines. Parents or attendants need to maintain a monitoring chart including counting of respiratory rate 2-3 times a day, and keep a watch for chest indrawing, bluish discolouration of body, cold extremities, urine output, oxygen saturation, fluid intake, activity level, especially for young children. Parents or caregivers must contact a doctor in case of deterioration of symptoms. No investigations are required.For moderately sick cases Moderately sick children should immediately be put on oxygen therapy; maintaining fluid and electrolyte balance, especially oral fluids (breast feeds in infants) or initiating intravenous fluid therapy if oral intake is poor. Corticosteroids are not required in all children with moderate illness; they may be administered in rapidly progressive disease, and anticoagulants may also be indicated, the guidelines advise.Also Read | Ramdev now says he will take Covid-19 vaccine; ‘good doctors are God’s messengers’For fever (temperature >38°C or 100.4°F) a child should be given paracetamol 10-15mg/kg/dose that may be repeated every 4- 6 hours. Anti-microbials to be administered if there is evidence or strong suspicion of superadded bacterial infection, and supportive care for comorbid conditions, if any.The guidelines prescribe a set of tests but suggest rational use of HRCT scan.For severe cases Initiate immediate oxygen therapy; maintain fluid and electrolyte balance; corticosteroids therapy; and anticoagulants may also be indicated. In case Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) or shock develops, necessary management to be initiated; anti-microbials to be administered if there is evidence or strong suspicion of superadded bacterial infection. The child may need organ support in case of organ dysfunction such as renal replacement therapy etc.Guide for using mask in children Children aged 5 years and under should not be required to wear masks. Children aged 6-11 years may wear a mask depending on their ability to use it safely and appropriately under direct supervision of parents or guardians; those aged 12 years and over should wear a mask under the same conditions as adults; and should ensure hands are kept clean with soap and water, or an alcohol based hand rub, while handling masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-comprehensive-guidelines-to-manage-covid-in-children-101623313394851.html
10-06-2021||India||Allow walk-in Covid jabs, online registration not enough: Rahul Gandhi to Centre||A day after the Union government claimed to have made the Covid-19 vaccine registration portal, Co-WIN, more “citizen friendly”, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said that online registration for vaccination was not enough. He advocated that everyone who wished to get vaccinated be given a jab on walk-in basis at vaccination centres.Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Online registration for vaccination is not enough. Everyone walking in to a vaccination centre should get the vaccine. Right to life belongs to those as well who do not have the internet.”On Wednesday, the government had announced that many rectification features had been introduced to the Co-WIN registration portal using which beneficiaries could now correct their name, year of birth, and gender on vaccination certificates and also raise an issue.Also Read | Ramdev now says he will take Covid-19 vaccine; ‘good doctors God’s messengers’“New citizen friendly feature on #CoWIN. Now correct the errors in the vaccination certificate yourself,” Vikas Sheel, additional secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare had tweeted.Meanwhile, Gandhi has long been advocating free universal vaccination.On Monday, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Central procurement of vaccines and free vaccination for all adults, Gandhi asked why people were having to pay for vaccine jabs at private hospitals.“One simple question - If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?” Gandhi had tweeted.On June 2, Gandhi had also initiated a social media campaign urging people to raise their voice to “awaken the government”.Using the hashtag #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination, Gandhi had tweeted, “Vaccine is the strongest protection against Covid pandemic. You also raise your voice to provide free vaccination to everyone and to wake the government.”A Union health ministry official familiar with Gandhi’s statement said it was political and as a government official, it was not feasible for him to react. HT also reached out health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal for a comment, but there was no immediate response from the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-walk-in-covid-jabs-online-registration-not-enough-rahul-gandhi-to-centre-101623312974910.html
10-06-2021||India||Odisha reports 6,097 new Covid-19 cases; tally climbs to 837,226||Odisha reported 6,097 new Covid-19 cases, 8,032 recoveries, and 44 deaths in the last 24 hours, informed the state health department on Thursday.With this, the cumulative count in Odisha stands at 837,226 including 7,64,673 recoveries and 3,167 deaths. There are 69,333 active cases in the state.Of the fresh Covid cases reported, 3,346 people got infected in quarantine, while 2,651 caught the infection from local contacts.As per the state government data, out of the total reported cases, the Cuttack district accounted for the most number of cases with 647 cases, among other districts of the state.Meanwhile, India's daily spike of coronavirus cases remained below the 1 lakh mark for the third consecutive day as only 94,052 new infections were recorded during a 24-hour period, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-6-097-new-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-837226-101623311660967.html
10-06-2021||India||Andhra CM Jagan leaves for 2-day visit to Delhi, to meet Amit Shah today||Andhra Pradesh chief minister and YSR Congress party president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday left for New Delhi on a two-day tour during which he is scheduled to meet various Union ministers. The chief minister left for Delhi by a special flight around 11am. He was accompanied by state irrigation minister P Anil Kumar Yadav and senior officials. He will meet Union home minister Amit Shah at around 9pm to discuss various issues pertaining to the state. He will also be meet Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in the evening to present a progress report on the Polavaram irrigation project being constructed on Godavari river, and request for reimbursement of funds spent on the project. The official note said the chief minister is expected to meet a few other Union ministers, including Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, railway minister Piyush Goyal and environment minister Prakash Javadekar, before returning to Vijayawada on Friday afternoon.Also Read | Andhra CM Reddy writes to PM Modi, seeks infrastructural help in PMAY coloniesThe last time Jagan went to New Delhi was on December 15, when he met Shah and requested the Centre’s support to shift the judicial capital of the state from Amaravati to Kurnool. A YSRCP leader familiar with the development said apart from discussing the pending issues of the state, Jagan would also take up with Shah the recent controversy over the arrest of rebel Member of Parliament K Raghurama Krishnam Raju in a sedition case. Raju, who got bail from the Supreme Court, has been staying put in New Delhi for the past 10 days. He has been writing to Central ministers, MPs, and even Governors and chief ministers of various states, accusing the Jagan government of misusing the sedition law. He also alleged that he was tortured in custody by the Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Department police for filing a petition in the CBI court seeking cancellation of Jagan’s bail in an alleged quid pro quo case of 2013 being probed by the agency. Telugu Desam Party alleged that Jagan was meeting Shah as the bail cancellation petition was coming up before the CBI court on June 14. “The chief minister is using all his lobbying power with the Centre only to save himself from CBI and ED cases instead of securing any benefits to the state. This time, too, he has gone to Delhi only to get his cases waived, not to protect interests of the state,” TDP parliament member K Rammohan Naidu said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-jagan-leaves-for-2-day-visit-to-delhi-to-meet-amit-shah-today-101623311714943.html
10-06-2021||India||Odisha to move virtual teaching to YouTube from June 21 for school students||With little possibility of schools reopening from the current academic session, the Odisha government plans to live stream virtual teaching sessions for all classes on YouTube from June 21. Offline classes have been suspended since March 2020 due to the Covid pandemic outbreak.State project director of Odisha School Education Programme Authority (OSEPA) Bhupendra Singh Poonia has asked 13 of the 30 district education officers to arrange two classrooms, preferably in centre of excellence schools/ transformation high schools or in schools located near the district headquarter towns, for YouTube live streaming of virtual classes. The trial run has to be over by June 17, Poonia has ordered.The districts where virtual classes will be held for live streaming are Khordha, Balangir, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Ganjam, Koraput Puri, Dhenkanal, Sundargarh, Nayagarh, Bhadrak, Balasore and Sambalpur.Poonia said students will be able to put up questions for subject teachers during the live sessions and those will be addressed immediately after the session is over, in a time slot allotted for an interactive question-answer session.Specifying the minimum requirements for holding such classes, Poonia said, “There should be sufficient light in the room with special lights or halogen for video recording. Rooms should have AC 9 (air conditioner) or at least ceiling fans. A white board (preferably of size 5×4 ft) with marker pens and a stand for the whiteboard and a flex banner of 6×4 ft size with uniform print matter are needed.”The other requirements include a modern desktop/laptop, two cameras, recording cards, wireless lapel microphone and a camera stand or tripod.The decision to try the YouTube live streaming option comes a year after a combination of WhatsApp, Google Meet, Zoom and Skype were used for online learning. Study materials, contents of different subjects as well as written notes were shared on WhatsApp for students of Class II to X. The Odisha School Education Programme Authority also telecast video lessons for Class X on DD Odia TV channel.However, experts question if the initiative will reach hundreds of thousands of students without access to the internet, laptops or smartphones. As per government statistics, of the 67,128 government elementary schools in the state, only 27.68% have initiated online education so far.“More than 80% students in the state-run schools cannot afford smartphones and computers. How would the YouTube live streaming reach them is a big question. This disparity and inequality in imparting online classes may have long-term implications,” said Ruchi Kashyap, executive trustee at Atmashakti Trust, an NGO that conducted a State-wide study among students last year and found the number of children who attend online classes through a smartphone was 31.95%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-move-virtual-teaching-to-youtube-from-june-21-for-school-students-101623310934597.html
10-06-2021||India||Solar eclipse of June 10, 2021: These states will witness partial eclipse. Check timings, live stream options||The first solar eclipse of the year, an annular eclipse at that, is expected to occur shortly after noon on June 10, 2021 (Thursday), according to projections made by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). The annular solar eclipse, where a "ring of fire" appears around the Moon due to the remnant halo of the Sun, will mostly be visible in the northern hemisphere, most prominently from parts of northeast Canada, Greenland, and Siberia. In the UK and Ireland, people will witness a partial solar eclipse while most of India, barring a few cities, will be missing out on the celestial phenomenon. Here's all you need to know about the annular solar eclipse of June 10, 2021.Solar eclipse of June 10, 2021: Where in India will it be visible?The solar eclipse of June 10, 2021 (Thursday) will not be visible in the skies in most of India. However, the solar eclipse will be visible to people in some extreme regions of Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh, shortly after daybreak.Solar eclipse of June 10, 2021: When will it occur?The solar eclipse on Thursday is expected to begin here shortly after noon, at 1:42pm. The peak time will come around 4:16pm, when both the Sun and the Moon will conjunct exactly at 25 degrees in the Taurus sign. After that, the phenomenon will begin to recede and the solar eclipse will finally end at 6:41pm.How to watch solar eclipse online?Indians will be able to watch the solar eclipse of June 10, 2021, online via the internet streaming services provided for this purpose by the official websites of Nasa and Timeanddate.com.Also Read: First solar eclipse of 2021 today, nearly all of India to miss outHence, even if you happen to stay in a city that will miss out on the solar eclipse in its skies, the world wide web is here to save the day. NASA will live stream the eclipse on nasa. gov/live. It can also be viewed on YouTube, courtesy of Luc Bolard of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada Sudbury Centre. NASA has also released a set of precautions that are to be taken while witnessing the solar eclipse. These are available on its official website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-eclipse-of-june-10-2021-these-states-will-witness-surya-grahan-check-timings-live-stream-options-101623308734311.html
10-06-2021||India||Did Nusrat Jahan lie in Parliament, asks BJP after Trinamool MP says marriage with Nikhil Jain invalid||A day after Trinamool MP Nusrat Jahan issued a statement clarifying her marital status and the reason behind it, BJP's Amit Malviya on Thursday asked whether she lied to Parliament when she took the oath as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain. Sharing the clip of Nusrat Jahan taking the oath, Malviya added a disclaimer and said Nusrat Jahan's personal life should not be anyone's concern. But he is raising the question as Nusrat Jahan is an elected representative and is married to Nikhil Jain, going by the record of Parliament.Nusrat Jahan on Wednesday said her marriage to Nikhil Jain was never legal, valid and tenable in India as the ceremony, which took place in Turkey in 2019, was done as per Turkish Marriage Regulation. Since it was an interfaith marriage, it requires validation under the Special Marriage Act in India, which never happened, the Trinamool MP said, explaining why she does not require a divorce from Nikhil Jain. It was a relationship or a live-in relationship and Nusrat and Nikhil have been separated long ago, the actor-turned-MP said in her statement.TMC MP Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain’s personal life, who she is married to or who she is living in with, should not be anyone’s concern. But she is an elected representative and is on record in the Parliament that she is married to Nikhil Jain. Did she lie on the floor of the House? pic.twitter.com/RtJc6250rpWhile her statement came amid speculations of her dating Yash Dasgupta, an actor who joined the BJP ahead of the West Bengal assembly election, it has kicked up a new row regarding official records of Nusrat Jahan."TMC MP Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain’s personal life, who she is married to or who she is living in with, should not be anyone’s concern. But she is an elected representative and is on record in the Parliament that she is married to Nikhil Jain. Did she lie on the floor of the House?" Malviya tweeted.While Nusrat has not said anything about the official records of her marital status, Nikhil on Wednesday claimed he has already moved the court for the annulment of the marriage.In her statement, Nusrat brought some serious allegations against Nikhil and his family members. She said even after their separation, Nikhil was withdrawing money from her bank accounts by illegal means. Her jewellery and other belongings have also been "forcefully" held back by Nikhil and his family, Nusrat claimed. Nikhil has not commented on these allegations and said the matter is now subjudice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-nusrat-jahan-lie-in-parliament-asks-bjp-after-trinamool-mp-says-marriage-with-nikhil-jain-invalid-101623310009890.html
10-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Assam opens Covid hospital built by DRDO in 20 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam opens 300-bed Covid hospital in stadium; built in 20 days by DRDOThe Assam government on Thursday opened a 300-bed Covid-19 hospital at a stadium complex in Guwahati to combat the ongoing pandemic. Read moreCovid-19 sero survey in Varanasi aims to test around 1400 samples in 3 daysA three-day long sero survey started in Varanasi on Wednesday to assess the prevalence of Sars-CoV-2-- the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-- by projecting the percentage of population likely to have been exposed to the infection in the district. Read moreDelta Covid-19 variant can infect vaccinated people, claims AIIMS studyVaccination is not a guarantee against the Covid-19 infection and it will only ensure that the infection does not become severe, experts have reiterated this, but now a preliminary study conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi has claimed the same after conducting a small study on 63 people. Read more‘Farmers would’ve not sat on streets if...’: Tikait after meeting with Bengal CMFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, said today he told the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief that the country's opposition is weak. Read moreBumrah and Shami steam in, Kohli and Pant bring out the big shots as BCCI shares clip of India's first practice: WATCHIndia's first practice session was up and running at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton, the venue for the all-important World Test Championships final where Virat Kohli's team will face Kane Williamson's New Zealand to determine the ultimate Test team in the world. Read moreThe Family Man 2 creators Raj and DK say Samantha Akkineni 'brown face' criticism is 'hard to hear'Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK, the creators of Amazon Prime Video's The Family Man, have said that it is 'hard to hear' about the allegations of racism that have been directed at Samantha Akkineni's character, Raji, in the second season of the show. Read moreManoj Bajpayee has this to say about Uttar Pradesh Police’s Chellam sir inspired advisoryUnless you have been staying away from the Internet, there is a high possibility that you have seen the Chellam sir memes flooding various social media platforms, especially Twitter. Read moreNew Jaguar F-Pace launched at ₹69.99 lakh; gets design changes, upgraded cabinJaguar Land Rover on Wednesday launched the new F-Pace in the Indian market at ₹69.99 lakh (ex showroom). The F-Pace from Jaguar now gets notciable design changes on the outside and an all-new cabin while being offered with both petrol as well as diesel engine options. Read moreSussanne Khan brings back vegan-leather skirt trend ahead of Fall/Winter 2021If you have your finger firmly placed on the sartorial pulse and want to look hot and eye-catchy, Sussanne Khan is here to sort your fashion woes with a suggestion to add a leather skirt to your wardrobe this season to enhance a sultry, sexy touch to your look. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-assam-opens-covid-hospital-built-by-drdo-in-20-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101623309186819.html
10-06-2021||India||In first month, Himanta Biswa Sarma govt focuses on Covid, war on drugs||Tackling the Covid-19 situation in the state and a relentless campaign against illegal drugs have been the two key areas of focus for the Himanta Biswa Sarma-led coalition government in Assam, which completes its first month in office on Thursday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition, which includes Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) took charge at a time when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak.After deliberations by the BJP high command in Delhi, the issue of leadership was resolved — with Sarma attaining his ambition of becoming chief minister (CM), and outgoing CM Sonowal being assured he would be accommodated by the party or government in another capacity, perhaps in Delhi.The Covid challenge On May 10, the day the new Cabinet took oath, the state recorded 5,803 positive cases. Within the next 10 days, the figure kept increasing, going up to 6,573 cases on May 20 — the highest-ever daily cases for the state. Nearly 80-90 deaths from the disease were taking place and hospitals were filled to the brim with patients.Contrary to expectations, Sarma, who handled the health ministry in the previous Sarbananda Sonowal government, gave the charge of the ministry to Keshab Mahanta, working president of AGP, instead of handling the responsibility himself.Also Read | Assam opens 300-bed Covid hospital in stadium; built in 20 days by DRDOInitiatives such as a strict curfew, extending to as long as 17 hours daily, without going in for a complete lockdown; the setting up of new Covid care centres; improvement in oxygen supply; a ban on inter-district movement; and increasing the number of Covid tests as well as speeding up vaccination has helped bring down the figures in the past two weeks.Daily numbers have now come down to around 3,800 cases and nearly 40 deaths. The positivity rate, which hovered around 8% a month ago, has now decreased to nearly 3%. The state, however, still has 49,000 active Covid-19 cases at present.The war on drugs While the health department is handling the pandemic situation, the state’s police is busy busting drug cartels, arresting traffickers and recovering contraband and cash since the new government took office.Though the drive against drugs has been part of the routine police operations, the campaign picked momentum last month after the new government under Sarma, who also holds the home portfolio, took charge.Between May 10 and June 7, the police across Assam has registered 401 cases and arrested 701 persons in connection with illegal drugs. Over 8.5 kgs of heroin, 2 kgs of brown sugar, nearly 6,000 kgs of marijuana, over 270,000 illegal tablets and around ₹26 lakh in cash have been recovered in this period.Also Read | Assam state board class 12 exams to be held in July-AugAs per police records, there has been a big jump in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases in past 10 years in the state. From 180 cases in 2010, the police registered 1,023 cases last year.“We will continue our operations against drugs continuously. Many families have been destroyed because of it, so we are taking this action as our responsibility. I am of the firm belief if our police acts actively, Assam would be able to get rid of this menace,” Sarma said in Delhi last week.The militant challengeThe release of Ritul Saikia, a junior engineer assistant of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), kidnapped by the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I), within two weeks of the new government taking charge, has been another highlight of the past month.“The CM took personal interest in the matter and visited the affected family. His appeal to ULFA-I commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah elicited quick and positive response and led to Saikia’s release on the Indo-Myanmar border,” said information minister Pijush Hazarika.Saikia was abducted along with two other colleagues from a work over rig site of ONGC in Sivasagar district of Assam on April 21. While his colleagues were rescued three days later by security forces from Nagaland, close to the Indo-Myanmar border, in a joint operation, Saikia’s whereabouts were not known.Also Read | Assam to raise 10 commando battalions on lines of NSG to fight crime, border issuesIn the past month, the government also increased its stake in Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL) from 12.35% to 26% with an investment of ₹2,187 cr, marking the biggest-ever investment by the state.On the administrative front, the government created the role of “guardian ministers”, giving responsibility of two to three districts to each Cabinet minister for development projects and welfare schemes in those districts.The critique But the Opposition isn’t impressed. “Assam is one of the worst performing states in Niti Ayog’s Sustainable Development Goals Index. And despite assurances by the new CM, crime against women continues unabated in the state,” said Bobbeeta Sharma, media in-charge of Opposition Congress state unit.“The BJP had always committed to revive the two closed paper mills of Assam, but recently we have seen how they are all out to auction them without consideration of the interest of the people of Assam,” she added.Experts believe that while it is too early to judge the Sarma government, especially given that its hands were full tackling the pandemic in the first month, there are clear challenges.“The government was formed during a crisis and hence it has been mainly preoccupied in dealing with Covid-19,” said Kaustubh Deka, professor of political science in Dibrugarh University. He however highlighted the delay and cancellation of board exams, and the closure of two paper mills that the BJP had promised to revive as weaknesses in the first month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-in-1st-month-himanta-biswa-sarma-govt-focuses-on-covid-war-on-drugs-101623309854641.html
10-06-2021||India||Veteran filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta dies in Kolkata||National award-winning filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta died in his south Kolkata residence after a prolonged illness on Thursday. The 77-year-old veteran director was suffering from kidney-related ailments and was undergoing dialysis. He is survived by his wife, and two daughters from a previous marriage.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her condolences. “Saddened at the passing away of eminent filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta. Through his works, he infused lyricism into the language of cinema. His death comes as a great loss for the film fraternity. Condolences to his family, colleagues and admirers,” she tweeted. Some of his prominent films include Tahader Katha, Bagh Bahadur, Charachar and Uttara. He received the National Film Award multiple times and in several categories, including best film, best direction, best screenplay and best feature film in Bengali. Also Read | ‘Farmers would’ve not sat on streets if...’: Tikait after meeting with Bengal CMHe also received accolades at the Venice Film Festival, Locarno Film Festival, Asia Pacific Film Festival and Bangkok International Film Festival. “Recipient of numerous National and International honours, legendary filmmaker and renowned poet, #BuddhadebDasgupta has passed away. Sincere condolences to his family and friends (sic),” tweeted Raj Chakraborty, filmmaker and TMC MLA. Some of his earlier films, such as Grihajuddha and Andhi Gali, focused on the Maoist movement in Bengal and how it shaped the collective consciousness of Bengalis. “Anguished by the demise of Shri Buddhadeb Dasgupta. His diverse works struck a chord with all sections of society. He was also an eminent thinker and poet. My thoughts are with his family and several admirers in this time of grief. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-filmmaker-buddhadeb-dasgupta-dies-in-kolkata-101623308174469.html
10-06-2021||India||Delta Covid-19 variant can infect vaccinated people, claims AIIMS study||Vaccination is not a guarantee against the Covid-19 infection and it will only ensure that the infection does not become severe, experts have reiterated this, but now a preliminary study conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi has claimed the same after conducting a small study on 63 people. Out of these 63 people. 35 received both the dose of vaccines and 27 received only one dose. All of them got breakthrough infections (infections after vaccination) and among the samples which were genome sequenced, the Delta variant — the variant first reported in India — is predominant.Here is all you need to know about this study:1. Out of 63 samples, 36 were sequenced. 19 among them completed one dose and 17 got both doses.2. Out of the 36 samples, the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) was found in 23 samples.3. Among 63 participants, 1en patients received Covishield while 53 received Covaxin.4. The patients had a mean age of 37 (21-92), of which 41 were males and 22 were females, AIIMS said.5. It may be noted that AIIMS earlier said that there was no death among this group, which points to the premise that vaccination reduces mortality."Reinfections and vaccine breakthrough infections are rare occurrences and genomic sequencing of vaccine breakthrough infections can provide useful insights. In the present group of vaccine breakthrough infections investigated using genome sequencing, closely overlapping and mirroring the Covid-19 cases in the state of Delhi, the variants of concern B.1.617.2 and B.1.1.7 comprised the majority, but the proportions were not significantly different in comparison with the population prevalence of the variants during this period with high community transmission," the study said.Several studies are going on to understand the variants of the Covid-19 better. A recent study by Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, and Banaras Hindu University has revealed that the Dela variant was the reason for the rise in the Covid-19 infections in Varanasi. India's SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia has also confirmed that the Delta variant was the factor behind the second wave and it is more infectious than the variant first found in the UK.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-covid-19-variant-can-infect-vaccinated-people-claims-aiims-study-101623307391151.html
10-06-2021||India||After meeting Bengal CM over farm laws, Rakesh Tikait gives a message to opposition||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, said today he told the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief that the country's opposition is weak. Tikait has been leading the protests by farmers near the Delhi border seeking withdrawal of three farm laws passed by Parliament in September, 2020.“We said the opposition in the country is weak. We are sitting on the streets now. Had the opposition been strong, we need not have done that. Opposition should be strong, we told her (Mamata Banerjee),” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Thursday.Also Read| Need union of states to take on Centre: MamataThe Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader said that he met Banerjee as a chief minister and not as a party chief.“Did I meet the Afghanistan President, for which I had to take Govt of India’s permission? Does it require a visa to meet a CM? We’ll meet all CMs over state policies,” Tikait told ANI, adding he will also meet the chief ministers of Uttarakhand and Punjab, which are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, respectively.Also Read| Maharashtra makes its own draft law to protect farmersDuring Wednesday’s meeting with Tikait and other farmer leaders in Kolkata, Mamata Banerjee assured her support to the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, which has been going on since November last year. One of the most vocal critics of the laws in the opposition, Banerjee hit out at the Centre on Wednesday by asking why it was so difficult to speak to the farmers. She also said the farmers’ movement is not just limited to the north Indian states of Punjab, Haryana or Uttar Pradesh and it is for the whole of India.“The BJP rule has been disastrous for all sectors from healthcare to farmers to industry. India is suffering...we are facing both natural and political disasters,” the Bengal CM added.Also Watch| Mamata Banerjee meets Rakesh Tikait: West Bengal CM’s promises & proposals﻿﻿Eleven rounds of talks have so far been held between the farmers’ unions and the Centre in a bid to end the deadlock over the farm laws, which were passed in September 2020 by Parliament. However, no concrete solution has come up yet and farmers are continuing their protest despite the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country. The farmers are adamant on their demands for a complete revocation of the farm laws along with the assurance of a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP).Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again urged the unions to resume talks over the laws and list their objections in the provisions with logic. “We will listen and find a solution,” Tomar said during a cabinet briefing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-would-ve-not-sat-on-streets-if-tikait-after-meeting-with-bengal-cm-101623305924164.html
10-06-2021||India||Odisha sounds flood alert ahead of low pressure in Bay of Bengal||The Odisha government on Wednesday asked district collectors and municipal commissioners to set up 24x7 control rooms to deal with floods and possible landslides in hilly areas after the weather department sounded warning of heavy rainfall from a low pressure area that is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood around June 11, a fortnight after the state bore the brunt of cyclone Yaas.Odisha’s special relief commissioner PK Jena asked collectors of 13 districts including Malkangiri, Koraput, Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Nabarangpur and Deogarh to set up control rooms for flood/ disaster management that would work round the clock.“The field level functionaries to be in readiness to meet any eventuality including possibility of landslides in hilly areas. District administrations of landslide prone districts are to take special precautionary measures to prevent damage and to make arrangements for evacuating people from vulnerable areas,” Jena said.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a low pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood around June 11, and become more marked during subsequent 24 hours. The system is likely to trigger heavy to very heavy rainfall in Odisha beginning from June 10, with a possibility of flash floods in some places. The southwest monsoon is likely to advance into the entire state during the next 2-3 days.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at a few places over the districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Angul and Sambalpur on June 10 and 11, the IMD forecast said.Jena has asked the district collectors to keep all cyclone and flood shelters ready to house people evacuated from kutcha houses/hut and low-lying areas. “The engineers in charge may keep a close watch over the embankments, especially weak/vulnerable points in rivers/ canals. Flood fighting materials may be kept ready at strategic places and immediate action may be taken to prevent any breach or to close the breach, damage of roads,” the special relief commissioner (SRC) said.The latest flood warning comes at a time when people in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Mayurbhanj are still battling the aftermath of cyclone Yaas that hit the coast between Balasore and Bhadrak districts on May 26 noon with a sustained wind speed of 130–140 kmph, with gusts reaching 155 kmph. The storm caused very heavy rainfall in Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj, Jagatsinghpur, and Kendrapara districts and saline inundation in at least 3 coastal districts affecting over 6 million people in 11,000 villages. Extremely heavy rainfall over the Simlipal region in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha triggered flash flooding in at least 3 rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sounds-flood-alert-ahead-of-low-pressure-in-bay-of-bengal-101623306134630.html
10-06-2021||India||Assam opens 300-bed Covid hospital in stadium; built in 20 days by DRDO||The Assam government on Thursday opened a 300-bed Covid-19 hospital at a stadium complex in Guwahati to combat the ongoing pandemic. Constructed in 20 days at a cost of ₹21.46 cr, the hospital was built with help from Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and handed over to state government, which completed first month in office on Thursday. Set up in an area of 3,200 sq m, the hospital in Sarusajai Stadium has 200 beds in general ward with oxygen facility and 100 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. It also has an X-ray room, pharmacy, ultrasound and ECG room and laboratory.“Since assuming office, we have been able to set up 390 ICU beds and 2,684 oxygen beds all over the state to cater to Covid-19 patients,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said after inaugurating the new facility. “Due to our advanced planning, we have been able to cater to oxygen needs of our patients as well as supply it to neighbouring states in the northeast to help them tackle the situation. The new facility will immensely aid our fight against the pandemic, ” he added. Also Read | Ramdev now says he will take Covid-19 vaccine; good doctors are God’s messengersOn May 10, the day the new Cabinet took oath, the state recorded 5,803 positive Covid cases. Within the next 10 days, the figure rose to 6,573 cases on May 20—the highest-ever daily cases for the state. Nearly 80-90 deaths from the disease were reported daily then and hospitals were filled to the brim with patients. The daily numbers have now come down to around 3,800 cases and about 40 deaths. The positivity rate, which is a measure of the number of cases turning up positive out of the total tested, hovered at 9% a month ago. It has now decreased to nearly 3%. The state has over 49,000 active Covid cases at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-opens-300-bed-covid-hospital-in-stadium-built-in-20-days-by-drdo-101623304934056.html
10-06-2021||India||Filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta dies, PM Modi pays tribute to 'eminent thinker'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed condolence on the passing away of eminent film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta. In a tweet, PM Modi said that Dasgupta was an eminent thinker and poet."Anguished by the demise of Shri Buddhadeb Dasgupta. His diverse works struck a chord with all sections of society. He was also an eminent thinker and poet. My thoughts are with his family and several admirers in this time of grief. Om Shanti," the Prime Minister said on Twitter.Anguished by the demise of Shri Buddhadeb Dasgupta. His diverse works struck a chord with all sections of society. He was also an eminent thinker and poet. My thoughts are with his family and several admirers in this time of grief. Om Shanti.Dasgupta died at his residence in Kolkata early on Thursday due to old-age related ailments, family members said. He was 77.The national award-winning director was having kidney ailments for a long time and undergoing dialysis twice a week, family members said.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee condoled his death."Saddened at the passing away of eminent filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta. Through his works, he infused lyricism into the language of cinema. His death comes as a great loss for the film fraternity. Condolences to his family, colleagues and admirers," Banerjee said on Twitter.Condoling his death, filmmaker Goutam Ghosh said, "Buddha da was making films, writing articles and active despite failing health. He had directed Tope and Urojahaz even when he was not well. It is a great loss for all of us."Some of Dasgupta's prominent films include Tahader Katha, Bagh Bahadur, Charachar and Uttara. He received the National Film Award multiple times and in several categories, including best film, best direction, best screenplay and best feature film in Bengali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filmmaker-buddhadeb-dasgupta-dies-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-eminent-thinker-101623304106304.html
10-06-2021||India||Tripura records highest single day 14 Covid-19 deaths during the 2nd wave||14 Covid-19 patients lost their lives in the past 24 hours in Tripura, the highest in a day during the second wave of the pandemic. On the brighter side, the positivity rate has declined to 3.72% from 4.41%, according to the state health department.625 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the past 24 hours including 183 from West district, the largest district in the state. Khowai (94), Unakoti (88), South district (70), North district (55), Sepahijala (52), Gomati (48) and Dhalai district (48) accounted for the rest.Over 150 Covid-19 patients have died and more than 20,000 cases were recorded in the state this year, said a senior doctor. An audit report recently released by the health department said that more than 100 patients died at Covid care centres while some were in home isolation.A health department expert said people’s reluctance to undergo Covid-19 test, getting vaccinated and regularly checking oxygen levels has been the main reason behind the deaths.“If the patients come to the hospital with below 60% oxygen level, it is almost impossible to help them despite the presence of well-equipped infrastructure”, said Dr Tapan Majumder, head of the microbiology department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-records-highest-single-day-14-covid-19-deaths-during-the-2nd-wave-101623303073990.html
10-06-2021||India||Ramdev now says he will take Covid-19 vaccine; 'good doctors are God's messengers'||Yoga guru Ramdev has said he will take the vaccine against Covid-19 soon in what comes as his attempt to bury the hatchet with the Indian Medical Association. The yoga guru, who has been at odds with the doctors' body, also advocated for vaccines and said everyone should get vaccinated, apart from practising yoga and Ayurveda. Ramdev also praised PM Modi's announcement of a free, centralised Covid-19 vaccination drive which will begin on June 21, which is also the International Yoga Day.This marks a complete shift from his earlier statement on vaccines where he questioned the efficacy of these vaccines in protecting one from Covid-19 infections as thousands of doctors, he said, contracted the infection after being vaccinated and died. On the contrary, he has the dual cover of yoga and Ayurveda and has not yet taken the jibe, he had said earlier.So is the fight between Ramdev and the Indian Medical Association a thing of the past now? The yoga guru has recently said his fight is not against ant doctor as they are a "gift to the planet". His fight is against the drug mafia, which he clarified again on social media as he posted a document comparing the price of generic medicines and the branded medicines and said, "Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadh stores had to be opened because drug mafias have opened fancy shops where they are selling unnecessary medicines at very high prices instead of basic and necessary ones"."We cannot be at enmity with any organisation. And all the good doctors are all messengers sent by God on this earth. They are a gift to this planet. But if a person being a doctor does anything wrong then that is the fault of that individual," Ramdev said, as quoted by news agency ANIThe Indian Medical Association on Wednesday approached the Indian Council of Medical Research against Ramdev's "unprovoked, demeaning and prejudicing utterances against modern medicine". In its complaint, the association termed Ramdev as a quack. The association already wrote to health minister Harsh Vardhan, PM Modi against his statements. The Delhi high court has also heard the case filed by the Delhi Medical Association against Ramdev and observed that he is entitled to his opinion.Ramdev versus Indian Medical AssociationA viral video of Ramdev on social media where he is seen trashing allopathy is where the conflict started. The IMA wrote to the health minister following which the video was withdrawn. But the controversy was far from over as Ramdev raised 25 questions over the efficacy of modern medicine and said the vaccine has no use against Covid as "thousand of doctors died even after getting inoculated". The IMA objected to the statement and said as Ramdev has many followers, he should not promote vaccine hesitancy.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-now-says-he-will-take-covid-19-vaccine-good-doctors-are-god-s-messengers-101623300964876.html
10-06-2021||India||Asian Games gold medallist boxer N Dingko Singh passes away at 42||Asian Games gold medallist boxer Ngangom Dingko Singh passed away after prolonged illness at his residence at Sekta village in Manipur’s Imphal East district on Thursday morning,family sources said. The 42-year-old had fought Covid last year and also liver cancer for many years. He is survived by his wife and two children.Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh condoled Dingko’s death and tweeted, “I’m shocked and deeply saddened by the demise of Shri N Dingko Singh earlier in the morning today. A Padma Shri awardee, Dingko Singh was one of the most outstanding boxers Manipur has ever produced. My sincere condolences to the bereaved family.May his soul rest in peace.”Hockey India’s president Gyanendro Ningombam who hailed from Manipur also condoled the sudden death of the boxing legend. In a Facebook post, Gyanendro wrote,”We are shocked and deeply saddened by the demise of Ng. Dingko Singh early in the morning today. Legend boxer won gold medal at 1998 Asian Games Bangkok. He has been conferred country’s prestigious award- Padma Shri in 2013. He holds Arjuna Award also. His untimely demise saddened the entire Sports fraternity. Om Shanti.”Dingko became a national hero and a household name in Manipur when he returned with a gold medal in bantamweight from Bangkok Asian Games in Thailand in 1998, India’s first boxing medal at the Games in 16 years. He had also won the King’s cup in Bangkok a year ago, in 1997.That Asiad gold inspired another fiery boxer to take up the sport - the six-time world champion and Olympic medallist MC Mary Kom. Acknowledging his achievement, then Manipur government even named the busy Chingmeirong Khongnang-ani karak to Lamlong Bridge in Imphal as Dingko Road.He was conferred the Arjuna Award in 1998 in recognition of his achievement. He also got the prestigioius Padma Shri Award, the country’s fourth-highest civilian award, in 2013.The boxer was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2016. He underwent a 14-hour surgery at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi in January, 2017. Since then, he was on an annual treatment cycle. The prominent boxer was a Sports Authority of India coach in Imphal. Earlier, he had also served as a navy personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asian-games-gold-medallist-boxer-n-dingko-singh-passes-away-at-42-101623302593830.html
10-06-2021||India||No restrain on proposed films on late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's life: Delhi HC||The Delhi HC has refused to stay the release of film 'Nyay: The Justice', purportedly based on life of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Justice Sanjeev Narula dismissed a petition filed by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, seeking a restrain on a number of films which are proposed to be made on Rajput’s life.Also Read: Sushant Singh movie: Delhi HC issues notice to makers on plea by actor’s father seeking banRajput’s father Krishna Kishore Singh filed the plea in April after learning about several films which were announced on his son’s life.In his suit, he argued that any publication, production, or depiction of Sushant’s private life is a “blatant and wilful” breach of the fundamental right to privacy and it cannot be undertaken without the prior approval of his legal heir. The plea also contended that any film depicting Rajput’s personal life will influence the witnesses in probe related to his death, as well as change public perception towards the late actor.Krishna Kishore Singh sought a ban on films “Nyay: The Justice,” “Suicide or Murder: A Star Was Lost” and "Shashank." He also sought an injunction against any other film, publication, caricature etc based on his son’s life. Singh also said that many people took Rajput’s death as an "opportunity to get fame by developing different theories/stories", at the cost of his and his family’s reputation.”Speaking on the development, advocate AP Singh, representing directors and producers against Rajput’s father, said, “It’s a matter of great happiness for us. We have won today. This victory belongs not just to us, but also to all directors, producers who made these films to give the right direction to society.”34-year-old Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his home in Mumbai on June 15 last year. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting a probe into his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ban-on-proposed-films-on-late-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-s-life-delhi-hc-101623302308351.html
10-06-2021||India||SC gives bail to man to take care of 3-yr-old daughter||The Supreme Court has granted interim six-week bail to a man accused of dowry demands and causing his wife’s death to allow him to take care of his three-year-old sick daughter. The court noted the man’s father-in-law also wanted the accused out for the sake of the child.“Considering the fact that the three-year-old daughter of the petitioner is suffering from Acute Bacillary Dysentery–C, anaemia and she needs optimum care and supervision, we deem it fit at this stage to release the petitioner on ...interim bail for a period of six weeks,” said a bench of justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah on Tuesday.The man’s wife was in August last year found hanging in their house in Agra. Her family claimed she was murdered for dowry. The man’s family maintained the woman died by suicide after two miscarriages. The couple had adopted the girl.The father-in-law filed a dowry death and harassment case against the man. The Agra police concluded the woman died by suicide after being allegedly tortured for dowry.The husband was arrested on August 7 last year while the Allahabad high court granted anticipatory bail to his parents, sister, and brother. His father-in-law challenged the bail in the Supreme Court.In December last year, the Supreme Court said the suicide note of the woman was leaked to the media within two days of her death and that it compromised with the fairness of the investigation. It cancelled the pre-arrest bail given to her in-laws and handed over the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation. “...the conduct of the investigation thus far diminishes this Court’s faith in directing a further investigation by the same authorities (Agra police),” it said.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared for the accused, asked for an interim bail to ensure the well-being of his daughter. Rohatgi said the man was in jail since August and this incarceration has taken a toll on his daughter.The bench asked why he should be let out when the grandparents could take care of the child. Rohatgi responded that he has checked with Sanjay Kharde, the lawyer for the child’s grandfather, and that the latter supported the plea for bail for the sake of the child.Kharde echoed Rohatgi. “She has always stayed with her father and mother after her adoption. She does not eat properly, nor does she sleep well. The child has a depressive state of mind. She keeps asking about her father and mother. We are supporting this plea only in the interest of the child,” said Kharde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-bail-to-man-to-take-care-of-3-yr-old-daughter-101623298574102.html
10-06-2021||India||DGHS reviews Covid-19 guidelines: Masks not recommended for children aged under 5||Wearing masks to prevent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is not recommended for children below five years of age, even though the practice is deemed essential for adults, according to guidelines issued by the Directorate general of health services (DGHS) under the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Children aged between six to 11 years may wear a mask, but only the supervision of parents and the consulting doctor, news agency ANI cited the guidelines as stating. The recent recommendations deal with coronavirus disease management in children below 18 years of age.Also Read: 'Half of India isn't wearing a mask': Health ministry cites Covid-19 study"As per the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) guidelines, a mask is not recommended for children of 5 years of age or below; children aged 6-11 years may wear a mask under supervision of parents and doctor," read an update from ANI on Thursday morning. The new guidelines issued by the DGHS also recommend against using the antiviral drug Remdesivir in children below 18 years of age, as well as a "rational use" of HRCT imaging among children in this age group.As per the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) guidelines, mask is not recommended for children of 5 years of age or below; children aged 6-11 years may wear a mask under supervision of parents and doctor. #COVID19The DGHS has been revising its clinical management protocols regarding coronavirus disease. In its updated circular three days ago, the department under the health ministry dropped all medicines, except those for fever and cold, for asymptomatic and mild cases. It also stressed the importance of following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in adults — wearing of a mask and following physical distancing, hand hygiene, and cough etiquettes— and said they must be followed by asymptomatic, mild, moderate, and severe patients.Also Read: These drugs, test have been dropped for Covid-19 treatment. Details hereThe revised guidelines issued by the DGHS on May 27 dropped all drugs including hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, doxycycline, zinc, multivitamins, etc prescribed by the doctors to asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients. Doctors have also been asked not to prescribe unnecessary tests to Covid-19 patients such as CT scans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dghs-issues-covid-19-guidelines-masks-not-recommended-for-children-aged-under-5-101623296787863.html
10-06-2021||India||India sees record 6148 new Covid-19 deaths, fresh cases below 100k for 3rd straight day||India saw a massive jump of 6148 fresh fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, as the country's death toll rose to 359,676, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) data showed on Thursday morning. This is the highest number of fatalities recorded in India due to the Covid-19 pandemic in a single-day.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesThe number of new cases remained below the 100,000-mark for a third straight day, as 94,052 people tested positive in this period. However, this also marks the second consecutive rise in fresh cases, though marginal. With this latest single-day jump, India’s cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has risen to 29,183,121, the data showed.Also Read: Days after bodies were found floating in Ganga, Bihar sends samples for Covid-19 testingThe humongous rise in daily fatalities could be attributed to the revised figures given by the Bihar government. On Wednesday, Bihar initially reported 20 new deaths, and an overall death toll of 5,478. Later, a backlog of 3,951 fatalities was added, taking the actual death toll to 9429.कुल अतिरिक्त 3,951 मृत्यु के मामले सत्यापित होने के बाद । इस तरह कुल मृत्यु की संख्या 5478+3951= 9429According to Thursday's data, 151,367 more people recovered from the disease, taking the total number of such cases to 27,655,493, while the recovery rate improved to 94.76%. Active cases fell further to 1,167,952, a decline of 63,463 cases, and are currently at 1,167,952, comprising 4% of the total number of positive cases.Also Read: Maha witnesses downward curve; records 10,989 fresh Covid casesAlso on Thursday, the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) put the number of samples tested for Covid-19 on June 9 at 2,004,690, as against 1,985,967 tests on June 8. A total of samples have been tested for the infection 372,198253, according to ICMR’s data.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/jodFojaeXEOn June 8, the Union health ministry reported 86,498 fresh infections from the preceding 24 hours; this was for the first time since April 6 that the country’s Covid-19 tally saw an addition of less than 100,000 new cases in a single-day. A day later, the number of new cases rose marginally to 92,596. The number of daily fatalities on the two days stood at 2219 and 2123 respectively.India has the second-highest cumulative Covid-19 cases in the world, after the United States. In terms of related deaths, it is third, behind the US and Brazil, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-record-6-148-new-covid-19-deaths-fresh-cases-below-100k-for-3rd-straight-day-101623292514449.html
10-06-2021||India||Monsoon likely to cover all of east, large parts of central India in 2-3 days||Monsoon is likely to advance into the remaining parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and east Uttar Pradesh during the next 2-3 days.It advanced into the entire central and some parts of north Arabian Sea, Konkan including Mumbai and most parts of interior Maharashtra, central Bay of Bengal, parts of south Gujarat, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, north Bay of Bengal on Wednesday.A cyclonic circulation is lying over east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around June 11. It is likely to become more marked and move west-northwestwards across north Odisha, Jharkhand, and north Chhattisgarh during subsequent 3 days. Under its influence, widespread rainfall activity, with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely in most parts of east India and adjoining Central India from June 10.Also Read | IMD forecasts ‘heavy to very’ rainfall in parts of India. Check list of statesIsolated extremely heavy rain is also very likely in Odisha on June 11 and 12, Chhattisgarh from June 10 to 12, Vidarbha and Telangana on June 12 and 13.Due to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast in association with the low-pressure area, widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to continue in coastal districts of Maharashtra till June 11 and likely in coastal Karnataka till July 15.Heavy rainfall is very likely in Kerala till June 15. Extremely heavy rain is also very likely in Konkan from June 12 to 15.Due to the west-northwestwards movement of low-pressure area, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rainfall is very likely in northwest India excluding Rajasthan from June 12 to 14.Ahead of monsoon onset, widespread thunderstorm activity accompanied by lightning is likely in Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar during the next 2-3 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-cover-all-of-east-large-parts-of-central-india-in-2-3-days-101623295753862.html
10-06-2021||India||Maha witnesses downward curve; records 10,989 fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday added 10,989 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 5,863,880. The state added 661 deaths, including 400 after reconciling of records, pushing the toll to 101,833. Mumbai continued to record less than 1,000 cases for the ninth consecutive day with 785 new cases and 27 fatalities.Even as Maharashtra is witnessing a downward curve for the past few weeks, districts in Konkan and western Maharashtra still report a chunk of daily cases. Six districts — Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune — contribute over 50% of state’s daily cases. Experts and health department officials said the viral activity works in a differential manner and the high numbers in certain areas will eventually come down.Also Read | Setbacks for SII leave world short of Covid-19 shotsAccording to the data, rural and urban areas from the six districts contributed over 50% of the state’s total cases. Since June 6, these six districts added 23,138 cases, which was 51.81% of the state’s total cases during this period. On Wednesday, Ratnagiri (536), Sindhudurg (540), Pune (1,368), Satara (845), Kolhapur (1,467) and Sangli (984) districts added 5,740 of the 10,989 new cases, which is 52.23%.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said the pandemic does not behave in the same manner across geography.“Maharashtra is as big as any European country. Western Maharashtra, particularly Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, and Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg in the Konkan region, are not showing a distinct decline that we are seeing in other parts of the state. Such things occur wherever there is a delay in introduction of virus. When Mumbai and Pune were on the peak, these districts were at a better stage, comparatively. Also, the urban areas are recovering faster than the rural areas as the infection gets introduced a bit later, therefore, more cases are seen from rural areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-witnesses-downward-curve-records-10-989-fresh-covid-cases-101623295153642.html
10-06-2021||India||Odisha to widen expressway in 2 of poorest districts for economic development||The Odisha government headed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik approved four-laning of the 174.5 km Biju Expressway through Kalahandi and Nuapada on Wednesday in a major boost to connectivity and trade and industrial activity in two of the 10 aspirational districts that have remained economically backward.Odisha chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra said with a total approved cost of ₹448.02 crore, the project will be developed in EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) mode as a 4-lane carriageway and will include 17 minor bridges and 8 major bridges. The total length of Biju Expressway (Ghatipada-Sinapali) in Nuapada district will be 104.65 kms including 6 minor bridges and 6 major bridges. A 69.85 km long stretch of Biju Expressway (Sinapali-Dharmagarh-Ampani) will pass through Kalahandi district including construction of 11 minor bridges and two major bridges.“This will not only provide enhanced connectivity in Western Odisha, but also provide impetus to industrial growth and overall economic development in the region,” said Mohapatra.The Aspirational District programme of the Narendra Modi government aimed at transforming 115 backward districts in 28 states through convergence of Central and state schemes. Apart from Kalahandi and Nuapada, Odisha’s other 8 aspirational districts are Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur & Koraput.Districts like Kalahandi and Nuapada, despite having rich natural resources, are yet to see desired economic development due to poor infrastructure, poor connectivity and very poor exposure to the rest of the world, experts say.The Cabinet also decided to restructure the cadre of Odisha Administrative Service, the premier state civil service by increasing the cadre strength from 1903 to 2123. As officers of this cadre contribute mostly to revenue administration, law & order, rural & urban development, land acquisition, rehabilitation & resettlement, education & health and most importantly disaster management, the government felt the need for enhancement of posts in mid and senior levels through restructuring of the cadre, officials said.“Government schemes and welfare activities have grown manifold over the years and this has necessitated the posting of officers in different levels, in addition to the existing scale,” said an official of the general administration department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-widen-expressway-in-2-of-its-poorest-districts-for-economic-development-101623294733094.html
10-06-2021||India||Dominica declared Mehul Choksi prohibited immigrant, asked police to remove him, show documents||Economic fugitive Mehul Choksi, who is fighting a legal battle in Dominica after being charged with illegal entry by the police, was declared a prohibited immigrant by the island country, according to documents accessed by Hindustan Times. This counters the claim of his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal who said last week that Choksi did not enter Dominica illegally and the police there cannot arrest him as he is not a "prohibited immigrant".Also Read: Mehul Choksi's bail hearing adjourned till June 11According to a notice issued by Dominica's ministry of national security and home affairs, Mehul Choksi was declared a prohibited immigrant on May 25. The ministry also directed the police to "remove him from the Commonwealth of Dominica" in keeping with the procedure laid out in Section 5(1) (1) of the Immigration and Passport Act.The ministry also sent a separate notice to Choksi on the same day, informing the businessman that he is "not permitted to enter Dominica". The notice further said that the police have been instructed "to take all the necessary actions to have you repatriated".HT has seen both the documents.Choksi had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. His lawyers claimed that Choksi was kidnapped.He was detained in neighbouring Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend, who he later named as one of his abductors.Also Watch: He isn't my sugar daddy, says Choksi's alleged girlfriendChoksi's lawyer alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica on a boat."We said that he was kidnapped and didn't go to Dominica of his own free will. Here under section 6 of Dominica's Passport and Immigration Act, he is not a prohibited immigrant, therefore he has not committed any crime and Dominica police cannot arrest him," Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal claimed last week.Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are accused in the ₹13,500 crore Punjab National Bank fraud case. He is involved in a legal battle to prevent his extradition to India.India has presented evidence of Choksi's financial fraud to Dominica and urged the country to clear his deportaion, saying it is extremely important.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dominica-declared-mehul-choksi-prohibited-immigrant-show-documents-101623293355507.html
10-06-2021||India||Congress to hold symbolic protests against rising fuel price on June 11||Congress will be holding symbolic protests in front of petrol pumps across the country on Friday, June 11, against the escalating fuel prices.“During these symbolic protests… problems faced by the general public due to spiralling prices of petrol-diesel-cooking gas; unprecedented economic slowdown; rising unemployment and skyrocketing prices of all essential commodities will be taken up and highlighted,” said the party’s general secretary KC Venugopal on Wednesday.Also Watch | ‘Only one true party’: Jitin Prasada quits Congress, joins BJP before UP polls“There will be no public meetings during the protests. Party leaders and workers will ensure absolute Covid protocol adherence like wearing of masks and social distancing,” Congress statement said.Venugopal said the country is aggrieved at the “exploitation” of the citizens. He added that there has been a cascading effect of inflation of petrol and diesel on all kinds of essential commodities.“In the last five months alone, the prices of petrol and diesel have increased by 44 times, which is an example of the BJP-led government at the Centre looting from the public,” Venugopal said, adding that “anti-people” policies are a reason of the unprecedented hike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-to-hold-symbolic-protests-against-rising-fuel-price-on-june-11-101623294432916.html
10-06-2021||India||IMD forecasts 'heavy to very heavy' rainfall in parts of India. Check list of states||As monsoon made its arrival in Mumbai on Wednesday, submerging the metropolis and grinding it to a halt, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast "heavy to very heavy" rainfall in several parts of eastern and central India.Also Read: Rain brings Mumbai to a halt again"Southwest monsoon has advanced into entire central India, including Mumbai, the Konkan region, south Gujarat, parts of Telangana, and Andhra Pradesh on June 9," the IMD noted, also warning that the southwest monsoon would become more intense, leading to heavy rainfall in the east and central India in the coming six-seven days.Also Read: 11 dead as residential building collapses in Mumbai, minister blames rainHere are some states which, according to IMD, will be impacted in the coming days:Maharashtra: Heavy rains lashed Maharashtra on Wednesday, and the weather department has forecast "extremely heavy" rainfall till June 15. The state's Konkan region could be lashed by "isolated and extremely heavy" showers from June 12-15. The IMD has issued a 'red alert' for Mumbai, and neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, warning of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places there.Click here for all latest updates on Mumbai rainsKerala and Karnataka: The two southern states, like Maharashtra, are likely to witness "extremely heavy" rains, according to IMD. While Kerala will be impacted from June 11-15, the corresponding dates for Karnataka are June 12-15.Also Read: IMD forecasts likely formation of low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal around June 11Odisha: More than 20cm of rainfall, "extremely heavy" in nature, is likely to lash Odisha on June 11 and 12.Chhattisgarh and Telangana: As per the department, rainfall activity is projected in Chhattisgarh and Telangana from June 11-13, and June 12 and 13, respectively.Additionally, the IMD has forecast "fairly widespread" thunderstorm activity, ahead of the monsoon onset, in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar in the next two-three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-to-very-rainfall-in-parts-of-india-check-list-of-states-101623288647363.html
10-06-2021||India||Rapper MC Kode traced: What led to the week-long search||Aditya Tiwari, aka MC Kode, a Delhi-based rapper, was finally traced by the Delhi police in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur after a week-long search. The 23-year-old went missing on June 2 after he posted a suicide note on his Instagram handle. He is likely to be brought back home on Thursday.Tiwari is a prominent name in the national capital’s underground hip-hop scene.What was the Instagram post?On June 2, Tiwari posted an Instagram story where he hinted towards suicide. The rapper said the constant suffering, and trials and tribulations of life have made him weak. “Currently standing at an isolated bridge overlooking the Yamuna river where I could see the waves answering my distress call while giving me much needed perspective,” Tiwari wrote further.Minutes after sharing the story on the social media site, the hip-hop community went into search mode. Several underground rappers started sharing possible locations near Yamuna river where the rapper could be found and urged people to stop him from taking his own life. Updates on Tiwari’s whereabouts were trending with hashtags such as #SaveMCKode, #FindMCKode, #FindKode etc.'My son was extemely upset'Before his disappearance, Aditya Tiwari was facing enormous backlash on social media over a 2016 video where he allegedly made derogatory comments about a particular religion. Tiwari’s mother Deep told news agency ANI on Wednesday that her son issued an immediate apology but he was still being trolled.“He (Aditya) even started receiving death threats. My son was extremely upset. He wrote a suicide note and left home. We were all very worried. There was no news of him for the past seven days. Today at around 5 pm we came to know that he was traced. Now he is being brought back safely,” Deep Tiwari said on Wednesday.As the police were searching for Tiwari, a fake photo went viral on Twitter which claimed that his body has been recovered from Pragati Thermal Power/Millenium Park Bus Stand side on the Yamuna Bank.However, many websites busted the fake news, saying that the photo shared on the microblogging site is from Bangladesh where a boat carrying Rohingya refugees capsized in 2017.How was Tiwari traced?A team of the Delhi Police traced Tiwari to Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur on Wednesday. Tiwari’s mother Deepa filed a missing complaint on June 3, following which a kidnapping case was registered and several teams began searching for the rapper.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur told Hindustan Times on Wednesday that Tiwari was found at his friend’s house in Jabalpur. The rapper told the Delhi Police team that he had left for Madhya Pradesh on June 2 itself. “We will ask him the reason for his recent actions once he reaches Delhi,” Thakur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapper-mc-kode-traced-what-led-to-the-week-long-search-101623288573654.html
10-06-2021||India||First solar eclipse of 2021 today, nearly all of India to miss out||The first solar eclipse of the year will occur on Thursday, and, according to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), will be visible to people across the northern hemisphere. NASA describes solar eclipse as an astronomical phenomenon which occurs when the Moon moves between the Sun and Earth, casting a shadow on the latter, fully or partially blocking the Sun's light in some areas.Also Read: Annular solar eclipse on Thursday, to be visible before sunset in parts of IndiaHowever, this solar eclipse will be an "annular" solar eclipse, which means that the Moon is so far away from Earth, that it appears smaller in size than the Sun in the sky. Here, since the Moon is not blocking the entire view of the Sun, space enthusiasts will see a "dark disk on top of a large, bright disk." This is also known as the "ring of fire."Also Read: Solar eclipse 2021: Astrological significance and impact of Surya GrahanAccording to NASA, the eclipse will be visible only in a few regions, while it will be partial in others. The space agency has said that Russia, Greenland and Canada will get to witness the "ring of fire," or, in other words, a full solar eclipse, while eastern United States and Alaska will witness only a partial eclipse. Large parts of North America, Europe, Asia, northern Africa and parts of the Caribbean, too, will see a partial eclipse.Also Read: Solar Eclipse 2021: List of countries that will witness the ‘Ring of Fire’In India, it will be visible only to people in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh. It is scheduled to begin here at 1:42pm and will end at 6:41pm. The peak time will come around 4:16pm, when both the Sun and Moon will conjunct exactly at 25 degrees in Taurus sign.Also Read: Solar eclipse 2021: When and how to watch from India, US, and other countriesNASA will live stream the eclipse on nasa. gov/live. It can also be viewed on YouTube, courtesy of Luc Bolard of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada Sudbury Centre. NASA has also released a set of precautions which are to be taken while witnessing the solar eclipse. These are available on its official website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-solar-eclipse-of-2021-today-nearly-all-of-india-to-miss-out-101623283987622.html
10-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath releases ₹1,000 maintenance allowance to 23 lakh beneficiaries||Aiming to provide relief to the poor suffering due to the economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday transferred ₹230 crore into bank accounts of 23 lakh daily wagers, a UP government statement said. The government is providing ₹1,000 to each such worker to tide over the economic crisis during the pandemic.“Be it the dream of building a house, proper treatment in illness, cost of education or the need of financial help in any mishap, the state government is there with you at every step,” Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday."The labour brothers have made a significant contribution through complete dedication and hard work in realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream of 'Self-reliant India'," he added.The chief minister also interacted with the workers from different districts of the state virtually. He enquired about their work, home and family before taking feedback on various government schemes.Referring to the Covid-19 management in the state, Adityanath said in the past year and a half, when the entire world was grappling with the pandemic, Uttar Pradesh managed to bring the "outrageous situation" under control through collective efforts of the government and its people.“UP has a total population of about 25 crore and today states with half of our population are recording as many fresh Covid cases on a daily basis as we have in total," he said, adding that UP has the best recovery rate in the entire country.He has also appealed to the people of the state to get vaccinated and follow the Covid protocols established by the government.The chief minister also launched a website to provide assistance to small shopkeepers, daily wage laborers, rickshaw/e-rickshaw pullers, porters, barbers, washermen, cobblers and confectioners etc. Adityanath asked the eligible beneficiaries to get themselves registered on the website.The UP government statement said that every labourer, whether in the organised sector or unorganised sector, general worker or expressway worker, would be given annual insurance of ₹5,00,000 by the state government with just a registration. "The work of providing cover is being done with full commitment," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-releases-rs-1-000-maintenance-allowance-to-23-lakh-beneficiaries-101623285104745.html
10-06-2021||India||Jagan Mohan Reddy begins his two-day Delhi visit today, likely to discuss Polavaram project with Amit Shah||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will arrive in Delhi on Thursday for a two-day visit. He is expected to meet several Union ministers in these two days, including home minister Amit Shah and water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Jagan Mohan Reddy will discuss pending issues of the state, including release of funds for Polavaram irrigation project, with the ministers, news agency PTI reported quoting a release from the chief minister's office (CMO). He will return to Amaravati on Friday afternoon.The Polavaram project is an under construction multi-purpose irrigation project on the Godavari River in the West Godavari District and East Godavari District in the state.Reddy had discussed the details of the project when he met Shah at his residence in December last year.The Andhra Pradesh chief minister wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday seeking intervention to incorporate the creation of basic infrastructure in greenfield colonies as part of assistance given to state governments under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).Reddy, in his letter to PM Modi, mentioned that the Centre has sanctioned more than 3 crore houses to Andhra Pradesh in past 7 years with the release of central assistance of almost ₹3 lakh crore.Earlier this week, he also the Prime Minister for the Centre's decision to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all citizens above 18 years of age and said making vaccination a national agenda of utmost priority.In a tweet, the chief minister said, "Vaccination is the only weapon in this battle against Covid-19. Sincere thanks to Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji for clearing this uncertainty and making vaccination a national agenda of utmost priority."In a significant decision earlier today, the Prime Minister announced a centralised vaccine drive saying that the Centre will procure 25 per cent of Covid-19 vaccines that was to be done by states. The decision will be implemented in two weeks time, by June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-to-meet-shah-in-delhi-today-likely-to-discuss-polavaram-project-101623283079095.html
10-06-2021||India||'Congress gave him recognition': DK Shivakumar takes a swipe at Jitin Prasada||Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar took a dig at former union minister Jitin Prasada who joined the BJP on Wednesday and said it is Congress and Nehru-Gandhi family that gave him recognition."The Congress Party has built Jitin Prasada. It is the Congress party and the Nehru-Gandhi family that gave him recognition. If he is recognized today, it is only because of the Congress party. He should not forget this," Shivakumar told ANI.Prasada, a former MP from Uttar Pradesh's Dharahura, joined the BJP in the presence of Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal at the party headquarters earlier today.Prasada belongs to a political family in Uttar Pradesh which worked in Congress for decades.He joined the BJP ahead of assembly polls early next year and his decision is being seen as a jolt to the Congress which was trying to revive itself in the crucial state under the guidance of party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Prasada was among the young frontline leaders of the Congress, especially in Uttar Pradesh.Shivakumar also hit out at the Centre for the hike in fuel prices, saying that prices of petroleum products were not increased during assembly polls in May and June."They did not hike prices in March and April during election time, In the past 6 months, the prices have been hiked 48 times price. A total of ₹21,60,000 crores has been earned by the Centre in taxes (from petrol and diesel)," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-gave-him-recognition-dk-shivakumar-takes-a-swipe-at-jitin-prasada-101623269820807.html
10-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu assembly session to begin with Governor's address on June 21: Speaker of the House M Appavu||The Tamil Nadu Assembly would meet on June 21 with the customary address by Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Kalaivanar Arangam with the Covid norms in place, Speaker of the House M Appavu said on Wednesday. The session would commence at 10 AM. After the Governors address, the Assemblys business advisory committee would meet to decide on the duration of the session, he said. Members and staff who test negative for coronavirus alone will be allowed into the House, Appavu said and added that social distancing norms would be followed in making seating arrangements for the legislators. Speaking to reporters here, the Speaker said as has been the intent of Chief Minister M K Stalin, all the members would be given a fair chance to speak.There is likely to be a motion of thanks to the Governor for his address to the House and the session would be wound up with the Chief Ministers address, he said. Earlier, Stalin, who took oath as Chief Minister on May 7, called on the Governor at the Raj Bhavan here and discussed about the DMK governments maiden session. Tamil Nadu's 16th Legislative Assembly met on May 11 during post-Assembly elections in the multi-purpose hall at Kalaivanar Arangam and the newly elected members took the oath of office. During his meeting with Purohit, the Chief Minister handed over a report and briefed him on the steps taken by the government in controlling the second coronavirus wave and discussed various issues related to the State.Duraimurugan, Minister for Water Resources, V Irai Anbu, chief secretary, T Udayachandran, principal secretary, Anandrao V Patil, secretary to governor, P Umanath, secretary to chief minister, and D Jagannathan, secretary to government, public department, were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-assembly-session-to-begin-with-governor-s-address-on-june-21-speaker-of-the-house-m-appavu-101623269045092.html
10-06-2021||India||Lightning strikes kill 32 in Bengal in two days||Thirty two people have been killed across West Bengal since Monday due to lightning strikes, officials said. At least 27 people were killed on Monday, and five more people were killed on Tuesday, taking the total death toll to 32 in the last 48 hours. Lightning and thunderstorm continued to hit some districts even on Wednesday; while the India Meteorological Department said that the southwest monsoon is likely to advance into some parts of West Bengal over the next two days. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, who has been recently appointed as the party’s general secretary will be visiting some of the victims’ families in Murshidabad on Wednesday. On Thursday, he will meet some of the families in Hooghly. Eleven people were killed at Hooghly, and nine were killed in Murshidabad. The deceased includes a couple from Hooghly. They are survived by their seven-year-old daughter. Abhishek had also visited some of the areas hit by Cyclone Yaas last week. He interacted with villagers, who had to be evacuated by the administration and were living in cyclone shelters. “The TMC will stand beside the people throughout the year. Some people (read BJP leaders) who were seen to eat on banana leaves in villages before the assembly election can no more be found. The state government and the TMC will help the victims’ families in all possible ways,” he said. The Centre and the state have both announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have condoled the deaths. Abhishek Banerjee handed over the cheques to the victims’ families. He met some of the families at Berhampore. Around 1.30 pm he reached Berhampore at Murshidabad in a helicopter and went to Banjetia - Hatath Colony area where on Monday one Abhijit Biswas, 42 and Prahlad Murari, 40 were killed in lightning strikes. On the same day, 6 people from Mirjapur-Nowda village died due to lightning when they took shelter in a deep tube well room during a hailstorm. Another person died at a Suti village. Besides this, former deputy labour minister of the state Jakir Hossain has announced a compensation of ₹1 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased of Mirjapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-strikes-kill-32-in-bengal-in-two-days-101623269650393.html
10-06-2021||India||India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage crosses 240 million-mark||The number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 24 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday.The ministry said that in the 18-44 age group, 19,24,924 beneficiaries received the first dose of vaccine and 86,450 got the second dose on Wednesday.So far, 3,38,08,845 people in the 18-44 age group have received the first dose across states and union territories and 4,05,114 have got the second dose.Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group each, the ministry said.The country has administered cumulatively 24,24,79,167 vaccine doses, according to a provisional report at 7 pm on Wednesday.The total include 1,00,12,624 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 69,11,311 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,64,71,228 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the first dose and 87,51,277 FLWs who have received the second dose.Besides, 7,33,23,267 beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have received the first dose and 1,16,22,718 have got the second dose.As many as 6,16,38,580 beneficiaries aged above 60 have got the first dose and 1,95,34,203 have taken the second dose, the ministry said.On Wednesday, the 145th day of the nationwide vaccination drive, a total of 31,31,759 vaccine doses were administered.The ministry said 28,37,572 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 2,94,187 for the second dose.The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-crosses-240-millionmark-101623268810390.html
10-06-2021||India||163 jab points open as supplies stabilise||With vaccine supplies slowly stabilising, the Delhi government has reopened 95 vaccine centres for the 18-45 age group and 68 sites for the 45+ group on Wednesday, showed government records.As on Wednesday, the Delhi government had 95 vaccine centres spread across 35 locations for the 18-45 age group and 482 vaccine centres spread across 338 locations for the 45+ group.“The government has also opened on-the-spot registration for all beneficiaries in the state-run centres for the 45+ group and plans to start the same for beneficiaries in the 18-45 group, but for only for those scheduled for the second dose,” said a senior official.“Yesterday (Tuesday) late-evening, Delhi government received 30,000 doses of Covaxin for the 45+ group. Number of vaccine centres is likely to go up from Thursday. Covaxin centres will be open only for people scheduled for the second dose. There is no availability issue with Covishield. We have 27 days’ stock for the 45+ group,” said AAP legislator Atishi while giving details of the Delhi government’s health bulletin in a video briefing on Wednesday.She further said, “For the 18-45 group, we have received 125,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. We are happy to announce that vaccination for the 18-45 group in government centres has resumed again... We have sufficient stock for eight days and hope to get more deliveries before the government centres run out of stock.” So far, around 4.44 million in Delhi have got one dose and 1.34 million have taken both doses, showed government records. The city has a population of around 20 million, of which around 15 million are eligible for vaccination as of now.Chief minister takes stock of jab boothsDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday visited a temporary vaccine site set up by the government under its “Jahan vote, wahan vaccine” initiative, which is aimed at increasing vaccine coverage among the 45+ population through door-to-door awareness drives and convincing them to take the shots at vaccine sites set up at their nearest polling centres.Under the initiative, which has been planned across four weeks, the government will choose 70 municipal wards in the city every week. The drive is primarily being conducted by booth level officers. (BLO).“We have arranged for e-rickshaws to travel from home to vaccination sites. Just like BLOs give slips door-to-door before voting, in the same way, they are giving slips of scheduled slots to people for vaccination. Those who do not come to the centre to get the jab even after getting the slot, the BLO will go again to their house and clear doubts,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/163-jab-points-open-as-supplies-stabilise-101623267317597.html
10-06-2021||India||Former TMC leader left India before CBI filed smuggling case, Abhishek Manu Singhvi tells HC||Representing former Trinamool Congress (TMC) youth wing general secretary Vinay Mishra, who is facing an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in cattle and coal smuggling cases, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Wednesday raised objection to the agency’s action during a Calcutta High Court hearing. Singhvi told the court during a virtual hearing that Mishra left India before the probe against him started and when he left the country he had no knowledge about the case. The case was heard by Justice Tirthankar Ghosh. The CBI has issued a red corner notice for Mishra. On Monday, during a hearing, Mishra’s lawyers filed an affidavit stating he renounced his citizenship on December 19 last year by filing an application at the Indian Consulate in Dubai. The application was accepted on December 22, the affidavit said. Though Mishra’s lawyers have not made any statement on his current location, CBI officials suspect that he is living in Vanuatu, a small island in Polynesia. Singhvi, on Wednesday, also told the court that the CBI initiated the case against Mishra without taking any sanction from the state government. In 2018, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal withdrew the general consent accorded to the CBI to conduct investigations and raids in these states. Singhvi sought quashing of the case saying a case against Mishra was lodged at the Asansol court in Bengal’s West Burdwan district. He argued that the CBI has no document against Mishra to show his involvement in cattle and coal smuggling except handwritten entries in a diary in which the name of the accused is mentioned. A handwritten diary has no legal value, Singhvi said. The case will be heard again on Thursday. The high court on Monday directed that it would hear on merit an application by Mishra for modification of the court’s earlier order asking him to appear before the CBI. Justice Ghosh on Monday directed that Mishra’s application for protection from arrest and appearance before the CBI through video conferencing would be taken up for hearing on Wednesday. Singhvi argued on Monday that Mishra’s name did not figure in the first information report (FIR) or the initial charge sheet. His name was registered in 2020 although the alleged crime took place between 2015 and 2017. Mishra prayed for modification of an order the high court passed on April 22, asking him to appear before the CBI in person on May 3. He prayed for permission to join the investigation through video conferencing in view of the pandemic. Mishra prayed for protection from arrest till disposal of his petition before the high court and cancellation of the application for red corner notice with the Interpol. Additional Solicitor General YJ Dastoor, who appeared for the CBI, opposed the prayer on Monday, saying the petitioner suppressed facts when the initial application was moved before the high court. In the modified application, Mishra claimed that he left India on September 16, 2020, much before the registration of the case on September 21, 2020 and another FIR on November 27. He claimed that he did not receive any notice or summons from the CBI before leaving the country. He claimed that one of the main reasons for which he had to leave India was life threats from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members. He did not name anyone. Mishra alleged that he is being targeted by central agencies as he is an ex-general secretary of the TMC youth wing. The Enforcement Directorate arrested his brother Vikas in March and also attached his property. During the recent assembly polls, the BJP alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and then youth TMC president Abhishek Banerjee was involved in the coal smuggling case. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth hundreds of crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs mines. The CBI questioned Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee and her sister Maneka Gambhir. The latter’s husband, Ankush Arora, and his father Pawan Arora were also interrogated. TMC leaders alleged that BJP is using the agency to keep the chief minister under pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tmc-leader-left-india-before-cbi-filed-smuggling-case-abhishek-manu-singhvi-tells-hc-101623266890229.html
10-06-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s to get freezers from Rockwell to store Sputnik V||r Reddy’s Laboratories has entered into a strategic partnership with Hyderabad-based Rockwell Industries, specialising in commercial cold chain appliance manufacturing, to provide vaccine freezers for storing Sputnik V, the Russian-made Covid-19 vaccine, across India.The deal has been closed to supply at least 750 Covid-19 vaccine freezers to various hospitals and institutions across the country, 500 of these being specifically for Sputnik V.The freezer plays a critical role in the safety of vaccine and its potency. Sputnik V vaccine requires a temperature of -18°C to remain stable and potent.Dr Reddy’s had earlier tied up with the Russian Direct Investment Fund that markets Sputnik V globally, to distribute first 250 million doses of the vaccine.“This is a huge endorsement for our Covid-19 vaccine freezer. Our technology ensures that Sputnik V’s storage management at vaccine centres meets the stringent refrigeration standards set forth by Sputnik V manufacturers,” Ashok Gupta, managing director, Rockwell Industries Ltd, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-to-get-freezers-from-rockwell-to-store-sputnik-v-101623265709924.html
10-06-2021||India||After CJI Ramana’s intervention, Telangana HC to get 18 more judges||New Delhi: An intervention from Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana has cleared the decks for increasing the number of judges in the Telangana high court by around 75% of its sanctioned strength. The high court is set to have 42 judges after an increase of 18 judges from the total sanctioned strength of 24, according to people familiar with the development.The proposal to increase the strength was pending since February 2019 when the chief justice of the Telangana high court had written to the Union minister of law and justice. The recommendation was also endorsed by the governor and chief minister of the state.However, in November 2019, the ministry wrote back to the high court chief justice, stating that preference should be given to filling-up the existing vacancies.The issue remained hanging fire until justice Ramana took the helm in the last week of April this year and took stock of all pending issues pertaining to pendency in the judiciary.Last month, justice Ramana also took up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the minister of law and justice host of issues concerning judiciary that included the request of the Telangana high court, according to people cited above.On May 27, the CJI expedited the matter by writing to Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, highlighting that the proposal for hike in sanctioned bench strength from 24 to 42 has been pending since February 2019.The letter pointed out that the pendency in the high court has gone up to 237,000 cases, requiring immediate attention.As per the people mentioned above, the CJI opined that the current strength, even after all the vacancies are filled, was highly inadequate to address the pendency.Quoting from earlier communications, the CJI affirmed that the necessary infrastructure was in place to accommodate 42 judges in the Telangana high court.Justice Ramana asked the Union government to accede to the request made by the high court in the interest of administration of justice.The ministry swung into action after the CJI’s letter and conveyed to justice Ramana the government’s acceptance to the proposal on June 7.The CJI, those in the know of development said, gave his final approval to the proposed hike on Tuesday, paving the way for issuance of a notification in this regard by the law ministry. The notification is likely to be issued soon.As on June 1, Telangana high court had a vacancy of 10 judges out of 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cji-ramana-s-intervention-telangana-hc-to-get-18-more-judges-101623265150013.html
10-06-2021||India||Black money row to poll show: Kerala BJP finds itself in a dock||Thiruvananthapuram: Pressure mounts on Kerala Bharatiya Janata Party as state chief K Surendran is set to meet party’s top leaders in New Delhi to discuss issues like the black money row, performance at the assembly elections and alleged bribery case, and try to come up with strategies for the state unit along with the way ahead.After a humiliating defeat in the April 6 assembly election where the BJP lost its lone seat in the southern state, the central leadership had sought a report from three important leaders — former DGP Jacob Thomas, Metro Man E Sreedharan (both were candidates) and former bureaucrat C V Andan Bose — on the state of affairs in the party. The central leadership reportedly recommended sweeping changes in the light of poor performance, faction feud and subsequent controversies associated with the state unit. Amid the rising infighting, political observers believe that mounting differences among party leaders had resulted in the poll debacle. While state leaders have underplayed Surendran’s Delhi visit, speculation is rife about an overhaul. “It was not a summon but a planned visit. Besides, our political opponents and a section of media are also baying for the party blood,” BJP leader M T Ramesh said while denying speculations of change in state party leadership. A BJP team also called on Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Wednesday, alleging a ploy to defame the party. Besides the internal feud, the party is also under a cloud of purported highway heist and hawala transactions, alleged pay off to an independent candidate and transaction of money to tribal leader C K Janu, a candidate in Wayanad, to remain in the NDA. A look at the controversies: Highway heist The alleged highway robbery took place on April 3, three days before the state went to the polls. A man named S Shamseer told police that he was transporting some cash when he was allegedly waylaid by a group of people in Kodakara on Thrissur-Ernakulam highway who looted his vehicle after assaulting him. Shamseer, however, filed a police complaint four days later (April 7) and alleged that ₹25 lakh, which was meant for some property transactions, was stolen from his vehicle. Police found several inconsistencies in Shamseer’s statements when he was asked why he took four days to register the complaint. Shamseer later named one A K Dharmarajan, a local leader of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). During the probe, Dharmarajan told police that the money was meant for election activities and was collected from several people. After arresting 20 people, all history-sheeters allegedly involved in the heist, police found that the recoveries ran into several crores ( ₹3.50 crore). Police have so far seized ₹1.75 crore and gold from all the accused. During the probe, Dharmajan reportedly told police that the money was meant to be handed over to BJP Alappuzha treasurer K G Kartha and that party state organising secretary M Ganeshan was aware of the transportation.However, the case took a turn when one of the main accused P Deepak was found at the BJP district office in Thrissur after the incident, police said. BJP leaders, however, claimed that Deepak visited the office as part of an internal probe being carried out by the party. A special investigation team (SIT) formed by the state police to probe the case now suspect the money came from Karnataka through hawala channels and was allegedly meant for distribution during the elections. Call records showed that after the money was recovered by the police, both Shamseer and Dharmarajan made several calls to Surendran and his son K Harikrishnan. On Monday, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the SIT had handed over the details of the case to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) after the central agency sought the same. Meanwhile, a local court in Thrissur on Wednesday dismissed a plea by Dharmarajan seeking possession of the seized money. The court said an investigation into the case was underway and sought more details from the SIT in this regard. The Congress has sought a court-monitored probe into the highway heist and hawala transactions. “Only a court-monitored probe will unravel the truth, otherwise the state government will weaken the case in lieu of some of the cases being probed by central agencies,” party MP K Muraleedharan said.Pay-off to independent candidate Just when the party was struggling to come clear in the alleged highway heist case, a case of bribery against Surendran surfaced. Independent candidate K Sundara, who had contested against the state BJP chief from Mancheswaram (north Kerala) seat, alleged last week that he was under pressure to withdraw his candidature. He said that while he had demanded ₹15 lakh, he was paid only ₹2.5 lakh and handed over a smartphone. Besides these, Sundara alleged that he was offered a wine parlour and a house in Karnataka once Surendran emerged victorious. However, after Surendran’s loss to Muslim League’s AKM Ashraf, party leaders refused to meet the promises made to him, he said. Sundara did later withdraw his nomination and campaigned for Surendran but did not join the party. Following the allegations, CPI(M) candidate V V Ramesan moved Kasaragod magistrate court which directed Kerala Police to register a case against the BJP leader. Surendran was booked under section 17I (B) of Indian Penal Code among other charges. The party said it will challenge the move in a higher court. “Both the ruling CPI(M) and opposition Congress have joined hands to discredit the BJP. Some of the recent allegations are part of this campaign,” party leader A N Radhakrishnan said. Sundara, who now claims to be associated with the Bahujan Samaj Party, said he is ready to depose against the BJP leader. Interestingly in the 2016 assembly elections, Sundara had secured 467 votes while Surendran lost the seat by a slender margin of 89 votes. The independent candidate said that this time, the BJP was more alert and several leaders from Karnataka had pressurised him to withdraw his candidature from the election. Surendran lost the April polls by a bigger margin of 745 votes to Ashraf. “It is only the tip of the iceberg. The ongoing investigation will give a clear picture later. The party spent crores of rupees in the recent elections,” CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said. Largesse to tribal leader A fresh controversy surfaced last week after a leader belonging to Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP), an ally of the BJP, alleged that Surendran had given ₹10 lakh to their party chief C K Janu for returning to the NDA fold before the polls. Janu, a tribal leader from Wayanad, had earlier severed links with the BJP and NDA but later contested for them from Sulthan Bathery in Wayanad district. JRP leader Praseetha Azeekode said though Janu had sought a bigger amount, Surendran gave her only ₹10 lakh. After her disclosure, an audio tape surfaced in which Surendran was purportedly heard talking to Janu, promising her ₹10 lakh. HT could not verify the authenticity of the tape. However, Janu claimed that the money was part of the poll campaign expenses and no payment was involved for return. “The allegations have invited more ignominy to the party than recent poll defeat,” political observer A Jayashankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-money-row-to-poll-show-kerala-bjp-finds-itself-in-a-dock-101623265149309.html
10-06-2021||India||K’taka govt defends anti-cattle slaughter Act in HC||Bengaluru: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa-led government on Wednesday defended the contentious anti-cattle slaughter Act, which has been challenged through multiple petitions, in the Karnataka high court. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020, came into effect in February this year after the bill regarding the legislation was passed in the legislative council. Highlighting the government’s stance on the Act in the high court, the chief minister’s office (CMO) in a statement on Wednesday said, “Bulls and bullocks are useful not only for dairy farming but also for draught agricultural purposes and breeding. In addition to these activities, working bullocks are indispensable as they supply an impressive amount of power in comparison to any other animal.” There are at least nine petitions pending before courts challenging the Act, according to one person aware of the developments. The new legislation expands the scope of an existing law to protect cattle from slaughter and is part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s larger “plans to introduce laws in line with its core-ideology”, a BJP legislator said on the condition of anonymity. When the Bill was presented in the state legislature, the Congress had protested it and even torn its copies. The Yediyurappa government had earlier promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, which widened the existing provisions for punishment on killing of cattle. The Act also has a provision to safeguard those “acting in good faith”, which activists fear would give rise to vigilantism. The new law penalises those slaughtering cattle below 13 years of age with a jail term of three to five years and/or fines ranging from ₹50,000 to ₹10 lakh, or both. The CMO said that even the cattle that are too old to work help in production of manure and biogas and so they cannot be called “economically unproductive”. “Considering their immense contribution, it was felt necessary to preserve and protect cow progeny, including bulls and bullocks,” it added. The state government also argued that the cattle population has dropped drastically in the last eight years. According to the 19th livestock census in 2012, there were 9,516,484 cattle in the state, which came down to 8,469,004 in 2019 (20th livestock census). “The population of indigenous cattle is 1,254,206 (Hallikar and Amritmahal) and both male and female are used for drought purposes. The state government has submitted that these are few of the reasons for which the enactment in question was passed,” the CMO said in its statement. A division bench of Karnataka high court, headed by its chief justice, is expected to give a date on Monday for the final hearing in the case, according to a person aware of the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-defends-anti-cattle-slaughter-act-in-hc-101623264849279.html
10-06-2021||India||Jaishankar meets Qatari NSA on way to Kuwait||External affairs minister S Jaishankar met the Qatari National Security Adviser during a stopover in Doha while on his way to Kuwait on Wednesday, with the meeting coming against the backdrop of separate interactions in Qatar involving US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban negotiators.There was no prior announcement about the foreign minister’s transit halt in Qatar, which has played a crucial role in US-Taliban negotiations in recent years, and no official word from both countries on the meeting between Jaishankar and NSA Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned.The only details about the meeting emerged in a tweet from Jaishankar: “A pleasure to meet Qatari NSA Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned. Appreciate his insights on developments in the region and beyond. Thanked him for the support and solidarity in India’s fight against Covid.”Jaishankar embarked on a three-day visit to Kuwait on Wednesday, carrying a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Sabah on ways to boost bilateral ties. He is scheduled to travel from Kuwait to Kenya.Hours after Jaishankar’s stopover in Doha, senior Qatari officials held separate meetings with Khalilzad, the US special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, and a team of Taliban negotiators.Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, the Qatari foreign minister’s special envoy for counter-terrorism and mediation in conflict resolution, met Khalilzad and his delegation and discussed the “peace process in Afghanistan and ongoing talks in Doha between the Afghan parties”, Qatar News Agency (QNA) reported.Qahtani held a separate meeting with Sheikh Abdul Hakim, who was last year appointed the Taliban chief negotiator by the group’s chief Hibatullah Akhunzada last year. This meeting too reviewed the peace process in Afghanistan, QNA reported.Khalilzad and an US inter-agency delegation, including the National Security Council, department of defense and USAID, began a visit to Afghanistan, Qatar and the region on June 4 to give a boost to the stalled Afghan peace process amid the rapid drawdown of American forces in Afghanistan.The delegation will “underscore enduring US support for Afghanistan’s development and a political settlement that will end the war”, the state department said in a statement ahead of the visit. In Qatar, Khalilzad will “continue to encourage both sides to make tangible progress towards a political settlement that protects the gains of the last two decades”, the statement added.While in Kuwait, Jaishankar will thank the country’s leadership for supporting India’s response to a second wave of Coronavirus infections by supplying a large quantity of medical oxygen. This is his first visit to Kuwait as foreign minister and follows a trip to India by his Kuwaiti counterpart Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah in March.Under an air and sea bridge arrangement, Indian Navy ships have transported 425 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Kuwaiti ports to India. Kuwait has supplied more than 5,000 oxygen cylinders, 66 oxygen concentrators, 11 ventilators and other materials such as medicines, oximeters, masks and gloves to India.Kuwait is among the largest suppliers of oil for India and also home to nearly 900,000 Indian expatriates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-meets-qatari-nsa-on-way-to-kuwait-101623264549306.html
10-06-2021||India||Centre, states pitch in to dispel vaccine hesitancy in rural areas||“If you get vaccine, we will meet again. If you don’t, we will meet at Narmada ghat,” cautions a colourful banner on an auto rickshaw in Bhopal, referring to a cremation ground in the central Indian city.Almost 1500km away, in Ganderbal, a little north of Srinagar, religious leaders are using loudspeakers at mosques to urge people to go and get vaccinated.These are some of the efforts on in rural India as various administrations, central, state and local, work towards encouraging people in smaller cities, towns or villages to take Covid-19 vaccines. While the overwhelming issue right now, even in rural India, is supplies, there is also hesitancy caused by fear of vaccines, or prompted by misapprehensions regarding them.To date, India has fully vaccinated 47,224,623 people and partially vaccinated 148,029,921, according to the HT dashboard. The current population eligible for vaccination is 940 million (those over the age of 18 years). Assuming that even 60% of this is rural (Census 2011 put the proportion at 68.9%), this works out to 564 million people in rural India who need to be vaccinated.Based on data from health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard analysed by HT, 13.4% of all adults living in India’s rural districts have received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine till June 7, while this proportion was 24% in urban and 18% in semi-urban districts.According to a HT analysis on May 8, around the peak of the second wave, rural and semi-rural India was contributing almost 58% of new Covid-19 cases.The Union ministry of minority affairs has begun a pan-Indian campaign to tackle concerns and myths about the inoculation drive that have resulted in vaccine hesitancy among minority communities. According to an official aware of the matter, a national-level awareness campaign has been organised, especially in areas that have a high percentage of minorities and where people have shown reluctance to take vaccines.“In some areas the ministry is relying on women’s self-help groups to drive away the misconceptions about the vaccines. The ministry has also reached out to religious and social organisations to help remove doubts and fears about the vaccines,” said the official quoted above.Citing examples of areas with vaccine hesitancy, the official said administrations in several districts of Uttar Pradesh such as Sultanpur, Amethi, Aligarh and Moradabad, and in Haryana’s Mewat have reported reluctance towards vaccines based on dogmas, religious reasons and rumours.Even as the government works on increasing vaccine supplies, it faces the task of addressing the issue of hesitancy.Recently, a video showing an old woman in a village in Uttar Pradesh, hiding behind a drum fearing vaccination went viral, underlining how many in the rural belts are wary of taking vaccines. HT reported on May 20 how the fight against Covid-19 in rural Bihar is being hampered by the lack of health are infrastructure and vaccine hesitancy.A report put out by the union panchayati raj ministry shows truck drivers, panchayats or even toll plazas have painted slogans such as “buri nazar wale tera munh kala, achha hoga vaccine lagwane wala” (wicked people be damned, good things will happen to those who got vaccinated). And women volunteers are conducting door to door surveys and even small rallies in villages to encourage people to take vaccines.The ministry report highlighted that “in Gujarat, some panchayats even offered 50% concession in panchayat taxes to promote vaccination” while some others formed “Gram yoddha samiti” comprisingpanchayat leaders, ASHA workers and local police to counsel villagers.A senior ministry official, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “It’s a tough job. But these Covid influencers are better placed as they belong to the local community.”And in Odisha, where “there have been some vaccine hesitancy seen in certain tribal communities, the state government, according to the ministry, has provided ₹10,000 to each village welfare committees to undertake activities such as “poster campaigns, leaflet distribution, wall paintings and beating of drums.”In faraway villages of Nagaland, women’s self-help groups “continue to install bamboo pole hand wash stations in public places in the village. During the first wave, 2316 hand wash facilityies has been installed across 1158 villages and this continues to be a practice in the second wave as well,” read the report shared by the ministry.With inputs by Smriti Kak Ramachandran||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-pitch-in-to-dispel-vaccine-hesitancy-in-rural-areas-101623264491159.html
10-06-2021||India||‘I wasn’t being able to fulfil the aspirations of people’: Jitin Prasada||Jitin Prasada, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday, spoke to HT about the timing of his move, why he chose the BJP, and while refusing to blame individuals in the Congress, talked about the general disconnect between the party and the people in his home state of Uttar Pradesh. Edited excerpts:The move doesn’t come as that much of a surprise. You almost joined the BJP in 2019 and then held back-- what changed since then?It’s not about surprises, but in the last two years, I have been travelling across the country and in my interactions with people, I began to realise that I’m not being able to fulfil the expectations of the very people I promised to work for. And when you see a dilution in that, you start feeling that the organisation that you belong to is not being able to fulfil the expectations of the people, especially in the state that I come from.How long have you been feeling like this?It’s not about a particular time, it’s about a series of election defeats, the interactions with people, their suggestions and their talk; they reach out to you to for help and work but you are not able to fulfil it. That’s when you have to take a decision.Did the BJP approach you or did you approach them?It’s not about who approached whom. I’m not going to tell you other than it’s a decision that I’m very happy to have taken. I’m happy to be part of a party that’s the only national party that exists in India. It functions on an institutional basis rather than on whims and fancies that revolve around a particular person.Are you referring to the whims and fancies of the people in charge now -- SoniaGandhi, or Rahul Gandhi?I am talking about the parties in general, not about a particular party.But the party that you are quitting is the Congress?Today, is my first day in the BJP, and today isn’t the day of why I left a particular party.One of the first people who reached out on Twitter was Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who also like you quit the Congress. Did you seek his advice before leaving?No, I didn’t have any interaction with him, but I hope to meet him very soon and congratulate him on his victory in AssamYou talked about successive defeats...Defeats and wins are part of politics. I am talking about the distancing at large from the people of a political party, especially in my state. The disconnect has led to serious defeats and it isn’t being course corrected.When you talk about disconnect, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is the state in-charge and she has been trying since 2019 to revive the Congress. Is this an indictment of her?I am not talking about just the last two years. I’m talking of what’s happened over the years. You know the results of what’s happened.If we talk about BJP, you are joining at a difficult time since in your state, their leaders have criticised their handling of Covid.They have voiced their concerns, but as far as I’m concerned, I am going to work for the party and we are going to see elections in Uttar Pradesh soon. Apart from that, I am looking at doing whatever they decide to put me to work. I feel that my energy will be utilised and that will make me successful.Do you bring the Brahmin vote to the table for BJP?I belong to that community and have been taking up their cause on a non-political platform. Hopefully, I’ll be able to help them much more now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-wan-t-being-able-to-fulfil-the-aspirations-of-people-101623264490588.html
10-06-2021||India||Entry of old Cong loyalist good optics for BJP in run up to UP polls||Former Union minister Jitin Prasada’s induction into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday came in the backdrop of caste realignments in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls early next year and where Brahmins form an influential vote bloc.Though Prasada’s influence within the community may be limited, his entry gives an opportunity to the BJP to showcase a Brahmin face in a state where reports of dissidence within the party have surfaced in recent weeks amid allegations that the administration was biased towards Thakurs.The party, which is hoping to return to power in India’s most-populous state, also gets a chance to underline that loyalists of the Congress party’s first family --- Prasada was considered close to former party president Rahul Gandhi -- were abandoning the party.“They say Modi ji is intolerant. Then why so many senior Congress leaders are abandoning the “tolerant” Gandhi family and wanting to work with Modiji? People prefer to work in a democratic culture rather than work for a delusional dictator disconnected from the masses,” tweeted Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who left Congress to join BJP in 2015.But the Congress insisted that losing Prasada was a minor loss because the 47-year-old had no electoral heft and had ceased to be a mass leader. The Congress pointed out that Prasada lost from his home seat of Dhaurara in the last two Lok Sabha elections. “Make no mistake. He is no Jyotiraditya Scindia or Himanta Biswa Sarma who have mass support and had followers in the organisation,” said a senior Congress strategist requesting anonymity. Scindia and his followers quit the Congress in 2020, causing the party’s government in Madhya Pradesh to fall.Prasada’s entry into the BJP comes months before crucial elections in Uttar Pradesh, which BJP won in a landslide in 2017 by forming a rainbow coalition of upper castes, non-Yadav Other Backward Classes and non-Jatav Scheduled Caste communities. Before that election too, BJP had inducted key Brahmin leaders -- Brajesh Pathak from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Rita Bahuguna Joshi from Congress -- into the party.A senior BJP leader who did not wish to be quoted said it was the bulk of the Brahmin vote that helped BJP secure massive wins in the last two national elections and also get a huge mandate in the 2017 UP assembly elections.The ruling dispensation is also counting on Prasada to counter the perception that Brahmins, who form roughly 13% the state’s population but have wider social influence, moved away from BJP after chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is from the Thakur community, was made chief minister in 2017.In a tweet, Adityanath welcomed Prasada. “His entry will definitely strengthen the party in UP,” the CM said.Over the past year, Prasada tried to consolidate his position among Brahmins by holding a Brahmin Chetna Samvaad. He claimed his community was facing persecution and being ignored by the Yogi Adityanath-led government.But his efforts were somewhat overshadowed by the Samajwadi Party (SP) and BSP after the regional outfits promised to build statues of Parashuram to attract Brahmin support.“The impact of statements by Prasada, [BSP chief] Mayawati and SP insinuating that there is a Thakur vs Brahmin sentiment in the state, which has been lent support by the CM’s preference, cannot be denied. Various Brahmin social groups have over time conveyed their concerns to the party leadership,” said a second senior BJP leader.In the 2007 elections, BSP won a simple majority by crafting a coalition of extremes between Dalits and Brahmins. To woo the upper caste community, Mayawati even changed her party’s slogan from Tilak, Tarazu aur Talwar, Inko Maaro Joote Chaar’ to ‘Haathi Nahi, Ganesh Hai; Brahama, Vishnu, Mahesh Hai’“The Brahmin vote has always played a decisive role in the past. The dip in the popularity of the Congress, which at one time had popular and tall Brahmin leaders in the state as CMs, was exacerbated when the community shifted their loyalty to the BJP after the Ramjanmabhoomi movement. In between there were times when the community even supported the BSP,” a third senior BJP leader said, requesting anonymity.Two of Prasada’s aides claimed he was increasingly getting marginalised in the Congress organisation, and had even told them how in his home turf of Shahjahanpur, SP turncoats were getting more importance than his loyalists. Once an integral part of ‘Team Rahul’, he was among the so-called G23 leaders who demanded sweeping changes in the party organisation last year.They also claimed that despite being named poll incharge for West Bengal earlier this year, Prasada had little say in strategy, alliance and communication plan.“I knew him as a good person. He was a prominent Brahmin face for our party. He must have joined the BJP for greener pastures,” said leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who worked with Prasada closely during the West Bengal polls.“The BJP does not believe in caste politics. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we believe in sabka saath sabka vikas. The coming of Congress leaders such as Rita Bahuguna Joshi and now Prasada is also a seal of approval on the administration of Modi-Yogi double-engine government,” said Chandramohan, a BJP spokesperson in UP.Asked if Prasada’s inability to win the previous two Lok Sabha elections is a cause for concern, Chandramohan said the Prasada family has a certain heft in the state’s politics. “Both the party and he will benefit from coming together,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entry-of-old-cong-loyalist-brahmin-face-good-optics-for-bjp-in-run-up-to-up-polls-101623264310964.html
10-06-2021||India||Covaxin phase 3 trial results to be out in July: Bharat Biotech||Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech said on Wednesday it will release the results of phase 3 clinical trials of its coronavirus shot only in July, a month later than the previously announced timeline of June.The Bharat Biotech shot, Covaxin, is one of the three vaccines currently approved in India for emergency use owing to the pandemic. It was given a go-ahead in January without having carried out phase 3 trials at the time. The company released interim data in April that showed the vaccine was very effective.The firm told news agency ANI on Wednesday it will release its data to the public in July, submit it to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for a full license application, and give the results for a peer-review.The interim analysis of the trials has shown an efficacy of 78% against symptomatic disease, and 100% protection from serious illness, according to the company.“It is critical to understand, and further emphasise the phase-3 data will first be submitted to Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), followed by peer-reviewed journals, with a timeline of 3 months for publication, and as communicated earlier, COVAXIN phase 3 results full trial data will be made public during July. Once data from the final analysis of phase III studies are available, Bharat Biotech will apply for full licensure for COVAXIN,” Bharat Biotech told ANI on Wednesday. At the time of releasing the interim data, the company said the data was likely to be released in June.The company’s project head for Covaxin, Raches Ella, made a similar statement on Twitter.But usually, companies do publish data much before they apply for full licensure. Moderna, for instance, whose vaccine was approved in the US under the same emergency use authorisation, published its peer-reviewed preliminary results 12 days later in late December. AstraZeneca/Oxford published peer-reviewed efficacy results earlier in December, ahead of its approval in the UK.People aware of the matter also said Bharat Biotech will further collate real-world data from people who are being administered the shot in the country.Experts say the data should be put in public domain for independent analysis. “Trial data should ideally be published in peer-reviewed top medical journal so that those people who are not a part of the clinical trial can study it, question it and cross-check the legitimacy of the trial,” said CM Gulhati, editor, Monthly Index of Medical Specialities (MIMS), pharmaceutical reference guide.The phase 3 study held this year enrolled 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, with analysis conducted 14 days post second dose. Covaxin was developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-phase-3-trial-results-to-be-out-in-july-bharat-biotech-101623264190659.html
10-06-2021||India||Cabinet clears hike in kharif crop MSPs||The Union Cabinet has raised minimum support prices (MSPs) of summer-sown crops, increasing them by 1.8% and 6.7%, in keeping with a policy to offer farmers at least 50% returns over the cost of cultivation, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday.The new rates come amid ongoing protests by farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, who want the government to scrap three agricultural laws passed in September 2020 and offer a legal backing for MSPs.The MSPs announced on Wednesday are geared toward nudging farmers to shift away from plentiful cereals, by setting higher prices for oilseeds and pulses, whose output and supply are relatively scarce. For instance, India imports up to two-thirds of its vegetable oil to meet domestic demand.“We have been saying all along that there should be no doubt over MSP. The MSP system has been there and will be there,” Tomar said. The new rates will offer returns of between 50% and 62% over cost of cultivation, he said.MSPs are federally fixed floor prices for crops for government purchases aimed at avoiding distress sale by farmers and signalling a benchmark rate for private traders.The agriculture minister said the government has not closed the doors on negotiations with protesting farm unions. “We are willing to talk and are committed to farmers’ welfare. We had 11 rounds of talks. We have appealed to the farmers to point out specific objections in the legislation. Neither any opposition leader in the House (Parliament) nor the protesting farmers have come up with any specific objection,” Tomar said.The government buys large quantities of cereals from farmers at MSP rates and distributes them to beneficiaries through the public distribution system at subsidised rates. This is primarily how farmers benefit from the MSP system. However, sales to other buyers can be at prices that are either above or below MSPs.Farm economist KS Mani, a former faculty with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said he broadly agreed with the pricing differential between produce that are abundant and those in short supply. “The underlying aim is crop diversification. This will work if the government also buys oilseeds and pulses in sufficient quantities.”Among key crops, MSP for paddy has been raised from ₹1,868 to ₹1,940 a quintal, a hike of 3%. The rates for coarse cereals jowar and bajra were hiked by ₹118 to stand at ₹2,738 and ₹2,250, which translates to a raise of 21% and 5%, respectively. The prices of urad, a lentil, has been increased sharply by ₹300 to stand at ₹6,300 a quintal.The highest increase over the previous year was for sesamum, an oilseed, whose MSP was raised by ₹452 a quintal, to stand at ₹7,307 a quintal, up from ₹6,855.The next largest increase were for two lentils, tur (pigeon pea) and urad (black gram) , whose MSPs were increased by ₹300 a quintal each. Prices of groundnut and nigerseed have been increased by ₹275 per quintal and ₹235 a quintal, respectively. In all, prices were raised by up to 62%.To fix MSP, the government uses a measure of cost, called A2 + FL, which refers to the cost of cultivation plus the value of family labour.Farmers have been demanding a legal guarantee for MSP that is calculated using a broader and more comprehensive measure of costs called C2, which includes the assumed cost of capital invested, including machinery, and rent on land.“Across crops, the increase in absolute numbers doesn’t even match the inflation rate,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a farm activist. “The government is doing its usual trickery on farmers. First, they did not use the C2 cost concept and used A2+FL. In maize, the increase is as low as ₹20 per quintal, compared to last year. MSPs are meaningless if the government cannot ensure that all farmers get at least this price. That is where the demand for a legal guarantee comes in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-clears-hike-in-kharif-crop-msps-101623264191249.html
10-06-2021||India||Blow to Congress as Jitin Prasada joins BJP||Former Union minister and Congress leader Jitin Prasada on Wednesday made the switch to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and said that the ruling dispensation was “truly a national party” while other outfits remained about personalities or were confined to particular regions.Joining the BJP in New Delhi in the presence of Union minister Piyush Goyal, Prasada said that “if there was any political party in the country today that worked in an institutional way... then it was the Bharatiya Janata Party”.“Our family has been associated with the Congress for three generations, but during the last 8-10 years, I felt that if there is any national party, it is the BJP,” he added.Prasada, who earlier met Union home minister Amit Shah, said other parties have been reduced to individuals or regional entities. The 47-year-old son of former Congress leader Jitendra Prasada called his move a new chapter in his political life and a well-thought-out decision.He was part of a group of 23 leaders who wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last year, seeking organisational overhaul and elections at all levels, triggering a tussle within the party. On Wednesday, Prasada refrained from attacking the Congress leadership directly but said he realised that it was no longer possible for him to serve people and protect their interests while remaining in his former party. He said the decision was not about which party he was quitting but which he was joining. The development marks another high-profile exit from the Congress of a leader who later joined the BJP. Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia joined the BJP last year, resulting in the fall of the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh. Once considered close to Rahul Gandhi, a host of young Congress leaders, including Sachin Pilot and Milind Deora, have spoken out about the state of affairs in their party. Getting Prasada, a member of the Brahmin community, which forms about 13% of Uttar Pradesh’s population, is good optics for the BJP ahead of assembly elections in the state next year, experts said. Goyal praised Prasada for continuing to help the people of his constituency despite no longer being their representative in Parliament. Prasada, a two-time Congress MP, lost the 2014 elections to BJP’s Rekha Verma.Lauding him as a “rooted leader” and politician of stature, Goyal said his joining the BJP will boost the party and also provide him an opportunity to serve people. There was speculation about the possibility of Prasada joining the BJP ahead of the 2019 elections but he had then dismissed it saying he would not address “hypothetical questions”.Prasada has said in recent years that his community was facing persecution and being largely ignored by the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh. He also started a Brahma Chetna Samvaad to reach out to the community and offer a platform to give a voice to the community’s aspirations.In a tweet on Wednesday, Adityanath said: “ We welcome Jitin Prasad, who has left Congress to join the BJP. His inclusion in the party will definitely strengthen BJP in Uttar Pradesh.” Last year, Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who was among the signatories to a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational changes, alleged Prasada was being targeted by partymen in Uttar Pradesh and called it unfortunate. Prasada did not find a place in the Congress’s committees formed for the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. A two-term Lok Sabha MP, he lost elections in 2014 and 2019, and was the Congress leader in charge of West Bengal before joining the BJP.“Jitin Prasad Ji, do you feel comfortable standing with those people who have suppressed every democratic institution in the last 7 years?” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blow-to-congress-as-jitin-prasada-joins-bjp-101623264129836.html
10-06-2021||India||“Bio E vaccine works against variants, ready with tweaks if needed': Maria Elena Bottazzi||Biological E’s vaccine candidate works well to control Sars-Cov-2 variants of concerns, and work has already begun to make alterations in case more resistant mutations occur, according to one of the leading scientists who is part of the development team. In an interview with HT, Maria Elena Bottazzi, the associate dean of Baylor College of Medicine’s National School of Tropical Medicine, said Biological E’s recombinant protein vaccine could address a large gap in global supplies in general, and help inoculate children in particular, and spoke of the need to ensure second doses are given on time to reduce the risk of mutations. The Baylor College of Medicine has partnered with Biological E for the vaccine. Edited excerpts: Tell us a little bit about the progress of the Biological E vaccine.In 2020, we transferred to Biological E the seed stock to produce this recombinant protein Covid-19 vaccine candidate. Biological E have been doing a number of things since: they are advancing the manufacturing, and are also maturing the process and scaling it up. They are testing the manufacturing stock, and at the same time, have engaged in a clinical development plan. The company has got the approval to initiate a large Phase 2/3 trials in India, while in parallel, it’s also working with global agencies, including CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations) to launch a global clinical trial.When can we expect to see the results from the Phase 1/2 trial?I think they’re (Biological E researchers) finishing up compiling all the data from the Phase 1/2 stages and the company will probably provide more information soon. They have already received the approval for Phase 3 trials so you will probably see that they’re going to be launching that in the next week.Have you been able to test how the vaccine works with the variants of concern we have at the moment?Yes, in our laboratories, working in partnership with Biological E, we have evaluated the performance of the vaccine using our pseudovirus technique, and clearly, the vaccine induces cross neutralising antibodies against the different variants, including B.1.617 (Delta) variant. We are also re-engineering the vaccine candidate and have already transitioned to Biological E additional constructs for them to evaluate – to see if we will in the future need boosters or a second-generation dose against the different variants. But the vaccine that they are currently advancing is quite cross-protective and performs well against variants of concern. At the same time, we’re looking for alternatives in case in the future, we need to redesign the vaccine. So, it is a two-pronged approach.We have constructs for Sars, and for Mers, and now we have a toolbox of different constructs against Covid-19, so we’re looking at ways to develop second and then third-generation vaccine candidates.You mentioned in the past that this vaccine could show particular promise for use among children. Can you tell us a little more about that?The yeast expression technology (the platform used) is the mainstay for a lot of vaccines -- it’s the same process used for the Hepatitis B vaccine, which is widely used in the paediatric population. There is a lot of experience in quality production, and regulators are quite abreast of the safety. And because it’s a system used for other licensed vaccines, it’s also reassuring. After authorisation (for adults), Biological E will start looking at evaluation in paediatric populations.There is a debate over whether second doses of the vaccine should be delayed, as has been done by India, particularly in light of the reduced efficacy with the Delta variant. What is your opinion on it?That is a hard choice because we know that you really require the two-dose scheme to ensure you maximise the immune response, but at the same time, you don’t have enough vaccines to cover as many people as possible. I appreciate the stress of wanting to make sure a lot of people start getting vaccinated, but if you start vaccinating people that are not fully protected, that may also open the window for this virus to continue mutating and enabling it to escape immunity. Scientifically, we favour that individuals stay within the schedule of that vaccine.From what we have seen of the Sars-Cov-2’s evolution till now, how do you see the pandemic evolving and how does it pose a challenge to the vaccination programme?If we continue to have this very patchy world, where there are areas where you’re doing a really good job in access and distribution of vaccines but in other areas you don’t, I think there’s going to be more of this emergence of variants of concern. It is most likely going to require all of us get a booster shot sometime late this year or early next year. And this is, again, another reason why we now first need to ensure we have enough vaccines to catch up areas where there is still a lag in coverage. At the same time, we will also need to have availability to fill gaps for other ages, including the paediatric population. So, as you can see, that’s the real urgency of continuing to ramp up production, ensuring there’s enough supply of all the reagents you need, and to have a very good ecosystem in the health system for distributed storage. And then, ultimately, you need a high level of confidence so that people use the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-vaccine-candidate-for-new-future-mutations-101623264129246.html
10-06-2021||India||Wide variation in coverage across states marks India’s vaccine drive||India’s vaccination drive has been open to adults across age groups for 40 days and several variations in coverage are clear across the country’s states, data analysed by HT shows. While Himachal Pradesh is the clear leader in terms of administering doses to the largest proportion of its adults (38%), states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Tamil Nadu have not managed give a single shot to even 15% of those eligible for vaccines.Delhi leads in administering doses to those in the 18-45 years age group with 17.3% of residents in the category having received a shot, while Chhattisgarh brings up the bottom of the list with only 3.7% those between 18 and 45 receiving jabs.Tamil Nadu is not only among states that has covered less than 15% of its eligible population, its coverage of the 45+ years age group (20.4%) is the worst among all 23 regions for which population projections are available for 2021 from the National Commission on Population. Given the high social development indicators and the relatively good public health infrastructure in the state, the numbers may point to significant vaccine hesitancy.Till 5pm on Wednesday, India administered 191.9 million first doses of Covid-19 vaccines across different age groups, according to data uploaded on the Co-WIN dashboard. Of these, 50.5 million doses went to people in the 18-45 age group, 79.2 million to those in the 45-60 age group, and 62.2 million to those above 60.Yet, because 63% of all adults in India are in the 18-45 age group, only 8.5% of this category has been covered, whereas 38.2% of the 45-60 group (they form 22% of the eligible population) and 45.1% of the 60 and above age group (14.7% of the eligible population) has been given at least one dose.So, how are states faring in vaccinating the old and the young?The states that have vaccinated a low share of their eligible population are unsurprisingly behind in vaccinating both the old and the young. These are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Jharkhand, West Bengal, and Punjab. These six states have given first doses to less than 20% of adults, with 27%-36% coverage in the 45 and above age group and 5.1%-7.6% coverage in the 18-45 age group.Though Tamil Nadu is also among states that has covered less than 20% of adults, it has managed to a vaccinate a higher share (9.1%) of the 18-45 age group than these six states.The vaccination of the 45+ age group appears to be a good barometer for overall coverage as it has a direct correlation with the share of overall eligible population given the first dose. The top 11 of the 23 regions for which population projections are available are also the top 11 regions in coverage of the 45+ age group, although their precise ranks may vary slightly. Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, for instance, are 7th and 10th in covering their overall eligible population, but 3rd and 4th in covering their 45+ group.However, there is poor correlation between the coverage of the overall population and the 18-45 group. For instance, Chhattisgarh, which is 10th in overall coverage, has vaccinated the least share of its 18-45 age group among all the 23 regions.This anomaly in vaccinating the 18-45 age group is evident in the wide variation in the share of doses given to the 18-45 population with respect to the share of the age group in the eligible population. MP, for instance, has given 39% of its doses to this younger age group, which has a share of 65% in the eligible population. In other words, it has given 0.59 times doses to the 18-45 age group relative to its share in population. This relative share is 0.14 for Chhattisgarh. The highest relative share of vaccinating the 18-45 age group (0.65 in Tamil Nadu) is 4.7 times than the lowest (0.14 in Chhattisgarh). The difference between regions in the relative share of vaccinating the 45+ age group is much less; the highest (2.6 in Chhattisgarh) is only 1.8 times the lowest (1.5 in Tamil Nadu). To be sure, this relative share is bound to be higher for the older age group in all states simply because this is the segment that became eligible for vaccination on March 1 (60+) , and then, subsequently, on April 1 (45+). The 18-45 segment became eligible for vaccines only on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wide-variation-in-coverage-across-states-marks-india-s-vaccine-drive-101623264009894.html
10-06-2021||India||Two notorious gangsters from Punjab gunned down by Bengal STF near Kolkata||Two notorious gangsters from Punjab, who were wanted for multiple crimes, were killed in an encounter with the Special Task Force (STF) of the West Bengal Police in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata around 3.40 pm on Wednesday, police said. One of the criminals was suspected to be Jaipal Singh Bhullar who was involved in the murder of police personnel in Ludhiana on May 15. The second gangster was reportedly identified as Jaspreet Jassi. They were allegedly involved in smuggling of firearms and explosives. The Bengal Police did not make any official statement till 5.15 pm The criminals were hiding in a rented apartment at a posh multi-storeyed residential complex in New Town area. A police officer was injured when the criminals opened fire. A huge police contingent was deployed in and around the complex since it was suspected that the slain gangsters could have had associates who might have slipped out during the encounter. All roads were sealed. The West Bengal Police was in touch with their counterparts in Punjab. Police officials said the STF got information about the Punjab gangsters from two men who were arrested near Siuri in Birbhum district on Sunday while they were trying to smuggle in a consignment of explosives and 9 mm pistols from Bihar. STF personnel are examining footage captured by security cameras installed inside the complex to find more details about the movements of the slain duo. The injured STF officer, Kartick Mohan Ghosh, was shot in the shoulder. He was rushed to AMRI Hospital in Salt Lake. He lost a lot of blood, said an officer. Jaipal Singh Bhullar, alias Manjit Singh, was the son of a retired assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab police. He was wanted in several states including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh in connection with more than 45 cases involving murder, kidnapping, robbery and smuggling. He was earlier a sportsman. Bhullar, who carried a price on his head, was known for indiscriminate use of firearms. He and three others were involved in the killings of two Punjab police ASIs at New Grain Market in Jagraon, Ludhiana on May 15. Bhullar and his associates were living in a second floor apartment at Sukhobristi, a complex built by the Shapoorji Pallonji Group. After the encounter, residents told the media that although this was the first shootout inside the complex, in the past the state and Kolkata police had arrested some criminals. “Many apartment owners do not even live in Kolkata. They rent out properties without checking the background of the tenants. The issue has been raised by the residents’ society several times,” said a resident who did not want to be identified. Tapas Chatterjee, the local Trinamool Congress legislator, visited the spot and assured the residents that their safety would be ensured by the administration. “I will not make any statement on the shootout. It is a police matter,” he said. “The Punjab police have confirmed that the deceased are Jaipal and Jaspreet who had rewards of ₹10 and 5 lakhs respectively on their heads. We were on the lookout for quite some time and were in touch with several agencies, including the Punjab Police. The two were being hunted for the killings of two policemen on May 15. We went to the apartment to arrest them but had to open fire in self defence when they fired at us, injuring an inspector,” Vineet Goyal, additional director general of police, West Bengal STF, said at 7.30 pm. “We have recovered around ₹7 lakh in cash, five sophisticated pistols, including Glocks, and 89 rounds of unfired ammunition from the apartment,” Goyal said. “We cannot say right now how many shots were fired during the shootout,” he added. “The two criminals were wanted in connection with numerous crimes committed since 2016. They killed a politician as well. A Punjab Police team has arrived in the state just now. The West Bengal CID and bomb disposal squad have been deployed. The apartment is being searched as the criminals could have hidden explosives there,” Goyal said. “Since the shootout took place in Bengal, a case will be registered here. The operation was carried out entirely by the state STF,” he added. The bodies were removed from the apartment around 7.45 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-notorious-gangsters-from-punjab-gunned-down-by-bengal-stf-near-kolkata-101623245288080.html
10-06-2021||India||Co-WIN now allows rectifying errors in vaccine certificates||Beneficiaries can now correct mistakes in their Covid vaccination certificates via the Co-WIN digital platform. A new feature on the portal allows beneficiaries to correct their name, year of birth, and gender on vaccination certificates by logging in to http://cowin.gov.in, and raising an issue.“New citizen friendly feature on #CoWIN. Now correct the errors in vaccination certificate yourself,” tweeted Vikas Sheel, additional secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare.The Twitter handle of Aarogya Setu app said late on Tuesday: “Now you can make corrections to your name, year of birth and gender on your Cowin vaccination certificates if inadvertent errors have come in. Go to http://cowin.gov.in and Raise an Issue.”Beneficiaries can either get a hard copy from the vaccination centre they got their shot at, or download their QR-based certificate after first dose and on the completion of both the vaccine doses. However, until now, there was no option to make changes in the certificate in case of an inadvertent error.The Co-WIN platform is the backbone of Covid-19 vaccine delivery management system; beneficiaries need to register on it, and also log in for booking an appointment.The digital platform has been modified from time to time to make it more user friendly for citizens wanting to take the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-beneficiaries-can-correct-mistakes-in-vaccine-certificate-via-cowin-101623226731431.html
10-06-2021||India||Let’s cooperate, not confront each other, says Chinese envoy||India and China should cooperate, not confront each other, and resolve differences over the border dispute through consultation and dialogue, the Chinese ambassador to New Delhi Sun Weidong has said. Sun called the dispute a legacy of history and added the boundary question should be kept in the “right place” in the bilateral ties between the two countries.“It is normal for countries to have differences. Border disputes are a legacy of history and should be placed in the right place in bilateral relations,” Sun said. He added that Beijing believes in resolving border disputes through dialogue and consultation.“At the same time, our determination to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests is unwavering. China and India should respect each other, treat each other equally, engage in dialogue and consultation, and properly resolve their differences to find a solution acceptable to both sides,” Sun said during an online interaction with Indian youth leaders on Tuesday.Sun added that China and India should concentrate on dealing with the pandemic and reviving the economy.His comments came in the backdrop of the ongoing border friction along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.India has said in recent months that complete disengagement at all friction points on the LAC and peace and tranquillity in the border areas alone can lead to normalisation of ties in other spheres such as trade and investment.Speaking to external affairs minister S Jaishankar in late February, Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, Wang Yi, similarly said the border dispute between India and China is a reality, should be taken seriously but should also be placed at an appropriate position in bilateral ties.New Delhi has told Beijing that it cannot be business as usual, and the border dispute cannot be swept under the carpet until full disengagement is completed at friction points.During his interaction, Sun responded to a question on the inability of thousands of stranded Indian students to return to China because of the pandemic. Sun gave no assurance about their return to China, indicating they have to continue online studies in the foreseeable future. He said relevant universities are expected to maintain close contact with overseas students, make arrangements for online teaching, and properly handle their legitimate concerns and demands.A majority of the 23,000 Indian students studying in China have been unable to return because the Chinese government has not yet allowed foreign students to resume physical classes.Sun indicated that China is unlikely to normalise international travel with India anytime soon. He added international travel increases the risk of Covid-19 infection spreading to the countries of destination.He gave the example of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the southern trade hub of Guangzhou.Like other countries around the world, China is also formulating its own pandemic prevention measures, he said, adding that both Chinese and foreigners are expected to comply with those rules.Sun spoke about China’s offer to help India fight the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. He added China “did not stand idly by” in assisting its neighbour.China was one of the first countries to offer support and assistance to India and one of the first to act, he said.India has not accepted direct aid from Beijing but has not restricted private companies and traders from sourcing medical equipment and material from Chinese companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-cooperate-not-confront-each-other-china-to-india-101623211970843.html
10-06-2021||NA||Covid-19 Highlights: Haryana records 528 new cases, 40 deaths in last 24 hours||India’s daily Covid-19 tally dropped to less than 100,000 as the country maintains a downrward trajectory. Over the last 24 hours, the India added 92,596 cases and 2219 deaths, according to the daily update by Union health ministry.The Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE vaccine will be tested in children under 12 in a late-stage study. Canada is set to relax isolation rules for vaccinated travellers. US President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will rally the Group of Seven behind a plan to make shots available to low-income nations.Meanwhile, the US also eased travel advisories for dozens of nations including France and Germany. Top virologist of the country, Anthony Fauci issued a warning about the delta variant that was first identified in India.The delta variant has been linked to unusual symptoms, and early evidence in England and Scotland suggests it carries a higher risk of hospitalisation. In Singapore as well, Delta has also been revealed as the main variant of concern.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reported 302 new Covid-19 casesJharkhand reported 302 new Covid-19 cases, 615 recoveries and 3 deaths.Active cases: 4,783Total recoveries: 3,32,622Death toll: 5,076Haryana records 528 fresh Covid-19 cases, 40 deathsHaryana reports 528 fresh #COVID19 cases, 940 recoveries, and 40 deaths todayActive cases 7079Case tally 7,64,094 pic.twitter.com/SJlk0wkkgAHaryana recorded 528 new Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths. So far 764,094 people have tested positive for the disease and the active caseload stands at 7,079 reports ANI.Tamil Nadu sees over 17,000 new Covid-19 cases, 405 deathsTamil Nadu reports 17,321 new COVID19 cases, 405 deaths, and 31,253 discharges today; active cases at 2,04,258 pic.twitter.com/GO3v8l3XY8With 17,321 new Covid-19 cases and 405 fatalities, Tamil Nadu's tally reached 2,292,025 and the death toll climbed to 28,170, reports ANI.West Bengal reports 5,384 new Covid-19 cases, 95 deaths in last 24 hoursWest Bengal reports 5,384 new COVID cases, 10,512 recoveries, and 95 deaths in the past 24 hours Active cases: 14,702Total recoveries: 14,11,573Death toll: 16,555 pic.twitter.com/P4P5KK9vMEWest Bengal reported 5,384 new Covid-19 cases and 95 new deaths, taking the tally to 1,442,830 and the death toll to 16,555, reports ANI.Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 3.1 million doses administered today as cumulative coverage goes past 240 million dosesIndia crosses a major landmark with more than 24 Crore Vaccine Doses administered so far under Nationwide Vaccination driveMore than 3.42 Cr beneficiaries of age group 18-44 Vaccinated, so farMore than 31 lakh Vaccine Doses administered today till 7 pmMore than 3.1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till 7pm on the day as the cumulative coverage went past 240 million doses, Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Choubey said.Covid-19: 84 new cases, 2 deaths in Chandigarh, active caseload at 649COVID19 | Chandigarh reports 84 new positive cases, 118 recoveries and 2 deaths today; case tally reaches 60,862 including 649 active cases. pic.twitter.com/Q55HXB0ZaCChandigarh reported 84 new Covid-19 cases and two new fatalities as the cases tally reached 60,862. Active caseload currently stands at 649, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh registers 8,766 new Covid-19 cases, 67 deathsAndhra Pradesh registers 8,766 new COVID19 cases, 67 deaths, and 12,292 recoveries today; active cases at 1,03,995 pic.twitter.com/9TZZYMb1a6With 8,766 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths, Andhra Pradesh's tally reached 1,779,773 and the death toll climbed to 11,696, reports ANI.Delhi reports 337 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths in last 24 hoursCOVID19 | Delhi reports 337 new cases, 36 deaths and 752 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Positivity rate at 0.46%. The number of active cases is 4,511 pic.twitter.com/21omdcuEzBDelhi recorded 337 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Chandigarh admin caps Covid-19 test prices at private labsChandigarh administration caps COVID testing price for RT-PCR test at ₹450 & Rapid Antigen test at ₹350 for private laboratories in the union territory. pic.twitter.com/2D7Z4CoM8yChandigarh administration capped the maximum prices for Covid-19 testing in private labs -- RT PCR tests at ₹450 and Rapid Antigen tests at ₹350, reports ANI.Kejriwal visits voting centres turned into vaccination centres"Visited a centre under the 'Jahan vote, vahan vaccine' today. People there seemed to be happy about the fact that they could get vaccinated near their homes at the polling booths where they go to cast their votes," tweets Kejriwal.Jharkhand reports 6.3 new casesJharkhand reported 603 new Covid- 19 cases on Wednesday and 13 more deaths, as per a health bulletin said. There are 5,099 active cases in the state at present.Odisha Covid-19 tally rises by 6,019Odisha reported 6,019 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and 43 more deaths, a Health Department official said.Guangzhou shuts entertainment venuesThe southern China metropolis of Guangzhou has ordered the closure of cinemas, theatres, nightclubs and other indoor entertainment venues as authorities seek to contain the country's latest coronavirus outbreak.Singapore's death toll from Covid-19 tops casualties in SARS outbreakSingapore has reported its 34th death due to Covid-19, taking its toll from the pandemic beyond the 33 casualties recorded during the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak.India's Covid-19 tally jumps slightly with 92,596 fresh infectionsIndia's Covid-19 tally rises by 92,596 new cases. As many as 2219 deaths over the last 24 hours, take death toll to 353,528.Germany's confirmed cases rise by 3,254The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 3,254 to 3,705,942, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Wednesday. The reported death toll rose by 107 to 89,491, the tally showed.Melbourne to ease Covid-19 restrictions as daily cases fallAustralia's second largest city Melbourne will exit a Covid-19 hard lockdown as planned on Thursday night, authorities said on Wednesday, although some restrictions on travel and gatherings will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-india-world-death-toll-june-9-2021-101623202433732.html
