11-06-2021||India||SC stops Ahmedabad hospitals from being shut down, seeks ‘workable solution’||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered Ahmedabad municipal corporation not to shut down hospitals in the city that do not have necessary clearances to ensure that their patients don’t suffer and asked the Gujarat government to come up with a “workable solution” within four weeks.The interim direction by the top court, which struck a middle path between the need to protect the lives of patients in these hospitals and to comply with law, allows hospitals without no objection certificate (NOC) from fire department or building use certificate to continue for the time being.But the judges made it clear that the hospitals will have to set their house in order. “Incidents of people dying in fire in hospitals is absolutely atrocious. We cannot permit hospitals or nursing homes to operate without clearance or certificates,” the bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian said.The municipal corporation’s crackdown on private hospitals came after eight people died in a fire at a private hospital in Ahmedabad in August 2020. A PIL was filed before the Gujarat High Court which brought to the fore how Shrey Hospital was allowed to function out of a residential building.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Gujarat government, agreed that they needed to find a way. “It would be hazardous to give up on so many hospitals. We have to come up with a solution where law is complied with, and no harm is caused to people,” he said.Tushar Mehta sought time to consult medical professionals and come out with a via media.The order came as a reprieve for the hospitals served notices for closure by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. The hospitals, under the banner Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), had challenged these notices before the Gujarat High Court which refused to come to their aid. However, the high court granted protection from any coercive action till June 17.On February 22 this year, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation issued a public notice which made it mandatory for all commercial establishments to obtain building use permission under Gujarat Provincial Municipal Corporation Act and Fire NOC under Fire Safety Measures Act before occupying any premises. Three days were granted for establishments to comply or face sealing of their premises. Many hospitals approached the municipal authority but, in the meantime the corporation partially sealed many hospital premises.Appearing for the association, senior advocate Maninder Singh told the Supreme Court that almost all hospitals under the Association had obtained fire department clearance. He proposed forming a committee that could help prepare documents considered necessary to obtain a building use certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stops-ahmedabad-hospitals-from-being-shut-down-seeks-workable-solution-101623435748153.html
11-06-2021||India||United Kingdom reports two cases of monkeypox, initiates contact-tracing||Two cases of monkeypox were identified in the United Kingdom’s (UK) North Wales on Thursday, according to a report by news agency BBC. Health officials familiar with the developments said that both the cases belong to the same household.Monkeypox falls in the same category of viruses as smallpox but it is considered less severe and experts also highlighted that the chances of infection are low. The virus occurs mostly in remote tropical rainforests of central and West African countries. It has two main strains --West African and Central African. Monkeypox, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) is a zoonosis, meaning it can be transmitted from animals to humans.Public Health Wales (PHW) said that the initial cases were acquired overseas. The PHW also highlighted that the risk to the general public is low and contact-tracing has been initiated. One of the patients has been released while the other continues to be hospitalised. The Public Health England is also monitoring the situation.“Confirmed cases of monkeypox are a rare event in the UK, and the risk to the general public is very low,” a PHW official was quoted as saying by news agency BBC.“We have worked with multi-agency colleagues, following tried and tested protocols and procedures, and identified all close contacts. Actions have been put in place to minimise the likelihood of further infection,” he further added.The UN health body highlighted that it has found evidence of the monkeypox virus in squirrels, Gambian pouched rats, dormice, different species of monkeys and others. It also said that several other animals in the rainforest were seen to carry the virus.Fever, headaches, swellings, back pain, aching muscles and fatigue are the most common symptoms of monkeypox. A rash may develop following a fever often beginning in the face and then spreading to other parts of the body.It commonly occurs in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The rash is extremely itchy and changes and goes through several stages before forming a scab. The scab later falls off but the lesions can cause scarring. The WHO says that the detection of viral DNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the preferred method of testing for monkeypox.The infection clears up on its own and lasts between 14 to 21 days. Most of the monkeypox are mild resembling chickenpox and clear up on their own. The disease can however become severe and has caused deaths in West Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/united-kingdom-reports-two-cases-of-monkeypox-initiates-contacttracing-101623431928213.html
11-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown, lets salons and liquor vends reopen in 27 districts||Tamil Nadu has extended the on-going lockdown by a week till June 21 but will allow staggered relaxations from Monday in view of the decline in new Covid-19 cases.In 27 districts including state capital Chennai where the active Covid-19 caseload has declined, the government has decided to allow beauty parlours, salons and spas to reopen with 50% occupancy from 6am to 5pm. But they will have to keep the air conditioners switched off.Public parks can also reopen between 6am and 9am to allow people to exercise. Housekeeping staff will also be allowed with e-registration and call taxis and auto rickshaws will be allowed to ply. Liquor vends operated by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation can also open from 10am to 5pm.Schools, colleges and universities, which had been ordered to shut during the second Covid wave, have been allowed to open to process admissions for the next academic year.Industries can function with 33 percent of its strength while information technology (IT) companies will be allowed to function with 20% workforce or a maximum of 10 employees.Shops that sell household items such as mixy, grinder and refrigerators or repair electronic items can remain open from 9am to 2pm.“As we open up, we must remember the virus is here to stay so we have to continue wearing masks, social distance and get vaccinated,” said Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. Some relaxations have been announced for hotspot districts such as Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, where the active caseload is still high. Electricians, plumbers, housekeeping staff, motor technicians, carpenters and other self-employed workers will be allowed to work between 9am and 5pm. Rental vehicles and taxis can operate with three passengers, and autos with two passengers. People will, however, need to register online for permission to commute.Tamil Nadu reported 15,759 fresh Covid cases across the state on Friday, taking the total to 23,24,597. The government has also reported 378 deaths taking the overall toll to 28,906. At 2,056 cases, Coimbatore reported the highest number of new cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-lets-salons-and-liquor-vends-reopen-in-27-districts-101623431547121.html
11-06-2021||India||BJP puts up undeterred front but cracks begin to show after Mukul Roy’s exit||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday tried vehemently to put up an undeterred front after the departure of its national vice president Mukul Roy, but the cracks within became more conspicuous as a section of leaders blamed the party for Roy’s exit. “Any person can go anywhere. We are more concerned with the party workers who are under attack. I don’t know what the loss (after Mukul Roy’s departure) would be. I didn’t see any gain (when he joined the party),” said Dilip Ghosh, who some BJP party leaders said, shared a strained relationship with Roy. Top leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit and the party’s spokesperson said that it won’t affect the party as the BJP was not a party driven by any single person. A few other leaders slammed Roy. “In 1968 when CPI was formed, former CPM leader Hare Krishna Konar had said that humans don’t become weaker by answering nature’s call. They get stronger. I want to reiterate this today for those turncoats who had come to BJP and are now going back,” said Tathagata Roy, veteran BJP leader and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura. Former TMC MLA Baishali Dalmiya who joined the BJP in January 2021, just ahead of the assembly polls went to the extent of sating that the party should get rid of garbage. “I would request BJP leader of Bengal Hon. MLA Shri @SuvenduWB ji to expel all the garbage out of our BJP party as soon as possible,” tweeted Dalmiya. On the other hand, party’s national secretary and former MP Anupam Hazra, however, criticized the BJP for Roy’s exit. “During the assembly elections, the party went crazy with one or two leaders. Many others leaders were not utilized. There was lobbying. This needs immediate repair else the state BJP will face more trouble in the future,” he said. The TMC, however, accepted Roy saying that the son has returned home as he could not take the policies of the BJP.“They went to BJP for some reason. But they have understood that the policies of BJP be it that of Covid-19 management or its economic policies are not in favour of Bengal. So they don’t want to stay in that party anymore,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson. Other political parties including the CPIM and the Congress reacted to the event. “That Mukul Roy may return, the hint was given by Mamata Banerjee in her election campaign. Roy who had vowed to evict the TMC has once again surrendered before the TMC along with his son. This gharana of turncoats is a new identity of Bengal politics,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Bengal Congress president and Congress MP. “It reminds me of a Bengali song. For a long time we have been seeing a section of leaders moving to and fro between the TMC and the BJP. It is a relation between the two parties,” said Ashok Bhattacharjee, veteran CPIM leader and mayor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-puts-up-undeterred-front-but-cracks-begin-to-show-after-mukul-roy-s-exit-101623431188360.html
11-06-2021||India||India’s aspirational districts programme resulted in sectoral growth: UNDP report||An independent appraisal report by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) lauded India's Aspirational Districts Programme (ADP) and said it has resulted in sectoral growth and improvements in governance and administration."A very successful model of local area development" that "should serve as a best practice for several other countries where regional disparities in development status persist for many reasons," the UNDP report said.Also read: At the United Nations, Delhi showcases its women powerThe set of pre-determined indicators provided by the programme has helped the district administration to focus on specific targets and sectors instead of broad government schemes or new initiatives, the report claimed.The report, which was handed over by UNDP India resident representative Shoko Noda to NITI Aayog vice-chairman Dr Rajiv Kumar and CEO Amit Kant analysed the progress of ADP and made recommendations for improvement.The UNDP report analysed progress across five sectors of the ADP —health and nutrition, education, agriculture and water resources, basic infrastructure and skill development and financial inclusion.Suggesting that the programme has acted as a catalyst for development, it found that Aspirational Districts (AD) outperformed non-ADs.Across the sectors of health and nutrition, the report found that 9.6% more home deliveries are attended by a skilled birth attendant and 5.8% more pregnant women with severe anaemia were treated. As for financial inclusion, the report found registration of 1,580 more accounts per one lakh population under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana.The ‘Malaria Mukt Bastar Abhiyaan’ in Bijapur and Dantewada, which has reduced malaria incidences in these districts by 71% and 54% respectively, was recommended as one of the ‘best practices’ found in ADs, as per the report.Other best practices undertaken by the ADP, the report found GoalMart, an e-commerce portal launched by Assam’s Goalpara district administration ‘to promote rural, ethnic and agrarian products of the district in the national and global markets’ as noteworthy. The report said that the initiative helped the farmers and retailers during the Covid-19 lockdown and was also profitable for the farmers.Another such initiative lauded by the report was Uttar Pradesh’s Chandauli district's decision to experiment with the cultivation of black rice. Due to its high global demand and good profit margins, the project was a success and high-quality black rice from the district is now exported to Australia and New Zealand, the report found.Also read | Japan, UNDP to provide 8 oxygen-generation plants to NE: Union ministerThe UNDP report also commended the delta rankings provided on the programme’s Champions of Change dashboard. "The competitive and dynamic culture fostered by it has successfully pushed several low performing districts (as per baseline rankings) to improve their standing in the past three years. Simdega (Jharkhand), Chandauli (Uttar Pradesh), Sonbhadra (Uttar Pradesh) and Rajgarh (Madhya Pradesh) were found to have progressed the most since the beginning of the programme," it said.The ADP was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2018 as part of the government's efforts for inclusive growth under 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas'."ADP is ‘aligned to the principle of “leave no one behind”—the vital core of the SDGs. Political commitment at the highest level has resulted in rapid success of the programme’," the report said.It also recommended revising a few indicators that are slightly close to reaching its saturation or met by most districts like ‘electrification of households’ as an indicator of basic infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-aspirational-districts-programme-resulted-in-sectoral-growth-undp-report-101623426058129.html
11-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 21 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tamil Nadu lockdown extended till June 21. All you need to knowTamil Nadu on Friday extended the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown till June 21 on Friday but allowed a few concessions in a few districts following a drop in the number of positive cases in the state. Read MoreBengal BJP to set-up ‘disciplinary action committee’ following Mukul Roy’s exitThe West Bengal unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will set up a disciplinary action committee to take necessary action against political leaders deemed to be “going against the party”. BJP General Secretary of Bengal, Sayantan Bose, told reporters. Read More'Dynamic process': Centre on whether gap between Covishield doses will changeAmid calls to reduce the gap between the two doses of Covishield, based on the new findings by Public Health England, the Union health ministry on Friday said there is no need to panic as such decisions will be taken after careful examination by the experts. Read MoreUS FDA urges users to throw Innova rapid Covid test in trash, or return to companyThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has warned against the use of a rapid antigen test to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on which the UK government has based its mass-testing programme. Read More'For long time, cricketers wanted this space, some context to Test cricket': R Ashwin 'looking forward to' WTC finalIndia off-spinner R Ashwin opened up on the upcoming World Test Championship final against New Zealand which will kick off from June 18th and will be played in Southampton. Read MoreE3 2021 livestream schedule: When and where to watch the gaming event-free and what to expectE3 2021 livestream schedule: E3 2021 livestream schedule: It’s that time of the year when you keep aside all your gaming gear and remind yourself that there is still some splurging left to do. Read MoreKRK warns Mika Singh after watching his diss track against him: 'Now wait for my videos 'Kamaal R Khan has reacted to Mika Singh's diss track on him, KRK Kutta. On Friday, Mika released the track on YouTube with the singer hurling abuses at the self-proclaimed singer. Read MoreOn rising rapes, 'mobile phone' logic by UP women's commission member sparks rowIn a viral video, a member of UP state women commission Meena Kumari was seen making controversial remarks on rising rape cases in the state. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-21-and-all-the-latest-news-101623423009947.html
11-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu lockdown extended till June 21. All you need to know||Tamil Nadu on Friday extended the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown till June 21 on Friday but allowed a few concessions in a few districts following a drop in the number of positive cases in the state.The state government allowed curbs to be relaxed in 27 districts. The state registered 15,759 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. The state also reported 378 deaths taking the death toll to 28,906. Tamil Nadu has 174,802 active cases and has recorded 2.32 million cases so far. The tally of recovered people also increased to 2.12 million on Friday with 29,243 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Among the districts, Coimbatore has the highest number of active cases (18,600) followed by Tiruppur (17,498), Erode (12,520) and Salem (9,799). Capital Chennai ranks third in the number of active cases with 10,842 cases. Coimbatore also recorded 2,056 cases today while Chennai recorded 1,094 cases. The relaxations are not applicable to Erode, Coimbatore, Tiruppur and 10 other districts due to high casesHere are the list of restrictions and relaxations announced by the Tamil Nadu government:The state registered 15,759 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. The state also reported 378 deaths taking the death toll to 28,906. Tamil Nadu has 174,802 active cases and has recorded 2.32 million cases so far. The tally of recovered people also increased to 2.12 million on Friday with 29,243 recoveries in the previous 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-lockdown-extended-till-june-21-all-you-need-to-know-101623423032738.html
11-06-2021||India||'Dynamic process': Centre on whether gap between Covishield doses will be revised again||Amid calls to reduce the gap between the two doses of Covishield, based on the new findings by Public Health England, the Union health ministry on Friday said there is no need to panic as such decisions will be taken after careful examination by the experts. On suggestions — offered by Indian experts — that Covid-recovered people do not require vaccine and therefore can be left out of the vaccination drive, the ministry clarified that such debates should be there in the public domain. But any decision to change the present vaccination guideline will have to consider the bigger picture, "This is a dynamic process. There is no hardcore ideology in science. Our experts will go through the latest developments and take a call," VK Paul, Niti Aayog member (health) said on Friday.In India, the gap between the two doses of Covishield was widened to 12 to 16 weeks. The gap was widened based on international studies which claimed that the protection offered by the first dose of the Covishield vaccine lasts long. Hence, the second dose can be delayed.But a more recent study by Public Health England claimed that the protection offered by the first dose of the vaccine could be lower than what was thought before. Following this, authorities have already started reducing the gap between vaccine doses. For example, Northern Ireland has reduced the gap from 10 to 12 weeks to eight weeks for all vaccines available there.The new study says the first dose of Astrazeneca (Covishield) provides 33 per cent efficacy in preventing Covid-19 infection by the Delta variant, the one first reported in India. The second dose improves the protection against the Delta variant to 60 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dynamic-process-centre-on-whether-gap-between-covishield-doses-will-be-revised-again-101623417752118.html
11-06-2021||India||‘Homecoming,’ says CM Mamata as she welcomes Mukul Roy back to TMC||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Mukul Roy on Friday afternoon returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the party he left in 2017 after a 19-year long association, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee describing it as “homecoming of the family’s boy”. “Our party is already powerful. We won a landslide victory. Mukul is an old boy of our family. Nobody can stay in the BJP. They do not allow anyone to live with dignity and peace. Mukul was threatened by probe agencies. His health was getting affected. He will have mental peace here,” Banerjee said at a brief press meet. Roy’s son, Subhranshu, a former legislator, also returned to the ruling party. Roy is an accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing. On May 17, the CBI arrested two TMC ministers, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee. Declaring that more leaders from the BJP will join the ruling party in the coming days, Banerjee said, “But traitors who joined the BJP before the elections for money will not be taken back.” Banerjee got agitated when reporters pointed out that Roy had made remarks against her after leaving the party. “I never had any differences with Mukul. Please do not ask questions aimed at individuals. Mukul did not say a word against us during the elections. The traitors who left us during the polls and helped the BJP will not be taken back. Do not ask about ideology. I cannot satisfy the BJP media. We do not break political parties like the BJP. We are taking him not because we are scared about numbers. He is here out of his own will. BJP is a party of landlords. It controls the agencies,” said Banerjee. “I never had differences with Mamata Banerjee, I don’t and I never will in the future,” quipped Roy. Saying that he would issue a written statement on why he left the BJP, Roy said, “I am happy that I have been able to come out. I can see the old faces here. I am happy that Bengal will regain its old glory under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee who is a national leader.” “We will decide later what post Mukul will hold. He was a vice-president of the BJP. Since he has left, it is clear that he was not satisfied working with them. More people will come. But those who betrayed our party for money will not be considered. We will take only those who do not spread bitterness,” Banerjee added. She abruptly ended the press conference when Roy was asked a question on Suvendu Adhikari who joined the BJP in December last year and defeated Banerjee in the recent polls. BJP leaders said Roy’s absence will not affect the saffron camp in any way. “We congratulate Roy on his new political journey. The BJP is the world’s largest political party. It is not run by a dynasty. One individual does not make any difference. This was his personal decision. Since he won the Krishnanagar North assembly seat in Nadia district on a BJP ticket we hope he will resign as legislator and start with a clear conscience,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. “However, it would be an insult to Roy if someone says he was in the BJP because he was scared by probe agencies. He is not a child,” added Majumdar. There were strong rumours since morning that Roy might join the TMC during the day. “I cannot speculate on rumours,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said at a press conference in Delhi. Roy left his Salt Lake residence at 2 pm and headed for the TMC headquarters at the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass. He was escorted by the Kolkata Police. The chief minister also left her residence at Kalighat in south Kolkata at 2 pm. Several former TMC leaders who joined the BJP have publicly appealed to Mamata Banerjee to forgive them. They include the chief minister’s former aide Sonali Guha. Others, such as former forest minister Rajib Banerjee, have written critical posts against the BJP. On June 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Roy to inquire about the latter’s ailing wife, Krishna Roy, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in east Kolkata. Though Roy did not comment on the conversation that, according to BJP leaders, lasted around two-three minutes, the phone call made news as Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee had visited the hospital the night before. His visit triggered speculations about Roy’s next political move. Around two hours after Banerjee’s visit, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh also went to the hospital. The next day, Mukul Roy denied having any knowledge about Ghosh’s visit. “I don’t know who he came to visit,” said Roy. The incident indicated that Roy was distancing himself from the BJP. On May 29, Subhranshu Roy wrote on his social media page that self-criticism is more necessary than criticizing a government elected by people. Though he did not name any party or state, social media users took it as an obvious reference to Bengal. Mukul Roy won the Krishnanagar North seat in the recent assembly polls, while his son was defeated from the Bijpur seat that he held in North 24 Parganas district. Subhranshu Roy joined the BJP in 2019. On Friday, Abhishek Banerjee felicitated the father-son duo with shawls and formally inducted them into the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/homecoming-says-cm-mamata-as-she-welcomes-mukul-roy-back-to-tmc-101623418346362.html
11-06-2021||India||PM Modi holds meeting with home minister Amit Shah, party chief JP Nadda, reports ANI||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is currently holding a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda at his residence, news agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the developments.The meeting comes hours after the Prime Minister's meeting with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister also met home minister Amit Shah on Thursday and the BJP party chief later on Friday.Yogi Adityanath's visit comes amid the BJP holding a series of review meetings allowing space for speculation that a ministerial reshuffle is on the cards in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the legislative assembly elections that are to be held next year.His two-day visit to Delhi and meetings with PM Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda also comes amid reports of dissidence in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh, according to a report by HT. The report said that the incidents of dissidence occurred due to Uttar Pradesh's handling of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. It also highlighted that not only the opposition but also the party's own members questioned the way the government handled the pandemic. The state government refuted these allegations and said that the administration controlled the second wave within a week.Following the meeting, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, "Heartfelt gratitude to the respected Prime Minister for providing time and kind guidance amid his busy schedule." He also later met President Ram Nath Kovind.The Prime Minister also met with several Union ministers in person to take stock of the work done by them in the past two years, according to a report by news agency PTI. The report also stated that three such meetings have been held so far at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg and BJP president JP Nadda was also present in those meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-meeting-with-home-minister-amit-shah-party-chief-jp-nadda-101623416210318.html
11-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Ocugen to seek emergency use approval for Covaxin in Canada||Ocugen Inc, the US partner for India's Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin said that it will pursue emergency-use approval of the vaccine in Canada. On June 3, the biopharmaceutical company announced that it has secured exclusive rights to commercialise Covaxin in Canada. The company also said that it has begun discussions with Health Canada for regulatory approval, reported PTI."The company will pursue expedited authorisation for the vaccine under the Interim Order Respecting the Importation, Sale and Advertising of Drugs for Use in Relation to Covid-19 in Canada," PTI reported the company as saying.Also read: Bharat Biotech's Covaxin not getting US nod won't impact India, clarifies GovtOcugen said that for the amendment to expand its rights to commercialize Covaxin in Canada it will make an upfront payment of $15 million to the Indian drugmaker. In a regulatory filing, the company said it has agreed to pay another $10 million to Bharat Biotech within a month from the commercial launch of the vaccine in the country."As we work towards the submission of the emergency use application in the US, we will simultaneously seek authorization under interim order for emergency use in Canada. We believe Covaxin has the potential to play a key role in saving lives from Covid-19 in the US and Canada, as well as across the globe, due to the strong immune response it generates against multiple antigens,” Dr Shankar Musunuri, chairman of the board, chief executive officer, and co-founder of Ocugen said.Ocugen also said that following the same pattern of the US profit sharing agreement, the company will retain 45 per cent of the profits from the sales of Covvaxin in Canada.Meanwhile, the company on Friday saw a major setback that delayed the vaccine launch in the US. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommended Oucgen to go for the Biologics Licence Application (BLA) route with additional data, shadowing the hopes of emergency use approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ocugen-to-seek-emergency-use-approval-for-covaxin-in-canada-101623413440831.html
11-06-2021||India||Pilot likely to meet Priyanka Gandhi as dissent in Rajasthan Congress resurfaces||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is working to address the dissent within the ruling Congress and to fulfil promises made to former Rajasthan chief minister Sachin Pilot, people aware of the matter said. Pilot, who left for Delhi on Friday after participating in a protest related to inflation, is likely to meet her on Sunday, they added. A Pilot loyalist, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the former deputy chief minister is in touch with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and she has assured him of resolving the issues and asked him to be patient. The meeting is expected in the backdrop of demands for cabinet expansion and political appointments by Pilot’s loyalists. They have been questioning the delay in addressing the issues even as a panel was setup last year for it.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra played an important role in resolving the political crisis when Pilot rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year. Pilot is also expected to meet Rajasthan Congress in charge Ajay Maken and general secretary KC Venugopal, the members of the panel, who are yet to submit their report. Also Read | Congress leader Sachin Pilot disses Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s claim he will join BJPPilot rejected Bharatiya Janata Party leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s statement that she had spoken to the Congress leader about joining her party. He added Joshi does not have the courage to speak to him. “Rita Bahuguna Joshi said she spoke to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar. She does not have courage to speak to me,” Pilot said.Pilot this week expressed his displeasure over the lack of action even as the committee was formed last year to address the issues he raised against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.HT has reported the central leadership of the Congress was trying to work out a cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan. Pilot told HT this week the Congress high command has failed to deliver on the promises that were made to him when he along with 18 legislators returned to the party after a month-long rebellion. In July last year, Pilot and his supporters left Jaipur to camp at a secret location in Haryana, threatening the stability of the Gehlot government. Pilot was removed as Pradesh Congress Committee president, and it was only when the Gandhis intervened and set up a committee under general secretary Ajay Maken that he returned to the fold. Lawmaker Hemaram Choudhary, who resigned last month, met Pilot on Friday. When asked if Pilot asked him withdraw his resignation that is pending with Speaker CP Joshi, he said, “I did not resign because Pilot asked me to. I resigned listening to my conscience. People can appeal me but it is I who has to make a decision.” PR Meena, another lawmaker from Pilot camp, said the cabinet expansion and political appointments should be done. On Thursday, lawmakers Ved Pakash Solanki, Mukesh Bhakar, Vishwendra Singh, Rakesh Pareek, Suresh Modi and Ramniwas Gawriya met Pilot at his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-likely-to-meet-priyanka-gandhi-as-dissent-in-rajasthan-congress-resurfaces-101623415466361.html
11-06-2021||India||Tourism season months away, ministers mull best way to open Goa up to tourists||While Goa’s tourism season in October is still months away, discussions have already begun as to when the state should open for tourists. Within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), ministers are now vowing to be more cautious than the first time round when Goa made entry free to the state. “Tourism industry should not open up till Covid-19 cases are in control all over India; When it opens, it should be in a phased manner,” Michael Lobo a minister in the Goa government who represents the Calangute constituency, arguably the epicentre of tourism in the state, said. On May 31, Lobo had argued that any kind of restrictions on the movement of people into the state would sound the death knell of the industry. “If you make SOPs stricter and you harass tourists, which tourist will come to Goa? We have to take precautionary measures, but at the same time you cannot stop business because Covid-19 cases are increasing,” he had said. Also Read | Goa govt employees approach HC on withdrawal of housing schemeHowever, as the situation worsened, he was among the first to change his stance and ask the villages falling under his constituency to “lock down”.For his part, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar has suggested that only completely vaccinated should be allowed in the state once it is unlocked.However, the Opposition has questioned the need to reopen and suggested that tourists shouldn’t be welcome until all the residents of the state are vaccinated. “Opening tourism is not based on allowing fully vaccinated tourists. It should be thought about once all Goans are fully vaccinated -- so that Goa becomes a safe tourism destination. This is the global practice. Before opening tourism, the government of Goa must ensure that all Goan-owned businesses and workers receive all the support and incentives they can to recover. We must protect Goan livelihoods first, if we truly want to recover Goa’s tourism industry,” Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai said. Till date, Goa has vaccinated nearly 400,000 persons with at least one dose -- around 25% of its population -- while around 100,000 people have received both the doses. This way, it will take at least another six months before much of the state is fully vaccinated with both the doses. The state’s Covid tally stands at 161,000 and nearly 3,000 people have died. After the initial lockdown last year, Goa’s tourism sector witnessed a revival of sorts across the months of November to January with flight arrivals and tourist footfall on the main beaches nearly matching those of previous seasons.According to state government figures, around 2.5 million tourists visited Goa till December last year, which is a little over a quarter of normal arrivals. Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to 9 million tourists, including around 900,000 foreigners.As per a survey by Goa Tourism Development Corporation on the impact of the pandemic on the state’s tourism Industry, the overall loss of earnings during lockdown has been estimated at Rs2,062 crore. Potential loss of earning for the 2020-21 season has been pegged at ₹7,239 crore and the potential job cuts were to the tune of 122,000 (58%).Goa’s tourism sector directly contributes 16.43% towards the state Gross Domestic Product and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-season-months-away-ministers-mull-best-way-to-open-goa-up-to-tourists-101623415046068.html
11-06-2021||India||Goa govt employees approach HC on withdrawal of housing scheme||About 400 Goa government employees have approached the high court earlier this month over the state government’s decision to “arbitrarily and unreasonably” withdraw House Building Allowance (HBA) scheme. This includes as many as 240 police personnel and a host of other employees -- from judicial officers to clerks.Under the scheme, in force since 1988, the Goa governmentstood as a guarantorfor the loan granted to government employees, and offered a subsidy on the interest. Employees, depending on their rank, were eligible for housing loans of up to ₹36 lakh and the quantum to be admissible depended upon the employee’s length of service left and their repaying capacity at a concessional rate of 2% per annum. The difference between the rate charged by the bank and the interest at subsidised rate payable by the employee was borne by the government. It worked out to approximately ₹19.70 crore per year for 1,955 beneficiaries.Also Read | More relaxations in Pune from Monday if infection rate remains lowThrough an order dated May 15, 2020, which was sent to all heads of departments, the government decided to withdraw/close the HBA extended to its employees without citing any reasons.As a consequence, all those who had applied for and were granted the benefit, suddenly saw their easy monthly instalments recalculated according to the prevailing bank rate without any subsidy from the government.The government also refused to entertain objections/representations from the employees claiming that was final but giving the employees the opportunity to transfer the load to a financial institution of their choice.In effect the government employees who were repaying their housing loans at the rate of 2% per annum are now liable to pay an interest rate of 10.20% per annum.After the employees approached the high court, the government upgraded the office order, and promulgated an ordinance to declare the scheme as withdrawn without giving any reason for the same.“By unilaterally changing the rules of the game, without any opportunity and condemning the petitioners behind their back [causing] grave detriment and prejudice [that] the very livelihood of the petitioners is at stake,” the policemen said in their petition. The petitioners claim that the government breached its end of the contract by withdrawing the scheme after commitments were made. The government had a deal with HDFC which agreed to disburse loans subject to the state government taking responsibility towards payment of the principal and interest to the bank at the rate of interest charged by it while the government would recover the principal and interest at its prescribed rate for HBA from the employees.The high court has granted three weeks to the Goa government to reply.The Opposition has demanded that the scheme be restored. “The government must be spending around ₹12 to 14 crore a month on the subsidy, which is a paltry amount. It could have enhanced the rate of interest on the scheme instead of doing away with the scheme,” Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Digambar Kamat said. “Many of these employees have approached me and I find the decision of the state government to be highly unreasonable, based on incorrect assumptions, without any thought of welfare for its employees and most regressive,” he said.The Goa government has, however, stuck to its guns despite the demands. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, had, however defended the decision, saying the scheme was essentially “complicated” but hastened to add that the government would come out with a one-time settlement scheme for those unable to pay their dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-employees-approach-hc-on-withdrawal-of-housing-scheme-101623414626084.html
11-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covaxin not getting US nod won't impact India, clarifies govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin not getting US nod won't impact India, clarifies GovtBharat Biotech's Covaxin being denied of emergency use approval by the United States' Food and Drug Administration will have no bearing on India, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said on Friday during the press briefing of the Union health ministry. Read more‘Eye on UP’s Brahmin vote’: Shiv Sena hits out at Jitin Prasada’s inductionThe Shiv Sena hit out at former Congress politician Jitin Prasada’s induction into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh In 2022. Read moreKeeping Covid-19 vaccine wastage below 1% possible, health ministry explains howThe target of keeping vaccine wastage below 1 per cent is not at all unrealistic, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Friday. Vaccination drives have to organised in a way that there is minimum wastage and many states have done that, the health ministry said, adding that vaccinators have a significant role to play in it. Read more30 Congress workers detained in Delhi for protests against rising fuel pricesAs many as 30 Congress party workers were detained on Friday for demonstrations at petrol pumps in several parts of Delhi. The party workers on Friday held protests against the rising petrol and diesel prices across the country as they demanded a complete rollback of the price hike. Read moreA chance to regroup with Dravid, so there is lot more than just performance or scorecard: Ruturaj GaikwadIndia's squad for the tour of Sri Lanka was announced yesterday with Shikhar Dhawan being named as the captain of the side. With the 26 players in England to prepare for the World Test Championship final and the Test series against the hosts, BCCI did not have the liberty to choose players from main team. Read moreThe Family Man 2 creator Raj Nidimoru talks about final scene, exploring Covid-19 pandemic in season 3Raj Nidimoru of director duo Raj and DK, creators of The Family Man, had explained the final scene of the second season. Read moreWindfall for gamers! On Epic Games Store, Control is free for a week nowWho does not want a chance to get something for free? Mostly everyone, for sure. In what will bring great joy to many in the gaming community Epic Games has offered Remedy’s supernatural thriller, Control, for free on its games store. Read moreVikas Khanna shares what his dog did when his sister was babysitting the poochIf you’re someone who follows Vikas Khanna on social media, then you may be aware of the different kinds of posts he often shares. From shares on food to snippets of his life, the celebrity chef’s posts often amuse people. Read moreMercedes S-Class 2021 to launch in India on June 17Mercedes-Benz India has confirmed it will launch the latest S-Class in the country on June 17. The S-Class sits at the top of the Mercedes' luxury sedan lineup and will be made available in both petrol and diesel engine options. Read moreAnushka Sharma cheers for Virat Kohli in ₹1.1 lakh Gucci outfit in LondonAnushka Sharma and cricketer husband Virat Kohli recently welcomed their firstborn Vamika earlier this year, and the duo have now jetted off with their little one to London for the Indian skipper's next cricket series. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-not-getting-us-nod-won-t-impact-india-clarifies-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101623409890078.html
11-06-2021||India||Chennai doctors conduct liver transplant to save Covid-19 patient||An emergency living-donor liver transplant of a 26-year-old athlete suffering from acute organ failure and Covid-19 was performed at a private Chennai hospital by a 50-member team in a bio-secure bubble on May 21. A living-donor liver transplant involves the removal of a portion of the liver from a healthy person for the one with the dysfunctional organ.The patient, Raghul Gandhi, a Kabaddi player from Puducherry, developed acute liver failure and he was brought to MGM Healthcare in a comatose stage two days after being diagnosed with the disease. A liver transplant is performed on patients who are uninfected and have end-stage liver disease. In the case of Covid-19 patients, it can be performed on those who have had a recovery period of over four weeks and show two successive negative RT-PCR tests.Gandhi was positive for the disease when he was brought to the hospital in a critical situation. “He was brought to us with a day or two to live. The transplant was to be done within 24 hours or it would not have been possible to resuscitate him,” said Dr Thiagarajan Srinivasan, Director, Institute of Liver Diseases, Transplant and HPB surgery, MGM Healthcare. The patient’s condition was first stabilised with intubation.Also Read | Keeping Covid-19 vaccine wastage below 1% possible, health ministry explains howSrinivasan said following their procedure, the Liver Transplant Society of India has issued guidelines to allow liver transplants among Covid-19 positive patients. The team created a secluded Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for Gandhi in accordance with Covid-19 protocol where he underwent continuous plasma purification, toxin filtration, and liver dialysis. This was around the time when Covid-19 infections in Chennai were peaking in May and the state was facing an oxygen crisis.The factor that worked in the patient’s favour was that his CT scan did not show any impact on his lungs. The liver disease had not affected his brain. The Covid-19 infection was the cause of his liver failure.The hospital consulted experts across the country as well as the Liver Transplant Society of India. They arrived at a consensus to conduct the transplant. “Our biggest hindrance came in the form of very limited functioning of the cadaveric organ donation system with only one liver donation in May in Tamil Nadu,” said Srinivasan.The only option was to identify a donor. But two of Gandhi’s family members were also positive. So, his younger brother was rushed in from Puducherry, which is over 150km from the hospital. He turned negative and presented good antibodies, indicating he has been exposed to the infection but recovered completely.“The transplant workup procedure which normally takes 3-4 weeks was accelerated at a rapid pace to complete the work up in a record 6 hours,” said Dr Karthik Mathivanan, a liver transplant surgeon.A bio-bubble was created to separate the team of doctors working for the donor and recipient. Covid-proof transport corridors, ICUs, wards, and operation theatres were implemented throughout the pre-and post-op procedures that spanned 15 days. “Usually, surgeons, perfusionists, and staff nurses move around. But, in this case, we did not just need more manpower, but we had to involve two different teams for the donor and recipient which included technical staff and assistance,” said Mathivanan. The transplant surgery took 12 hours.None of the surgery team members were infected by Covid. A system for the airflow from the ventilators was used along with filters to keep the air clean in the ICU and the operation theatre to reduce the chances of the team contracting the virus.Gandhi has recovered from Covid-19 and has a new functioning liver. “I feel normal,” said Gandhi at a press conference on Thursday.Mathivanan said Gandhi would be able to resume Kabaddi after six months to a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-doctors-conduct-liver-transplant-to-save-covid-19-patient-101623412286014.html
11-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin not getting emergency approval in US will not impact India's vaccine plan, says Centre||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin being denied of emergency use approval by the United States' Food and Drug Administration will have no bearing on India, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said on Friday during the press briefing of the Union health ministry. Welcoming their decision, Dr Paul said that every country has its own benchmark for such approval. But as India's drug regulator was satisfied with the data that the Hyderbad-based vaccine maker produced, the FDA's decision will have no bearing in India. "We are happy as we have gone through their safety data," Dr Paul said.A vaccine manufactured in India may not be equally effective in Argentina, Dr Paul said, citing the example of the Rota Virus for Children. The nutrition level, the gut flora of the population make a difference in the effect of the Rota Virus. "This may lead to some differences especially in countries where science is strong, and our manufacturing is strong," Dr Paul said.The FDA has not given emergency use approval to Covaxin and sought more data on the clinical trials. Bharat Biotech's American partner Ocugen has now decided to go for full approval, with complete data.Dr Paul also expressed hope that the vaccine maker will comply with what the FDA has wanted."Every country has a different regulatory system. The scientific framework might be the same but nuances change depending on the context. They have their own parameters which we respect. Our regulatory authorities too have separate parameters. When our vaccine makers make vaccines for our children, the nutritional status, the genetic background are taken into account to find out whether the vaccine will be fully effective. If one vaccine is effective on our children, it may not work in Argentina. That is a different cohort of people," Dr Paul said.Bharat Biotech's application before the World Health Organization for emergency use approval is also pending. But the company is not seeing FDA's disapproval as a setback as no vaccine manufactured or developed in India has ever received emergency use approval or full licensure from FDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-not-getting-emergency-approval-in-us-will-not-impact-india-s-vaccine-plan-says-centre-101623410392584.html
11-06-2021||India||From Delhi to Tamil Nadu, Congress mounts natiowide protest against fuel hike||Congress party on Friday staged protests across many states to demand the withdrawal of the price hike in petrol and diesel in the country. Hundreds of Congress workers were seen gathering near petrol pumps in many states including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Karnataka, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and raising slogans against the government.“When the UPA was in power, tax on petrol and diesel was ₹9.20. Now, it is ₹32. We demand complete rollback of excise duty hike on petrol-diesel. Fuel should come under the purview of GST,” said Congress leader KC Venugopal while protesting against the fuel price hike in Delhi.Venugopal also rode a horse cart as a mark of protest.On Thursday, Venugopal released a statement saying that protests will be organised by the local units of the party and Covid-19 protocols prescribed by the local, district and state administrations will be followed. The statement further added that there will be no public meetings.The party, from its official Twitter handle too, urged people to raise their voice against ‘BJP’s tyranny’ on June 11.“Even during the pandemic, BJP’s great India loot continues. With 47 (fuel) hikes in 2021 alone, Indian pockets are on fire,” Congress had tweeted while using the hashtag #BJPLootingIndia.Indian Youth Congress members also sent bicycles through courier to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah as a mark of protest against the fuel hike.Also read: 30 Congress workers detained in Delhi for protests against rising fuel prices“Inflation is already on the rise. We demand that the increased (fuel) prices are withdrawn with immediate effect and relief should be given to the people suffering from inflation and recession by returning the hike in excise duty,” Congress youth president, Srinivas BV said.Meanwhile, at Vaniyambadi in Tamil Nadu, AICC member Dr Aslam J Basha was seen holding placards with other Congress workers, saying, “Congress party has always stood by the citizens of India and it will not allow the BJP government to continue exploiting people.”In Uttar Pradesh, many Congress workers were detained by the police as they protested against the hike. Ajay Kumar Lallu, president of the Uttar Pradesh Congress committee too was detained after he was seen protesting the fuel hike.“…Will not tolerate loot from the public in diesel-petrol. This fight against the slave government of the capitalists will not stop,” Lallu tweeted while sharing his photos where police were seen pushing him inside a police van.Hitting out at the police, Lallu said, “Our workers are not afraid of the police dictatorship of the Yogi government. We will fight the people’s fight till the last breath.”Meanwhile, national convenor of Congress, Saral Patel said, “Across Uttar Pradesh… leaders are being detained and put under house arrest to stop them from raising their voice against rising petrol and diesel prices. Why so scared Yogi Adityanath?”In Mumbai, Congress workers protesting the hike were seen wearing facemasks with pictures of Baba Ramdev on them. Ramdev, along with few more Indian businessmen, has been the eye of the storm for quite some time now as the BJP government has often been blamed for unjustified support to the business ventures of these people.Also read: K’taka Congress launches “100 not out” campaign against rising fuel pricesIn several districts of Odisha too, workers were seen holding protest placards as they sat in huddles in front of petrol pumps across the state.Niranjan Patnaik, Odisha Congress committee president, described the BJP’s rule as ‘tyrannical’. “India is already witnessing a spiralling rise in prices of essential commodities,” he said.Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also took to Twitter to criticise the government for the price hike. Gandhi wrote, “GDP crashing, Unemployment soaring, Fuel prices skyrocketing. In how many more ways is #BJPLootingIndia?”HT reached out to BJP for a comment on the issue. BJP’s national spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said that the onus of price rise lies more on the side of states.He said that the resources generated by the government are much below the estimated target while the expenditure has been constantly increasing. “So, governments, both Centre and the states have to generate revenue,” he said.“Centre also shares its resources with the states by seeking taxes, so the major expenditure lies on the Centre. Thereby, the onus (of price hike) is more on the states right now.”Agarwal added that the other reason for price rise is the new mechanism of taxation based on open market global pricing which was started under the UPA.“The UPA at their time played the politics of issuing the oil bonds to the companies instead of lending them direct oil subsidies. Now, this liability has also fallen on the current government’” he said.He added that at the moment it is clear that Congress is just playing politics. While he said that as the revenue through direct and indirect taxes increases for the government, there might be a withdrawal in the hike, he however added that at present it is the states which should reduce their component of taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-delhi-to-tamil-nadu-congress-mounts-natiowide-protest-against-fuel-hike-101623411085812.html
11-06-2021||India||‘Eye on UP’s Brahmin vote’: Shiv Sena hits out at Jitin Prasada’s induction into BJP ahead of elections||The Shiv Sena hit out at former Congress politician Jitin Prasada’s induction into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh In 2022. In an editorial published in the party mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, it highlighted Prasada’s family ties to Congress, his days in the Manmohan Singh cabinet as a minister, and his continued defeat in elections."Prasada, who had faced defeat in Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, has finally joined the BJP. Prasada’s family members were Congress loyalists. He was a minister in former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s cabinet. However, he kept losing assembly and Lok Sabha elections. The BJP has now started celebrating his induction into the party fold,” the editorial said.“The caste politics of Uttar Pradesh is behind it. Eye on UP’s Brahmin vote bank is being said to be behind Prasada’s induction into the BJP," it added.The editorial posed the question of Prasada’s influence over Bramhin votes, too. "But if Prasada had a hold over the Brahmin votes, why these votes weren't transferred to the Congress?" it asked.Prasada who joined the BJP on Wednesday alleged that he could not work for the country while being in Congress and his desire to work for the “new India PM Modi is building” as the reason for shifting camp ahead of the elections in UP.The Sena opined that young leaders like Prasada, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot have to shoulder high expectations, and the death of old timers like Ahmed Patel and Rajeev Satav due to Covid-19 has created a vacuum in the party and young leaders leaving does not bode well for it."Jitin Prasada, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin pilot were young leaders and there were high expectations from them. There is already a vacuum in the Congress after the death of Ahmed Patel and Rajeev Satav. It is not good that young leaders are going the BJP way," the Sena said."Despite being in position to win Kerala and Assam, the Congress couldn't do so. It lost Puducherry. But there is no discussion on what the Congress should do next and how it should resurrect itself. Except in Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka, the Congress is fighting for its survival everywhere else. This political imbalance is harmful to democracy," it saidThe editorial also talked about the contributions made by Congress so far and tasked Rahul Gandhi with the responsibility of creating a strong team to answer the challenges before the party."Congress president Sonia Gandhi has ably carried out her responsibility in the party. Now, Rahul Gandhi has to create a strong team, which will be the answer to the challenge before the party," it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-up-s-brahmin-vote-shiv-sena-hits-out-at-jitin-prasada-s-induction-into-bjp-ahead-of-elections-101623409421851.html
11-06-2021||India||Haryana board class 10th result announced. No topper for 1st time in 51 yrs||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) declared the results of the class 10 examinations on Friday with a pass percentage of 100%. The board decided that there will be no topper this year, a break in trend for the first time since 1970, when the first examinations under the state board were held.The board exams for class 10 and 12, which were scheduled to take place in April end and May were postponed and later cancelled in the wake of the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country.Click here for LIVE updates on Haryana Board resultsState education board secretary Rajiv Prasad said that they have announced results for compartment students by taking average marks of those subjects in which they passed."If any student does not agree with the board results, he/she can apply for the improvement and they can appear in the exam which will be held by the board if the situation improves. For the first time, we have reported 100 per cent results of girls, boys, rural area and urban area students,” Prasad said.In contrast to the full pass percentage this year, last year's pass percentage was 64.59%.Around 3.13 lakh students, of which 1.72 lakh boys and 1.41 lakh girls registered for class 10 board exams. While 11,278 are those who appeared for compartmental examinations.The result will be announced on the basis of internal assessment and practical exam scores of the students. The marks will be marked by the respective schools.Also read| Haryana Board HBSE 10th Result 2021: Direct link for BSEH Class 10 results“A total of 20 marks each have been given on the basis of the student’s performance in the internal assessment and practical marks. If any student gets 40 marks in assessment and practical, he/she will be given 60 marks for theory,” Prasad informed on the assessment procedure.The result will be declared on the official website soon. However, there will be no merit list or topper this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-board-10th-result-announced-no-topper-for-1st-time-in-51-yrs-101623407714063.html
11-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech pursuing full approval for Covaxin in US||Bharat Biotech’s American partner, Ocugen, has received a recommendation from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to pursue Biologics License Applications (BLA) path, or full license, for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, the Indian company said in a statement on Friday. It said the BLA path is for full approval instead of emergency use authorisation. “All applications have to follow the BLA process, which is the standard process for vaccines,” it said. The company added, therefore, for BLA, data from an additional clinical trial will be required to support the marketing application submission for Covaxin. It added the process was likely to extend their overall timelines.The company said that no vaccine manufactured or developed in India has ever received emergency use approval or full licensure from FDA. It added, therefore, it will be a “great leap forward” for vaccine innovation and manufacturing in India if Covaxin is approved in the UN.As the Covid-19 cases have been reducing in the US because of good herd immunity and the vaccination of a significant percentage of the population, the FDA has announced no new emergency use authorisation would be approved for new vaccines.Covaxin is one of the Covid-19 vaccines being administered under India’s immunisation programme. It has received emergency use authorisation from 14 countries. More such authorisations are under process in at least 50 other countries.Covaxin, which has been co-developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research, is a whole virion inactivated vaccine. Inactivated vaccines contain viruses with destroyed genetic material. They cannot infect and trigger an immune responseBharat Biotech has partnered with Ocugen for commercialisation of the Covaxin vaccine in the US. On June 3, Bharat Biotech announced that they have amended their co-development, supply, and commercialisation agreement to expand Ocugen’s exclusive territory to commercialise Covaxin to also include Canada.In a statement earlier, Krishna Ella, chairman, and managing director, Bharat Biotech, said Covaxin has demonstrated an excellent safety record in human clinical trials and in vaccine administration under emergency use in India. “Our goal for all vaccines developed at Bharat Biotech is to provide global access. With its potential effectiveness against multiple existing and emerging variants, we believe that Covaxin is an important vaccine for everyone, including children, based on its unique yet traditional vaccine platform. We are diligently working with Ocugen to bring Covaxin to the US market and now to the Canadian market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-pursuing-full-approval-for-covaxin-in-us-101623409226190.html
11-06-2021||India||Keeping Covid-19 vaccine wastage below 1% possible, health ministry explains how||The target of keeping vaccine wastage below 1 per cent is not at all unrealistic, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Friday. Vaccination drives have to organised in a way that there is minimum wastage and many states have done that, the health ministry said, adding that vaccinators have a significant role to play in it. Since the vaccines being administered now can not be left open, the vaccinator must ensure that when a vial is opened, it has to be used within four hours."The vaccinator is advised to mark the date and time of opening each vial and all open vaccine vials need to be used/discarded within 4 hours of opening. Several states have organized COVID-19 Vaccination in such a way, that not only there is no wastage but they are able to extract more doses from the vial and thus show a negative wastage. Hence, the expectation that vaccine wastage should be 1% or less is not at all unreasonable. It is reasonable, desirable and achievable," the ministry said.The data of vaccine wastage is being centrally monitored as Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed reducing the wastage. According to Centre's data released on Friday, Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of vaccine in May while Jharkhand reported the highest with 33.95 per cent wastage. Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh reported vaccine wastage of 15.79 per cent and 7.35 per cent, respectively. Jharkhand, however, refuted the claim and said that the Centre was basing its argument on old data. The state government said its vaccine wastage is 1.5 per cent.Accommodating at least 100 people per session can reduce vaccine wastage, the Centre has said. However, areas which are sparsely populated can not stick to this rule, but they have to ensure enough beneficiaries turn up in a session so that vaccine is not wasted."All States/ UTs have also been advised that each vaccination session is expected to cater to at least 100 beneficiaries, however, in the case of remote and sparsely populated areas, the State could organize a session for a lesser number of beneficiaries while ensuring that there is no vaccine wastage. A session may be planned only when adequate beneficiaries are available," the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keeping-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-below-1-possible-health-ministry-explains-how-101623406022403.html
11-06-2021||India||30 Congress workers detained in Delhi for protests against rising fuel prices||As many as 30 Congress party workers were detained on Friday for demonstrations at petrol pumps in several parts of Delhi. The party workers on Friday held protests against the rising petrol and diesel prices across the country as they demanded a complete rollback of the price hike.Police detained over 30 protesters from the spot of the demonstrations for not following Covid-19 protocol. "We detained the protesters as such gatherings are not allowed due to the ongoing Covid situation. They will be released soon," PTI quoted a senior police officer as saying.Also read: After Mumbai, petrol is close to ₹100/lt in BengaluruProtests against the rising fuel prices were held in various parts of several states like Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.K C Venugopal and Shakti Singh Gohil even reached the petrol pump at Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium in Delhi on a horse cart to protest against the outrageous rise in prices."We demand that the government immediately rollback the hikes due to which the price of essential commodities is also rising. The government must stop this loot," Venugopal, who is the Congress general secretary, said.Lashing out at the Centre for increasing the fuel prices, Venugopal said the government is only busy with the construction of the Central Vista Project. He said while on one side the people of the country are suffering, they (the government) are hiking fuel prices every day."The government should stop imposing excise duty on petrol and diesel. It should come under the purview of Goods and Services Tax," Venugopal said while demanding the government to stop the loot.We demand that the government immediately rollback the hikes due to which the price of essential commodities is also rising. The government must stop this loot: Shri @kcvenugopalmp#BJPLootingIndia pic.twitter.com/W378IMea6rHe also claimed that under the UPA government the tax on petrol and diesel was ₹9.20 and now it is ₹32, reported PTI.The IYC chief Srinivas BV also accused the Union government of spending the tax revenue from fuel on "extravagant projects", reported the news agency.“The reduction in fuel prices comes only on the occasion of elections. The BJP's loot starts again as soon as it gets time from the election campaign,” PTI quoted Srinivas as saying.Petrol and diesel prices surged again on Friday by 31 paise per litre and 28 paise per litre, respectively.In Delhi, petrol now costs ₹95.85 per litre, whereas diesel costs ₹86.75 per litre.States, where petrol prices have crossed the century-mark, include Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-congress-workers-detained-in-delhi-for-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-101623404685255.html
11-06-2021||India||Socialism gets Indian wedding, Communism and Leninism to attend||Even little Marxism won't miss out when Socialism gets married in southern India this weekend with his big brothers Communism and Leninism in attendance.All are the progeny of A. Mohan, a district secretary of the Communist Party of India in Tamil Nadu state where left-wing ideology still burns red-hot."My first son was born during the fall of the Soviet Union and everywhere in the news I was reading that this was the end of communism," Mohan told AFP."But there is no end for communism as long as the human race lives on, so I named my first-born Communism," he said.His next two sons were named Leninism -- whose five-month-old son Marxism will also attend the nuptials on Sunday -- and Socialism, the groom.Pictures of the invitation to the wedding, embossed with hammer-and-sickle emblems, have gone viral on social media.Socialism's bride-to-be meanwhile is P. Mamata Banerjee, named by her grandfather after a firebrand left-wing politician in West Bengal.The fact that this other Banerjee ended several decades of communist rule in 2011 in the eastern state to become chief minister isn't spoiling the party.India leaned more towards the Soviet Union during the Cold War, and names like Stalin, Lenin, Trotsky and even Pravda -- the name of the USSR's state newspaper -- are not unheard of, particularly in the south.Tamil Nadu's current chief minister is M.K. Stalin, named by his father in honour of the Soviet communist dictator just days before he died in Russia.Mohan said that there was nothing unusual about his sons' names -- some of his "comrades" gave their children names such as Moscow, Russia, Vietnam and Czechoslovakia.But he admitted that his boys, especially Communism, were sometimes teased at school. One hospital refused to admit Communism when he was three years old."They were scared of the name Communism and initially I faced a lot of troubles. But over time, things smoothed out," he said.All three sons, now in their 20s, are fellow members of the local communist party, and Leninism named his son after none other than Karl Marx."Now I am waiting for a grand-daughter from one of my sons, who I will name Cubaism," Mohan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/socialism-gets-indian-wedding-communism-and-leninism-to-attend-101623406815898.html
11-06-2021||India||Top official directs action amid power cuts in Jammu despite rising mercury||Divisional commissioner Raghav Langer has directed the Jammu Power Distribution Corporation Limited to work out power curtailment rosters and schedules for every station, area and put them in the public domain for publicity to avoid unscheduled power cuts amid anger in the region over erratic electricity supply this week despite rising temperatures.The mercury soars as high as 45 degrees Celsius in the plains of the Jammu region.Langer on Thursday said strict cognisance has been taken of unscheduled power cuts even as hailstorm followed by a brief spell of rain brought the temperature down in Jammu.Also Watch | Indian Army steps in to douse massive fire in Baramulla, J&KHe has directed deputy commissioners to constitute sub-division level committees to ensure the curtailments happen according to the notified roster, avoiding unscheduled curtailments. He has said control rooms be set up at sub-divisional levels and asked officials to notify the helpline numbers.Officials said Langer reviewed the situation and inquired about the hours of power supply, curtailment in rural and urban areas, and available buffer stock of transformers, functioning of workshops, and timelines for replacement of damaged transformers.A load distribution chart, accessed by HT on Thursday at 4.30pm, showed that the Kashmir Valley has been allotted 1,050 megawatts compared to 737 megawatts to the Jammu region. During summer, the Valley remains cooler than Jammu.An engineer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Kashmir gets more electricity supplies compared to the Jammu region as successive governments upgraded the power infrastructure in the Valley. “Even if we want to strike a balance, we cannot because the power system in the Jammu region has not been upgraded. If we try to strike a balance and increase power supply to the Jammu region, the power distribution system in Jammu will not sustain it...”The engineer said when it comes to power revenue, Jammu contributes more, around 70 to 80%, compared to Kashmir. “That is why the authorities never share the break-up of revenue from Kashmir and Jammu regions and present clubbed figures of entire Jammu & Kashmir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-official-directs-action-amid-power-cuts-in-jammu-despite-rising-mercury-101623405866574.html
11-06-2021||India||Vaccinated healthcare workers run lower risk of Covid-19 infection than unvaccinated ones: Study||A new study conducted by Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, on 10,600 healthcare workers (HCWs) suggests that vaccinated HCWs run significantly lower risk of contracting Covid-19 than their unvaccinated peers. Out of the 10,600 employees at CMC, as many as 8,991 had been vaccinated between January 21 and April 30 this year, with 94.3% of them being inoculated with Covishield, as per the research team.The study showed that two doses of Covishield rendered 65% protection against infection, 77% against hospitalisation, 92% against the need for oxygen, and 94% against the need for admission in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU), reported news agency ANI.The research revealed that fully vaccinated individuals, however, did contract Covid-19, with 679 (9.6%) contracting it within 47 days (34-58) following their second dose, and 33 individuals contracting it within two weeks of the second dose.Some staff members however did not receive their second dose due to a shortage of vaccines and a change in guidelines on the required gap between the two doses.The study also stated that the only Covid-related fatalities were witnessed in the beginning of the pandemic in HCWs who had multiple comorbidities and hadn’t been vaccinated."The only staff member who died since the beginning of the pandemic had multiple comorbidities and had not taken the vaccine," ANI said, quoting the study.The study could not determine the efficacy of the two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) administered to the staff at CMC, as a sub-group analysis was not possible due to the miniscule percentage of HCWs who were jabbed with Covaxin."Subgroup analysis on the efficacy of the two vaccines was not possible due to few HCWs receiving Covaxin," it stated.CMC’s findings, which sheds new light on the results of vaccinating frontline workers, comes on the heels of the Centre’s decision to train 1,00,000 healthcare workers ahead of a possible third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinated-healthcare-workers-run-lower-risk-of-covid-19-infection-than-unvaccinated-ones-study-101623405344825.html
11-06-2021||India||States, Centre need to work as team: Kejriwal responds to Prasad's 'jumla' remark||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday hit back at the Centre as he said the Centre should work along with the state governments for the progress of the country instead of abusing and clashing with them. His response came after Union minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravi Shankar Prasad called the Delhi government's doorstep ration delivery scheme a 'jumla'"Today people want to see such a leadership at the Centre which, instead of abusing and fighting the state governments all day, takes everyone along. The country will progress when 130 crore people, all the state governments and the Centre work together as Team India. So being rude is not good," Kejriwal's tweet, in Hindi, read.आज लोग केंद्र में ऐसा नेतृत्व देखना चाहते हैं जो, पूरा दिन राज्य सरकारों को गाली देने और उनसे लड़ने की बजाय, सबको साथ लेकर चले। देश तब आगे बढ़ेगा जब 130 करोड़ लोग, सभी राज्य सरकारें और केंद्र मिलकर टीम इंडिया बनकर काम करेंगे। इतना गाली गलौज अच्छा नहीं https://t.co/tIBysUQ6ptThe Union minister earlier took a dig at Kejriwal's ration delivery scheme as he said how is the chief minister promising home delivery of rations when the Delhi government failed to provide oxygen to the people during the time of crisis. He accused the Delhi government of being controlled by the ‘ration mafia’.Also read| Clear ration scheme in national interest: Kejriwal writes to PM"Arvind Kejriwal ji is talking about delivering ration in every household. He could not deliver oxygen...could not deliver medicine from mohalla clinics. Doorstep ration delivery is also a jumla. The Delhi Government is under the control of the ration mafia. Arvind Kejriwal ji should answer why 'One Nation, One Ration Card' was not implemented in Delhi? What is the problem?" news agency ANI quoted Prasad as saying.Prasad also asked the chief minister on why the One Nation One Ration Card scheme was not implemented in the national capital."Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, like last year, this time also free ration is being given to the poor till November. 'One Nation, One Ration Card' is a very important scheme started by the Government of India. the scheme is running in 34 states and union territories of the country. So far 28 crore portable transactions have been done on it," Prasad said, reported ANI.The Union government provides food grains to the states and Union territories for distribution via ration shops through subsidies and spends ₹2 lakh crore annually for this. Wheat is provided at ₹2 per kg and rice at ₹3 per kg across the country, Prasad informed.The chief minister on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the implementation of the doorstep ration delivery scheme, after he slammed the Centre on Monday for halting the implementation of the scheme.On June 6, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had lashed out at the Centre for preventing the launch of the scheme and said that the BJP party is only interested in abusing Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-centre-needs-to-work-as-team-kejriwal-responds-to-prasad-s-jumla-remark-101623400898700.html
11-06-2021||India||Hyd boy gets world’s most expensive medicine as parents mobilise ₹16 crore||Three-year old Ayaansh from Hyderabad, suffering from a rare disease Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), has been administered the world’s costliest medicine Zolgensma. To buy the medicine, his parents mobilised ₹16 crore through crowd-funding in a span of three-and-a-half months from 65,000 donors.The medicine, imported from Novartis, USA, landed in Hyderabad on June 8 after the Centre waived the import duty and even exempted Goods and Services Tax (GST), both to the extent of ₹6 crore.It all began on February 4 when Ayaansh’s parents, Yogesh Gupta, who is from Chhattisgarh and works in a private firm in Hyderabad, and Rupal Gupta, posted a request on social media platforms and began the campaign to raise funds. By May 23, they had mobilised ₹16 crore they required with their donors including celebrities such as India team cricket captain Virat Kohli and his actor wife Anushka Sharma, Emraan Hashmi, Dia Miza, Javeed Jaafri, Rajkumar Rao, Arjun Kapoor, and Sara Ali Khan.Also Read | Ahead of third wave, Centre to create trained workforce to handle healthcareThe drug was administered to Ayaansh on Wednesday morning at Rainbow Children’s Hospital at Vikrampuri in Secunderabad. He was kept under observation till evening before being discharged. “Except fever, which the doctors say is quite normal for a couple of days, he is absolutely fine,” Yogesh Gupta told HT.While the doctor who administered the medicine could not be reached for a comment, Gupta said Zolgensma was a gene therapy done through a single-dose intravenous injection.“It is said to be an injection of an extract of adeno-associated virus (AAV9), which acts as a vector carrying the SMN gene (whose deficiency causes SMA), to all the cells of the party, thereby restoring the normalcy,” he said.In all, eight vials of Zolgensma comprising a total quantity of around 60 ml were administered to Ayaansh through normal intravenous process on both the hands. While the process was completed within and hour and there were no complications, doctors have advised the parents to take extreme care of the boy for another two months, keeping him under strict quarantine. “Since his immune system is weak, there is a possibility of him getting other infections. The doctors asked us not to allow any visitors,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-boy-gets-world-s-most-expensive-medicine-as-parents-mobilise-rs-16cr-101623400705368.html
11-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines can make people 'magnetic'? PIB says no way||A video doing the rounds on the internet claiming Covid-19 vaccines can make people "magnetic" are baseless, the government has said and urged people to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease. The video shows objects sticking to the arms of a vaccine recipient and is also being shared widely on social media, fuelling rumours about the safety of the vaccines.The Press Information Bureau's (PIB) fact-checking arm, PIB Fact Check, has said these claims about Covid-19 vaccines are "baseless". "Vaccines cannot cause a magnetic reaction in the human body. COVID-19 vaccines are completely safe and do not contain any metal-based ingredients. It is common to experience mild side-effects like mild headaches, pain or swelling at the injection site, and mild fever after getting the COVID-19 vaccine," it said. "Do not fall prey to misinformation about COVID-19 vaccines and get vaccinated," added.Several posts/videos claiming that #COVID19 #vaccines can make people magnetic are doing the rounds on social media. #PIBFactCheck: ✅COVID-19 vaccines do NOT make people magnetic and are completely SAFE Register for #LargestVaccineDrive now and GET VACCINATED ‼️ pic.twitter.com/pqIFaq9DytReports said that the video is of a 71-year-old man from Nashik in Maharashtra, who claimed that objects were sticking to his arm after he took the second dose of the vaccine. In a now-viral video, Arvind Sonar can be seen sticking coins and steel to his arm after receiving the second jab.Also read | Centre, states pitch in to dispel vaccine hesitancy in rural areasSeveral such videos of people sticking magnets to where they claim they have had the Covid-19 vaccines have come up on social media platforms like TikTok and Instagram in the United States and the United Kingdon. Some have claimed there is something magnetic in the vaccines and others have it is proof of a microchip, which targeted the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates. Experts have said that those vaccinated against Covid-19 cannot experience magnetism at the injection site.Also read | Traders in Odisha town offer 5% discount on groceries to fully vaccinated peopleThey said even if Covid-19 vaccines did contain metals, they would not cause a magnetic reaction. They also said that humans are all naturally “a little bit magnetic”, because we contain tiny quantities of iron. “The amount of metal that would need to be in a vaccine for it to attract a magnet is much more substantial than the amounts that could be present in a vaccine's small dose,” medical professionals at the Meedan Health Desk said, according to Reuters.Professor Michael Coey from the School of Physics at Trinity College Dublin said the claims about the Covid-19 vaccines were  “complete nonsense”. Coey told Reuters that people would need about one gram of iron metal to attract and support a permanent magnet at the injection site. “By the way, my wife was injected with her second dose of the Pfizer vaccine today, and I had mine over two weeks ago. I have checked that magnets are not attracted to our arms!” he wrote to Reuters.The country-wide vaccination drive was first rolled out on January 16 and is currently in its third phase. All eligible citizens can get themselves registered for getting Covid-19 vaccines on the government's Co-Win portal or the Aarogya Setu app. The vaccination process is digitally managed, starting from the registration for vaccination till the inoculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-can-make-people-magnetic-pib-says-no-way-101623399883085.html
11-06-2021||India||Is Co-Win blocking users with over 1,000 vaccine slot searches a day? All you need to know||Co-Win, the government's website to book vaccine slot, is believed to have started blocking users who are generating more than 50 OTPs in a day. Many social media users have posted screenshots after being blocked by the interface. From June 21, on-site registration for vaccines will start, which may take the pressure off Co-Win.Here is all you need to know about Co-Win blocking specific users.> According to several media reports, Co-WIN is indeed blocking users whose activities are like bots.> Co-Win blocks people who carry out more than 1,000 searches for vaccine slots.> Also those who are generating more than 50 OTPs within 24 hours are being blocked.> Those who are making more than 20 search requests with 15 minutes are being automatically logged out from Co-Win.> The blocking will remain active for 24 hours.> After vaccination was opened for all above the age of 18 from May 1, there was huge pressure on Co-Win. Several bot accounts too cropped up as getting slots on the site became difficult.> The measure to block users comes to check bot activities, reports said.> Though there has been no announcement in this regard that users with more than 1,000 searches a day will be blocked, the same can be confirmed from Co-Win's terms and conditions, which have been updated.> According to the updated terms of service, the use of any automated software or computer system to search for or book appointments is not allowed.> Refreshing a page more than one in three-second is not allowed.> More than 1,000 requests of the Site ( 50 times crossing 20 search request per 15 mins session ) whether alone or with a group of individuals is prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-co-win-blocking-users-with-over-1-000-searches-a-day-all-you-need-to-know-101623399915426.html
11-06-2021||India||Ahead of third wave, Centre to create trained workforce to handle healthcare||To meet the growing demand for healthcare workers in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship will start a special training programme to create a workforce of about 100,000 professionals, a ministry official aware of the matter said.The ministry has identified 300 skill centres across 194 districts in 28 states with infrastructure in healthcare sector to facilitate the training. The ministry will also work on upskilling already experienced healthcare workers. The workforce will be trained ahead of the anticipated third wave of the pandemic, said the official. The ministry has identified six sectors in which a short-term course with a three-month on-the-job training will be offered--emergency care support, basic care support, sample collection, home care support, advance care support and medical equipment support. Also Read | Covaxin’s US approval delayed, Bharat Biotech’s partner to seek full approvalGiven the complaints from several states that medical equipment, such as ventilators and oxygen concentrators, have been lying unused in several hospitals due to the lack of trained professionals, the course will also offer training in handling medical equipment. They will also be taught how to maintain the medical records of patients. As many as 20,000 ITI graduates have been identified to work at oxygen plants in over 500 districts. “They will be trained to install, operate, maintain, and calibrate work 24x7 at oxygen plants, mini oxygen concentrators and ventilators,” the official said.So far, the ministry has already trained 175,000 workers under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna (PMKVY) in the healthcare sector who can be employed as frontline workers and their details have already been shared with the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Another 150,000 were trained similarly under PMKVY 2.0 (a continuation of PMKVY in its second version).These candidates will be trained to handle medical emergencies in hospitals, in makeshift healthcare centres and even in home care. They will be offered training on the job in government hospitals, and will also be provided boarding and lodging provisions and accident insurance of ₹2 lakh. As per the official quoted above, frontline workers who will be trained in basic care support will be taught to handle basic equipment such as oxygen concentrators, nebulisers, ECG and pulse oximeter. They will also be trained to carry out last rites as per Covid-19 protocols. In the category of home care support, the training will include emergency response, assessment of casualty at the site and conduct triage, making ambulances ready with equipment and consumables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-third-wave-centre-to-create-trained-workforce-to-handle-healthcare-101623399145206.html
11-06-2021||India||Padma Shri awardee, organic farming pioneer, Radha Mohan passes away||Radha Mohan, a former Odisha information commissioner and retired professor of economics who had turned a barren patch of land into lush forest and popularised organic farming, passed away at a private hospital in Bhubaneswar late Thursday night. He was 78 and is survived by three daughters.Radha Mohan, who retired as a professor of economics, was suffering from bronchial asthma along with other co-morbidities, and was admitted to hospital a few days ago when his health deteriorated.Condoling his death, PM Narendra Modi tweeted: “Prof Radha Mohan ji was deeply passionate about agriculture, especially adopting sustainable and organic practices. He was also respected for his knowledge on subjects relating to the economy and ecology. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers.”Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal also condoled his death. ‘He will always be remembered for his unique organic farming techniques,” said Lal.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, “Deeply saddened to know the passing away of Gandhian and Padma Shri awardee Prof Radha Mohan. An economist turned environmentalist had distinguished contribution to sustainable organic farming. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family members and well-wishers.”Also Read | Odisha CM Patnaik announces special relief package for Cyclone Yaas-hit farmersLast year, Radha Mohan and his conservationist daughter Sabarmatee were awarded Padma Shri in the field of agriculture for their sterling work in organic farming. Three decades ago, the father-daughter duo started Sambhav, a resource centre for farmers where many vanishing food crops such as clove bean, jack bean, black rice and sword bean were grown through organic means.They began by buying an acre of degraded land in Nayagarh district and started planting trees on it. Over time, that one-acre land transformed into 890 acres of forestation with three rainwater harvesting ponds and 500 varieties of rice. It is also home to nearly 1,000 species of plants including trees such as mango, lichi, jackfruit, chiku, and several timber varieties.Through Sambhav, they implemented organic farming techniques and used cattle manure, bio-gas slurry, used agro-waste and mulching. They trained local farmers on sustainable agriculture and biodiversity conservation. They also started ‘Adopt a seed’ programme in which interested farmers were given climate resilient indigenous seeds and asked to take oath to preserve them.Born in 1943 at a small village in Nayagarh district, Radha Mohan graduated in Economics from SCS College in Puri and completed his post-graduation in Applied Economics from Utkal University in 1965.Radha Mohan was appointed as state information commissioner in 2011 after his retirement as the principal of SCS College. The state government also awarded him with Utkal Seva Samman for his outstanding social service. He also got UNEP’s ‘The Global Roll of Honour’ for his distinguished work for environment. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-information-commissioner-pioneer-in-organic-farming-radha-mohan-passes-away-101623398485323.html
11-06-2021||India||K’taka Congress launches “100 not out” campaign against rising fuel prices||The Congress party in Karnataka on Friday launched a five-day “100 not out” campaign to protest the increase in prices of petrol and diesel in the country. Senior leaders of the Congress party, including state president DK Shivakumar, former chief minister Siddaramaiah, RV Deshpande and Dinesh Gundu Rao, took part in the protest. Their colleagues held similar protests at landmark fuel stations across Bengaluru. Shivakumar said party workers were holding such protests across 5,000 petrol pumps and will continue for five days to force the government to roll back prices.Also Read | After Mumbai, petrol is close to ₹100/lt in BengaluruWhile the campaign is being held in cities and urban areas today, tomorrow it will be taken to taluk headquarters, and will continue each day till it reaches villages, he said. “You (BJP) have made money from deaths, medicines, (hospital) beds and today, you are trying to pick pockets by increasing petrol and diesel prices,” the state president alleged. Shivakumar said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had held similar protests against the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government when fuel prices saw a marginal increase but were silent even as petrol and diesel prices have crossed ₹100 per litre. The BS Yediyurappa government in Karnataka is already under fire for increasing electricity tariff during the pandemic, garnering sharp criticism for adding to the problems of people suffering from loss of income due to Covid-19 induced lockdown. “Increasing taxes make petrol cross ₹100 a litre. In Karnataka, BJP has also increased electricity rates. Whether you stay in or move out, BJP wants to empty your wallets. Like a gun point robbery. Are you going to suffer this silently? ,” Shivakumar said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-congress-launches-100-not-out-campaign-against-rising-fuel-prices-101623396925173.html
11-06-2021||India||Aiming for zero new transmissions to end AIDS in 10 yrs: Harsh Vardhan at UNGA||If AIDS (acquired immuno deficiency syndrome) has to end in 10 years, the target should be to achieve zero new transmissions , said Harsh Vardhan, Union minister of health and family welfare, in his address at the 75th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) high level meeting on AIDS on Thursday.“We are fully cognisant of the fact that with only 115 months to meet the target, we need to achieve zero new transmissions of HIV if we are to deliver on the promise of ending AIDS in the next 10 years. We have a long journey ahead.We need to foresee and identify our challenges and gaps, customise our programme, share knowledge, emulate best practices and stride towards reaching the Sustainable Development Goal of ending the AIDS epidemic, which is a grave public health threat, by 2030. We are together in this fight against HIV,” he said.Also Read | India-supported Abdulla Shahid of Maldives elected President of UNGAIndia’s HIV prevention model is centered around the concept of ‘Social Contracting’ through which the ‘Targeted Interventions Programme’ is implemented with support from civil society. The programme is aimed at behaviour change, communication, outreach, service delivery, counselling and testing, and ensuring linkages to HIV care. Under the programme, India provides free anti-retro-viral treatment to close to 1.4 million people. The National AIDS Control Programme has been revised, revived and revamped to focus on hard-to-reach and at-risk populations. Indian drugs are also reaching millions of people living with HIV in Africa. “In line with the motto of the Government of India, ‘Together, for everyone’s growth, with everyone’s trust’, the National AIDS Control Programme has signed MoUs with public and private sector industries to mobilise their support for HIV prevention and treatment. India aspires to scale up HIV care to reach 100% of people living with this dreaded disease,” the health minister said.In India, the HIV & AIDS Prevention and Control Act, 2017, also provides a legal and enabling framework to safeguard the human rights of infected and affected populations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiming-for-zero-new-transmissions-to-end-aids-in-10-yrs-harsh-vardhan-at-unga-101623396745184.html
11-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Supreme Court to close proceedings against Italian Marines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm on Friday (June 11, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fishermen killings case: SC to close proceedings against Italian MarinesThe Supreme Court on Friday agreed to close all proceedings in India against the Italian marines who killed two Indian fishermen off the coast of Kerala in 2012, saying it will pass the formal order on Tuesday next week. Read MoreWhy was Bharat Biotech's Covaxin not approved in US? Here's what we know so farCovaxin, Bharat Biotech's India-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), was not given approval for emergency use in the United States by the country's top public health regulator -- the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Rejecting Covaxin's application for emergency use authorisation in the US, the FDA sought more data on the clinical trials for the vaccine, the complete extent of which is still lacking. Read More‘Doesn’t have courage to speak to me’: Sachin Pilot on Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s claim he will jump shipCongress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday reacted to the claim made by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Rita Bahuguna Joshi that he will soon jump ship after Jitin Prasada’s exit from the grand old party. “Rita Bahuguna Joshi has said she has spoken to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar. She doesn't have the courage to speak to me,” Sachin Pilot said. Read More'Faster than Porsche, safer than Volvo' Tesla Model S Plaid debuts in USTesla Model S Plaid, projected as the fastest car in the world, has been launched officially in the US during an event held a short while back at the electric vehicle manufacturer's Fremont facility in California. Tesla CEO Elon Musk himself drove in the new electric car, the performance version of the Model S sedan, on stage before hosting the event in his inimical style. Read More'If you come on an A tour with me, you'll not leave without playing a game': Dravid on India's tremendous bench-strengthIt took years for the Indian cricketing system to develop players that today can fill in successfully for a big player. Look no further than the tour of Australia. While MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli were leading the senior men's team to unprecedented heights in international cricket, the great Rahul Dravid was busy doing what he does best – prepare the stars of tomorrow. Read MoreOrbital sunrise to Sun’s glint beaming off English Channel: ISS shares incredible pics in viral postInternational Space Station’s (ISS) Instagram account is nothing less than a treasure trove for those who love everything space-related. From sharing videos of spacewalks to posting images of our own Blue Planet, the shares by the space station often leave people mesmerised. Just like their latest post which shows different kinds of pictures of Earth taken from space. Read MoreHaseen Dillruba trailer: Taapsee Pannu, Vikrant Massey bring a desi Gone Girl to life. WatchActor Taapsee Pannu has shared the first trailer for her upcoming thriller film, Haseen Dillruba. Directed by Vinil Mathew, it also stars Vikrant Massey and Harshvardhan Rane. Taapsee Pannu plays Rani in Haseen Dillruba, married to Vikrant Massey's Rishu. After Rishu is killed in an explosion, the shadow of doubt falls on Rani. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-supreme-court-to-close-proceedings-against-italian-marines-and-all-the-latest-news-101623395383756.html
11-06-2021||India||‘Doesn’t have courage to speak to me’: Sachin Pilot on Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s claim he will jump ship||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday reacted to the claim made by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Rita Bahuguna Joshi that he will soon jump ship after Jitin Prasada’s exit from the grand old party. “Rita Bahuguna Joshi has said she has spoken to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar. She doesn't have the courage to speak to me,” Sachin Pilot said, according to news agency ANI.Sachin Pilot will soon join the BJP, Rita Bahuguna Joshi said while speaking to Hindu news television channel Aaj Tak on Thursday. “Sachin will also join the BJP soon. The party (Congress) has been mistreating him,” Rita Bahuguna Joshi, the former UP Congress chief who quit the party ahead of 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, said.The switch by Jitin Prasada, the 47-year-old former Union minister, to the BJP on Wednesday, ahead of the 2022 UP assembly elections, has triggered speculation of further exits.Also read | Entry of old Cong loyalist good optics for BJP in run up to UP pollsThe speculations have gathered steam after Sachin Pilot expressed his displeasure at the lack of action by the Congress over the issues raised by him against Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year. The Congress set up a committee comprising KC Venugopal, Ahmed Patel and Ajay Maken to address the issues raised by Sachin Pilot. Pilot told HT earlier this week that the Congress high command has failed to deliver on the promises that were made to him when he along with 18 legislators returned to the party after a month-long drama.Also read | Political appointments, Cabinet shuffle will be done without delay: PilotSeveral senior leaders have left the Congress for the BJP. Jitin Prasada’s former Congress colleague Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the Congress to join the BJP in March last year. Ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the party lost Haryana heavyweights Birender Singh and Rao Inderjit Singh. Both went on to become ministers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's first cabinet. Himanta Biswa Sarma, a Assam Congress stalwart, left for the BJP in 2015 and is now the chief minister of the northeastern state.Former Congress leader and Union minister Kishore Chandra Deo, Priyanka Chaturvedi and PC Chacko, Tamil actor Khushboo Sundar and former Congress spokesperson Tom Vaddakan are among those who have left the Congress in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-sachin-pilot-disses-rita-bahuguna-joshi-s-claim-he-will-join-bjp-101623394509127.html
11-06-2021||India||Nusrat Jahan case has no connection with politics, party busy to serve people, says TMC||Nusrat Jahan's public statement regarding her relationship with Nikhil Jain has no connection with the party and politics, Trinamool general secretary Kunal Ghosh has said. The party is busy working for people, the TMC leader said adding that BJP's Amit Malviya should not comment on this either as it would not be good for the BJP too if a debate starts now.On Thursday, BJP leader Amit Malviya questioned Nusrat Jahan's statement that her marriage with Nikhil Jain was never valid in India and asked whether the TMC MP lied standing on the floor of Parliament. The BJP leader also added that he raised the question only because Nusrat Jahan is a public representative and her marital status is part of Parliament record, according to which Nusrat Jahan is married to Nikhil Jain. Malviya also shared the clip of Nusrat Jahan taking the oath as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain.প্রসঙ্গ নুসরত জাহান: বিষয়টি ব্যক্তিগত। এর সঙ্গে রাজনীতি বা দলের কোনো সম্পর্ক নেই। বিজেপির মালব্য এসব নিয়ে টুইট না করাই ভালো। তর্ক শুরু হলে বিজেপির পক্ষে ভালো হবে না। তৃণমূল মানুষের কাজ নিয়ে ব্যস্ত।#aitmc #mamataofficial #avishekaitmc #derekobrienKunal Ghosh's tweet has made it clear that the Trinamool Congress is not interfering in the issue and will maintain distance from Nusrat's personal matters.The Basirhat MP has not been visible in political activities after TMC's win in the West Bengal Assembly elections, though she was active on her social media account. Last month, she launched a free safe Covid home for patients with mild symptoms in her constituency.On speculations over her personal life, Nusrat on Wednesday released a statement saying that her marriage to Nikhil Jain was conducted under Turkish Marriage Regulations and was not tenable in India. Hence, she does not require a divorce to end what was, according to her, more like a live-in relationship. She has also accused Nikhil of stealing money from her bank account and his family of forcefully holding her belongings. The allegations have been refuted by Nikhil Jain who said though there was no registration of their marriage, they lived like husband and wife and introduced themselves as a married couple in society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nusrat-jahan-case-has-no-connection-with-politics-party-busy-to-serve-people-says-tmc-101623394659878.html
11-06-2021||India||Nagaland CM convenes all-party meeting on June 19 to push Naga peace talks||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio has convened a meeting of all-party MLAs on June 19 to discuss the ongoing Naga peace process. Talks between the Centre and National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) have had to be suspended this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.In February this year, the state assembly adopted a resolution to urge the government of India and Naga groups for early conclusion of political talks and bring about “one solution”. Subsequently, an all-party delegation led by chief minister Rio and Leader of Opposition TR Zeliang met Union home minister Amit Shah and leaders of NSCN-IM in March. The all-party assembly delegation represented the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) and its ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Independent MLAs and Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF).Also Read | Assam to raise 10 commando battalions on lines of NSG to fight crime, border issuesOn Thursday, news about Nagaland government constituting a core committee consisting of both ruling and opposition MLAs to facilitate Naga peace talks circulated on social media platforms. Opposition leader TR Zeliang confirmed that Rio has convened a meeting on June 19, but he said the formation of such a committee was not notified.A government official, on the condition of anonymity, said a notification on the constitution of core committee would be brought out soon. A round of dialogue scheduled to be held in April-May in New Delhi was postponed indefinitely owing to the second wave of Covid-19. Sources in the group said NSCN (IM) general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah and some other leaders of the organisation are in their designated camp Hebron in Dimapur and are unlikely to return to Delhi any time soon to resume the talks unless the Covid situation improves.The NSCN (IM) entered into a ceasefire agreement with the Centre in 1997 and the two have been holding talks since then, while a conglomerate of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) also got into separate talks with the Centre since 2017.The Centre signed a “framework agreement” with NSCN (IM) in 2015, and an “agreed position” with the NNPGs in 2017. However, the NSCN (IM)’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution has been a delaying factor in signing a final deal on the protracted Naga political issue.The NSCN (IM), in the May issue of its bi-monthly newsletter “Nagalim Voice”, reiterated that the Naga people held two things dearly- their political identity as symbolised by the Naga national flag and the “Yehzabo” (constitution). “These two issues are not negotiable. It cannot be bartered away in exchange for any temporary gains. History will not forgive NSCN if we sell out Nagas’ historical and political rights for the sake of concluding the Indo-Naga political dialogue,” the NSCN (IM) stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-cm-convenes-all-party-meeting-on-june-19-to-push-naga-peace-talks-101623393444973.html
11-06-2021||India||Fishermen killings case: SC to close proceedings against Italian Marines||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to close all proceedings in India against the Italian marines who killed two Indian fishermen off the coast of Kerala in 2012, saying it will pass the formal order on Tuesday next week. “We accept what you are proposing. We will pass our order on Tuesday,” said the bench of justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah, after being informed that the compensation of ₹10 crore for the victims has been deposited in the registry of the top court. The bench also said that it was of the view that the compensation money should be transferred to the Kerala high court so that disbursement could be properly monitored and not frittered away. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Central government, accepted the court’s suggestion, so did the counsel for the Kerala government and the Republic of Italy. Also Read | Supreme Court amused by Centre’s zeal in Italian marines caseIn April, the Centre had informed the Supreme Court that the families of two Indian fishermen killed by Italian marines have been “adequately” compensated as it sought expeditious closure of proceedings before the top court and a criminal trial pending before a special court in Delhi. According to the Centre’s compliance affidavit dated January 5, which HT has reviewed, the Italian government offered to pay a total of ₹10 crore in damages. The families of the two deceased fishermen have agreed to a compensation of ₹4 crore each in addition to the ₹2 crore already paid by the Italian government. The injured owner of the boat had also consented to receiving damages of ₹2 crore. As per the affidavit, the Kerala government also accepted this proposal from the Italian government and the consent letters from the legal heirs of the deceased and the boat owner were sent to the foreign secretary in the ministry of external affairs. Mehta informed the bench headed by then Chief Justice of India SA Bobde that the victims’ families were paid the compensation, as ruled by an international tribunal in May 2020. However, on being informed that the compensation of ₹10 crore, as agreed upon by the Italian government, was yet to be disbursed to the families of the slain fishermen and the injured boat owner, the top court asked Italy first to deposit the money with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The bench added that the MEA will subsequently deposit the compensation in the Supreme Court for releasing it to the victims as it deferred the hearing to a future date. The case pending before the Supreme Court is an appeal filed by the two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held that Kerala had jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled that the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting at the fishermen was in defence of neither the vessel nor the state. Also Read | Italy has assured to prosecute marines for killing Indian fishermen: CentreThe marines and the Italian government moved an appeal before the top court, which shifted the trial to a special court in Delhi in 2013 where it went on till the Supreme Court stayed it in 2015 after taking note of proceedings pending before the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at the Hague, Netherlands. In the meantime, the marines were allowed to go back home on a personal undertaking by the Italian ambassador that they would come back as and when required. The arbitral proceedings before the PCA were instituted under the United Nations Convention on Law of Seas (UNCLOS) on June 26, 2015 after Italy served a notice on India under the UNCLOS. The UNCLOS is an international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of natural marine resources. In May 2020, the international tribunal ruled that the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials when the incident occurred. It, therefore, ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them. At the same time, the tribunal also held that Italy had violated India’s right to navigation by firing at the fishing boat and said that the country would have to compensate India for loss of life and damage to property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fishermen-killings-case-sc-to-close-proceedings-against-italian-marines-101623392425397.html
11-06-2021||India||Why was Bharat Biotech's Covaxin not approved in US? Here's what we know so far||Covaxin, Bharat Biotech's India-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), was not given approval for emergency use in the United States by the country's top public health regulator -- the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Rejecting Covaxin's application for emergency use authorisation in the US, the FDA sought more data on the clinical trials for the vaccine, the complete extent of which is still lacking. The FDA rejection would normally indicate a delay in Covaxin's launch in the US, but Bharat Biotech's US partner Ocugen Inc said on Thursday that it would instead push for a full US approval of the indigenous vaccine candidate Covaxin, without pursuing an emergency use authorisation.Also Read: Indians vaccinated with Covaxin may not be allowed to travel abroad just yetWhy was Covaxin rejected by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)?The FDA requested additional information and data on Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, explained a statement by the Hyderabad-based pharma company's US partner Ocugen. Covaxin has been facing criticism back home in India for not sharing its Phase-3 trial data, despite being approved by India's top drug regulator, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) six months ago.Also Read: When will Bharat Biotech's Covaxin get WHO nod? Govt answersThe FDA rejected Bharat Biotech's proposal for emergency use approval of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine, in the US because the company submitted partial trial data from March this year. According to an official statement, the FDA has asked Ocugen to submit additional trial data so that it can file for a Biologics Licence Application (BLA), which is a full approval, instead of the emergency use approval.Revising its guidelines for emergency use authorisation, the US FDA earlier said that it will entertain no such new requests. Despite this, Ocugen remained hopeful last month that its Covaxin proposal would be considered by the FDA due to a series of discussions since late last year, the company informed its investors in a May 26 statement. "We believe that the FDA's new guidance confirms that Ocugen continues to meet all criteria for the submission of a EUA," the statement read.Covaxin's lack of Phase-3 trial dataBharat Biotech, which is currently carrying out the Phase-3 clinical trials for Covaxin, informed news agency ANI on Wednesday that it will make the data public during July, following which the company will be applying for full licensure of the Covid-19 vaccine. "Once data from the final analysis of phase III studies are available, Bharat Biotech will apply for full licensure for Covaxin,” Bharat Biotech told the news agency.Bharat Biotech added that Phase-4 trials are also being done to check the "real-world effectiveness" of the vaccines" and to meet scientifically approved standards for safety and efficacy.Covaxin's faces hurdle with foreign approvalBharat Biotech's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine has been facing hurdles gaining foreign approvals since the Phase 3 trial data is essential for validation from the World Health Organization (WHO), which will allow the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company to export its Covid-19 vaccine and make it a part of the much-coveted "vaccine passport".Also Read: Covaxin efficacy 78% in Phase 3 analysisHowever, without the Phase 3 trial data, Covaxin has been facing remains unapproved in several countries, where it is failing to gain access in strictly regulated markets. At a time when authorisation from top health regulators at the US, the European Union, or the WHO is needed for a vaccine to cross borders, the India-made Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin remains unrecognised, as some foreign countries are even considering Indian students vaccinated with Covaxin as "unvaccinated". "We are aware that Bharat Biotech has sought the WHO emergency-use listing for Covaxin. We hope that the process of getting this approval is completed at an early date," said MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi at an online briefing on Thursday, speaking on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-was-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-covid-19-vaccine-not-approved-in-us-here-s-what-we-know-so-far-101623387176530.html
11-06-2021||India||Covaxin’s US approval delayed over data, Bharat Biotech’s partner to file for full approval||Bharat Biotech’s partner for Covaxin in the US has said it will no longer seek an emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine candidate and will file for a full approval of the shot after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asked for additional information and data. Ocugen, which has partnered with Bharat Biotech to produce Covaxin for the US market, said the decision was based on a recommendation from the country's top public health regulator.Also Read: No need to vaccinate people once infected by Covid? Why experts suggest this"The FDA provided feedback to Ocugen regarding the Master File submitted previously and recommended that we pursue a BLA submission instead of an EUA application for the vaccine candidate and requested additional information and data," Ocugen, which has partnered with Bharat Biotech to produce Covaxin for the US market, said in a statement to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).As a result of this, Ocugen said, it would no longer pursue a EUA application and would instead aim to file for full approval of the shot and go for a Biological License Application (BLA)—the full approval for a vaccine shot. The firm added that it expects data from an additional clinical trial to be required for a full-use application.Also Read: Covid-19: India reports 91,702 cases, 3403 deaths"While this will extend our timelines, we're committed to bringing Covaxin to the US," Ocugen chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Shankar Musunuri said. In addition to the US, Ocugen has secured exclusive rights to market the vaccine in Canada as well and is in discussion with Health Canada for regulatory approval.Covaxin is India's only homemade vaccine against the coronavirus disease and one among three to have been approved for use; Covishield and Sputnik V are the other two shots. Of these, Covaxin and Covishield have been used since India began its vaccination drive on January 16.The shot was found to be 78% effective against the symptomatic disease, and 100% protection from serious illness, according to the interim analysis. Bharat Biotech was to announce the results of phase three clinical trials in June but said on June 10 it would do so only a month later, in July.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxins-us-approval-delayed-over-data-bharat-biotech-s-partner-to-file-for-full-approval-101623387047266.html
11-06-2021||India||IIT Kharagpur researchers say their technique can detect cyclones much in advance||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur and Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research in China have developed a technique that can detect the forming of cyclone in the North Indian Ocean region much in advance. “Before they are picked up by the weather satellites orbiting the Earth,” the researchers claimed.“Basically eddies are disturbances that we find in the atmospheric column where the cyclone initiates. A cyclone is first formed 7-8 kilometres in the upper atmosphere. The instability in the higher atmosphere leads to eddies that are weather instabilities. So, we found that pre-cyclonic eddies form in the atmosphere and after they grow they start migrating up and down. However, this detection was possible only after the system developed as a well-marked low-pressure system over the warm ocean surface. Our study can detect a possible cyclone from the time the eddy is formed,” said Prasad K Bhaskaran, IIT Kharagpur.The study conducted under the Climate Change Program with support from the Centre’s Department of Science and Technology, and published in the journal Atmospheric Research, identified pre-cyclonic eddy in the upper atmosphere before they turned into depression and subsequently into cyclonic storms.The research team, comprising Prasad K Bhaskaran and Jia Albert of IIT Kharagpur and Bishnupriya Sahu of Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Yantai, China, claimed that it can detect at least 90 hours before the weather satellites pick up the data from the ocean surface.The research team which analysed four post-monsoon severe cyclones — Phailin (2013), Vardah (2013), Gaja (2018), Madi (2013) - and two pre-monsoon cyclones Mora (2017) and Aila (2009) that developed over the North Indian Ocean, came out with a threshold value of a parameter called Okubo-Weiss Zeta Parameter. “When the parameter crossed the threshold value, it resulted in the formation of a cyclone,” he said.Bhaskaran said once the satellites detect the depression, then weather agencies like the India Meteorological Department (IMD) run the weather models predicting the cyclone’s landfall. “The model that we have developed gives a larger time gap between the detection and the cyclone’s landfall that would help in evacuation activities. Currently, cyclones take anything between 5 and 7 days between their formation and landfall. Our model would give 4 days of additional lead time to governments in preparing for the cyclones and save lives,” he said.The research team found that the bottom of the oceans are getting much warmers and this could lead to stronger cyclones in the future. “Warm ocean temperatures are what fuel cyclones. With ocean temperature, 500 metres below the surface, warmer than what it is on top, we expect the cyclones to be much more intense. Earlier, most cyclones were formed in the Bay of Bengal. Now the Arabian Sea is going to be the breeding place of stronger cyclones,” the team found out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-kharagpur-researchers-say-their-technique-can-detect-cyclones-much-in-advance-101623391705047.html
11-06-2021||India||No need to vaccinate people once infected by Covid? Why experts suggest this||The Union health ministry's latest guideline said those who tested Covid positive should wait for three months after recovery to get vaccinated, as they have natural antibodies present. However, a group of public health experts, which includes doctors from AIIMS and the members of Covid-19 national task force, has suggested that there is no need to vaccinate people who had documented Covid-19 infection.Do Covid-infected people not require vaccination? Here is what we know> In the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, there have been instances of reinfections. AIIMS Delhi has conducted a study on breakthrough infection — infections after partial or full vaccination — which reveals that vaccination stops the reinfection to become severe, but it does not guarantee protection from reinfection.> A Lancet study on reinfection has said the risk of reinfection gets reduced for up to 10 months following the first infection. The study conducted by the researchers from the University College London is based on antibody testing of people who are previously infected and those who are not. The study was conducted in the UK> According to the Indian experts' report, there is not enough evidence that vaccine is beneficial after natural infection. "There is no need to vaccinate people who had documented Covid-19 infection. These people may be vaccinated after generating evidence that vaccine is beneficial after natural infection," the report said.> As the objective of the vaccination drive should be to control the disease, those who have been already infected should not be the priority, as they are naturally protected, the report suggested.> Is the suggestion of keeping once-infected people out of vaccination for now influenced by vaccine crunch? Yes, the report clarified that the present situation of the pandemic in the country demands that prioritisation instead of opening it to all. "Moreover, we can conserve considerable resources if we exclude adults who have recovered from natural infection," it said.Here are the other vaccine-related suggestions of the expert group> Vaccination strategy should be guided by repeated, local, real-time serosurveys to map the vulnerability at the district level.> More research on reinfection, infection among vaccinated and non-vaccinated people. Such cohorts should be followed up for a long period for better findings.> Unplanned vaccination can trigger mutant strains, the experts said, referring to vaccination of age groups, which are not yet supported by evidence.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-no-need-to-vaccinate-people-once-infected-by-covid-why-experts-suggest-this-101623389249657.html
11-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath meets PM Modi, next stop JP Nadda's house||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his official residence for more than an hour amid concerns over the UP government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and reports of friction within the BJP’s state unit. Yogi Adityanath then left to meet BJP national president JP Nadda. A day before, Adityanath met Union home minister Amit Shah."Today, I had the privilege of meeting respected PM Modi and get his guidance. I wholeheartedly thank him for taking out time from his busy schedule for the meeting and his guidance," the Uttar Pradesh chief minister tweet roughly translated from Hindi read. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) also posted a photo of PM Modi and Yogi Adityanath on Twitter as they met.Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Shri @myogiadityanath met PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/RMyYKf0BlRYogi Adityanath’s two-day visit to the national capital also comes amid speculations of expansion of the UP cabinet ahead of the assembly elections to be held in the politically crucial state early next year.As reports of the friction within the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party trickled in, BJP general secretary organisation BL Santhosh visited Uttar Pradesh earlier this week along with national vice president Radha Mohan Singh. They meet party leaders and ministers to hear their concerns ahead of the 2022 UP assembly elections.Many of these leaders are said to have flagged issues like handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, disenchantment among people and lack of coordination between government and party leaders, among others.Also watch | Modi-Yogi meeting: Inside track on agenda and way out of UP messSanthosh praised the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government’s efforts during the coronavirus pandemic. He said on Twitter the UP administration reduced the daily Covid-19 case count by 93% within five weeks. He also praised the decision to vaccinate parents of children below 12 years of age and said it a wise move amid apprehension that children may be affected more in the probable third wave of the pandemic.However, the central leadership has ruled out any change in state leadership, throwing their weight behind the Yogi Adityanath administration. It has also ruled out any change in the BJP’s organisational structure and said any change to the council of ministers would be carried out following consultation with the chief minister.The Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are scheduled to take place in 2022. The BJP stormed back to power in the state in the 2017 assembly polls. Among the major parties, the BJP has 309 legislators, Samajwadi Party (SP) 49, Bahujan Samal Party (BSP) 18 and Congress 7 in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-meets-pm-modi-next-stop-jp-nadda-s-house-101623388853530.html
11-06-2021||India||CSIR-IICT ties up with Suven Pharma for new anti-Covid drug Molnupiravir||In what comes as a boost to India's pharmaceutical industry amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT), and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (CSIR-NIIST) have signed an MoU with Suven Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SPL) for the process technology transfer and manufacture of the anti-Covid drug Molnupiravir. The new agreement comes days after the Hyderabad-based CSIR-IICT entered into a similar MoU with Lee Pharma on process technology transfer and the manufacture of Covid-19 drug 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG).The anti-viral drug Molnupiravir, now meant to fight Covid-19, was initially developed for the treatment of influenza but has since been repurposed. CSIR-IICT said Molnupiravir can completely suppress Covid-19 virus transmission within 24 hours, citing a study published in the research journal 'Nature Microbiology'. With such a rapid means of tackling the SARS-Cov-2 virus transmission, anti-Covid drug Molnupiravir can be a complete gamechanger in India's fight against the coronavirus disease pandemic, said the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology.A press release issued by the CSIR-IICT detailed how the synthetic process know-how for Molnupiravir was sourced from CSIR-NIIST and the process to scale it up was successfully carried out by CSIR-IICT. It said that the complete technology know-how will be transferred to SPL and the company, would in turn manufacture and launch the anti-viral drug Molnupiravir in the market as an effective medication for patients affected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). CSIR-IICT would also provide the process know-how for the manufacture of new anti-Covid drug 2 -DG to treat moderate and severe Covid-19 infected patients to reduce their oxygen dependency, as per the agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/csiriict-ties-up-with-suven-pharma-for-new-anti-covid-drug-molnupiravir-101623385235875.html
11-06-2021||India||Low pressure area over Bay of Bengal to bring heavy rain to east, central India||A low pressure area has formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts which is likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours. It is likely to then move west-northwestwards across Odisha, bringing heavy and widespread rain in the region, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Under its influence, widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over most parts of east India and adjoining central India from today. Extremely heavy rain (≥ 20 cm) is also very likely over Odisha on June 11 and 12; over Chhattisgarh from June 11 to 13; over east Madhya Pradesh on June 13; and over Vidarbha on June 12 and 13.The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Surat, Nandurbar , Betul, Mandla, Bilaspur, Bolangir, Puri and Bagdogra. Conditions are favourable for its further advancement into some more parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts Chhattisgarh and Odisha, the entire West Bengal and Jharkhand, some parts of Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh, and remaining parts of north Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours.Click here for LIVE Updates on Mumbai rainsDue to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast in association with the low pressure area; widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy falls is likely to continue over the coastal districts of Maharashtra and Karnataka till June 15. Very heavy to extremely heavy rain is likely over Konkan and Kerala also.Due to west-northwestwards movement of the low pressure area and its remnant, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over northwest India (excluding Rajasthan) till June 14. Isolated very heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh on June 12.Ahead of the monsoon onset, fairly widespread thunderstorm activity accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during the next 24 hours, IMD has warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-over-bay-of-bengal-to-bring-heavy-rain-to-east-central-india-101623386664778.html
11-06-2021||India||New moon tide to hit today, coastal districts of Bengal on alert||The West Bengal government has alerted three coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, as the perigean tide, coinciding with the new moon today, could send saline water from the sea again into some of the villages, inundating the low-lying areas.The tide is expected to hit around 10am on Friday. According to the forecast of the Kolkata Port Trust, the water level may reach up to 5.1m at Sagar, located at the confluence of river Hooghly and the Bay of Bengal.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that at least 20,000 people were to be evacuated from two islands – Sagar and Mousuni – where breaches in the embankments, caused by Cyclone Yaas on May 26, were yet to be repaired. Also Watch | Revealed: What Mamata Banerjee, Rakesh Tikait discussed in meet “We are all prepared. Villagers have been alerted. A few thousand people from some low-lying areas have been evacuated and shifted to relief camps. Most of the vulnerable and damaged portions of the embankments have been strengthened and repaired,” said Bankim Chandra Hazra, Sunderban affairs minister. Cyclone Yaas, which coincided with the perigean spring tide on May 26, inflicted heavy damage to the river embankments in the Sunderbans, flooding several villages. Many are still inundated under a few feet of water. Over and above this, a low pressure has developed in the Bay of Bengal which may trigger rain. Monsoon is also likely to hit anytime. In Kolkata too, the city’s civic body and police are on alert as river water may enter some of the low-lying areas, located along the banks of river Hooghly and the Tolly Canal. At Garden Reach near Kolkata, the tide height may hit 5.38m in the afternoon. “The Kolkata municipal corporation and Kolkata police have taken all steps. School buildings have been kept open so that, if necessary, we can shift some of the slum dwellers from the low-lying areas. Pumps have been kept ready so that water can be drained out. The lock gates have been closed so that river water doesn’t enter when the water level rises,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister. Officials, however, said another perigean tide that coincides with the full moon would hit around June 25 – 26. The height of the water would rise further during that tide. At Sagar, it may reach up to 5.67m. “Such tides are nothing new but this time we are concerned because Cyclone Yaas has left breaches in the embankments through which the water may enter the villages,” said an official of the disaster management department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-moon-tide-to-hit-today-coastal-districts-of-bengal-on-alert-101623385284242.html
11-06-2021||India||IMD issues alert, says heavy to very heavy rain in these states||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall on Friday in several areas of the country as it said a low-pressure area has formed over the northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha as well as Gangetic West Bengal coasts. The weather bureau forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely at a few places with extremely heavy rains at isolated places over Chhattisgarh and Odisha."Heavy to Very Heavy Rainfall at a few places over Konkan & Goa and at isolated places over East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Coastal Andhra Pradesh & Yanam and Heavy Rainfall at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Madhya Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Assam & Meghalaya, Gujarat Region, Madhya Maharashtra (ghat areas), Telangana and Coastal Karnataka," the Met department also said in a bulletin on Thursday.Most of east India and adjoining central India is likely to witness fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated to scattered heavy to very heavy fall from Friday under the influence of the low pressure over the northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts.Also read | Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Himachal, lightning kills 300 sheep in KangraThe IMD said it is likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours and move west-northeastwards across Odisha.Conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into more parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts Chhattisgarh and Odisha, entire West Bengal and Jharkhand and parts of Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh and remaining parts of north Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours, according to the weather bureau."Due to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast in association with the low-pressure area; widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy falls likely to continue over coastal districts of Maharashtra during 11th to 15th June and likely over coastal Karnataka during 12th to 15th June, 2021. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Kerala during 12th to 15th June 2021. Isolated extremely heavy falls also very likely over Konkan during 12th to 15th June 2021," IMD said.Also read | May records 2nd highest rainfall since 1901: IMDUttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Telangana are likely to witness thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40kmph) at isolated places. Lightning at isolated places over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, coastal Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe.The IMD has predicted heatwave conditions at isolated places over west Rajasthan.Strong winds with speed 40-50kmph gusting to 60kmph are very likely over southwest and adjoining west-central Arabian Sea and south, central and north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal coasts, the IMD bulletin said. "Speed reaching 45-55 kmph over Gulf of Mannar and speed reaching 40-50 kmph over North Arabian Sea. Lakshadweep area and along & off Gujarat-Maharashtra Karnataka-Kerala coasts Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-alert-says-heavy-to-very-heavy-rain-in-these-states-101623384504525.html
11-06-2021||NA||Mumbai Rain: Flooding, waterlogging expected as IMD warns of heavy to very heavy rainfall from June 11 to 15||The IMD Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted moderate rainfall in Mumbai and its suburbs with a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Normal life was disrupted after heavy rainfall led to waterlogging in several areas of the city. Mumbai recorded a rainfall of 57.2 mm from Wednesday 5.30 pm to Thursday 5.30 pm, as per the IMD's automatic weather station in Santacruz.Till now, the city has seen 473.4 mm rainfall within 10 days of June, which comprises 93.7% of the monthly average of 505 mm, Hindustan Times reported on Thursday. The minimum temperature was at 23.4 degrees Celsius while the maximum stood at 29.7 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, local train services on the Central Railway (CR) resumed after being suspended for a period of 15 hours. "Services are running smoothly on all four suburban sections of Central Railway including main line, harbour line, trans harbour line and Belapur/Nerul-Kharkopar section on Thursday," an official statement read.Follow all the updates here:Flooding, waterlogging expected as IMD warns of heavy to very heavy rainfall till June 15IMD has projected heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in Ghat (upland) areas of Madhya Maharashtra as well as in Marathwada on Saturday. The weather department also predicted more rain activity on Sunday over Mumbai and neighbouring areas. In the forecast, it predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall from June 11 to June 15. Disruption of traffic, waterlogging, localized landslides, damage to kutcha roads, horticulture and standing crops is expected as result of the showers, IMD said.Raigad in Maharashtra receives low rainfallMaharashtra's Raigad district received low rainfall on Thursday and Friday, with Shrivardhan recording the highest at 105mm in the last 24 hours, PTI reported the officials as saying. The district administration on Wednesday had issued a red alert warning citizens of heavy showers. Apart from certain districts, Maharashtra to get moderate rainfall: IMDExcept for certain districts like Raigad, Mumbai, Thane Ratnagiri, the rest of Maharashtra would receive moderate rains with thunderstorms and lightning during the next two days with varied intensity, as per the IMD forecast, reported PTI.Extremely heavy rainfall 'very likely' in Mumbai on Sunday: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Mumbai and neighbouring areas are "very likely" to receive extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places on Sunday, reported PTI.Started coordinating with NDRF, Coast Guard, Navy: BMCThe BMC also said that the education department has been asked to identify locations for emergency shelters. India's richest municipal corporation said that it has marked residential areas near Mithi river and is ready for evacuation if the situation worsens. BMC has also started coordinating with NDRF, Coast Guard and Navy, the corporation said, reported ANI.BMC alerts disaster management agencies after IMD warningThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said that its has alerted disaster management agencies after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued heavy rain warning for Mumbai on June 13-14. Departments like BEST, education department and health department among others are also asked to remain on stand by, said BMC.Thane: Boy suffers electric shock; part of house collapses due to rainA 12-year-old boy in Maharashtra's Thane suffered an electric shock, while a portion of a house collapsed amid rainfall on Friday, reported PTI.Konkan, Goa to see heavy to extremely heavy rainfall tomorrow: Met centreThe Regional Meteorological Centre in Mumbai has predicted "heavy to very heavy" rain showers at some places and "extremely heavy" rainfall at isolated places in the districts of Konkan and in Goa on Saturday, reported PTI.Maharashtra: 21 districts receive excess rainAround 21 of 36 districts of Maharashtra received 60 per cent excess rains from June 1 to June 10. India Meteorological Department (IMD) cited heavy showers in the first week for the excess rainfall, reported PTI.Colaba receives 23.4mm, Santacruz gets 107.4mm rain in 24 hours: IMDMumbai's Colaba received 23.4 mm rainfall while Santacruz witnessed 107.4 mm rain during the past 24 hours, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).Bombay HC orders judicial inquiry in Malad building collapse incidentThe Bombay high court on Friday ordered judicial inquiry in Malad building collapse matter. The court directed that inquiry to be conducted by a commissioner level officer and preliminary report be submitted by June 24, reported ANI.Operations underway to pump out water, cover 73k manholes: Mumbai mayorMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that 458 pumps have been installed to pump out rainwater, while the work is underway to cover 73,000 manholes. This comes after two women fell into a manhole in Bhandup as rain lashed Mumbai, reported ANI.Bombay High Court takes suo motu cognisance of Malad Building collapseTaking cognizance of the Mayor of Mumbai blaming the Bombay high court for the recent building collapses in the city, the full bench of the HC has said that its order to keep all orders against demolition and eviction of structures was not with regards to dilapidated buildings the like of which collapsed and resulted in the loss of lives. The bench said that civic corporations were at liberty to move the HC whenever there were such structures that needed urgent demolition and not to cover up its own shortcomings by blaming the HC.Moderate to heavy rainfall predicted in Mumbai#MumbaiWeather Forecast for 11/6/21:Moderate to heavy rainfall in the city & suburbs with heavy rainfall at isolated places.High tide:4.32mtr at 12:54Low Tide:1.90mtr at 18:51Avg rainfall in last 24 hrs:CT- 47.69mmES- 69.48 mmWS- 67.35 mm#MyBMCUpdatesWaterlogging in Mahim area Mumbai continues to receive rainfallMaharashtra: Waterlogging in Mahim area of Mumbai as the city continues to receive rainfall pic.twitter.com/T4o3AohMYiLatest visuals from news agency ANI showed Mumbai's Mahim area is submerged as the city continues to receive rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-rains-live-updates-monsoon-weather-forecast-today-101623382795895.html
11-06-2021||India||Covid-19: India reports 91,702 cases, 3403 deaths||Covid-19 tally in India went up over 29.27 million after 91,702 new cases of the coronavirus disease, they remained below 100,000-mark for the fourth day in a row, and 3403 deaths were reported over the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday. India on Thursday reported a record daily rise of 6148 deaths from Covid-19. The country's Covid-19 caseload now stands at 29,274,823 million and the death toll at 363,079, according to the health ministry's dashboard updated at 8am.The record Covid-19 related deaths on Thursday came after Bihar reconciled its figures and put the total number of fatalities caused by the disease at 9429 after verification.The active cases of Covid-19 in the country have come down to 1,121,671 after 61 days and there was a decrease of 46,281 cases in the last 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease was 134,580 and the tally surged to 27,790,073 taking the recovery rate to 94.93 per cent, the data showed. The health ministry said that India's daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new Covid-19 cases for the 29th consecutive day.Also read | CSIR-IICT ties up with Suven Pharma for new anti-Covid drug MolnupiravirAccording to data, the weekly positivity rate stands at 5.14 per cent while the daily positivity rate at 4.49 per cent and remained below 10 per cent for 18th consecutive days now.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said as many as 37,42,42,384 samples were tested for Covid-19 so far and that out of which 20,44,131samples were tested on Thursday. As many as 24,60,85,649 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered across the country so far, the health ministry's dashboard also showed.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe record Covid-19 related deaths on Thursday came after Bihar reconciled its figures and put the total number of fatalities caused by the disease at 9429 after verification.The active cases of Covid-19 in the country have come down to 1,121,671 after 61 days and the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 27,790,073, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-reports-91-702-cases-3403-deaths-101623381258535.html
11-06-2021||India||Numbers reconciled, 1,522 deaths added to Maha Covid toll||The Maharashtra government on Thursday reconciled 1,522 Covid casualties and reported 393 deaths, taking the toll up to 103,748. Raigad reported the highest toll with 61 deaths, followed by Mira-Bhayander and Kolhapur with 33 and 27 casualties, respectively.Of the 1,522 reconciled deaths, 573 are from Thane, 244 from Pune 244, and 86 from Nashik, according to the figures released by the state health department.Amid allegations of delay in updating Covid fatalities, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday that all civil surgeons in government hospitals have been asked to update toll figures within two days, failing which they will face action.Also Read | Clean energy transition could save Maharashtra ₹75K-crore in 10 years: StudyTope made the statement following a news report that claimed 11,617 deaths between September 18, 2020, and May 20, 2021, have yet to be updated on the Covid portal. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas, however, denied the claim. “We are not aware of the basis of the news report,” Vyas said.Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis tweeted the news and said transparency is important. “Covid deaths are not an issue of prestige or disrepute. It is important in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic and thus transparency in figures has its own importance. Do not hide Covid death figures as I have raised the issue time and again,” he posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/numbers-reconciled-1-522-deaths-added-to-maha-covid-toll-101623383484402.html
11-06-2021||India||Rajasthan CM announces financial assistance of ₹5000/- to artists in state||In a tweet, in Hindi, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said, "It has been decided to provide one-time assistance of ₹5,000 to the artists in the state who are facing financial problems due to the unforeseen circumstances arising out of the COVID-19 epidemic. With this decision, about 2,000 artists who are financially weak and needy will get relief."The Rajasthan government on June 7 announced certain relaxations to the COVID-19 lockdown imposed in the state until further orders following a dip in the number of infections and the positivity rate.Though the 'week-end curfew' will remain in force from Friday evening to Monday morning, the shops and commercial establishments will be allowed to open from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. The government and private offices will also function till 4 pm every day with the presence of 50 per cent staff.Meanwhile, Rajasthan logged 1792 fresh cases, 2282 discharges and 30 deaths, as per the Union Health Ministry on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/art-culture/rajasthan-cm-announces-financial-assistance-of-rs-5000-to-artists-in-state-101623382075372.html
11-06-2021||India||Congress to hold ‘symbolic protest’ against fuel price hike today||Congress leaders will be holding “symbolic” protests against the petrol and diesel price hike from various locations across the country today, June 11. The two-hour protest is scheduled to commence at 10am.The party decided to demonstrate after the fuel prices crossed the ₹100-mark in several states. It has instructed all the state units and frontal organisation to hold protest and demand a rollback of the hike.Also Read | Diesel nears ₹100 for first time, sells at ₹99.50/lt in GanganagarIn the national Capital, several senior Congress party leaders, including former Union minister Pawan Bansal, AICC general secretary KC Venugopal, former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, and leader Deepender Singh Hooda will be protesting in front of petrol pumps in Nanak Pura, Feroz Shah Kotla, Panchsheel Marg and Aurobindo Marg respectively. Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken will be protesting at two sites – Rajinder Nagar and Janpath.“Aggrieved by this antipathy and exploitation of the citizens of the country, the Congress party has decided to hold symbolic protests in front of petrol pumps across the country on Friday, June 11, 2021, against the rising prices of petrol and diesel, demanding withdrawal of the hike in fuel prices,” said the party’s general secretary KC Venugopal on Wednesday.The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) will also be launching a five-day “100 not out campaign” today across the state against the Central government over the steep hike in fuel prices. The party will hold demonstrations at 5,000 petrol pumps over the next five days.The unidirectional upward movement in the fule prices since May 4 led to petrol breaching the Rs100-mark in cities across the country, particularly in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-to-hold-symbolic-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-today-101623382043744.html
