12-06-2021||India||HC grants bail to man booked for rape, forced conversion in UP||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has granted bail to a man from Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh in an alleged case of abduction, rape and unlawful religious conversion of a woman by marriage.Justice Rahul Chaturvedi passed the order on Friday while allowing the bail application of Munna Khan.A First Information Report was registered at the Kotwali Nagar police station of Mahoba on March 4 against Khan and his sister in connection with the alleged abduction, rape and conversion of the woman by marriage under sections 3, 5(1) of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020.The FIR said the alleged victim and Khan resided in the same locality of Mahoba. The applicant had taken certain obscene photographs and videos of the victim and used them for blackmail to maintain a physical relationship with her for the last four years, according to the FIR.On December 8 last year, the woman got married to another man and moved to Delhi. According to her, she came back from Delhi to Mahoba on February 8, 2021. Later, the accused abducted her and thereafter, from February 18 till March 2, she resided with Khan at Orai, along with his sister, where he started compelling her to change her religion, the FIR said.The applicant’s counsel argued, “The victim resides in the same locality where the applicant resides. In such circumstances, it is unswallowable proposition that in a small city like Mahoba, she was not aware about the background of the accused.” Advocates Gayatri Rajput and Dinesh Kumar Singh represented the applicant.After hearing the parties concerned, the court observed, “Keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence on record regarding complicity of the accused and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-bail-to-man-booked-for-rape-forced-conversion-in-up-101623521731495.html
12-06-2021||India||Leaders quit Lakshadweep BJP over sedition case against filmmaker||Over a dozen leaders from Lakshadweep have quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday protesting against the sedition charges slapped on island-based filmmaker Aisha Sultana for her remarks against the administrator during a TV debate last week. During a debate in one of the Malayalam channels, Sultana had called the union territory administrator Praful Khoda Patel a bio-weapon launched by the Union government and later island BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji had filed a police compliant against her. The case was registered by Kavaratti Police under Sections 121 A (sedition) and 153 (B) (assertions against national integration) of the Indian Penal Code and she was asked to appear before the police on June 20. The FIR said the accused generated hatred and opposition to the Union government by falsely and with ulterior motives stating that the government deployed a bio-weapon against the people of the island. Sultana is currently settled in Kochi. Peeved leaders said the BJP president’s compliant was “false, unjustified and against the spirit of the island”. “You have filed a false and unjustified compliant against Sultana who pointed out undemocratic actions of the administrator. This will ruin her family and future and this is not in the right spirit of the island,” said one of them, Abdul Hameed Mullipuzha, general secretary of the Kavaratti unit “We can’t go ahead like this. I am resigning from the party,” said B C Cheriya Koya, president of the Andrott unit. Earlier a section of party leaders had resigned and participated in the day-long fast observed by the people on June 7. But the BJP has underplayed these resignations. “Most of them had quit much early. They are raking up their resignations repeatedly to get attention. The party is intact in the island,” said national vice-president of the party A P Abdullah Kutty. Sultana later defended her statement and said she will move the High Court against the police action. “I had used the word bio-weapon in one of the TV debates. I did not attack the country or the Union government. I was referring to some of the decisions of Patel which infuriated local people. Despite popular sentiment, he continues to antagonise people. As a local resident, I have every right to criticise him,” she said taking to Facebook to justify her position. She said the BJP leader who filed a complaint against her had betrayed the land and spirit of islanders. Many film actors and others have extended support to her and deplored the local administration’s move. The Kerala government also said it will provide legal aid to her. The state assembly had passed a resolution unanimously two week ago seeking the recall of the administrator. For over a month residents of the archipelago have been protesting against some of the decisions of the administrator saying they will affect the unique culture and tradition of the group of islands. They are up in arms against three draft regulations that propose to develop the island as a major tourist destination, goonda act and plan to restrict slaughtering of cattle. They also allege these regulations will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by forests and 95% of its Muslim population belong to the protected scheduled tribe category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-quit-lakshadweep-bjp-over-sedition-case-against-filmmaker-101623521552900.html
12-06-2021||India||Djoke’s on Rafa-is-GOAT camp after epic clash of titans on clay||MUMBAI The 2021 Roland Garros was expected to see a new chapter in modern tennis’ long-lasting GOAT (greatest of all time) debate. Spain’s Rafael Nadal was to turn up in Paris, get on a red-hot run on the red clay, maybe, just maybe, drop a set or two in the process but eventually—like he has done for the four consecutive years—win a 14th title. It’s that routine. That would have put Nadal above Switzerland’s Roger Federer in the Grand Slam men’s singles record list of 20 and, statistically, at least, given the Nadal-is-GOAT camp something to crow (or bleat) about. As it turns out, there’s been a twist in the tale, and it could well end up being a new chapter -- only, not what was scripted. Blame it on the third cog of the so-called Big Three of tennis (58 slam titles between them since 2003 when Federer won his first) decided to do a little history writing of his own. On a Friday evening that culminated into the night , and across four pulsating sets of arguably the best tennis seen in years, Novak Djokovic did what no other mortal has ever managed to or even come close to doing at what has become the Spaniard’s own patch of clay in Paris: beat Nadal in the semi-finals; beat Nadal after he took the first set; beat Nadal a second time at the Roland Garros after also being the last man to do so in 2015. The world No. 1’s titanic triumph booked him a spot in the French Open final for a second straight year; he will take on a first-time slam finalist and in-form Greek Stefanos Tsitsipas. Should the Serb cross the line on Sunday, he will add a 19th title to his Grand Slam tally, one below Federer and Nadal in the record list.The 34-year-old Djokovic, the youngest of the trio (Nadal is 35 and Federer, 39), could also become the first player in the Open Era to own will all four Grand Slam titles at least twice, a feat Nadal (he has won the Australian only once, in 2009) and Federer (French Open; 2009) haven’t achieved so far. The Australian Open winner could even be looking at a slam sweep this year, which would give him 21 Majors and the sole ownership at the top of the chart. Djokovic is the defending champion at Wimbledon and usually ruthless on hard courts on which the year-ending US Open is played, so it’s not beyond the realm of possibility. Still, irrespective of the outcome on Sunday, Djokovic’s tactical, physical and mental dismantling of the 13-time French Open champion has shown the world how good he really is, and also necessitated some recalibration of all that GOAT talk.For one, there is his superior head-to-head record against Federer (27-23) and Nadal (30-28), or his record stranglehold on the top spot of the world rankings. Djokovic has bossed over his two biggest rivals even on their most dominant surfaces. Djokovic has beaten Nadal twice at the French Open, double the count of the only other player to do so (kudos, Robin Soderling). Against eight-time champion Federer at the Wimbledon, Djokovic has a 3-1 win-loss record. Contrast that to the record of Nadal (0-2) and Federer (1-4) against Djokovic at his most productive Slam, the Australian Open, where he is a nine-time champion.Then, there is his recent form. Since the 2015 season when a two-way marathon suddenly became a three-way sprint with Djokovic winning three of the four slams, the Serb has allowed neither the Spaniard nor the Swiss to get better of him on tennis’ most important stages. Since then, Djokovic has met Nadal four times in the slams, and won thrice, and Federer, five times, and won all. Of the last 10 Grand Slams, Djokovic has won six to Nadal’s three and Federer’s zero. Believers in the church of Nole (as Djokovic is called by family and friends) say that could have been seven, had Djokovic, on a 29-match unbeaten streak, not been defaulted from the US Open fourth round last year for accidentally hitting a line judge with the ball.That was an aberration, as was his only defeat in a slam since the start of last year, a straight-sets thrashing by Nadal in the final of the 2020 French Open. Like his spectacular turnaround against the same opponent on the same surface on Friday showed, Djokovic is in no mood to slow down as he nears the top. “Each time you step on court with him (Nadal), you know that you have to climb Mount Everest to win against this guy here,” Djokovic summed up his victory.On Friday, in a match that history may well remember as the best four-setter ever played -- some passages of play in the second and third sets were breathtaking -- he sprinted up the mountain. If he wins on Sunday night, he can plant the flag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/djokes-on-rafa-is-goat-camp-after-epic-clash-of-titans-on-clay-101623521012047.html
12-06-2021||India||One Earth, one health, PM Modi says at G7; seeks support for TRIPS waiver||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday participated in the outreach sessions of the UK-hosted G7 virtual summit in Cornwall in the United Kingdom and talked about the mantra of one Earth, one waiver, government sources said. German Chancellor Angela Merkel specifically referred to PM's mantra and conveyed strong support, reports said. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison referred to his discussions with PM Modi earlier about TRIPS waiver and conveyed strong support of Australia.Calling for global unity, leadership, and solidarity to prevent future pandemics, PM Modi in his G7 address emphasised the special responsibility of democratic and transparent societies in this regard. Prime Minister committed India's support for collective endeavours to improve global health governance. He sought the G7's support for the proposal moved at the WTO by India and South Africa, for a TRIPS waiver on Covid-related technologies.Also Read | Internet shut off during G7 session as leaders debate over China: ReportPM Modi in his address highlighted India's ‘whole of society’ approach to fight the pandemic, synergising the efforts of all levels of the government, industry and civil society. He also explained India’s successful use of open source digital tools for contact tracing and vaccine management, and conveyed India's willingness to share its experience and expertise with other developing countries.The G7 leaders on Saturday debated how strongly they should respond to China which led to serious differences among the world leaders and the internet of the room was shut off, reports said.PM Modi's other two sessions in the G7 summit are scheduled for June 13. The theme was Building Back Stronger, Building Back Together and Building Back Greener.On May 11, it was announced that PM Modi will not attend the G7 Summit in person, as the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak. The UK supported PM Modi's decision and said all efforts would be taken to ensure his participation in the Summit is seamless, "as if he were actually in the room".UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson had invited PM Modi to attend the outreach component of the G7 Summit being held in Cornwall in the UK from 11-13 June (guest countries' component starts on 12 June) along with Australia, Republic of Korea and South Africa.India first participated in the Outreach Session of the G7 Summit in 2003. This is the second time that the Indian Prime Minister will be participating in the G7 meet. India had been invited by the G7 French presidency in 2019 to the summit as a goodwill partner and the PM participated in these sessions on climate, biodiversity on oceans as well as on digital transformation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-earth-one-health-pm-modi-says-at-g7-australia-supports-trips-waiver-101623508430624.html
12-06-2021||India||Orange alert for Mumbai, Konkan coast till June 15||Mumbai and the entire Konkan coast in Maharashtra are likely to see heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated locations on Sunday and Monday. Raigad and Ratnagiri districts have been placed under a red category storm alert for Sunday and Monday, indicating a higher chance of severe weather, while Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Sindhudurg districts have been placed under an orange category storm warning.Earlier on Saturday, the IMD had issued a red alert for Mumbai and the entire Konkan region, but this was later downgraded to an orange category alert for all districts except Ratnagiri and Raigad, as the “heavy rainfall belt has moved southwards”, IMD officials clarified. However, with the formation of a low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal and cyclonic circulations in the Arabian Sea facilitating strong westerly winds, an active rainfall spell is expected over the Konkan coast for at least the next four to five days, IMD officials said. Mumbai has now recorded a total of 706.1mm of rain (as of 5:30 pm on Saturday) -- as against the monthly average rainfall of 505 mm -- between June 1 and June 12. This includes rainfall accumulation from pre-monsoon showers between June 1 and June 8. In the 24 hours ending 8:30am on Saturday, Mumbai had received 107mm of rainfall, as per the automatic weather station at Santacruz. In the nine hours ending 5:30 pm, the Santacruz observatory recorded 64.8 mm rain.Mumbai’s only operational doppler radar at Colaba, meanwhile, was revived after over three weeks of inoperation on Saturday. The radar had been defunct since May 16, a day before Cyclone Tauktae passed the city on its way to Gujarat. Dr MN Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, had told HT on Friday that it was likely to remain defunct for at least two months. Despite repeated requests, IMD officials did not clarify the reason for the radar’s speedy repair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orange-alert-for-mumbai-konkan-coast-till-june-15-101623518492030.html
12-06-2021||India||Kerala govt orders SIT probe into axing of protected trees||The Kerala government on Saturday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) under Additional Director General of Police S Sreejith to investigate the alleged smuggling of centuries old rosewood and teakwood from Wayanad and other districts after misusing a government order that allowed cutting of trees on revenue land allotted to farmers before 1964. The SIT will have officials from forest, vigilance, revenue departments and the crime branch, the government said. The rampant felling of trees invited enough embarrassment for the government and the opposition has been planning to move the high court for a central agency probe. After the Muttil (Wayanad) incident came to light in which 101 rosewood trees, some of them as old as 500 years, were smuggled out many other districts also reported similar cases. In Thrissur, officials have foiled an attempt to burn stumps of cut teakwood trees to destroy evidence on Friday night. Green activists said trees worth more than ₹500 crore were plundered using a weird government order and they suspect a nexus between politicians, officials and the timber mafia behind this. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said it was a serious issue and the government will not spare anyone found guilty. The government had admitted in the high court last week that a big mafia ring was involved and recovered trees were the tip of the iceberg. Wood from trees worth ₹50 crore have been seized so far. In October 2020, the state revenue department had issued an order allowing felling of protected trees like rosewood and teak grown by farmers in the assigned land. Under the guise of this order, wood worth crores of rupees were smuggled out from private and forest land. Poor farmers were given paltry amounts after they were showed the government order by timber mafia. Conservationists said without the consent of the political leadership principal secretary (revenue) A Jayathilak should not have issued such a controversial order. Sniffing trouble, Wayanad district collect Dr Adeela Abdullah had alerted her superiors last October but nobody took notice. On the other hand, Divisional Forest Officer (Flying Squad) P Dhanesh Kumar who played a key role in unearthing the alleged smuggling was reinstated in the probe team after a huge outrage. After the case was discovered, he was shifted to an insignificant post and forest minister A K Saseendran admitted on Friday that he was not aware of the abrupt transfer of the officer. A daring official, he survived two attempts on his life. He was the first to seize a truckload of rosewood in February but there were many attempts to silence him. The bigger picture of the alleged plunder came to light two weeks ago after a truckload of wood was seized from Ernakulam. Kumar was instrumental in reclaiming over 7,500 acres of forest land. The Wildlife Protection Society of India had honoured him in 2006 for tiger protection and later he received the chief minister’s award in 2007 for busting an inter-state sandalwood gang. Two plants in the Western Ghats have been named after him-- Rotala Dhaneshiana and Syzygium Dhaneshia. “I can’t talk about the case. But I will be on the forefront to save forest and wildlife,” is all he had to say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-orders-sit-probe-into-axing-of-protected-trees-101623516872054.html
12-06-2021||India||PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti condemns Sopore attack, says guns won’t resolve any issues||President of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday condemned the attack on security forces by armed militants earlier in the day. She said that such attacks will not resolve the issues in Jammu and Kashmir and said that only dialogue would help.“We condemn such attacks. They will not resolve the issue of Jammu and Kashmir,” news agency PTI quoted Mufti as saying.She also said that such attacks defamed the people of Kashmir and also said that it would result in more force being used in the region. “Neither New Delhi's guns, nor the guns picked up by the youth here, will resolve the issue. In fact, it complicates the issue. Such attacks defame the people of Kashmir and only result in more force being used here in the name of terrorism. I believe dialogue is the solution to every issue,” the former chief minister of erstwhile J&K further said.Meanwhile Mufti’s party, the PDP, also condemned the attacks. “Strongly condemn the heinous attack in Sopore which has consumed 5 lives. Our souls have been scarred for decades now by such wanton acts of violence. Mutilated bodies, ravaged homes and murder of dreams-- that's the trail attacks like these leave behind,” the party tweeted via its official handle.Earlier in the day, armed militants opened fire on security forces in Kashmir’s Sopore town, killing two policemen and two civilians. Also, three others including two policemen, were also injured in the attack.Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said that the militants fired at a police party deployed for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour. He also said that an operation has been launched to nab the culprits.“The forces have launched an operation in the area and we are hopeful that we will soon bring to justice the perpetrators of the crime... According to our information, the LeT is involved and we have almost identified the militants in the attack, but we will not share their details yet,” news agency PTI quoted DGP Singh as saying.Vice President of the Jammu Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) Omar Abdullah also condemned the attack and expressed his condolences for the families of those who lost their lives. “Terrible news coming in from Sopore. Such attacks must be condemned without reservation. Prayers for the injured & condolences to the families of the deceased,” he tweeted. His party, the JKNC, too said that “JKNC unequivocally condemns the killing of two cops and a civilian in Sopore today and prays that the bereaved families find enough strength to bear the irreparable loss. Government must ensure a stop to such brutal loss of lives,” in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-leader-mehbooba-mufti-condemns-sopore-attack-says-guns-won-t-resolve-any-issues-101623515038189.html
12-06-2021||India||Karnataka govt eases Covid curbs on economic, other activities. All you need to know||Karnataka government on Saturday announced phased relaxations of economic and other activities from 6am of June 14 to 6am of June 21, including in Bengaluru. However, the weekend curfew would be in force from 7pm on June 18 to 5am on June 21. Night curfew would also be in force each night on remaining days between 7pm to 5am during the aforementioned period, the state government said."Wherein night curfew and weekend curfew are proposed to be imposed," the government order read.Also read: Siddaramaiah drops hints of contesting 2023 Karnataka assembly polls from BadamiThis announcement comes after the unlock-related measures announced by chief minister B S Yeddiyurappa for 20 districts including Bengaluru city."From 14 June, these 11 districts will have some relaxation like the opening of essential shops," Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Thursday, reported Mint.Districts like Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Davanagere, Mysore, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru rural, Mandya, Belagavi and Kodagu that have Covid-19 positivity rate above 15 per cent will continue to be under complete lockdown will June 21, he said.All you need to know:As restrictions are being eased in the state, except in 11 districts, the chief minister said all industries are allowed to function with 50 per cent staff strength. However, garment industries can operate with 30 per cent staff, reported Mint.Shops dealing with essential goods can operate till 2pm. All construction activities are permitted and shops selling goods required for construction like steel, cement etc can also open, the chief minister said.Street vendors can do their business from 6am to 2pm and autos and taxis can ply with a maximum of two passengers. Parks are also allowed to open but only from 5am to 10am, he said, Mint reported.Also read : Karnataka extends lockdown in 11 districts till June 21On public transport and government offices operations, the chief minister said buses are not allowed to operate, and government offices can function with 50 per cent strength.Hotels and restaurants will continue with parcel services and bars can function only for takeaways till 2pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-eases-covid-curbs-on-economic-other-activities-all-you-need-to-know-101623514204285.html
12-06-2021||India||No evidence of severe illness among children in third wave: Report||The Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force in a report said that there appears to be no substantial evidence that a probable third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will cause greater illness in children.“Based on the data available, there appears to be no substantial evidence to suggest that children would be more affected or would have greater illness severity due to Covid-19 infection in the anticipated third wave. Studies also indicate that children have milder disease, better prognosis, and low mortality in comparison to adults,” the report accessed by news agency PTI said.“Most children with Covid-19 are asymptomatic, and amongst those symptomatic mild infections are predominant. Most children have a fever with respiratory symptoms, and often present with gastrointestinal symptoms (such as diarrhoea, vomiting, pain in the abdomen) and atypical manifestation compared to adults. The proportion of symptomatic children increases as age increases as does the severity in such age groups,” the report further added.It also pointed out that the infection’s symptomatology in Indian children is globally comparable. The report said data of approximately 2,600 hospitalised children, below the age of 10 years (which excluded neonates) from 10 public and private hospitals in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra and the Delhi-NCR region were taken for collection and analysis.The report said that mortality rates among these surveyed children who were hospitalised due to Covid-19 was 2.4 per cent and about 40% of those children had died suffering from comorbidities. “Nine per cent of all hospitalised COVID-19 positive children presented with severe illness, under 10 years of age. The above observations were similar during the two surges of Covid-19 infections India has experienced,” the report highlighted.Sheffali Gulati, Sushil K Kabra and Rakesh Lodha, three doctors from AIIMS also contributed to the report. Kabra said that less than 5% will require hospitalisation and the mortality rate among them is 2%.“Say out of 1 lakh, 500 children get hospitalised and 2% of deaths are reported among them. So in one lakh, the mortality of just one or two children is seen. In children, as such the disease is less severe,” Kabra was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“Very low proportion requires hospitalisation and a very small proportion of mortality is reported. Mortality is also contributed by underlying diseases in the form of comorbidities like diabetes, cancer, anaemia or severe malnutrition. In normal children, mortality is extremely rare,” he further added.The report also highlighted that among older teens mortality rates are low but mortality appeared to be marginally higher for obese teens compared to those who are not obese.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-of-severe-illness-among-children-in-third-wave-report-101623514447726.html
12-06-2021||India||Produced over 30 crore Covid vaccine doses, says Adar Poonawalla as company completes 55 years||Pune's Serum Institute of India completed 55 years on June 12 and CEO Adar Poonawalla shared a photo of father Cyrus Poonawalla laying the foundation stone of the company on June 12, 1966. In its 55 years of existence, the company has supplied billions of doses of vaccines to 171 countries and saved countless lives. "It is with this ethos in mind we have produced over 300 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to date," Poonawalla wrote. Ensuring affordability has always been Serum Institute of India's focus, Poonawalla said. The price of one Covishield dose at private hospitals in India has been capped at ₹780.Today @SerumInstIndia completes 55 years of existence, supplying billions of doses to 171 countries, saving countless lives, and always ensuring affordability. It is with this ethos in mind we have produced over 300 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to date. pic.twitter.com/s2kM0CFINg"Cyrus Poonawalla with his father, Soli Poonawalla, and mother, Gool Poonawalla at the foundation stone ceremony on June 12, 1966, at 212, Hadapsar, Serum Institute of India," the caption in one of the photos read.The Pune-based vaccine maker has one of the key components of India's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, as the company tied up with AstraZeneca to mass-produce its vaccine, developed in association with Oxford University, called Covishield in India. Apart from catering to India's demand, Serum is the top supplier of vaccines to COVAX, the vaccine alliance of the World Health Organization.While the pandemic has shot the company and its CEO Adar Poonawalla to the global spotlight, Serum has been supplying measles and polio vaccines. Adar Poonawalla has been in the centre of a controversy after he claimed that he was under immense pressure to deliver Covid vaccines and received threatening calls from powerful people. The Centre has also accorded Y category security to Poonawalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/produced-over-30-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-says-adar-poonawalla-as-company-completes-55-years-101623512612164.html
12-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covaxin's Phase 3 trial data to be public soon, says Bharat Biotech and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Final analysis to be public soon’: Bharat Biotech on Phase III trial dataBharat Biotech on Saturday said that the scientific standards and commitment of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine are transparent and highlighted that the company has so far released nine research studies on its safety and efficacy. Read more'He will consistently hit little footmarks size of roti': Warner backs Jadeja to be part of India XI at WTC finalThe stage is set for an epic encounter between India and New Zealand in the World Test Championship final that will be played in Southampton starting from June 18th. Read moreBhuvan Bam loses parents to Covid-19: 'Will have to learn to live again. Don't want to'Bhuvan Bam has penned a heartbreaking note to mourn the death of his parents. The Indian YouTuber took to Instagram on Saturday and said that his mother and father died due to Covid-19-related complications. Read moreMicrosoft to turn your TV into Xbox! Streaming stick, app coming and it won't cost a bombEvery kid, at one time or the other, must have coveted the Microsoft Xbox. However, not everyone could afford it - it was always too pricey. Read moreLeopard enters Nashik home, takes away pet dog. Chilling moment capturedA frightening moment involving a leopard and a pet dog has now made it way online and left people scared. The video shows the leopard entering a house to snatch away the pet dog sleeping outside. Read moreChina Vs US over Dalai Lama’s successor & India’s stand: All you need to knowChina recently issued a white paper demanding that the next Dalai Lama be chosen with the approval of the Chinese government, citing ancient traditions. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covaxin-s-phase-3-trial-data-to-be-public-soon-says-bharat-biotech-and-all-the-latest-news-101623510917750.html
12-06-2021||India||Day after Mukul Roy’s return, BJP’s Rajib Banerjee meets TMC leader||Former Bengal minister Rajib Banerjee, who sided with the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the crucial assembly polls, met Trinamool Congress’ state general secretary Kunal Ghosh at the latter’s residence on Saturday. Since the meeting took place a day after BJP’s national vice president Mukul Roy, who left TMC to join the BJP in 2017, returned to the TMC on Friday, it fuelled speculations that Banerjee too may return to the Trinamool Congress. Both Ghosh and Banerjee, however, said that it was a courtesy visit, and no political discussions were held. “I came to meet a relative, who stays nearby. Kunal Ghosh is like my brother and friend. I called him and as he was at home, I came to meet him. We didn’t have any political discussions,” said Banerjee. The fact that Banerjee, a few days ago, had criticized the BJP in a social media post after the party’s debacle in the recently held assembly polls also added to the speculation. The TMC had won 213 seats while the BJP had won 77. “I still stick to my point. It is not right to threaten a party with President’s Rule and try to play on communal lines, when the party has returned to power with a thumping victory. I have reservations and will oppose it,” said Banerjee. Ghosh too said it was a courtesy visit and that Banerjee had come to meet him as he had come to meet an ailing relative who stays nearby. “It was just a courtesy meet. Earlier too he had come to meet me at my house,” said Ghosh. The BJP, however, tried to downplay the event saying that the party was more concerned with party workers who are coming under attack every day. “We don’t have time for all these things – who met whom and whether that person had tea with sugar. Our workers are under attack every day. Post poll violence is going on and we are more concerned with that,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s spokesperson in the state. Some turncoats, who left the TMC and BJP ahead of the polls, have openly said that they want to return to the party and have even sent apologies to the TMC chief, while a few others have ‘sent feelers’ to TMC leaders by criticizing the BJP. TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, however, made it clear on Friday that the party is not going to accept all the turncoats who are willing to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-mukul-roy-s-return-bjp-s-rajib-banerjee-meets-tmc-leader-101623511291527.html
12-06-2021||India||IIT Kanpur professor Mukesh Sharma appointed honorary member of WHO’s Technical Advisory Group||Mukesh Sharma, a faculty at IIT Kanpur, has been appointed as an honorary member of World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Global Air Pollution and Health - Technical Advisory Group (GAPH-TAG), news agency PTI reported on Saturday, citing a communique released by IIT Kanpur.Sharma, associated with the civil engineering department at IIT Kanpur and an air quality expert, has melded rigorous research with policy engagement, the communique further said.“Members of the Technical Advisory Group are selected across the globe and appointed by the Director-General, WHO,” PTI quoted from the official announcement made by IIT Kanpur. Mukesh Sharma has been associated with WHO, Geneva, International Council for Clean Transport, Clean Air Asia United National Environmental Program, Bangkok, and the World Bank. He will now be part of the WHO advisory group on interventions and policies for air pollution control in 194 member states, the announcement also said.The Technical Advisory Group is an advisory body to provide technical guidance and inputs to support the WHO’s efforts and work in the fields of air pollution and health issues. It also helps with how member countries could achieve the sustainable development goals (SDG) related to air pollution and health such as SDGs 3.9.1, 7.1.2 and 11.6.2. The United Nations adopted the SDGs in 2015 as an universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity for the people and the planet.IIT Kanpur’s Director Abhay Karandikar congratulated Sharma on his appointment. “Prof. Mukesh Sharma @IITKanpur has been appointed as an honorary member of the @WHO Global Air Pollution & Health - Technical Advisory Group (GAPH-TAG). Members of TAGare selected & appointed by the Director-General, WHO. Congratulations Prof. Mukesh!” he tweeted, earlier on June 11.“WHO-TAG is an advisory body to WHO providing technical guidance and inputs to support WHO’s efforts and work in air pollution and health issues, including how member countries can achieve Sustainable Development Goals,” he said in a subsequent tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-kanpur-professor-mukesh-sharma-appointed-honorary-member-of-who-technical-advisory-group-101623508927097.html
12-06-2021||India||‘Final analysis to be public soon’: Bharat Biotech on Phase III trial data||Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Bharat Biotech on Saturday said that the scientific standards and commitment of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine are transparent and highlighted that the company has so far released nine research studies on its safety and efficacy.“Covaxin's scientific standards+commitment is transparent. Academic journals, peer reviewers, NIV-ICMR-BB researchers -scientists, 9 studies and data published,” co-founder of Bharat Biotech and joint MD Suchitra Ella said in a tweet.Bharat Biotech also said that the complete data of Phase I and Phase II trials of Covaxin along with the partial data for Phase III trials have been scrutinised by the regulatory authorities.“In a timely approach to peer review, the company has already published as many as nine research studies on the safety and efficacy of Covaxin in five globally reputed peer-reviewed journals in a span of just twelve months,” Bharat Biotech in a statement.“Currently, data from both efficacy and safety follow-up of Covaxin's Phase III trial is being analysed and compiled. Upholding its uncompromising commitment to integrity, the company will make Phase III trials data from the final analysis public soon,” it said.“It is the only product to have any data on emerging variants. It is also the first and only COVID-19 vaccine to have efficacy data in Indian populations,” it further added. The ICMR-NIV recently published a study where it found that the Covaxin has been effective in neutralising the Delta and Alpha variants of Covid-19.The pharmaceutical company pointed out that it has published full data from studies on Covaxin's neutralisation of variants at bioRxiv, Clinical Infectious Diseases, and Journal of Travel Medicine. It also said that studies on Covaxin's Phase I and Phase II clinical trials have been published by the peer-reviewed journal, The Lancet - Infectious Diseases and Cellpress has also published its three preclinical studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-analysis-to-be-public-soon-bharat-biotech-on-phase-iii-trial-data-101623507797880.html
12-06-2021||India||GST on Remdesivir, medical oxygen, Covid-19 essentials slashed till Sept 30||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Saturday temporarily removed GST on two medicines, slashed tax rates on 15 other items such as drugs, medical grade oxygen and testing kits to 5%, and reduced the levy on ambulances to 12% for a little over three-and-a-half months in order to provide relief to people fighting the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.GST on Amphotericin B and Tocilizumab has been slashed from 5% to zero, while taxes on Remdesivir and anti-coagulants like Heparin have been reduced from 12% to 5%. A flat GST rate of 5% is kept for all such drugs that would be recommended by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and the department of pharmaceuticals (DoP) for Covid-19 treatment.After the 44the meeting of the council, its chairperson and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the levy of 5% GST on Covid-19 vaccines would continue as 75% vaccines are available to people free of cost in government hospitals even as the tax burden would be borne by the Central government.“These rates will be valid till September as against August-end [that was] recommended by the GoM,” she said. According to the Union finance minister, the GST Council would review the situation later and take a decision on extending the exemption period further. GST Council is chaired by Sitharaman and finance ministers of states are its members.The 43rd meeting of the council on May 28 had decided to form a group of ministers (GoM) to consider tax-waivers on individual Covid-19 essentials such as vaccines, testing kits, drugs, medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, alcohol-based sanitizer and hand wash. A day later, Sitharaman constituted an eight-member ministerial panel under the convener-ship of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma, which submitted its recommendations to the council on June 6.In order to bring down costs on oxygen, oxygen generation equipment and related medical devices, the council reduced GST these items from 12% to 5%. They are medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator, oxygen generator (including personal imports), ventilators, ventilator masks, canula and helmet, BiPAP machine and high flow nasal canula (HFNC) device.GST rates on Covid-19 testing kits and specified inflammatory diagnostic kits -- D-Dimer, IL-6, Ferritin and LDH – have also been brought down from 12% to 5%.Other Covid-19 related relief materials have been also made cheaper. While GST on pulse oximeters (including personal imports) has been reduced from 12% to 5%, taxes on hand sanitizer, temperature check equipment, and gas, electric and other types of furnaces for crematorium, including their installation have been slashed from 18% to 5%. Relief is also given on purchase of ambulances by reducing GST on them from 28% to 12%.MS Mani, senior director at Deloitte India said that the shorter duration of exemptions would make difficult for businesses to plan new investments and expand supply chains. “Businesses engaged in their manufacture and trading would hope that the period is extended beyond 30th September,” he said.Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY said that the council’s decision to bring down the GST rates on key Covid-19 relief items would “reduce the cost of such critical Covid-19 items for the end users”.The GoM was constituted after several states demanded GST waiver on Covid-19 essentials. Other members of the GoM were Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Goa transport minister Mauvin Godinho, Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari, Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao and UP finance minister Suresh Kr Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-on-remdesivir-medical-oxygen-covid-19-essentials-slashed-till-sept-30-101623507811335.html
12-06-2021||India||India did not see 5-7 times excess Covid-19 deaths. Govt explains why||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday informed that States and Union Territories record Covid-19 deaths as per guidance issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).In an official release, the ministry slammed a renowned international magazine for publishing an article that claimed that "India has suffered perhaps five to seven times 'excess deaths' than the official number of Covid-19 fatalities".The union health ministry said that the article was speculative article, is without any basis and seems to be misinformed.It added that the unsound analysis of the said article is based on the extrapolation of data without any epidemiological evidence.Studies which are used by the magazine as an estimate of excess mortality are not validated tools for determining the mortality rate of any country or region, the government said."The so-called "evidence" cited by the magazine is a study supposedly done by Christopher Laffler of Virginia Commonwealth University. An internet search of research studies in scientific databases such as Pubmed, Research Gate, etc., did not locate this study and the detailed methodology of this study has not been provided by the magazine."Another evidence given is the study done in Telangana based on insurance claims. Again, there is no peer-reviewed scientific data available on such a study," the statement said."Two other studies relied upon are those done by Psephology groups namely "Prashnam" and "C-Voter" who are well versed in conducting, predicting and analyzing poll results. They were never ever associated with public health research. Even in their own area of work of psephology, their methodologies for predicting poll results have been wide off the mark many times," it said.By their own submission, the magazine states that "such estimates have been extrapolated from patchy and often unreliable local government data, from company records and from analyses of such things as obituaries", the statement saidStating that it has been transparent in its approach to Covid data management, the government said that as early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency in the number of deaths being reported, the ICMR issued 'Guidance for the appropriate recording of COVID-19 related deaths in India' for correct recording of all deaths as per ICD-10 codes recommended by World Health Organisation (WHO) for mortality coding.States and UTs have been urged through formal communications, multiple video conferences and through the deployment of Central teams for correct recording of deaths in accordance with laid down guidelines.Union Health Ministry said that it has also regularly emphasized the need for a robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis.States consistently reporting a lower number of daily deaths was told to re-check their data. A case in point is the Union Government writing to the State of Bihar to provide a detailed date and district-wise break-up of the reconciled number of deaths to the Union Health Ministry.As per the ministry's release, it's a well-known fact that there shall always be differences in mortality recorded during a profound and prolonged public health crisis such as Covid pandemic and well-conducted research studies on excess mortalities, usually done after the event when data on mortalities are available from reliable sources. The methodologies for such studies are well established, the data sources are defined as also the valid assumptions for computing mortality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-did-not-see-5-7-times-excess-covid-19-deaths-govt-explains-why-101623503331803.html
12-06-2021||India||GST rates slashed on various Covid-related items: Full list||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council, under the leadership of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, decided to reduce the rate of GST charged on medicine, equipment, and vaccines that are being used all over the country to strengthen the ongoing fight against Covid-19. These new tax rates are applicable till September 30, 2021.Listed below are the key decisions that were taken during the 44th GST Council meeting on Saturday:For Covid-19 related relief materialsPulse oximeters, hand sanitisers, temperature check equipment, and gas, electric, and other crematoriums will attract a 5 per cent tax. The present GST rate on oximeters is 12%; hand sanitisers, temperature checking equipment, crematoriums used to charge 18%. The GST rate levied on the purchase of ambulances has also been brought down from a whopping 28% to 12%.For medicinesNo GST will be levied on Tocilizumab and Amphotericin-B, two key drugs needed to treat mucormycosis or black fungus. Previously, a 5% tax was levied on them.For anticoagulants like Heparin, Remdisivir, and any other drug that might be recommended in the future by the Union ministry of health and family welfare for treatment of Covid-19, a GST rate of 5% will be applicable. Drugs like Heparin and Remdesivir have so far attracted a 12% tax rate.Also Read: GST Council meet: No tax on Black Fungus medicineTax on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, ventilator masks, canulas, helmets, BiPAP machines and high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) devices has been cut to 5% from the existing 12%.For Covid-19 testing kits and machinesGST rate on Covid-19 testing kits and specified inflammatory diagnostic kits has been slashed from 12% to 5%.For Covid-19 vaccinesSitharaman said Covid-19 vaccines will continue to attract 5% GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-rates-slashed-on-various-covid-related-items-full-list-101623503766820.html
12-06-2021||India||Twitter sends notices to cartoonist Manjul, other users||Unnamed law enforcement agencies have asked Twitter to take down certain tweets of popular cartoonist Manjul, fact-checking website Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair and others, over alleged violation of law. Manjul, Zubair and retired IAS officer Surya Pratap Singh have shared screenshots of the notice sent by the microblogging platform on their Twitter handles over the last few days. Sources said the Ministry of Electronics and IT was not involved in sending these legal requests to Twitter. It wasn't clear which agencies have flagged these tweets by these users and for what violations. Emails sent to Twitter did not elicit a response. Meanwhile, the screenshot shared by Manjul showed Twitter as saying: "In the interest of transparency, we are writing to inform you that Twitter has received a request from Indian law enforcement regarding your Twitter account @MANJULtoons, that claims the ... content violates the law(s) of India". It further stated that Twitter has “not taken any action on the reported content at this time as a result of this request”. Twitter, in its notice, said it is the company's policy to notify users if it receives a legal request from an authorised entity (such as law enforcement or a government agency) to remove content from their account. Twitter further informed the account holders that while the platform is unable to provide legal advice, "we want you to have an opportunity to evaluate the request and, if you wish, take appropriate action to protect your interests". "This may include seeking legal counsel and challenging the request in court, contacting relevant civil society organisations, voluntarily deleting the content (if applicable), or finding some other resolution," Twitter added. Mohammed Zubair and Surya Pratap Singh also shared screenshots with similarly worded notices from Twitter on their own accounts. These three users each have lakhs of followers on the platform. Twitter has had several faceoffs with the Indian government over the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when it tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media". Twitter has also been facing heat for delay in complying with the IT rules that mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence and make them more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. Social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography under the new rules. Under the rules, significant social media intermediaries -- those with over 50 lakh users -- are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents in India. Earlier this week, Twitter assured the Indian government that it is in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of chief compliance officer as required under the new IT rules, and that it will submit additional details within a week. Twitter has also stated that India will be one of the first countries in which it pilots a new approach of building an in-market team to "locally tailor" its global product to the needs of the region. As part of its strategy, the company is scouting for a 'Staff Designer', who will help the platform establish a bespoke product strategy for Twitter in India and execute against it with support from a dedicated local team. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-sends-notices-to-cartoonist-manjul-other-users-101623503346799.html
12-06-2021||India||Choksi a fugitive from justice, CBI tells Dominican court||Mehul Choksi is a fugitive from justice, the chief conspirator and main beneficiary of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam, and is yet to join investigations despite repeated summons, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has said in its affidavit filed in Dominica’s high court of justice. The agency called Choksi’s “gratuitous offer” of being interviewed at the place of his choice outside India meaningless, citing large evidence, oral and documentary, with which he needs to be confronted.The affidavit accuses Choksi of misleading courts in Dominica by claiming there are no proceedings against him in India. He is fully aware of proceedings in India and has even appointed lawyers there, says the affidavit, a copy of which HT has seen. The affidavit, filed by deputy inspector general Sharda Raut, explains the procedures of investigations and criminal trials in India. It says Choksi, according to the Criminal Procedure Code, cannot be tried in absentia. It is only after an accused is produced in court or appears in court that charges can be framed for a trial to begin. Raut flew to Dominica on May 28 along with other officers in a special jet with documents to back India attempts for Choksi’s deportation from Dominica. Choksi went missing from Antigua and Barbuda, where he is a citizen, on May 23. He was found in Dominica the next day and has since been charged with illegal entry into the Caribbean country. Choksi’s lawyers, Vijay Aggarwal, Wayne Marsh, and his wife, Priti Choksi, have alleged he was abducted and taken to Dominica. HT on Saturday reported about two affidavits India has filed in the Dominica court detailing serious fraud charges against Choksi and proof that he continues to be an Indian citizen. Choksi’s lawyers have maintained he has given up his Indian citizenship and hence cannot be deported.The Dominica court refused to grant Choksi bail on Friday saying he is a flight risk, and that he has no ties to the country. It observed the court cannot impose any conditions to ensure he will not abscond. The CBI affidavit has called Choksi the “mastermind” behind a series of companies. It says there is evidence that the businessman laundered funds using dummy companies and market operators, round-tripped in the guise of fraudulent export-import transactions with entities in places such as Dubai and Hong Kong. The affidavit says Choksi owes $950 million (close to ₹7,000 crore) to the public sector bank, in which the Indian government has an 85% stake. It adds the CBI made attempts to arrest Choksi after the fraud was unearthed in 2018, but his whereabouts were unknown. The CBI affidavit says there is an Interpol red notice issued against Choksi, which is the highest level that can be issued in respect of a fugitive. It also refers to other cases under investigation against Choksi in India. They include fraud cases registered in Bengaluru and Delhi in 2015 and 2016 as well as a 2018 cheating case. Vijay Aggarwal, Choksi’s lawyer, said they are not bothered by the affidavit as the facts stated therein are not relevant considerations before the court hearing his client’s bail plea. He added they have the liberty to reapply for bail. “Every day in custody is a fresh circumstance and bail can be re-applied. The court has not ruled on merits but only on the ground that we need to satisfy the court about my client‘s presence in Dominica to face the trial and prove his innocence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-a-fugitive-from-justice-cbi-tells-dominican-court-101623502771356.html
12-06-2021||India||IMA to hold nationwide protest against assault on doctors||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) will hold a protest against various incidents of assault on doctors on June 18, its chief Dr JA Jayalal said on Saturday.Jayalal said that in recent months, incidents of assault have increased on doctors who were working on the frontlines and demanded that the government bring a law under the CrPC and the IPC for the protection of doctors and healthcare workers.“We demand that the government introduce a central protection law under the provisions of CrPC and IPC and also ensure that all government and private hospitals have a mandatory security structure,” Jayalal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.In the past few months, doctors have been assaulted in Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal, Jayalal said, adding that it is the duty of the government to provide adequate security to frontline workers.“Doctors serving in Covid-19 wards have been brutally assaulted in Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal. It is the government’s responsibility to ensure that frontline workers are safe while battling a pandemic,” he said.Jayalal highlighted that on June 18 during the ‘Save the Saviours’ protest hospitals will continue to operate normally. The IMA has asked all its state and local branches to participate in the protest by wearing black badges, masks, ribbons and shirts. It has also asked doctors to organise awareness campaigns against violence targeting healthcare professionals.“The Indian Medical Association (IMA) will lead a protest of healthcare workers on June 18 against assault on healthcare professionals with the 'Save the Saviour' slogan. No hospitals will be closed. Doctors will bear black badge, black mask, or black shirt,” Jayalal further added.Earlier in June, a doctor at a Covid care centre (CCC) in Assam was assaulted by a mob. In a separate incident, family members of a child thrashed a doctor in Karnataka following her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-to-hold-nationwide-protest-against-assault-on-doctors-101623501990096.html
12-06-2021||India||Defence minister clears policy on declassifying war records||In a significant development that will help set the record straight on India’s military history, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday approved a new policy to declassify war histories and records of other military operations in a time-bound manner to give the country an accurate account of events, provide authentic material for research and counter unfounded rumours, the defence ministry said in a statement. The policy on “archiving, declassification and compilation of war and operations histories” mandates the setting up of a committee headed by a joint secretary in the defence ministry and consisting of representatives of the armed forces, external affairs ministry, home ministry and prominent military historians (if required). The development is significant as the military has faced uncomfortable questions about several events including the sinking of an Indian warship in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, the 1999 Kargil war and contentious war accounts authored by veterans. It was not immediately clear if the policy would lead to the declassification of the Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report on the reasons behind India’s defeat in the 1962 India-China war. “The committee will take a view on earlier wars and operations,” an official familiar with the developments said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Australian journalist Neville Maxwell had made portions of the Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report public in March 2014 by uploading it on the internet triggering a debate on India’s worst military defeat and the events that led to it. The report practically held the entire civilian and military leadership responsible for driving the country into a war it wasn’t prepared for. The BJP then demanded that the report, authored by Lieutenant General Thomas Bryan Henderson Brookes and Brigadier PS Bhagat, be declassified immediately. But in July 2014, then defence minister Arun Jaitley told Parliament that the release of the document would not be in national interest. The government declassified the 1947-48 Kashmir operations in 1987. The defence ministry’s History Division has published histories of the 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars. The responsibility for declassification of records rests with the respective organisations as specified in the Public Records Act 1993 and Public Record Rules 1997, the defence ministry said in the statement. “According to the policy, records should ordinarily be declassified in 25 years. Records older than 25 years should be appraised by archival experts and transferred to the National Archives of India once the war/operations histories have been compiled,” the statement said. The ministry’s History Division, set up in October 1953, will be responsible for coordination with various departments for compiling, seeking approval and publishing war and operations histories. All organisations under the ministry will transfer the records, including war diaries, letters of proceedings and operational record books to the History Division for upkeep, archival and writing the histories, the statement said. The new policy lays down timelines for compilation and publication of war and operations histories. “The above-mentioned Committee (under the joint secretary) should be formed within two years of completion of war/operations. Thereafter, collection of records and compilation should be completed in three years and disseminated to all concerned,” the statement said. Sensitive information will not be released, the officials said. “The history of wars and operations compiled within five years will be for internal consumption first and later the committee may decide to publicly release whole or parts of it, considering the sensitivity of the subject,” said one of the officials cited above. Experts welcomed the move. “It’s good to have certain aspects of a war or a campaign declassified for people to know the rationale behind those actions, how they were carried out and the lessons learnt. But there are certain aspects that are confidential and need not come out in the public domain keeping national interest in mind,” said Lieutenant General VK Ahluwalia (retd), director, Centre for Land Warfare Studies. Expert panels including the Kargil Review Committee have underlined the need to have war histories written with a clear policy on declassification of war records in order to analyse lessons learnt and prevent future mistakes, the statement added. The government appointed a committee in October 2001 under former defence secretary NN Vohra to look into publication of war histories. After it submitted its report in July 2002, the History Division approached the United Service Institution of India (a think tank) to scrutinise its war histories and eliminate distortions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-clears-policy-on-declassifying-war-records-101623502110962.html
12-06-2021||India||What to do after Covid-19 vaccination if you have allergies? Govt replies||When Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was allowed for restricted emergency use under the clinical trial mode in January, beneficiaries had to fill a form mentioning whether they had any kind of allergies as the company at that time suggested advised not to take the vaccine if one has allergies. As Bharat Biotech provided more data, its vaccine was removed from the 'clinical trial' mode.So, can people with allergies can take Covaxin now? Without specifying the name of the vaccine, Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog said if one has a severe allergy issue, then it's better to consult a doctor before getting vaccinated. But if it is a common allergy issue of skin, then there should be no hesitation to take any Covid-19 vaccines.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍कोविड-19 टीकाकरण पर अक्सर पूछे जाने वाले प्रश्न✅ क्या एलर्जी वाले लोगों को टीका लगाया जा सकता है❓❓❓➡️ आइए जानिए इसके बारे में👇#Unite2FightCorona #StayHomeStaySafe pic.twitter.com/q6iYtWcrOPAIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said if one is on allergy medication, then the medication should be continued after vaccination. "If there is any allergic reaction post the vaccination, then once can report to the doctors at the vaccination centre," Dr Guleria said.According to Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of the vaccines, individuals with a history of allergies to oral medications or a family history of allergic reactions, or who might have a mild allergy to vaccines (but no anaphylaxis) may still get vaccinated.But those who have known allergies to any component of Covaxin should not take the vaccine, the company said. And these components are 6µg of whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 antigen (Strain: NIV-2020-770), and the other inactive ingredients such as aluminium hydroxide gel 250 µg, TLR 7/8 agonist (imidazoquinolinone) 15 µg, 2-phenoxyethanol 2.5 mg, and phosphate buffer saline up to 0.5 ml.As far as Covishield is concerned, one should not take the vaccine if the first dose of it creates a severe allergic reaction, Serum Institute of India had disclosed it in its fact sheet. If one has a known allergy to any ingredient of the vaccine which includes L-Histidine, L-Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, Magnesium chloride hexahydrate, Polysorbate 80, Ethanol, Sucrose, Sodium chloride, Disodium edetate dihydrate (EDTA), one should not take the vaccine, the company said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-to-do-after-covid-19-vaccination-if-you-have-allergies-govt-replies-101623501360497.html
12-06-2021||India||ICMR’s 4th national serosurvey ‘will tell us about antibodies in vaccinated people’ as well: All you need to know||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is all slated to conduct the fourth national serosurvey in the country this month, Dr VK Paul, Member of Niti Ayog (health) told reporters during a press briefing on Friday.A serosurvey is useful in detecting the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in the human body; the presence of antibodies signifies the person has been exposed to the virus. Sero-surveys test the liquid part of blood or ‘serum’ and not fluid present in the nose, throat, and mouth. Sero-surveys provide us with a broad picture of the spread of the infection.What we know about the fourth national serosurvey so farThis will be the fourth serosurvey conducted by the ICMR in the country, after the third nationwide serosurvey conducted between December 17, 2020, and January 8, 2021. It will be conducted in 70 districts across the country and will also include children aged six years and above. Paul stressed the need for state-wide serosurveys to “protect our geographies” from threats of the pandemic. He urged states to conduct serosurveys at Covid-19 hotspots and infection spots at district and state levels.The fourth survey will be the first one to be conducted after vaccination has been rolled out for the general population. Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCBM) advisor Dr Rakesh Mishra told news agency ANI that this new survey will tell us more about the presence of antibodies in vaccinated adults.What have we learnt from serosurveys so far?As per the last survey, at least one in five Indian above the age of 18 years had been exposed to coronavirus by January 8. Experts opined that the findings were indicative of a large proportion of the country – nearly 80% – remaining susceptible to the virus. The last serosurvey also established that seroprevalence in children between the ages of 10 and 17 was at 25.3%, whereas in healthcare workers, it stood at 25.7%.A serosurvey also gives nuanced data along the gender and occupational lines. The last survey found that more women (22.7%) had Covid-antibodies compared to men (20.3%). It also established that out of the 7,171 health care workers from taluk hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres, etc, from each district covered in the serosurvey, doctors and nurses were affected the most with a seroprevalence of 26.6%, followed by paramedical staff (25.4%), field staff (25.3%), and administrative staff (24.9%).All three serosurveys conducted till date have been carried out in 700 villages, 70 districts from 21 states in the country. In the first one, adults were surveyed during the period of the second half of May to early June, and seropositivity of 0.73% was reported. The second survey was carried out during August and September and it found seropositivity of 6.6% amongst all those aged 10 years and above.Serosurveys, however, do not tell us if the population tested is protected from any further infections. It detects all antibodies present in the body and not all antibodies are protective in nature. Thus, vaccination in combination with Covid-appropriate behaviour remains the key to fighting Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmrs-4th-national-serosurvey-will-tell-us-about-antibodies-in-vaccinated-people-as-well-all-you-need-to-know-101623499726255.html
12-06-2021||India||'No, India not hiding Covid-19 toll,' Centre replies to criticism in 4 points||India's mechanism to monitor Covid-19 death is robust and there is no question of "five to seven times excess deaths" than the official number of Covid-19 fatalities, as claimed by an international magazine, the Centre said. Without naming The Economist, which claimed that "the government's numbers represent a disturbingly small fraction of the real figure", the union health ministry on Saturday said the analysis is not sound.In a sharply worded rebuttal, the Centre raised a few questions over the methodology on which the article on Covid-19 death in India is based.One, the ministry said the article is speculative and the analysis is based on extrapolation of data without any epidemiological evidence.Two, the article has taken data from studies that were not done by validated tools, the Centre said.Three, the study they have quoted is supposedly done by Christopher Laffler of Virginia Commonwealth University. "An internet search of research studies in scientific database such Pubmed, Research Gate, etc., did not locate this study and the detailed methodology of this study has not been provided by the magazine," the ministry said.Another study was done in Telangana based on insurance claims, the Centre said adding that there is no peer-reviewed scientific data available on such studyFour, two other studies by Prashnam and C-Voter have been quoted in the article. The ministry said these firms are well versed in conducting, predicting and analysing poll results and even then their poll predictions have gone wrong. They were never ever associated with public health research. "Even in their own area of work of psephology, their methodologies for predicting poll results have been wide off the mark many times," the Centre said.The overall Covid-19 toll in India shot up after the Bihar government revised its toll saying the government got to know from various sources that the number of Covid-19 deaths is more than what has been reported as many deaths in private hospitals, homes went unaccounted. From 5,458, the toll went to 9.429 after the revision, triggering speculations in the international media whether India's Covid-19 death toll has been manipulated. At present, India's Covid-19 death toll stands at 3,67,081, starting from the beginning of the pandemic in 2020.Emphasis on correct recordingThe Centre clarified that it has several mechanisms in place to check if there is any under-reporting of data at any level. "States consistently reporting a lower number of daily deaths were told to re-check their data. A case in point is the Union Government writing to the State of Bihar to provide detailed date and district-wise break-up of the reconciled number of deaths to Union Health Ministry," it said.'Difference in death figure is possible but...': CentreThe Centre accepted that difference in mortality recorded during a public health crisis and after may differ, but such studies are done after the crisis is over, when data on mortalities are available from reliable sources. "The methodologies for such studies are well established, the data sources are defined as also the valid assumptions for computing mortality," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-death-in-india-not-under-reported-centre-raises-5-questions-over-international-analysis-101623495901194.html
12-06-2021||India||Villagers in UP's Shuklapur pray to 'Corona Mata' to fend off Covid-19 threat||Devotees in Uttar Pradesh's Shuklapur village are now praying to 'Corona Mata', a new goddess in the pantheon of their faith, to fend off the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) threat that has plagued India and the world for the past one and a half years, in the hopes that divine intervention saves them from the deadly virus, reported news agency Reuters. The villagers reportedly placed the idol of their "Corona Mata" at a local shrine this week, and are offering prayers, holy water, and flowers at the bright yellow temple on a daily basis.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh vaccinates more than 5 million people in 18-45 age groupThe Shuklapur village, in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district, saw a fatal second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic, with a high death toll during its peak. Although the Covid-19 cases have not completely subsided in the district, there has been a sharp drop in the number of cases, Reuters reported, likely a result of the ebbing second wave of the pandemic.Villagers at Shuklapur, though, seem faithful enough to their deity, solemnly hoping that blessings from 'Corona Mata' will bring the village some relief. Photos posted by the news agency showed devotees cheering as they stood near the statue of the goddess 'Corona Mata', her idol placed before the bright yellow shrine at the makeshift temple in Pratapgarh. "Maybe with her blessings the villagers, our village, and everyone else get some relief," one villager, who gave her name as Sangeeta, told Reuters.Also Read: Covid-19 and the invisibilisation of rural IndiaIndia was hit hard by a surge of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in April and May but there are signs the worst could be over. The country reported 84,332 new cases on Saturday, the fifth consecutive day that the single-day spike remained below the one-lakh mark and the lowest daily Covid-19 count in more than two months, according to data put up by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-in-up-s-shuklapur-pray-to-corona-mata-to-fend-off-covid-19-threat-101623492260216.html
12-06-2021||India||Mayawati reacts to SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab, calls it a 'historic step'||Lauding the new tie-up between the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Shrimoni Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday, BSP chief Mayawati said Dalits, farmers, youth and women are suffering the most under the Congress rule in Punjab. It is very important to make this alliance a success in the 2022 assembly polls in order to get rid of corruption, unemployment, poverty that are highly prevalent under Congress rule, she added."Although every section of the society in Punjab is battling with poverty, corruption and unemployment, etc., prevalent here under the rule of Congress party, it is being suffered the most by Dalits, farmers, youth and women, etc., to get rid of them. It is very important to make this alliance a success," Mayawati's tweet, in Hindi, read.2. वैसे तो पंजाब में समाज का हर तबक़ा कांग्रेस पार्टी के शासन में यहाँ व्याप्त गरीबी, भ्रष्टाचार व बेरोजगारी आदि से जूझ रहा है, लेकिन इसकी सबसे ज्यादा मार दलितों, किसानों, युवाओं व महिलाओं आदि पर पड़ रही है, जिससे मुक्ति पाने के लिए अपने इस गटबन्धन को कामयाब बनाना बहुत जरूरी। 2/3Echoing the words of her new political ally SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, she said that the alliance announced by the SAD and the BSP in Punjab is a new political and social initiative, which will surely usher in a new era of development, progress and prosperity. Wishing best to the people, she said the alliance is a " historic step".Badal while announcing the alliance said, "Today, is a historic day...a big turn in Punjab's politics."Also read: Akali Dal's Badal announces alliance with BSP for Punjab assembly elections"Also, there is a strong appeal to all the people of Punjab that they should join Akali Dal and BSP. Giving your full support to this historic alliance announced today for assembly elections to be held in early 2022, start working wholeheartedly to form the government of this alliance," her tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.The SAD and the BSP will jointly contest the 2022 polls and other elections, Badal said, reported PTI. The BSP will fight 20 of the 117 assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be fought by the SAD, he added, reported the news agency.Kartarpur Sahib in Jalandhar, Jalandhar-West, Jalandhar-North, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur Urban, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district, Bassi Pathana, Sujanpur in Pathankot, Mohali, Amritsar North and Amritsar Central are among the seats from where Mayawati-led BSP will contest.The SAD broke off its alliance with the BJP last year over the three contentious farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-reacts-to-sad-bsp-alliance-in-punjab-calls-it-a-historic-step-101623491129759.html
12-06-2021||India||GST Council meet: No tax on Black Fungus medicine||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman after the GST Council meet on Saturday announced that mucormycosis medicine Amphotericin B will not be charged any tax.GST Council: Covid-19 vaccines to carry 5% tax rate, says finance ministerShe said that the GST Council has decided also to impose nil tax on Tocilizumab and also reduced tax from 12% to 5% on Remdesivir, which has been used widely to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. The GST council also reduced the tax rate on anti-coagulant Heparin from 12% to 5%. The government's decision to reduce taxes on mucormycosis medicine comes after the disease led to loss of lives in several states. Following the outbreak of the disease, several state governments also declared the disease an epidemic last month. The Centre on Saturday also allocated at least 170,000 vials of Amphotericin B to all states and Union Territories in order to effectively treat the disease. The government also said that it has allocated 321,100 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B to all the states until June 9. The government last month announced that it has given licence to 5 companies to speed up the production of Liposomal Amphotericin B injections. Mucormycosis cases rose amid the second wave of the Covid-19 crisis in thousands of patients across the country. Mucormycosis damages the eyes, noses, sinuses, lungs, brain and even was found in the intestines of a patient. It can cause blindness, create lesions and also become fatal. The disease, according to experts, affects diabetics and people who are immunocompressed. Experts have also highlighted that the disease affects diabetics and people who have been administered steroids during their recovery phase. Among other announcements made at the GST Council meet, the body decided to retain the 5% tax rate on Covid-19 vaccines and announced relief on ventilator masks, canula and helmet by reducing the tax from 12% to 5%. The council also decided to slash taxes for BiPAP machine and high flow nasal canula devices from 12% to 5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tax-cut-announced-for-black-fungus-medicine-at-gst-council-meet-101623492311807.html
12-06-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi harshly criticises PM Modi over handling of Covid crisis||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of putting politics and propaganda ahead of Indian’s wellbeing, as she launched a series of attacks against the government over its handling of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Priyanka Gandhi’s harsh criticism of the Prime Minister was a part of her ‘Zimmedaar Kaun?’ (Who is responsible?) campaign where she said that during the crisis PM Modi’s ‘incompetence at governance’ was on display.If only...#ZimmedarKaun pic.twitter.com/Qy5FpTl9iP“He (the prime minister) simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister of India has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a statement which she posted on her Facebook, Instagram and Twitter accounts.Vaccination programme going slow, alleges Rahul Gandhi in letter to PM“Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does,” the Congress leader alleged and urged people to question the government over its handling of the crisis.Sonia Gandhi writes to PM Modi on Covid-19 crisis, flags 3 issuesPriyanka also said that PM Modi concentrated on building image when he decided to export vaccines to other countries and did not bother to think about his own countrymen. She also said that the vaccine registration platform is ‘convoluted’ and ‘designed to slow down the vaccination process’ in her statement.“Instead of distributing free vaccines across the world to boost his own image, had he paused for a moment and protected his countrymen first, the people would not be standing in line today grappling with a convoluted registration system designed to slow down the vaccine process,” Priyanka said.Manmohan Singh writes to PM Modi, suggests ways to tackle second wave of Covid-19In her two-page statement, the Congress leader also alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi chose not to listen to the recommendations of the Empowered Group, which was set up by his own government to tackle the pandemic and also ignored the recommendations of the parliamentary committee on health. Priyanka also said that from the beginning of the pandemic the Modi-led government avoided taking responsibility and hid the truth.“As a consequence, when the second wave hit us with unprecedented force, the government lapsed into a state of inaction. This inaction enabled the virus to spread with far greater ferocity and cause untold suffering,” she further added.Manmohan Singh writes to PM Modi on Covid-19: Full text of letterPriyanka Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi along with other senior leaders, including former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, have been very critical of the government’s handling of Covid-19, especially when cases and deaths rose during the second wave. Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi on separate occasions have also written to the Prime Minister providing suggestions and urging him to implement those. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in turn has accused the Congress of politicising the pandemic and using it as a ‘tool’ to malign the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behaved-like-a-coward-priyanka-gandhi-harshly-criticises-pm-modi-101623490537866.html
12-06-2021||India||We don’t engage in violence: Rakesh Tikait defends protesting farmers after Delhi Police’s complaint||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday defended the protesting farmers and denied they acted violently towards policemen after reports emerged of two police officers being assaulted at the Singhu border. “They (the policemen) must have been in civil dress and farmers might have mistaken them for channel people (media) who portray their movement in a bad light. We don't engage in violence,” Tikait told news agency ANI.Tikait alleged that both the police and the government want to instigate farmers and that if cops have been visiting the protest site frequently contact should have been established with the protestors. “They can file an FIR (First Information Report) but there should be something to write in it,” Tikait said.Two Special Branch officers were allegedly assaulted by a group of protesting farmers at Singhu Border on June 10, Delhi Police said on Saturday. After a recent increase in the number of protesters coming from Panipat, Delhi Police officers from the Special Branch were reportedly conducting an on-ground analysis at the Narela border when the alleged incident occurred.The two injured assistant sub-inspectors of the Special Branch were reportedly clicking pictures of the protest site when the alleged attack happened."A woman came to us and questioned what we were doing there. Then others came and surrounded us. They all seemed to be drunk. They attacked us. My colleague sustained a fracture in his hand. Somehow we managed to save ourselves," one of the police personnel told ANI.An FIR has been lodged at the Narela police station against unknown persons, reported ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-don-t-engage-in-violence-rakesh-tikait-defends-protesting-farmers-after-delhi-police-s-complaint-101623489207976.html
12-06-2021||India||On Digvijaya Singh's J&K comment, BJP equates Congress with Pakistan, 'Uneducated', says Singh||The BJP on Saturday leaked an audio clip of senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh conversing with a Pakistani journalist in a Clubhouse chat room where Singh was heard saying that the Congress would have to relook the decision of revoking Article 370 in J&K as the decision was extremely sad. "Really? This is what Pakistan wants," BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted, sharing the clip."In a Club House chat, Rahul Gandhi’s top aide Digvijaya Singh tells a Pakistani journalist that if Congress comes to power they will reconsider the decision of abrogating Article 370," Malviya wrote.Digvijaya Singh, however, washed his hands off the controversy and said uneducated people might have not understood the difference between 'shall' and 'consider'.The audio leak led to a political furore with the BJP ministers taking to Twitter and accusing the Congress in unison "This is the same Digvijaya Singh, who had termed the Pulwama attack just an accident. He had called the 26/11 attack a conspiracy of RSS and also tried to give clean chit to Pakistan at that time. It is all part of that toolkit. Digvijaya Singh said if Modi ji comes out of power and Congress's government comes, it will re-establish Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir," BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra said.Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the comment proves that Pakistan and the Congress are on the same pedestal. "Poor governance, low credibility, bleak future & yet dream about freeing Kashmir from India. Birds of the same feather flock together!," the minister tweeted.In a Club House chat, Rahul Gandhi’s top aide Digvijaya Singh tells a Pakistani journalist that if Congress comes to power they will reconsider the decision of abrogating Article 370…Really? यही तो पाकिस्तान चाहता है… pic.twitter.com/x08yDH8JqFUnion minister Jitendra Singh said comments like this would facilitate the further perpetuation of terrorism in J&K. "It's also an indication of desperation prevailing in Congress party to try to seek to come back to power, at whatever cost it might be, even it amounts to usurping or questioning the integrity of Mother India," the minister said.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said democracy was only in the hands of the ruling elite and insaniyat died when "instigators of violence sent their own kids abroad and gave stones to children of common folk". "Instead of playing to the gallery across the border Congress must come to terms with abrogation of article 370," the minister tweeted.What is Clubhouse and what did Digvijay Singh say?Clubhouse is an invite-only app where chatrooms are created on various issues and speakers are invited to talk on the virtual platform.As deciphered from the audio clip shared by Malviya, Digvijaya Singh said, "Democracy was not there in Kashmir when they revoked Article 370. Then Insaniyat was not there because they had put everyone behind bars. Kashmiriyat is something that is basically the fundamentals of secularism. Because in a Muslim majority state, there was a Hindu Raja and both were together. In fact, Kashmiri Pundits were given Reservation in Kashmir in government services. So therefore, the decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir is an extremely sad decision. And the Congress Party would certainly have to have a relook into this issue."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijaya-singh-clubhouse-chat-leak-what-former-madhya-pradesh-cm-told-a-pakistani-journalist-101623488938399.html
12-06-2021||India||DGCI gives regulatory approval for clinical trials of Colchicine, the drug expected to reduce cardiac complications in C||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and Laxai Life Sciences Private Limited have received the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DCGI's) regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials of the drug Colchicine, news agency PTI reported on Saturday."The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and Laxai Life Sciences Pvt Ltd Hyderabad have been given the regulatory approval by DCGI to undertake a two-arm phase-II clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug Colchicine in the improvement of clinical outcomes during the treatment of COVID-19 patients,” CSIR said in a statement.Ram Vishwakarma, the advisor to CSIR's director general, told PTI that a number of studies have shown Covid-19 patients develop cardiac complications during the course of the infection and which leads to the loss of many lives, thus the search for a new or repurposed drug is important. Colchicine is one such drug which when administered in combination with standard care, has the potential to act as an important therapeutic intervention for Covid patients with cardiac comorbidities, and also for reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines, leading to faster recovery.Laxai Life Sciences' CEO Ram Upadhayay told PTI that enrollment of patients in the trial across multiple sites in India has already begun and the trial is expected to be completed in the upcoming 8-10 weeks.The CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad and CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu will be partnering in this trial.Partner institute IICT’s director S Chandrasekhar told the news agency that if approved the drug can be made easily available all over the country at an affordable price since India is one of its largest producers.India recorded 367,081 Covid-19 fatalities since the pandemic started. The country has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world after the United States, and the third-highest death toll in the world, right behind the US and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgci-gives-regulatory-approval-for-clinical-trials-of-colchicine-the-drug-expected-to-reduce-cardiac-complications-in-covid-19-patients-101623486805478.html
12-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi likely to expand cabinet ahead of next session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to complete reviews of ministries soon, may expand cabinet before Monsoon SessionPrime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to expand his cabinet by the end of this month or early next month, ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, Live Hindustan reported on Saturday. Read MorePrashant Kishor meets Pawar over lunch, NCP's Nawab Malik explainsA day after Prashant Kishor met Sharad Pawar setting off speculations about a national coalition against the BJP, the Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP's) senior leader Nawab Malik on Saturday explained the three-hour lunch meeting. Read MoreCentre issues advisory for equitable distribution of vaccines to private sectorThe Centre has asked the states and Union territories to aggregate Covid-19 vaccine distribution for private hospitals on monthly basis and either procure doses themselves or allow the Centre to do so. Read MoreCanada halts distribution of J&J Covid-19 vaccineCanada health authorities have halted the distribution of the single dose Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine after it emerged that an active ingredient was made at an American facility that has been flagged by the US’ Food and Drugs Administration (FDA). Read More'He works hard and is absolutely brilliant': Former India keeper surprised over 'passionate' bowler's snub from SL tourThe BCCI on Thursday announced a 20-member India squad that would travel to Sri Lanka to play three ODIs and three T20Is in July. Read MorePeople photoshop Will Smith’s new picture, actor shares hilarious resultsWill Smith recently took to Instagram to share a post. “Please don’t use this pic to photoshop me into precarious situations,” this is what the actor wrote while sharing his new picture. Read MoreKate Middleton is radiant in ivory coat dress with Prince William at a receptionKate Middleton accompanied the Duke of Cambridge, Queen Elizabeth II, the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall to join G7 leaders at a UK summit reception hosted by Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Read MoreThese Twitter reactions to Himesh Reshammiya's Suroor 2021 are almost as great as the song: 'It slaps'Actor-singer-music composer Himesh Reshammiya set social media ablaze on Friday as he released the title track from his latest album, Suroor 2021. Read MoreMumbai rains: IMD issues alert for June 13-14, BMC urges people to stay indoorsHeavy rains continued to lash Mumbai, its suburbs and parts of Maharashtra on Saturday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-likely-to-expand-cabinet-ahead-of-next-session-and-all-the-latest-news-101623481320365.html
12-06-2021||India||2 security personnel, 2 civilians killed in terrorist attack in Kashmir's Sopore||At least two security personnel and two civilians were killed in a terrorist attack in north Kashmir's Sopore on Saturday, officials said. At least three others, including a policeman, were injured in the attack, they said.The terrorists opened fire targeting security forces in the Sopore town of Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. They fired at a joint party of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and police near Main Chowk Sopore at around 12pm, the officials added.The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital from where a policeman was taken to the Indian Army's 92 Base Hospital, PTI reported.The area of attack has been cordoned off by security personnel and further details are awaited, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-attack-in-kashmir-s-sopore-kills-2-civilians-2-armed-forces-personnel-101623483124617.html
12-06-2021||India||Akali Dal's Badal announces alliance with BSP for Punjab assembly elections||The Shiromani Akali Dal's (SAD's) president Sukhbir Singh on Saturday announced his party will form an alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the Punjab assembly elections, which will be held next year, and said the coming together of both parties was a "new day in politics"."Today is a historic day... A big turn in Punjab's politics,” Badal said in a joint press conference.The decision to tie up with the BSP was taken at the SAD's core committee meeting. In the coalition set up, Mayawati-led BSP will contest the elections from 20 seats out of 117 total seats.Also read | SAD quits NDA: How farm bills ended friendship between oldest alliesAmong the high-profile seats, the BSP will be fighting from Kartarpur, Jalandhar West, Jalandhar North, Ludhiana north, Pathankot, Amritsar central, Amritsar north and Mohali. The party will also fight from Phagwara, Hoshiarpur city, Tanda, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Patahana, Mehal Kalan, Nawanshahr, Sujanpur, Bhoa, Anandpur Sahib and Payal seats.Punjab is among the seven states, including Goa, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat, scheduled to hold assembly elections next year.The BSP general secretary Satish Mishra reached Chandigarh ahead of the meeting. Last week, Badal announced the Akali Dal's willingness for a pre-poll alliance with parties other than the Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). "We cannot align with these parties. We will form alliances and we are open to others. No chance to go with the BJP at all," Badal said.Also read | SAD-NDA: Farm bill was final nail in the coffin. Here’s a look at other reasons for splitIn a high-voltage political split, the SAD pulled out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre last year in September over the three contentious farm bills, ending a decades-long partnership marked by unflinching loyalty. After the split, SAD's Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the Union minister of food processing industries.The SAD sought not to bring the bills in Parliament till “all reservations” expressed by farmers are “duly addressed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akali-dal-s-badal-announces-alliance-with-bsp-for-punjab-assembly-elections-101623479672444.html
12-06-2021||India||Govt seeks equitable allocation of vaccine doses at pvt centres||States should collate the demand for coronavirus vaccine doses in private vaccination centres in their region and either coordinate the procurement of doses themselves or let the Centre do it, the Union health ministry has suggested -- a move aimed at ensuring that the administration of doses by private hospitals and centres is equitable across the country.Currently it is skewed in favour of the large cities, especially metros, with most of the allotment being monopolised by large hospital chains. Officials admitted that doses through this channel have not been allocated equitably since big private hospital chains are seen to have been able to corner the bulk of the quota under this mechanism, and states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, and Assam have lost out since they have fewer private hospitals than others.Now, the Union ministry wants the states to get a sense of the demand and come up with an allotment mechanism – or let the Centre do it.“There are two options available with the states and Union territories: the first one is to aggregate the demand and facilitate procurement from companies; the second is to aggregate the demand and let the government of India facilitate procurement,” said an official aware of the matter on condition of anonymity.Last week, the Union government changed its vaccine policy and said it would once again be in charge of sourcing vaccines and allocating them to the states (the policy before May 1, when it allowed states to procure directly from suppliers). Of the total vaccines available, 75% are to be reserved for this, with the remaining 25% available to te private sector (the 25% for the private sector was also a change introduced starting May 1). The new policy is to start from June 21, until which, the current policy (50% sourced and allocated by the Centre, for 45+ age group; 25% sourced by states, for 18-44 age group; 25% sourced by private hospitals) will continue. As per the Co-WIN dashboard, of the 36,116 sites conducting Covid vaccination, 1,587, or 4% , are in the private sector. The new mechanism does not mean there will be a change in the purchase mechanism – private hospitals will still need to strike direct deals with the vaccine makers. A report in the Times of India on Saturday said the distribution and allocation of Covid vaccines for private hospitals will be divided among states in proportion to their populations. A second official, who asked not to be named, said the communication to this effect sent out by the Union health ministry was in the nature of a recommendation and the final decision rests with the state governments. “The advice is based on the disparity that was seen between bigger cities and private hospitals and tier-2/3 cities and rural areas, and smaller hospitals. Many of the smaller private hospitals that were earlier running vaccination centres stopped conducting the vaccination drive because of a lack of an adequate number of doses. This way states can ensure smaller hospitals also get the required share,” this person added. According to a June 4 Union health ministry statement, in the month of May, a total of 74 million (7.4 crore) doses were available for vaccination. “Out of these, about 18.5 million (1.85 crore) doses were earmarked for procurement by the private hospitals. The private hospitals have been able to procure 12.9 million (1.29 crore) doses in the month , out of which they administered 2.2 million (22 lakh) doses.” On June 10, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a meeting with the states and Union territories. The progress of vaccination was reviewed at the meeting in light of the revised guidelines for implementation of the national Covid-19 vaccination programme and recent advisories. Less than adequate private sector participation in the Covid-19 vaccination drive was highlighted at the meeting.The limited presence of the private sector and its unequal spread was particularly stark in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, and Assam.As of Saturday, around 259 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been distributed among states. About 11 million doses are still left with the states and Union territories to be administered in the coming days. According to the Co-WIN dashboard, as of Saturday evening, close to 249 million doses have been administered across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-advisory-for-equitable-distribution-of-vaccines-to-private-sector-101623480090023.html
12-06-2021||India||Diesel price crosses ₹100-litre mark for first time in country||The price of diesel crossed the ₹100 per litre mark for the first time in the country on Saturday as it is now sold at ₹100.05 a litre in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar after state-run oil companies raised auto fuel rates for the 23rd time in 40 days. The latest hike took auto fuel rates to yet another record across the country as pump prices of petrol jumped by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise on Saturday. The latest hike has made petrol costlier by ₹5.72 per litre and diesel by ₹6.25 across the country since May 4, a day after the result of five assembly polls was declared. Petrol in Delhi is now sold at ₹96.12 per litre and diesel at ₹86.98 a litre. While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Petrol price is also inching towards ₹100 mark in Bengaluru as the fuel is now sold at ₹99.33 a litre, the second-highest among metros after Mumbai. The financial capital has the highest fuel rates among metros. Petrol is currently sold at ₹102.30 per litre in Mumbai and diesel at ₹94.39 a litre. The unidirectional upward movement Since May 4 saw petrol breaching the ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, particularly in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur and Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga. Fuel is costliest in Ganganagar (Rajasthan), where petrol is selling at ₹107.22 per litre on Saturday Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps. Indian fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their international benchmark rates of the previous day. Benchmark Brent crude, which fell marginally by 0.56% at $71.49 per barrel on the first day of trade this week (Monday), firmed up later this week to close at $72.69 a barrel on Friday, 0.23% up from the previous trading day. Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 34.8% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.08%, according to official data of June 1. On diesel, central taxes are over 37.24% while state taxes are about 14.64%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic. Even as international oil prices saw volatility in the last one month, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude had plunged to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest in these 34 days; petrol and diesel rates went up the next day by 19 paise per litre and 29 paise a litre respectively. According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory. During the 66-day pause on a rate hike, state-run retailers had also reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010, and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diesel-price-crosses-rs-100-litre-mark-for-first-time-in-country-101623476909635.html
12-06-2021||India||PM Modi to complete reviews of ministries soon, may expand cabinet before Monsoon Session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to expand his cabinet by the end of this month or early next month, ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, Live Hindustan reported on Saturday citing people familiar with the development. There are currently 60 ministers in PM Modi's government and their number can go up to 79.Prime Minister Modi has been reviewing the work of various ministries for the past few days along with Union home minister Amit Shah and the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) national president JP Nadda, Live Hindustan said. The review exercise is usually done before cabinet reshuffle and expansion.Citing people mentioned above, Live Hindustan also said about two dozen ministers have been reviewed so far and the rest will also be evaluated soon. On Friday evening, Prime Minister Modi along with Nadda and Amit Shah reviewed the functioning of some ministries as well.Also read | PM Modi holds meeting with home minister Amit Shah, party chief JP NaddaThose who are likely to be included in the future reshuffle and expansion of the council of ministers are former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi, MP Jyotiraditya Scindia and BJP's national vice president Baijayant Panda, Live Hindustan reported. Members of the BJP's allies, except Ramdas Athawale of the Republican Party of India, have not found a place in PM Modi's government and Live Hindustan reported that they can be given space as and when PM Modi's expands his cabinet. Members of Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal(United) or JD(U)could also be included, it added.Apart from PM Modi, there are 21 cabinet and 9 ministers of state with independent charge and 29 ministers of state. Some ministers hold multiple portfolios and the total number of members in the council of ministers is 54.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-expand-cabinet-soon-senior-bjp-leaders-and-allies-may-be-inducted-101623474520332.html
12-06-2021||India||Delhi International Airport ratings downgraded to B1 by Moody's||Moody's Investors Service has downgraded Delhi International Airport Ltd's (DIAL's) corporate family rating and senior secured ratings to B1 from Ba3.It has also downgraded DIAL's baseline credit assessment to b1 from ba3. At the same time, Moody's has downgraded Cliffton Ltd's senior secured bond rating to B1 from Ba3.The outlook on the ratings is negative.The rating downgrade reflects adverse impact of reduced passenger traffic and airport revenue in the current fiscal year ending March 2022 due to surge in daily infection numbers since late March."We believe the consequent reduction in revenue will lead to additional debt being required to complete the airport's expansion and prolong the recovery in DIAL's financial metrics to a level consistent with a Ba rating," said Spencer Ng, Moody's Vice President and Senior Analyst.DIAL is the concessionaire for the Indira Gandhi International Airport which is located in the political capital of India and operates under an operations, management and development agreement with the Airports Authority of India.Cliffton Ltd is an orphan special-purpose vehicle established to facilitate a USD bond issuance. Proceeds from the transaction were used to subscribed to INR non-convertible debentures issued by DIAL which does not have any equity interest or management control in Cliffton Ltd.Moody's said the negative outlook captures downside risks over the next 12 to 18 months, given material uncertainty in recovery of India's passenger traffic which will be heavily influenced by when travel restrictions are lifted and successful rollout of vaccines as outlined by the government.Passenger traffic at the airport had likely fallen by more than 60 per cent in May from the February level. Given a large majority of DIAL's revenue is linked to airport traffic, Moody's expects revenue to fall in line with the drop in passenger numbers.Whilst pandemic-driven revenue declines are not uncommon among rated airports, DIAL has limited capacity to offset reduced cash flow by cutting dividends or deferring its capital expenditure in a meaningful way under currently announced plans.As such, Moody's expects the airport to need additional debt -- relative to previous forecasts -- in lieu of operating cash flow lost due to second coronavirus wave to complete its ₹9,800 crore expansion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-international-airport-ratings-downgraded-to-b1-by-moodys-101623474500638.html
12-06-2021||India||As Modi and Yogi meet, the story behind BJP’s UP saga||Soon after Yogi Adityanath was sworn in as the chief minister (CM) of Uttar Pradesh (UP) in March 2017, the architect of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s spectacular victory (and now the Union home minister) Amit Shah visited Lucknow. In an informal chat with editors, he quipped, “We had consultations with 44 senior party leaders before deciding on Yogi’s name. Still, the media remained in dark.” Other names were subjects of widespread speculation, but Yogi Adityanath wasn’t considered one of the front runners. And that is why, till the BJP high command makes a categorical announcement on the decisions taken at their meetings regarding the political situation in UP, all contentious issues, right now in public domain, will remain in the realm of uncertainty. However, it can be safely concluded that a range of meetings in recent weeks, in Delhi and Lucknow, have largely revolved around the state assembly polls (to be held early next year) and remedial steps needed to iron out friction in the party, correct caste equations through cabinet expansion and poll alliances, defuse the rising anger against Adityanath in the party’s rank and file, and steps needed to improve the government’s image after what is widely perceived to be the mismanagement of the second wave. Significantly, this is not the first time that a section of party cadres and lawmakers have rebelled against the CM’s style of functioning, sharing their angst with the central leadership. But addressing these voices have become more urgent, as the party high command knows a friction-ridden party can’t swim through choppy electoral waters especially after a clear dent in the state government’s image. Also read: UP CM Yogi Adityanath meets BJP brass amid talk of rejigChintan baithaks spark speculation The uncertainty was triggered by a flurry of meetings held during the devastating second wave of Covid-19. Though “chintan-baithaks”, internal review meetings, are an integral part of the BJP’s culture, and in an election year the deliberations are obvious, the seeming madness in the method. Amid growing complaints of Covid mismanagement by BJP lawmakers and upsets in panchayat polls, Adityanath went on a tour of the state, visiting all the 18 divisional headquarters. He did his last divisional tour on May 30. A day later, on May 31, two senior party leaders — national vice-president and UP-in-charge, Radha Mohan Singh, and national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh — landed in Lucknow. They held three-day long feedback sessions with a dozen odd ministers, members of legislative assembly (MLAs), members of Parliament (MPs) and party functionaries. They also had a dinner meeting with the chief minister and visited the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) office in the city. The meetings ended on June 2, with the leaders tweeting in favour of Yogi. Despite the tweets, the political uncertainty did not subside while Yogi refused to discuss anything in the media. However, what intensified the speculations was Radha Mohan Singh’s sudden visit to Lucknow again on the night of June 5. He met Governor Anandiben Patel on June 6, which was a Sunday. He even met the UP assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit the same day; the latter said, “they discussed literature”. Generally, Raj Bhawan gives appointments on Sundays only when necessary and the explanation from Singh that “it was a courtesy call” did not convince many. The fallout was obvious. A flurry of political activities raised a range of questions about what was in the offing — from buzz about a change of leadership to murmurs of a cold war between PM and CM over cabinet expansion to disagreements about who should be the primary face for 2022 assembly polls. Interestingly, a party which usually discourages washing dirty linen in public , somehow encouraged it through its actions. Also read: Yogi brings suggestions for BJP’s Mission Uttar PradeshCold war between CM and PM? Party leaders often describe Adityanath as stubborn and short-tempered, but he is also not politically naïve. He fully knows that rarely have CMs survived after taking up cudgels with the prime ministers. He is young and is ambitious, but willing to wait. One reason quoted for the growing differences between PM and CM was the induction of AK Sharma, a Bhumihar from Mau and a former bureaucrat from Gujarat who is understood to be close to the PM, in the UP cabinet. Interestingly, ever since Sharma became a member of the legislative council (MLC) in January 2021, speculations have been rife about his induction in the cabinet as deputy chief minister. The CM’s detractors claim that while he has no issue in inducting a third deputy CM (he already has two deputy CMs), he would be unwilling to part with the crucial home and appointment departments. Political experts feel that the issue is overblown, and it’s too trivial in the larger scheme of things to cause a discord, especially when the PM’s wish — if indeed Sharma’s appointment was a source of discord — would easily prevail.Thus, if there is a thorn in their relationship, the sense in UP’s power corridors is that there has to be a more serious reason than Sharma’s induction. The CM would not like to burn bridges with the all-powerful PM, even if he enjoys support from Hindutva organisations. Rarely have those CMs who defied the party high command survived. Kalyan Singh, the temple hero who grew in RSS, had challenged the late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpyayee and had to eventually quit the party. He formed Rashtriya Kranti Party, allied with Mulayam Singh Yadav in assembly polls only to rejoin the parent party. Again, his differences grew in the party he quit and campaigned for Mulayam Singh Yadav in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections only to return home. Will Adityanath actually take up cudgels with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and potentially jeopardise his political career? He may be the mascot of Hindutva but not bigger than Modi. While he has been denying his national ambitions from the day he took office, there is also no doubt that he has emerged as a frontline leader in the party. But this was only because the BJP created a national “Yogi brand”, sending him to campaign in every election held since he took charge. Unlike his previous avatar, where Adityanath ran his own organisation, he is aware that there is a larger party organisation with which he has work to realise his ambitions. Change of leadership? While there is speculation about a change in leadership, this appears unlikely at the moment. Before leaving Lucknow, the Delhi-based BJP leaders had tweeted and hailed the CM’s management of Covid in the state. BL Santosh tweet read as, “Remember it’s a state with 20+ Cr population.When municipality CMs could not manage a city of 1.5Cr population, Yogi ji managed quite effectively.” BJP’s national vice-president and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh described the UP government’s handling of the Covid situation as “unparalleled” and described speculations about change in leadership as a “figment of someone’s imagination.” All these were followed by the CM’s meetings with Shah, BJP President JP Nadda, and on Friday evening, PM Modi. And so far, the message is, “no change in leadership”. Yogi has thanked all for their ‘ guidance.There are good reasons why status quo may prevail. For one, unlike the Congress, where CMs have been changed at fairly regular intervals in states governed by the party, irrespective of political exigencies such as elections or controversies that directly hurt a CM’s image, the BJP leadership has not experimented with frequent changes in the states. And now with barely a few months left for the party to hit the campaign trail, any change of leadership, leaders believe, will do more damage than good. Second, though Adityanath was earlier associated with the erstwhile Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Vahini, and is not a homegrown Sangh leader, he was groomed in the same ideology by his Guru Mahant Avaidnath, who was closely associated with Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Many in the BJP do flag stories of the time when the CM, as head of the Hindu Vahini, used to dictate terms for an alliance with the BJP and fielded candidates against the party. Interestingly, in 2002 assembly elections, he had fielded Radha Mohan Das Agarwal against the BJP from Gorakhpur and won the seat too. (Agarwal won the 2007, 2012 and 2017 elections on the BJP ticket.) But all of this is now history. Hindu Vahini is by and large lying defunct. Adityanath has thrown his lot almost fully with the Sangh-BJP machine. He is a monk who prays before people wake up, thereafter its politics and politics. Three, the BJP appointed Adityanath as CM, ignoring claims of several senior party leaders, as a part of their long-term vision of generational transition. The overall arching argument is that elections are too close to take the risk of changing leadership, which may upset his supporters. There is a TINA (There is no alternative) factor at play — with the sense that changes at this juncture may ruffle more feathers than ironing them. As said earlier, BJP high command can always spring surprises.Should Adityanath be the face of 2022 polls? Apparently, the BJP high command faces a dilemma on contesting state polls on Modi’s face. Amplifying their concern are the recent reverses in West Bengal where despite the display of their might, the party lost to a two-term CM, Mamata Banerjee, who is the leader of a regional party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The anti-incumbency factor did not work against her, nor did the desertions from TMC on the eve of elections. There is, therefore, a view that state elections should not always be held with Modi as the face, for a loss is interpreted as a dip in the popularity of the leader or deterioration of the party’s national strength. The 2017 assembly elections were fought on the basis of Modi’s charisma and appeal, and even the coming together of the Samajwadi Party and the Congress had miserably failed to check the BJP from decimating the Opposition. The BJP and allies independently won 325 assembly seats without projecting any chief ministerial candidate. However, 2022 is going to be different. Can the CM win the state for the BJP? Will he be able to activate the disgruntled party cadres and leaders? Apparently, the party has yet to find an answer to this tricky question – Adityanath or Modi or both. To be sure, the PM will campaign, but the question is the messaging around the state polls and leadership. Is this a plan to distance Centre, channel anger? But none of these theories fully help explain the controversy. Some party insiders claim that through the political churn of the last fortnight, two purposes have been achieved. The first is the party has distanced its tallest leader, PM Modi, from the “Covid mess” that prevailed in the state. Second, much of the public anger has been defused. Right now, UP voters are discussing the central leadership’s unhappiness with the state government more than the floating bodies in the Ganges. The cadre is also more content. They have found an outlet to express their woes, and have been heard. The ministers have been pushed to the wall as their performance too has been questioned. The MLAs, too, have been told to explain their service to their constituency. They would want the ticket again.With the CM’s meeting with the PM on Friday evening, either the recent unrest in the party will come to an end — or it could well mark another chapter in BJP’s UP saga. Either way, as details emerge, what is clear is that the state will remain the primary focus for the party in the coming year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-modi-and-yogi-meet-the-story-behind-bjp-s-up-saga-101623473728948.html
12-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally falls below 90,000-mark with 84,332 new cases; 4002 fatalities take death toll to 367,081||India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 29,359,155 on Saturday after 84,332 new infections were logged in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. This is the first time in more than two months that the daily cases went below the 90,000-mark. On Friday, 91,702 Covid-19 cases were recorded across the country.As many as 4,002 people succumbed to the viral disease and 121,311 recovered on Saturday, taking the death toll and recoveries to 367,081 and 27,911,384 respectively. The active cases have come down to 1,080,690 and constitute 3.83 per cent of the caseload.More than 1.9 million samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative figures to 376,232,162, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday.Also Read| Covid risk low in inoculated health staff: StudyAs the overall Covid-19 graph in India has been on the decline since last month, indicating the country might be able to gain control over the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, the health ministry on Friday urged citizens to continue following Covid-appropriate behaviour.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/AVeLtcea6a“We have to incorporate Covid-appropriate behaviour in our lives. Even though cases are coming down, we have to ensure that the infection does not spread,” the health ministry's joint secretary Lav Agarwal said while addressing a routine Covid-19 briefing on Friday.He added there has been a decline of almost 78 per cent in daily infections and a 74 per cent decrease in weekly positivity rate.Also Read| ICMR to start 4th national sero survey this monthNITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul said during Friday’s briefing that ICMR will begin its fourth round of the national serosurvey this month to assess the spread of the viral disease in the country. He said one cannot depend on one national survey and urged states and Union territories to conduct it at their levels too.Seventy districts in 21 states will be covered under the serosurvey this month. The survey will also comprise children aged six years and above, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said in a letter to these states on June 4 which include Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-falls-below-90-000-mark-with-84-332-new-cases-101623465044834.html
12-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Monsoon advances in India, IMD issues rainfall alert and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am on Saturday (June 12, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon advances in India, very heavy rainfall likely in these states: IMD issues alertVery heavy to heavy rainfall will be witnessed in most of east India and adjoining central India, continuing from Friday, with the widespread rainfall activity a result of the underlying low-pressure area that formed over north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood around June 11, the IMD said. Read MoreMehul Choksi denied bail by Dominican high court, called 'flight risk'Mehul Choksi, the fugitive jeweller wanted in India in connection with the ₹13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, has been denied bail by the Dominica high court, news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing local media. Read MoreOn World Day Against Child Labour, key points on the practiceChild labour has risen to 160 million worldwide – an increase of 8.4 million children in the last four years – with millions more at risk due to the impacts of Covid-19, according to a new report by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and Unicef. Read MoreMukul Roy’s move fans talk of turncoats following suitBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Mukul Roy’s return to the Trinamool Congress on Friday stoked speculation that several leaders who switched sides ahead of the assembly polls were on their way back to Bengal’s ruling party. Read MoreWATCH: Amarinder Vs Sidhu, and Gehlot Vs Pilot: Congress’ whimsical strategies decodedIn the latest episode of HT Insight, Hindustan Times' Editor-in-chief, Sukumar Ranganathan decodes Congress party's whimsical strategies in handling political situations across various states. He, however, says that there is a lack of a unifying glue hurting the grand old party and Congress may face more defections in the times to come. Watch here'Pujara can think of playing a few more shots': WV Raman ahead of India vs New Zealand WTC finalFormer India batsman WV Raman is a man of few words except when the topic is cricket, especially batting. The tall figure who was known for his solid technique, coupled with the left-hander’s grace, didn’t quite make it big at the international stage in the very few opportunities that he got but he was a domestic stalwart who quickly rose to become one of the most respected coaches of the country. Read MoreRaj Kundra slams ex-wife Kavita after her viral Shilpa Shetty video, says she had affair with his sister's husbandBusinessman Raj Kundra has broken his silence on an old video interview of his ex-wife Kavita. In the interview, Kavita had blamed Raj's wife, actor Shilpa Shetty for their divorce. Raj has denied the allegations once again and also revealed what he says were the real reasons behind the end of their marriage. Read MoreParliamentarian Mahua Moitra 'rebels with a cause' in ₹27k silk sari for magazineMahua Moitra, the 17th Lok Sabha from Krishnanagar, West Bengal, also makes quite the stunning picture in her perfectly ironed handloom saris, dark hair and kohl-lined eyes as she stands shoulder to shoulder with other, more experienced Parliamentarians, never backing down. And most recently the 46-year-old Member of Parliament graced the cover of a magazine which dubbed her as a 'Rebel With A Cause'. Read More5 key health indicators you can track with your smartwatchWhether we manage to go back to our gyms or carry on working out at home, there are some key health indicators you need to keep an eye on to analyse your workouts right and also stay healthy. All these indicators can be tracked via your smartwatch so all you need is a device that covers these basics like heart rate, blood SpO2, etc. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-monsoon-advances-in-india-imd-issues-rainfall-alert-and-all-the-latest-news-101623467576468.html
12-06-2021||India||Monsoon advances in India, very heavy rainfall likely in these states: IMD issues alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity in parts of Uttar Pradesh over the course of the next 1-2 hours. The Met department had already issued an alert for heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning in parts of West Bengal and isolated rains in Odisha and Chhattisgarh, owing to a cyclonic formation adjoining the northeast Bay of Bengal.Also Read: Thunderstorm with lightning, rainfall likely to continue over parts of BengalVery heavy to heavy rainfall will be witnessed in most of east India and adjoining central India, continuing from Friday, with the widespread rainfall activity a result of the underlying low-pressure area that formed over north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood around June 11, the IMD said. In its bulletin, the Met department explained that a cyclonic circulation lies over east-central and adjoining the northeast Bay of Bengal at middle tropospheric levels, forming the low-pressure area under its influence.Also Read: Mumbai’s total rainfall for June surpasses 505mm monthly averageA rainfall alert has been issued by the IMD in these states:1 . Uttar Pradesh: Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over Kasganj, Bijnor, Deoband, Naziababad, Roorkee, Sharanpur, Chandpur, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur, Sambhal, Chandausi, Bilari, Atrauli, and adjoining areas during the next 2 hours.2 . Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Sikkim, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Telangana to witness fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfalls.3 . Bihar and Uttarakhand, along with other parts of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to witness fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy fall over the next 4-5 days. The rest of northwest India will receive scattered to fairly widespread rainfall during June 11-14, with isolated heavy rainfall on June 12-13.4 . Kerala is very likely to witness isolated heavy rainfall during June 11-15, while extremely heavy rainfall is very likely over Konkan and Goa in the same duration. The coastal and adjoining Ghats districts of Maharashtra and coastal Karnataka are also likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during this time.Issuing its rainfall alerts, the IMD added that conditions favourable for the further advance of southwest monsoon will become prominent in more parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts Chhattisgarh and Odisha, entire West Bengal and Jharkhand and parts of Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh, and remaining parts of North Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-advances-very-heavy-rainfall-likely-in-these-states-imd-issues-alert-101623463975314.html
12-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi denied bail by Dominican high court, called 'flight risk'||Mehul Choksi, the fugitive jeweller wanted in India in connection with the ₹13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, has been denied bail by the Dominica high court, news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing local media.Judge Wynante Adrien-Roberts of Dominica high court denied bail to Mehul Choksi after the conclusion of the submissions made by both sides. The court also highlighted that Mehul Choksi did not offer any strong surety before the court while he sought bail and he is a flight risk too, Antigua Newsroom reported. Choksi's lawyers argued for bail citing medical grounds and not a flight risk.Also read | 'Will continue to make all efforts to bring back fugitives': MEAMehul Choksi, Adrien-Roberts said, has no ties to Dominica and that it cannot impose any conditions which will assure it that he wouldn't abscond, according to ANI. The high court also pointed that Choksi proposed he will stay with his brother in the hotel, which is not a fixed address. The court also noted that his trial has not started yet.Choksi has got interim relief from immediate repatriation to India by the Dominican court.Also read | Mehul Choksi's disappearance from Antigua sponsored by state, alleges wifeThe verdict comes a few days after Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit called Choksi an "Indian citizen" and said the courts will decide what happens to him. Skerrit also said that the government will protect the rights of Choksi as he awaits trial. "The matter with this Indian citizen is before the courts, the courts will decide what happens to this gentleman and we allow the court process to go through," Loop Jamaica News quoted the Dominican PM as saying.India's affidavitsThe Indian government filed two affidavits in the Dominica high court establishing Mehul Choksi’s Indian citizenship and the serious nature of the fraud he committed on PNB, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Sharda Raut, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) deputy inspector general handling the PNB fraud investigation, and Azad Singh, the consular officer at the high commission of India to the Commonwealth of Dominica, filed the affidavits on Thursday, a day before Mehul Choksi’s bail plea was to be heard in the high court.Detailed evidence has been given in the affidavits against Mehul Choksi pertaining to criminal conspiracy, cheating and money laundering and the reasons why he needs to face investigations in India, the people cited in the first instance said.The affidavits also say that Choksi’s surrender of Indian citizenship was never approved by the authorities and he was an Indian citizen when the crime was committed.Choksi’s lawyers have sought to examine India’s affidavits.Choksi has alleged that he was abducted from Antigua by the Indian and Antiguan police officers along with his woman friend, Barbara Jarabik, who was part of the plot according to his version of events, on May 23. He said he was then taken to Dominica in a vessel, in charges denied by Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne.His habeas corpus plea in the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (ECSC) has been adjourned sine die. The plea talks about alleged torture and seeks repatriation back to Antigua, where he is a citizen.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-denied-bail-by-dominican-high-court-called-flight-risk-101623463317377.html
12-06-2021||NA||Covid-19 updates: State level curfew in Goa extended till 7am on June 21||India reported as many as 84,332 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 4,002 deaths in the preceding 24 hours, data put out by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday showed. This is the first time that in more than two months that the number of daily new Covid-19 cases in India has come down below the 90,000-mark. The cumulative infection tally in the country now stands at 29,359,155, while the death toll has reached 367,081, according to health ministry data.India reported as many as 121,311 recoveries from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, with the data showing that over 27.91 million people in the country have already been cured of the coronavirus disease. The country's recovery rate now stands at 94.93%, as per health ministry data. Incidentally, the number of daily recoveries are continuing to outperform daily new cases for nearly a month now.Follow all the updates here:State level Covid-19 curfew in Goa extended till 7am on June 21: CM SawantThe Government has decided to extend the State Level Curfew till 7AM, 21 June 2021. Shops, including in Panchayat and Municipal markets, may open between 7 am to 3 PM. Marriage function upto 50 persons have been permitted with the permission. 1/2The Goa government has extended the state-level Covid-19 curfew till 7am on June 21, chief minister Pramod Sawant said.West Bengal reports 4,286 new Covid-19 cases, 81 deaths in last 24 hoursWest Bengal reports 4286 new #COVID19 cases, 3149 recoveries and 81 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,57, 273Total recoveries 14,24,213Death toll 16,812Active cases 16,248 pic.twitter.com/PD6Js2M0flWest Bengal's Covid-19 tally reached 1,457,273 cases and the death toll climbed to 16,812 as the state recorded 4,286 new cases and 81 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Punjab logs 979 new Covid-19 cases, 56 deaths in last 24 hoursPunjab reports 979 new #COVID19 cases, 2135 recoveries and 56 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 5,86,947Total recoveries 5,57,380Death toll 15,503Active cases 14,064 pic.twitter.com/1RUjgDPry1With 979 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths in the last 24 hours, Punjab's tally reached 586,947 while the death toll climbed to 15,503, reports ANI.Kerala gets 538,000 doses of Covishield vaccine: Health minister Veena GeorgeKerala has received 5.38 lakh doses more of vaccines. The State received 1,88,820 doses of Covishield purchased by the State and 3.5 lakh Covshield vaccines allotted by the Centre: Kerala health minister Veena GeorgeKerala's health minister Veena George said that the state received over 538,000 doses of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine, reports ANI.Assam record over 3,400 new Covid-19 cases, 42 deaths in last 24 hoursAssam registers 3463 new #COVID19 cases, 5,600 discharges, and 42 deaths in the past 24 hours; active cases at 43,298 pic.twitter.com/mP80POVcAdAssam recorded 3,463 new Covid-19 cases and 42 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active caseload stands at 43,298, reports ANI.UK records 7,738 cases of Covid-19, 12 deathsUK reported 7,738 cases of Covid-19 on Friday, and 12 deaths, reported Reuters. Marking a decrease from the 17 deaths and 8,125 cases reported a day earlier.Maharashtra records 10,697 new cases of Covid-19, 360 deathsMaharashtra recorded 10,697 new cases of Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state wide tally to 5,898,550. 360 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 108,333.Telangana reports 1,771 Covid-19 cases, 13 deathsTelangana reported 1,771 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state-wide tally to 6,02,089. 13 deaths were also reported, the death toll now stands at 3,469.Kerala reports 13,832 Covid-19 cases, 171 deathsCOVID19 | Kerala reports 13,832 new infections, 18,172 recoveries & 171 deaths today.Active cases 1,29,488 Death toll 10,975Andhra Pradesh reports 6,952 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deathsAndhra Pradesh reported 6,952 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state-wide total to 18,03,074. 58 deaths were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 11,882.Former CM Virbhadra Singh testes Covid-19 positive for second timeFormer Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh has tested positive for Covid-19 again. Singh tested positive once before on April 13 of this year and made a full recovery. He has been admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), reported ANI.States/UTs to record Covid deaths as per ICMR guidelines: Health minStates/UTs to record COVID-19 deaths as per ‘Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-19 deaths in India issued by ICMR. We have regularly emphasized the need for a robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district wise cases and deaths on a daily basis: Union Health MinistryOdisha reports 4,852 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hrsAs many as 4,852 new Covid-19 cases, 8,516 recoveries and 47 deaths in the last 24 hours, informed the state health department on Monday.With this, the cumulative count in the state stands at 8,47,313 including 7,81,488 recoveries, 3,257 deaths and 62,515 active cases.Over 300 vaccination sites closed in Indore due to shortageDue to a shortage of vaccines in Indore, district health authorities on Friday opened only nine vaccination centres out of 350 for administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to beneficiaries.India reports 84,332 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over two monthsThe daily Covid-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday.With the fresh cases, the infection tally has climbed to 2,93,59,155. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,67,081 with 4,002 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.Total cases: 29,359,155Total discharges: 27,911,384Death toll: 367,081Active cases: 1,080,690Vaccination: 249,600,304719 doctors died during Covid-19 second wave: IMAIndian Medical Association (IMA) says 719 doctors died during second wave of COVID-19 pandemic; maximum 111 doctors lost their lives in Bihar, followed by Delhi (109) pic.twitter.com/4CCFSIMZj6Telangana: 'Covid orphans' to get mobile phones uploaded with emergency numbersWith an aim to ensure the safety of children who lost their parents to Covid-19, the Department of Women Development and Child Welfare has decided to give them mobile phones containing all the necessary numbers including that of the district child protection officer (DCPO) as well as a helpline and emergency numbers.Black fungus cases in Uttarakhand reach 356. Dehradun reports 21 news cases, 6 deathsDehradun reported 21 new cases of black fungus and six deaths on July 10, informed the state Health Department on Friday.With this, the total number of black fungus patients in the Dehradun district has gone up to 319, while the cumulative black fungus cases in Uttarakhand now stand at 356 with 56 deaths.Reviewing reducing gap between jabs, says govtIndia’s vaccination expert group is reviewing the decision to delay the second doses of Covishield, a top government expert said on Friday, as new scientific evidence from other countries suggests a single dose may not be adequately protected against the Delta variant of the coronavirus that has swept across the country. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-india-world-death-toll-june-12-2021-101623462111932.html
12-06-2021||India||Pilot run of home delivery scheme on hold this month||Amid an ongoing tussle with the Centre, the Delhi government has virtually put on hold its plan to implement a pilot run of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme in the city this month.In an order issued on Thursday, the Delhi food department directed fair price shops to start disbursing ration among beneficiaries for the month of June from Friday, including in Seemapuri where the government was planning to carry out the pilot run of the doorstep delivery scheme.The additional allocation made to each beneficiary under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) will also commence simultaneously, said the government order, a copy of which HT has seen.A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to requests by the reporter seeking comment.While people are entitled to 4kg wheat, 1kg rice and 1kg sugar under regular ration scheme in the Capital, they will get an additional 5kg food grains under PMGKAY till Diwali, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 7.While food grains under PMGKAY are 100% subsidised, the Delhi government had announced free regular ration for the months of May and June.Delhi has 1.78 million ration card holders which translates to 7.2 million beneficiaries.Last Saturday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has “rejected” the scheme citing lack of Centre’s approval and a pending case in the Delhi high court.The L-G office, however, said Baijal did not “reject” the scheme and only “advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit”.This was the second time this year that the scheme was stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre.The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumers affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections to the scheme — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism in the NFSA requires an amendment that can be done only by the Parliament.On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to approve the scheme in the “national interest”.In his letter, Kejriwal assured the Prime Minister that the Delhi government was ready to make whatever changes the central government will suggest in the long-delayed scheme to deliver ration at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries in the Capital.He said his government only aims to provide ration to the poor and did not want any credit for the implementation of the scheme.The scheme was first approved in March 2018 but could not be implemented because of administrative issues, largely over approved methods to distribute ration under the NFSA.It also led to a tussle between the elected government and lieutenant governor, leading to a demonstration outside the L-G’s office by the top leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-run-of-home-delivery-scheme-on-hold-this-month-101623454232742.html
12-06-2021||India||Indian Mujahideen operative in Tihar jail lied about Antilia bomb scare role ‘to stay relevant’||Jailed Indian Mujahideen (IM) operative, Tehseen Akhtar, lied when he took responsibility for parking an explosives laden car outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February -- all because he wanted to remain relevant, a Delhi Police inquiry has revealed.On March 10, central intelligence agencies traced a message on Telegram from a little-known terror group called Jaish-ul-Hind claiming responsibility for parking the Scorpio vehicle with 20 gelatin sticks on a road outside Ambani’s residence, Antilia, in Mumbai on February 25.The message was traced to a phone in Akhtar’s cell in Tihar’s jail, where he is serving a death sentence in the 2013 Hyderabad blasts case. For a month, investigators from Delhi Police’s special cell interrogated Akhtar, who initially said his newly formed terror group parked the car outside Antilia but later admitted that he made the whole thing up.“We submitted a report that the claims are false. Akhtar was interrogated for several hours. Initially, he tried to mislead us by claiming that terror group was real,” said an officer familiar with the details of the inquiry.“There was also no evidence that the terror group exists. Later, he admitted he had made it up. He was just doing it to mislead investigators and show that he is still relevant. This is all mentioned in our report,”added the officer on the condition of anonymity.Police have confirmed in their report that Akhtar, Indian Mujahideen, or his self-claimed new terror group had no role in the Ambani case and have closed the probe, officials aware of the matter said.This is the latest twist in the sensational case that led to a major churn in Mumbai Police, the transfer of the city’s police commissioner and the eventual resignation of the state home minister. Sachin Vaze, a former police officer, was accused in the case and dismissed from Mumbai Police.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested four people, including former Vaze for the Antilia security scare and the murder of Mansukh Hiran, owner of the Scorpio car. Hiran’s body was found on March 5 after it washed up in a creek in Thane.The source of the Telegram message was traced to Tihar’s jail number 8 after which Delhi police was requested to join the probe. Police and jail officers then found two phones - one manufactured by Oppo and another by Vivo -- inside the cell. A team of officials from the intelligence bureau and special cell started probe into the claims.The fear was that absconding and jailed IM leaders had come together to form a new terror group.“Top operatives such as Riyaz Bhatkal, Iqbal Bhatkal, Amir Raza were never arrested. With almost all foot soldiers and key operatives of IM, such as Akhtar and Yasin Bhatkal behind bars, it is possible that the absconding leaders are using Akhtar and his social media skills to add strength to this new group. There is a possibility of Akhtar sending the Telegram message to divert the line of investigation,” an officer investigating the case said on March 16.During the inquiry, police found that an Oppo cell phone, smuggled inside the prison, was used by other prisoners. Akhtar has used the Oppo phone to send the messages.Akhtar was arrested from Naxalbari, Darjeeling in March 2014. Police said at the time that Akhtar alias Monu was the “operational chief” of IM and was heading the group’s operation, after Yasin Bhatkal’s arrest. The 30-year-old was convicted in the 2013 Hyderabad serial blast that killed 18, and charged in 2010 Varanasi blast that killed two, 2011 Mumbai serial blasts that killed 26, and 2013 Patna rally blast that killed five.NIA is currently probing the case and sought an extension of the detention period of the five accused – former Mumbai Police personnel Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane and Vinayak Shinde, and cricket bookie Naresh Gor. On Wednesday, a special court granted the agency 60 more days to file a charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-mujahideen-operative-in-tihar-jail-lied-about-antilia-bomb-scare-role-to-stay-relevant-101623449109677.html
12-06-2021||India||Mukul Roy’s move fans talk of turncoats following suit||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Mukul Roy’s return to the Trinamool Congress on Friday stoked speculation that several leaders who switched sides ahead of the assembly polls were on their way back to Bengal’s ruling party.Some turncoats such as former assembly deputy speaker Sonali Guha, former legislator Dipendu Biswas and leader Sarala Murmu have openly said that they want to return. Some others, like former forest minister Rajib Banerjee, have criticised BJP.“Just like a fish cannot survive out of water, I cannot survive without Mamata Banerjee. I am severing all ties with the BJP and would join the TMC whenever Didi calls me,” Guha told reporters.But on Friday, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee made it clear that the party was not going to accept all turncoats.“Those who had betrayed the party ahead of the elections to strengthen the BJP had bitterly attacked the TMC party during campaigns will not be taken back. Mukul never attacked the TMC. There are, however, some leaders who may have gone with Mukul and may want to come back. The party will take a decision on this,” said Banerjee.At least 34 TMC legislators and former lawmakers joined the BJP in the last two years. Around 19 of them were given assembly tickets but only five won.Earlier this week, BJP leader Rajib Banerjee warned that “people will not take kindly to threats of President’s Rule” against an elected government, referring to statements by Adhikari that post-poll violence necessitated imposition of central rule. Rajib also skipped a meeting of the state BJP on post-poll violence. Prabir Ghosal, former MLA of Uttarpara in Hooghly who joined the BJP with Rajib Banerjee, also expressed his “unhappiness”.Senior TMC leaders said several BJP leaders, including sitting legislators, are in touch with the party. “Let us see how many people are coming back,” said Roy.BJP dismissed the speculation. “We don’t know who these people are [who are willing to leave BJP and return to TMC]We are the largest party in the world and there is a democracy in the party. We are not a family-centric party. We have some ideologies which run the party. If someone feels that he is feeling breathless and would be able to serve the people by moving to another party, then BJP respects it,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s vice president in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-s-move-fans-talk-of-turncoats-following-suit-101623447104144.html
12-06-2021||India||‘May have spoken to Tendulkar’: Pilot says held no talks with BJP||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Thursday denied that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rita Bahuguna Joshi reached out to him and urged him to join their fold, something the latter claimed on a news channel .Joshi, who joined the BJP in 2016 after quitting the Congress, said Pilot was unhappy in the Congress and that she talked to him about joining the BJP.Bahuguna told a news channel that, “Congress has... lost its ground in north India and their party people are losing faith. I welcome him and for long was asking Jitin ji. I even called Sachin ji and told that people like you should be into positive politics to take the country ahead, support Narendra Modi and BJP.”Dismissing her remark, Pilot said: “Rita Bahuguna Joshi claimed that she spoke to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar. She does not have the courage to speak to me.” Joshi could not be reached for a comment.In July last year, Pilot, and his supporters left Jaipur to camp at a secret location in Haryana, threatening the stability of the Ashok Gehlot government. Pilot was removed as the state Congress president (and deputy CM), and it was only when the Gandhis intervened and set up a committee under general secretary Ajay Maken that he returned to the fold. Earlier this month, 43-year-old Pilot told HT that the panel has failed to resolve the issues and said: “It is unfortunate that so many of the party workers who worked and gave their all for getting us the mandate are not being heard.”Pilot’s comments are significant as they come soon after the defection of Uttar Pradesh Congress leader Jitin Prasada to the BJP and after a committee appointed by the Congress leadership to resolve issues in Punjab, where CM Captain Amarinder Singh is up against dissidents in his own party led by Navjot Singh Sidhu, submitted its recommendations on Thursday.Congress legislator Hemaram Choudhary, who resigned from the state assembly last month, met Pilot on Friday amid talks of internal rumblings again brewing in the party’s state unit. All India Congress Committee general secretary Bhanwar Jitendra Singh on Wednesday came out in support of Pilot, and said the promises made to him should be fulfilled.“Whatever talks happened between the [Congress] high command and in-charge general secretary (Priyanka Gandhi Vadra) should be fulfilled. I believe there is nothing wrong if he has raised an issue. If some issue is unresolved, then it can be raised. In Congress, everyone is free to speak,” he said.People familiar with the developments said that Priyanka Gandhi was working to resolve the turmoil brewing in the state unit and Pilot was slated to meet her in Delhi on Sunday. An MLA considered close to Pilot said on condition of anonymity that the former deputy CM is in touch with Priyanka Gandhi, who has asked him to be patient.However, a person associated with Vadra’s office said there was no meeting planned between her and Pilot or Rajasthan unit, adding that the two leaders have been in touch from the beginning.There was no response from the CMO till the time of press.Political analyst Manish Godha said, “The Sachin Pilot faction is well aware that the time is running out – the government in Rajasthan has completed over 2.5 years and now not much time is left. The party is already in fix with the Punjab politics where Navjot Singh Siddhu is in confrontation with CM Captain Amarinder Singh, so this is the right time for Rajasthan dissident faction to get their deal done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-have-spoken-to-tendulkar-pilot-says-held-no-talks-with-bjp-101623446746374.html
12-06-2021||India||Shrewd strategist returns to TMC after rift with BJP||Recognised as a shrewd election strategist, Mukul Roy’s tryst with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lasted only 42 months because of growing differences between him and other leaders, including state party chief Dilip Ghosh, and the relationship worsened after he was named as candidate for the assembly polls, said leaders aware of developments.Roy was a former Union minister and Rajya Sabha member but had never won an election when he was named the BJP’s candidate from Krishnanagar Uttar.“He was a TMC Rajya Sabha member and even served as minister in the Manmohan Singh government but for a person who never won a public election, an unfamiliar seat posed a risk. Yet, he made it although his son could not retain the Bijpur seat in North 24 Parganas district, Roy’s home turf. He felt some people in the party wanted to see him lose,” said a senior BJP state office-bearer.Roy joined BJP on November 3, 2017 in Delhi where Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya welcomed him. He was not given any significant post but worked hard in the districts and engineered numerous defections from the TMC. He became the BJP’s election strategist in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and helped the party post its best-ever tally of 18 seats. On September 26 last year, Roy was appointed BJP’s national vice-president but differences in the state unit became apparent when Ghosh and others skipped a programme to felicitate him.Roy was not asked to head the party’s election committee for the assembly polls as legislator Suvendu Adhikari, who switched in December 2020, grew in importance.“Rivalry between old BJP leaders and TMC turncoats were visible in the party after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. On the eve of the state polls, we found many former TMC leaders getting divided in camps and owing allegiance to leaders in Delhi. The effect was felt on the ground,” said a second state BJP leader.The rift only widened after BJP slumped to a loss in the election, winning just 77 seats to TMC’s 213. “After he defeated Mamata Banerjee, Adhikari was made leader of the opposition and Roy was asked to nominate his name. This became a bone of contention,” said the leader quoted above.BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra also hinted at factional differences. “Lobbying and projecting one or two leaders while ignoring and insulting capable leaders, has had its effect. Bengal BJP should stop this lobby politics immediately and utilize leaders in accordance to their merit,” Hazra wrote on social media on Friday.Roy’s political life began in the Youth Congress, where he quickly grew close to then opposition leader Banerjee and was one of the founding members of the TMC in January 1998.Banerjee wanted him to be the party’s face in Delhi and coordinate with national and regional parties. He was sent to the Rajya Sabha where he served from 2006 to 2017. In 2006, he was also appointed TMC’s national general secretary that made him the party’s second-in-command.When Banerjee resigned as Union railways minister in 2011 to become Bengal’s chief minister, she picked Roy as her replacement in the Union cabinet for a few months. Before that, he was minister of state for shipping for about two years.But he fell out with the party in 2015 and was removed from all posts amid reports of differences with leaders close to Abhishek Banerjee, Banerjee’s nephew. In 2017, he resigned with his name shrouded in corruption allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrewd-strategist-returns-to-tmc-after-rift-with-bjp-101623446526822.html
12-06-2021||India||UN arm’s report praises govt over Aspirational Districts programme||A United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) report has found India’s Aspirational Districts Programme, the development drive across 112 most backward districts, is a “catalyst for expediting development” that brought about “major changes” in sectors such as health care, nutrition, and education.The first UNDP appraisal of the Aspirational Districts Programme (ADP) also recommended a realignment of sectors and focus, the addition of topics such as environment and gender, and pointed out that disparities among districts does not facilitate fair competition.The report mentioned that, in these districts, the health sector has seen the setting up model anganwadi centres, efforts to increase number of institutional deliveries, reduction in Severe Acute Malnutrition among children, and improving antenatal care, among other measures.In education, the UNDP noted that several districts have adopted innovative methods to suit local requirements. It pointed to an app developed in Jharkhand’s Godda that converts syllabus into smart classes to reach over 70,000 students.The report also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said, “the commitment shown by the top most political leadership” has “greatly contributed in its success”, underlining regular monitoring of the programme.The appraisal said that while most districts highlighted their efforts focused in health and nutrition, education, and even agriculture and water resources, “the sectors of Skill Development and Financial Inclusion require immediate prioritisation among the Aspirational Districts to reach their full goals”.It also noted that sectors such as infrastructure indicated significant improvements, but still have scope for further improvement, especially in the “more remote districts and those plagued with the double burden of countering LWE activities”.Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, “We picked up 49 indicators... We rank districts on a real time basis. We are basically hand-holding these districts that account for 21% of the country’s population.”The report, however, highlighted that sectors with lesser weightage need improvement, require alternative solutions to bridge gaps of technical expertise, while the “lack of human resources and technical capacities at the district and block level” remain as a challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-arm-s-report-praises-govt-over-aspirational-districts-programme-101623445712970.html
12-06-2021||India||SC agrees to end proceedings against two Italian marines||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to close all proceedings in India against the Italian marines who killed two Indian fishermen off the coast of Kerala in 2012 after being informed that compensation of ₹10 crore for the families of the victims has been deposited in the registry of the top court.“We accept what you are proposing. We will pass our order on Tuesday,” said the bench of justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah. It added that it was of the view that the compensation money should be transferred to the Kerala high court so that disbursement could be properly monitored.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, accepted the court’s suggestion, so did the counsel for the Kerala government and the Republic of Italy.In April, the Centre informed the Supreme Court that the families of two Indian fishermen killed by Italian marines have been “adequately” compensated as it sought expeditious closure of proceedings before the SC and a criminal trial pending before a special court in Delhi.According to the Centre’s compliance affidavit dated January 5, which HT has reviewed, the Italian government offered to pay a total of ₹10 crore in damages. The families of the two deceased fishermen have agreed to a compensation of ₹4 crore each in addition to the ₹2 crore already paid by the Italian government. The injured owner of the boat also consented to receiving damages of ₹2 crore.Mehta informed the bench headed by then Chief Justice of India SA Bobde that the victims’ families were paid the compensation, as ruled by an international tribunal in May 2020.However, on being informed that the compensation of ₹10 crore was yet to be disbursed to the families of the victims, the top court asked Italy to first deposit the money with the ministry of external affairs, which will subsequently deposit it in the top court for releasing it to the victims.The case pending before the Supreme Court is an appeal filed by the two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held that Kerala had jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled that the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting at the fishermen was in defence of neither the vessel nor the state.The marines and the Italian government approached the top court, which shifted the trial to a special court in Delhi in 2013 where it went on till the Supreme Court stayed it in 2015 after taking note of proceedings pending before the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at The Hague, Netherlands. Meanwhile, the marines were allowed to go back home on an undertaking by the Italian ambassador that they would come back when required.The arbitral proceedings before PCA were instituted under the United Nations Convention on Law of Seas on June 26, 2015, after Italy served a notice on India under the international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of natural marine resources.In May 2020, the tribunal ruled that the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials when the incident occurred. It, therefore, ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them. At the same time, the tribunal held that Italy violated India’s right to navigation by firing at the fishing boat and said that the country would have to compensate India for loss of life and damage to property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-agrees-to-end-proceedings-against-two-italian-marines-101623444785906.html
12-06-2021||India||Dalit activist, poet Dr Siddalingaiah dies of Covid-19||Poet and Dalit rights activist who used his poetry to raise awareness about social injustice, Dr Siddalingaiah, succumbed on Friday to Covid-19. He was 67.Known for his humour and hard-hitting poetry, Siddalingaiah, has also been a member of Karnataka’s legislative council twice.“Dr.Siddalingaiah narrated the pain of Dalits through his writings and awakened them. He endured the pain and his poems gave the required blaze to the Dalit movement. His services to the state and Kannada language as Chairman, Kannada Development Authority and as a two-time MLC are commendable,” BS Yediyurappa, the chief minister said on Friday.“In his death, we have lost a great writer with social concern, who strived for the betterment of the under-privileged classes. I pray to Almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family and followers to bear the loss,” the chief minister added.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition said that Siddalingaiah had made his poetry a weapon through which to take the fight for social justice forward.His poem, Yarige Banthu, ellige bantu, nalvathayelara swatantrya (who got it, where did it come from, (19)47’s independence), propelled him as one of the leading voices of the movement, converting the song into an anthem which is used even now in protests and other rallies of backward communities.The poet was one of the most prominent voices for social justice and was one of the co-founders of the Dalit Sangharsha Samithi.“Dr. Siddalingaiah will be remembered for his prolific writings, poetry and contributions towards social justice. Saddened by his passing. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a post on Twitter.“The demise of Dr Siddalingaiah has left a huge void in Kannada literature. An eminent poet, social activist and academician, he became a fierce voice for the poor and marginalized and also enriched public discourse through his writings. My condolences to his family & followers,” Ram Nath Kovind, President of India shared on Twitter.The Karnataka government announced that his last rites would be performed with full state honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-activist-poet-dr-siddalingaiah-dies-of-covid19-101623439168173.html
12-06-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath meets BJP brass amid talk of rejig||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday, and later held discussions with Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda.Adityanath also met Nadda and President Ram Nath Kovind amid speculation of churning in the party’s state unit ahead of assembly elections early next year. “Met honourable PM Narendra Modi today and received his guidance,” Adityanath tweeted after the meeting.The meetings came on a day BJP vice-president Mukul Roy switched to the Trinamool Congress and speculation arose that a reshuffle of the Union cabinet was on the cards.The Adityanath-led government has been battling dissension and criticism of its Covid management with both opposition leaders and senior BJP lawmakers attacking the administration. The party also performed poorly in recently held village body elections, finishing behind the Samajwadi Party and failing to win in Modi’s home constituency of Varanasi and state capital Lucknow.A top party functionary said the state’s Covid response and development projects were discussed.“There are several development projects such as the Jevar airport and the Purvanchal Expressway that are nearing completion, and the CM wanted to discuss this with the PM. The party’s performance in the recently concluded panchayat elections and the upcoming state elections were also part of the discussions,” said the functionary on condition of anonymity.The developments came a day after Shah met Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel and Praveen Kumar Nishad of the Nishad Party , both allies of BJP in Uttar Pradesh , triggering speculation that the party leadership wanted to iron out differences. “There is talk of accommodating the allies in the state’s council of ministers. But it all depends on Delhi (the central leadership),” said a second functionary. Apna Dal has nine MLAs while Nishad Party has one.A third leader said that in his meetings with Adityanath on Thursday, Shah suggested that the UP leadership needed to develop consensus and address concerns of factionalism within the state unit.“The party has seen two of its oldest allies, Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal ,walk away so the central leadership has called for better ties with the allies. This message was also relayed to the UP CM,” the third person said.The Sena broke its 35-year-old relationship with BJP in 2019 after disagreement over the Maharashtra chief minister’s position and the Akali Dal walked out of the National Democratic Alliance last year over the three controversial farm bills.In Delhi, Modi’s meeting with Nadda and Shah, which came soon after his meeting with Adityanath, was meant to take stock of the government’s progress and next year’s state elections, said a fourth person aware of developments. HT learns that all union ministers have been asked by the Prime Minister’s Office to prepare presentations on the work accomplished by their ministries in the past two years. They have also been asked to give an account of key schemes that account for the bulk of their budget or schemes that offer direct benefits to the people.“After Corona, there has been an economic slowdown and so many schemes that required more funding have not been able to get the extra allocation. The review exercise will take into account the schemes that require additional funds; and assess which of social schemes can be expanded further or tweaked,” this person added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-meets-bjp-brass-amid-talk-of-rejig-101623439106863.html
12-06-2021||India||Monsoon to cover entire country by June 16, a fortnight ahead of schedule||The South-west monsoon is likely to cover the entire country except south Rajasthan and Kutch region of Gujarat during the next 5-6 days, at least a fortnight ahead of schedule, IMD said in a statement on Friday. Monsoon has advanced into many parts of south Gujarat region, south Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, and most parts of North Bay of Bengal and most parts of West Bengal, on Friday.The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Raisen, Damoh, Umaria, Pendra Road, Bolangir, Puri, Canning and Malda.The conditions are favourable for further advance of south-west monsoon into some more parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts Chhattisgarh and Odisha, entire West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar, some parts of east Uttar Pradesh and remaining parts of North Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours.IMD scientists said conditions are also favourable for monsoon onset over some parts of northwest India including Delhi between June 12 and 15 owing to rain and thunderstorms expected in the region. Monsoon normally makes its onset over Delhi around June 27.A low pressure area has developed over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts with the associated cyclonic circulation extending upto mid-tropospheric levels. It is likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours and will move west-northwest across Odisha. Under its influence; widespread rainfall activity with isolated to scattered heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over most parts of east India and adjoining Central India from Friday onwards.“Monsoon has been very active this year right from onset. The westerly and southwesterly winds are very strong over Arabian Sea and now a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal is pulling the monsoon flow. Both branches on the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal side are supporting the advancement of monsoon over the country except dry regions of Rajasthan and Kutch,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.IMD last year announced new monsoon dates based on onset data from 1961 to 2019, and withdrawal data from 1971 to 2019. Until 2019, the onset and withdrawal dates were determined based on records between 1901 and 1940. As per the old monsoon progress dates, the monsoon would cover the entire country only by July 15.Extremely heavy rain (≥ 20 cm) is likely over Odisha on Friday; over Chhattisgarh during the weekend; over East Madhya Pradesh on June 13 and 14; over Vidarbha over the weekend. Due to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast in association with the low pressure area; widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy rains are likely to continue over coastal & adjoining ghat districts of Maharashtra and coastal Karnataka during June 11 to 15. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala and Konkan till June 15.Due to west-northwest movement of the low-pressure area and its remnant, widespread and heavy rain is very likely over parts of northwest India (excluding Rajasthan) during June 12 to 14. Very heavy rain is also very likely over Uttarakhand on June 12.It is also expected that the onset of monsoon over some parts of northwest India will happen next week between June 12 and 15. “The low-pressure system will move west-northwestwards and there will be easterly winds in the region. We are expecting widespread rains in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab etc because of this. Conditions may be favourable for monsoon onset over this region including Delhi during that period,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Thunderstorms are likely to be especially severe over West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, northwest Indian Himalayas and will be accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning and strong gusty winds. This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals working outdoors, IMD has warned.Monsoon’s progress over the entire country has advanced in recent years according to IMD scientists.“We had issued new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates last year because we noticed that monsoon dates had advanced in some regions and delayed in some regions in recent years due to many factors including global climate change. The thresholds have changed now. For example, the new onset dates are delayed by 3 to 7 days in many parts of central, west and east India because we noticed this delay while the complete coverage of monsoon in the country is advanced.“This year is exceptional because monsoon has covered parts of central India very early. Monsoon has covered the entire country by June end in the past also but this year its trajectory is exceptional. Monsoon dates have definitely changed in recent decades, its a very dynamic system. Its movement is strongly influenced by low pressure systems forming over Bay of Bengal. I remember a very long time ago the first monsoon low would form over Bay of Bengal around June 15, but now its forming early as you can see,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.“Last year also monsoon had covered the entire country by around June 26 so its not rare. The movement of monsoon depends on how early a low pressure system forms. Its active progress will sustain till the low pressure system sustains and then monsoon progress may weaken temporarily. In recent years monsoon onset dates have advanced because of a change in its pattern,” said DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research services at IMD Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-cover-entire-country-by-june-16-a-fortnight-ahead-of-schedule-101623439047583.html
12-06-2021||India||Study flags ‘unfortunate location’ of power projects, climate crisis||The severity of the February 7 glacial overflow that triggered a flash flood and swept away two hydroelectric plants in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district can be attributed to the “unfortunate location” of the power projects downstream, the effect of climate crisis, and the topography of the mountain, according to a study authored by 50 scientists.The paper, published in the journal Science on June 10, underscored the risks of rapid expansion of hydropower projects in unstable regions that are already affected by global warming, which leads to the melting of glacial ice — an issue several environmentalists have repeatedly pointed out before and after the February disaster.A glacial breach in the upper reaches of the Himalayas on February 7 and led to a flash flood that swept away the Rishiganga hydel dam project and the National Thermal Power Corporations’s Tapovan Vishnugad project — killing over 200 people, mostly workers at the two sites.Researchers found that the height of the overflow, at 5,500m above sea level, provided ample gravitational energy while the rock and ice ratio resulted in near-complete melting of the ice, making the flow of the debris faster and easier downstream. “The unfortunate location of multiple hydropower plants” in the direct path of the flow of the debris and water was the third reason for the severity of the flash flood, the paper said.“The disaster indicates that the long-term sustainability of planned hydroelectric power projects must account for both current and future social and environmental conditions while mitigating risks to infrastructure, personnel, and downstream communities,” said the study based on research led by the geoscience department of the University of Calgary (Canada).Researchers noted that a majority of the casualties, 190 out of 204, were workers of the two plants who had little to no warning.“This leads us to question what could have happened if a warning system had been installed. We estimate that a suitably designed early warning system might have allowed for 6 to 10 min of warning before the arrival of the debris flow at the Tapovan project...,” the study said, adding that a new flood warning system has since been installed near Raini, where the impact was felt.Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on March 15 said that the 7 under-construction hydel plants along the Ganga will be allowed to go ahead, but no new project will be given authorisation in the ecologically sensitive region. The Centre’s stand will be communicated to the Supreme Court, which is hearing on the issue, said a senior ministry official, on the condition of anonymity.Reseachers also warned of more such disasters in sensitive areas such as the Himalayas as the impact of global warming is increasingly felt. “The Chamoli event may be seen in the context of a change in geomorphological sensitivity and might therefore be seen as a precursor for an increase in such events as climate warming proceeds,” the paper said.Experts and activists agree. “We also conducted research on the February 7 disaster... It demonstrated very clearly that the barrages of Rishi Ganga and Tapovan hydropower projects acted as force amplifiers for debris...The Ravi Chopra committee have argued again and again that hydropower projects in the paraglacial zone above 2,000 m height obstruct river flow and are dangerous,” said Navin Juyal, a retired geologist at the Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad.“...To save investments in a few hydropower projects are we willing to lose more lives and destroy the river? I don’t understand their stand. If another such disaster happens in monsoon, we have had it,” said Mallika Bhanot, member of Ganga Ahvaan, an Uttarakhand-based NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-disaster-study-flags-unfortunate-location-of-power-projects-climate-crisis-101623439048152.html
12-06-2021||India||Makeshift cremation site in Bengaluru closed as Covid toll dips||Bengaluru: The Bengaluru district administration has shut down one of the three the temporary crematoriums in the city on Friday and is planning to shut the other two soon, as the daily number of deaths due to Covid-19 saw a sharp decline, officials said. The city reported on 48 Covid-19 related deaths on Friday, while the death figures on Thursday and Wednesday were 47 and 50 respectively. The weekly Covid case fatality rate (CFR) in Bengaluru peaked during the May 29-June 4 week to touch 7%, the highest seen in 2021 so far. During this period, the city witnessed 25,699 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,797 deaths. Out of the three temporary, open crematoriums in and around Bengaluru, one has been shut down and a call of the others will be taken soon, officials added. The three open crematoriums in Tavarekere, Anekal and Giddanahalli were opened in early May after the 13 electric crematoriums were unable to handle the number of dead bodies coming in every day. Out of these three, Giddanahalli has been shut down. “During the peak, we were getting around 25-30 dead bodies a day, while our capacity was to cremate eight bodies a day,” recalled Vinod, in charge of the Summanhalli electric crematoriums. At Tavarekere open crematorium, only 5 sheds were available prior to the second wave of Covid-19. However, as the number of deaths increased, 41 sheds were created so that cremations could be conducted. “We saw the highest number of deaths on May 7, when 84 bodies were cremated at Taverakere,” said Nagaveni N, executive officer, Bangalore South Taluk Panchayat, who is in charge of the open crematorium. “On Wednesday and Thursday, we didn’t get a single body. There were two cases today (Thursday). But since last week, the numbers are low,” she added. Meanwhile, the situation was similar Anekal, where no dead bodies were brought on Wednesday. Since two other electric crematoriums Peenya and Banashankari are undergoing repairs, these two Anekal and Tavarekere  have been kept operational, said officials of the district administration. “We will be winding up operations at the other crematoriums as well. While the infrastructure that we have created, like the sheds meant for cremations, will remain. However, the human resource like the contract labourers and the supervisors will be relieved of duties in the due time,” said Bengaluru Urban deputy commissioner, C J Manjunath. Even at the electric crematoriums, the employees are breathing a sigh of relief. Vinod, a supervisor at Summanhalli crematorium said that in the past one week, they received more non-Covid cases. “We are getting around 10-15 dead bodies per day and most of them are non-Covid cases. If you look at today’s (Friday) numbers, there were only four cases,” he said. Raghavendra, an employee at the crematorium said that they were finally able to get some time to sleep. “During the peak of the pandemic, we were working till 2 am. We were cremating so many bodies that the furnace broke down at one point. It took some time before we could get it running. I hadn’t gone home during the peak, now we are getting some time to relax,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/makeshift-cremation-site-in-bengaluru-closed-as-covid-toll-dips-101623437846770.html
12-06-2021||India||61 Sri Lankans arrested in Mangaluru, Madurai||Bengaluru/Chennai: In a joint operation, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu Police on Friday arrested 61 Sri Lankan nationals who were found living illegally in the two states. Eleven others were also arrested for helping the Sri Lankans with their stay.While 38 Sri Lankans were arrested from Mangaluru in Karnataka, 23 were held from Madurai in Tamil Nadu. Besides them, seven and four agents, were arrested from the two places, respectively. According to Karnataka Police, the Sri Lankan nationals had entered India through the sea around March. After staying in Madurai for a while, some of them moved to Bengaluru and then to Mangaluru, they added. Mangaluru city police commissioner N Sashi Kumar said the arrests were made based on a tip-off from Tamil Nadu Police. “We have also arrested seven Indian nationals who were helping these Sri Lankan nationals. All the accused have been booked under relevant sections,” he said. Tamil Nadu police are yet to ascertain the nationality of the agents arrested. As per information available with Karnataka Police, the Sri Lankan nationals had paid ₹10 lakh Sri Lankan rupees (around ₹3 lakh in Indian currency) to an agent based in Sri Lanka to take them to Canada. The group was slated to leave in container vessels, cargo ships or private boats from Tamil Nadu. “They were staying in lodges in Tamil Nadu and after the police checks intensified during the state elections, some of them were shifted to Shantinagar in Bengaluru. Later, they split into smaller groups and arrived in Mangaluru,” Kumar said.“Our Q branch police have secured them and legal processes are going on for their remand,” a senior official in the Karnataka intelligence department said, not wishing to be named. Following the arrests, a case was registered at Mangaluru South Police station under sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) and 370 (buying or disposing off any person as a slave) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code, section 14 of Foreigners Act, 1964 and section 12 (1) (a) of Passport Act, 1967, Karnataka Police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/61-sri-lankans-arrested-in-mangaluru-madurai-101623437606814.html
12-06-2021||India||Covid risk low in inoculated health staff: Study||Vaccines against coronavirus disease protect against severe disease and death, shows a study by Christian Medical College, Vellore, that found 9.6% of completely vaccinated health care workers contracted the viral infection as against 27.2% of those who were unvaccinated.Of those who did get the infection after completing a 14-day period following both doses of the vaccine, only 0.9% were hospitalised as compared to 4% among those who were unvaccinated. Fewer patients needed oxygen support and admission to the intensive care unit among those vaccinated as compared to the unvaccinated group. Among the completely vaccinated individuals, only 0.06% needed oxygen therapy and 0.03% had to be admitted to the ICU. In comparison, 0.7% of the unvaccinated individuals needed oxygen therapy and 0.5% needed ICU care.“Vaccines are working well! Good against infection (in healthcare=high transmission), great against severe disease. Here is the 1st data from healthcare workers at @OffCMCVellore …. Next step, study protection against variants,” vaccine expert and professor of microbiology at the institute Dr Gagandeep Kang said in a tweet.The incidence of infection among the fully vaccinated health care workers is higher than what has been reported in other hospitals from India and abroad. While Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) reported 1.6% infections in fully vaccinated individuals, Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo hospital reported a figure of 2.62%.According to the CMC study yet to be published in Mayo Proceedings, a study of 23,324 health care workers from the UK showed 3.8% got infected among those vaccinated and 38% among the unvaccinated. Infection occurred in 6.9% of the vaccinated health care workers, according to a study from Jerusalem.However, a study from a Delhi hospital that has been treating only Covid-19 patients for over a year saw an 11% infection rate in vaccinated health care workers. The researchers of the study say that the higher rate of infection was likely a function of exposure to the virus among health care workers and the severe surge of cases with the Alpha and Delta variants in April and May.“We realise that future waves can at best be prevented or at worst mitigated through aggressive and widespread vaccination,” the CMC-Vellore study concluded.The study reported that among people who tested positive during the study’s duration – vaccinated and unvaccinated – the female to male ratio was 3:2 and the median age for infection was 33 years. Most of the infections also happened in April coinciding with the surge in cases of Covid-19 across the country.The study acknowledged a shortage of vaccine doses could have led to many not getting their second shot. “Some health care workers (17%) could not take the second dose, initially due to vaccine shortage and subsequently despite vaccine availability, due to changes in guidelines on the interval between doses,” the study said.“No vaccine is 100% effective, but several studies have shown that the vaccines offer close to 100% protection against severe disease and deaths. To my mind, the report from CMC Vellore is one of the best studies to come out of India so far; it is very systemically done and shows that the need for hospitalisation, ICU care, and oxygen support was also less among those vaccinated,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of pulmonary and critical care and former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.He added, “What the CMC study also shows is that the number of infections was higher among those who had received just one dose in comparison to those who got both the doses. So, the previous thought that one dose of Covishield can offer sufficient immunity is not true.”A recent pre-print study from the National Institute of Virology shows that the neutralisation titre of Covaxin reduced 2.7 fold with the Delta variant in circulation in Delhi during the April-May surge. Lower antibodies, however, does not mean that a person is not protected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-risk-low-in-inoculated-health-staff-study-101623437548457.html
12-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 21 with fewer curbs||Amid a decline in Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu on Friday decided to extend the ongoing statewide lockdown till June 21 with several relaxations, including reopening of the state liquor shops from 10 am to 5 pm. The lockdown, which initially came into force on May 10 and later extended thrice, was slated to end on June 14.As per latest guidelines which will come into force from June 14, 27 districts, including Chennai, that have a low active caseload, will be permitted to run beauty parlours, salons and spas with 50% occupancy and without the use of air conditioners from 6 am to 5 pm. Public parks in these areas will be allowed to remain open from 6 am to 9 pm. Housekeeping will be allowed with e-registration and call taxis and auto rickshaws will also be allowed to ply. The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) liquor stores that are shut since May 10 will be allowed to function from 10 am to 5 pm. Schools, colleges and universities can also resume operations for admissions. Shops repairing electronic items and those selling household items such as mixers and refrigerators can function from 9 am to 2 pm. Industries can function with a capacity of 33% of the total workforce. IT and ITES companies will be allowed to function with 20% workforce or a maximum of 10 employees. Fewer relaxations were announced for hotspot districts, including Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, where the active caseload remains high. The guidelines mandated e-registration for commuting to work. Electricians, plumbers, motor technicians, carpenters and other self-employed workers will be allowed to work between 9 am and 5 pm. Rental vehicles and taxis can operate with three passengers, and autos with two passengers.“As we open up, we must remember the virus is here to stay so we have to continue wearing masks, maintain social distance and get vaccinated,” Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology, said. As of Friday, 15,759 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu, taking the total to 2,324,597. At 2,056, Coimbatore reported the highest number of new cases.The number of deaths reported in the state stood at 378, taking the overall tally to 28,906.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-june-21-with-fewer-curbs-101623437547867.html
12-06-2021||India||More cases of illegal tree cutting emerge in Kerala||After reports of rampant tree felling in Kerala’s ecologically fragile Wayanad came to light, many similar incidents surfaced in Idukki and a few other districts on Friday, forest officials said. They added that accused in most cases misused a government order that allowed felling of protected rosewood and teak trees on revenue land allotted to farmers. At least 54 cases, including 42 in Wayanad alone, have registered so far, with more such incidents being reported from Idukki, Thrissur, Kasaragod and Kannur districts. Some of the accused have moved the Karnataka high court for anticipatory bail, an official aware of the developments said. One of the accused, Roji Augustine, on Thursday told a news channel that he paid ₹25 lakh to influence forest officials. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the government will take up the issue seriously adding that a high-level probe team has been constituted. “It is a serious issue, and we will not spare anyone found guilty. A multi-level team comprising crime branch, vigilance and forest officials has been constituted to probe the incident,” he said. Five cases of tree felling in protected areas were registered in Idukki and three each in Thrissur and Kannur districts on Friday, forest officials said. Meanwhile, divisional forest officer P Dhanesh Kumar, who unearthed the large-scale tree felling incidents in Wayanad, has been transferred to another forest division. When asked about the transfer, Karnataka forest minister A K Saseendran said he was not aware of this. However, senior officials at the forest department said it was a routine transfer. As the issue snowballed into a major controversy, former revenue minister E Chandrasekhar said the order to fell trees in the land allotted to farmers before 1964 was withdrawn after reports of its misuse. “It was a long-pending demand from farmers who were allotted revenue land before 1964. The government did it with good intention, but it was misused by some vested interests, and it (the order) was withdrawn when misuse came to light,” he said. Opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have alleged that revenue and forest ministers of the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government were aware of the large-scale felling of trees from protected areas. The issue came to light two weeks ago when a truckload of rosewood used for making high-quality furniture was seized from Ernakulam. The state forest department found the trees were axed by violatingthe October 2020 order that restricted the felling of trees grown on land assigned under the Kerala Land Assignment Act. One of the officials cited above said that smugglers used the order to also cut trees on private and forest land. Trees worth ₹50 crore have been seized so far from different parts of the state, the official added. However, conservationists in Kerala said it was just tip of the iceberg. “We suspect trees worth ₹500 crore were smuggled. Officials and leaders are acting as if they were quite unaware of this. But we suspect it was done with the connivance of all,” said N Badusha, a conservationist from Wayanad.Meanwhile, Union minister of state for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, who hails from Kerala, on Friday visited Muttil in Wayanad, one of the tree-felling sites. He said timber mafia used the order in connivance with officials and politicians to loot forest wealth. “Those who condemned authorities in Brazil for fire in Amazon forests a few months ago were conspiring here to cut large tracts of forest land that will cause irreparable damage to the environment,” the Union minister said, adding that the state government was hand in glove with timber mafia. He also questioned the silence of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, a member of parliament from Wayanad, over the incident. Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday sought a report into the incident. Leader of opposition in Kerala legislative assembly VD Satheesan said he will visit Wayanad on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-cases-of-illegal-tree-cutting-emerge-in-kerala-101623437486872.html
12-06-2021||India||Mukul Roy’s decision to quit BJP driven by differences brewing since last year||For 67-year-old Mukul Roy, the tryst with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ended in 42 months mainly because of the differences between different lobbies of state and central apparatchiks, said leaders aware of the development. “Even before the recent assembly polls were announced, many BJP leaders suspected that Roy might leave. Although he contested the polls and won the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district, he was staying aloof,” said a senior officer-bearer of the Bengal BJP who did not want to be quoted. “He was a TMC Rajya Sabha member and even served as minister in the Manmohan Singh government but for a person who never won a public election, an unfamiliar seat posed a risk. Yet, he made it although his son could not retain the Bijpur seat in North 24 Parganas district, the home turf of Roy. He felt some people in the party wanted to see him lose,” the leader added. Roy joined the BJP on November 3, 2017, at the party’s headquarters in Delhi where Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya welcomed him in front of the media. “I have full faith that the BJP will gain from Mukul Roy’s experience and grow in Bengal,” Prasad said at that press conference. Roy was not given any significant post and was inducted as a member of the national executive committee. Roy, however, worked hard in the districts and engineered numerous defections from the TMC. He became the BJP’s election strategist in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the saffron camp’s seat tally shot up from two to 18 and that of the TMC fell from 34 to 22. On September 26 last year, Roy was made the national vice-president of the party, which everyone saw as a reward for his performance. But differences in the state BJP became apparent at a programme held in Kolkata to felicitate Roy for his elevation in the BJP hierarchy. It was marked by the absence of state president Dilip Ghosh and a host of other leaders. They were all in the districts, holding rallies in support of the new farm laws. Vijayvargiya, who was made election observer for West Bengal and national secretary and co-in-charge of West Bengal Arvind Menon were also felicitated at that programme. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta addressed the audience among whom the overwhelming presence of leaders and workers who defected from the TMC was noticeable. “I was born in Bengal but now I am working for the BJP central unit. If the BJP leadership wants to entrust me with any responsibility I will carry it out sincerely. Ousting the Mamata Banerjee government should be our only goal,” Roy said during a short speech. This immediately stoked speculations that Roy might be made head of the election committee for the assembly polls which was due in about six months. “That did not happen. Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP in December, last year, was projected as a policy decider. After he defeated Mamata Banerjee in the assembly polls, Adhikari was made leader of the opposition in the state assembly and Roy was asked to nominate his name. This became a bone of contention,” said a state BJP leader who did not want to be quoted. “Rivalry between old BJP leaders and TMC turncoats was visible in the party after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. On the eve of the assembly polls, we found many former TMC leaders getting divided in camps and owing allegiance to leaders in Delhi. The effect was felt on the ground with the TMC winning 213 of the state’s 294 seats against the BJP’s 77,” said the leader. Former TMC Lok Sabha member Anupam Hazra, who was made a national secretary in place of Rahul Sinha, a veteran leader, in September 2020, spoke out on social media on Friday after Roy joined the TMC. “Lobbying in the Bengal unit of the BJP and projecting one or two leaders while ignoring and insulting capable leaders, has had its effect. The Bengal BJP should stop this lobby politics immediately and utilize leaders in accordance to their merit. Hope I will be invited to the coming party meetings according to protocol. I joined the BJP during its bad days and I will remain in the party. I am writing this with an aim to stop the dirty lobbying,” Hazra wrote in his social media post. Reacting to Roy’s exit, Dilip Ghosh said, “I don’t know if it is a loss because his presence did not yield much profit.” As a founder member of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) since its birth in January 1998, Roy was one of the closest aides of Mamata Banerjee. She wanted him to be the party’s face in Delhi and coordinate with national and regional parties. Roy was sent to the Rajya Sabha where he served from 2006 to 2017. In 2006, he was also made national general secretary of the party which made him the second leader in the hierarchy. In 2011, when Mamata Banerjee ousted the Left Front government and resigned as Union railway minister, Roy served as minister of state for railways for a few months. Before that he was minister of state for shipping for about two years. During the assembly polls, Mamata Banerjee added to speculations about her stand on Roy when she drew a comparison between Roy and Adhikari. “Poor Mukul has been fielded from Nadia district although he hails from North 24 Parganas. He is not as bad as Suvendu,” Banerjee said at a rally on March 30. Her public statement convinced many that Roy would eventually return to TMC which he left over differences with leaders close to Abhishek Banerjee. He was suspended for six years for anti-party activities. “With Banerjee now holding the post of national general secretary the old equations no longer exist,” said a TMC leader. Recognised as a shrewd strategist rather than a street leader, and often referred to as Chanakya, Roy managed to engineer defections in the TMC because he knows the strengths and weakness of the party in not only the North 24 Parganas, his home turf, but also several other districts. “Roy knows Bengal like the palm of his hand. The poll results have proved that nobody is indispensable in the TMC. However, Roy’s return may prompt many leaders and grassroots level workers, who switched sides under his influence, to follow his footsteps. Such an exodus will affect the image of BJP’s national leaders who welcomed deserters in such large numbers in 2019,” said colum||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-s-decision-to-quit-bjp-was-driven-by-differences-brewing-since-last-year-101623437428394.html
12-06-2021||India||Reviewing reducing gap between jabs, says govt||India’s vaccination expert group is reviewing the decision to delay the second doses of Covishield, a top government expert said on Friday, as new scientific evidence from other countries suggest a single dose may not be adequately protective against the Delta variant of the coronavirus that has swept across the country.Vaccine efficacy rates plummeted to under 35% in people who had only their first dose when exposed to the variant, data from the UK showed last month, prompting many experts to urge the government to reverse its decision to make a mandatory 12-week gap between doses. The latest among these was by Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Also Read | Wide variation in coverage across states marks India’s vaccine drive“His suggestion has been made based on data in the context of mutations in the virus; he has quoted two-three quality studies and suggested the interval should be reduced again to 8 weeks as was practised earlier. Let it be examined by our NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India). It is a process. Even United Kingdom must have changed it after reviewing the data by scientific committees and experts,” said Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Aayog.“Earlier they (UK officials) were giving it at 12 weeks and we were giving the second dose at a shorter interval because our experts felt it wasn’t safe to increase the interval. The decisions are made based on scientific evidences,” said Paul.Serum Institute of India (SII) locally manufacturers Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 AZD1222 vaccine under the brand name Covishield. The vaccine was tested using a four week prime-boost regimen but real world data from UK showed it led to a better protection when the second dose was delayed by 8-12 weeks.“We will assign the responsibility to our scientific forum created in the country for the purpose. I am sure they are already addressing the issue, and will examine it keeping in mind the Indian context; the Indian disease pattern and the presence of variants circulating here. They need to take a comprehensive view and they will. We will abide by the decision made by the experts in this regard. Having said that, there is no need to panic, and switch rules overnight; these decisions must be taken carefully,” Paul added.Experts said the four weeks is ideal in a pandemic situation to administer the second dose. “In the middle of the pandemic, postponing the second dose is not logical. For a vaccine like Covishield, 4 weeks gap is ideal, and if there is no hurry then for getting optimal immunity, 12 weeks’ time is good. However, part of the problem was short supply of vaccines which is why the gap was increased in the first place,” said Jacob John, former head, department of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Earlier this week, the centre took a decision on reducing the period for a certain category of people who have to travel abroad either for studies or employment opportunities, and those who are part of the Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympic.“In case of Covishield, we decreased the length of the period based on existing evidence for those who have taken their first dose and need to travel for specified reasons as the modifications will help them complete their vaccine dosage,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.The vaccination process is picking pace in the country, said Paul, while adding that it was set to improve further in coming weeks with vaccine supplies increasing.“It is obvious that as compared to the previous month, this month there were more vaccine doses available for use, and it will increase further. The process will further streamline under the Centre-state collaboration, especially vaccine procurement and distribution. Our request to people is make effort and take both the doses on time, particularly for health care and front line workers, and beneficiaries above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reviewing-reducing-gap-between-jabs-says-govt-101623437368679.html
12-06-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, Tamil Nadu replies on proper Covid toll record||The Madras high court said on Friday there are grievances across the country that all Covid deaths may not have been appropriately recorded, seeking responses from the Union and Tamil Nadu governments on the matter.The court said accurate recording is necessary for families to avail themselves of relief from state and central governments offered for Covid deaths and also for the future to help in studies dealing with the pandemic.A bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations on a public interest litigation that sought state officials be directed to implement an effective policy to report the cause of death correctly. That should to be in accordance with the law, ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines and other relevant parameters, including international standards, to enable people to benefit from government schemes without any hindrance, the plea added.“All over the country, there are grievances that all the deaths that have been caused by the pandemic may not have been appropriately recorded...As far as this state is concerned, there are reports in some quarters that unless a positive test report was issued in respect of the patient, the subsequent death would not be recorded as a Covid death,” the court said, acknowledging that the petition had a raised an important point.This came a day after Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian told reporters that Covid-19 patients who test negative at the time of death and die due to other complications such as heart attacks and breathlessness will not be counted under Covid deaths. He was responding to charges by opposition leaders that people were losing financial compensation due to Covid not being listed as the cause of mortality in death certificates. Subramanian said the state is following ICMR guidelines.The court said it is necessary to conduct an appropriate study and, if required, by a specialised team. “It would also be fit and proper to require death certificates already issued to be revised, if necessary; if only not to deny the relief due to the family of the deceased in terms of the several schemes announced by the central and the state governments,” the bench observed.The court said that it wasn’t attempting “to go into the specialised domain of doctors” but “it is elementary that the major ailment suffered by a person” may result in the heart being affected and subsequent death. “However, the cause of death in such a case may not be appropriately attributed to just a heart attack, but the underlying reason for the heart being attacked ought to be regarded as the real cause. So it has to be done in case of deaths triggered off by Covid-19, even if the person suffered from co-morbidities.”The court will address the matter in detail when it comes up on June 28, by when the state has to submit a preliminary response. A copy of the petition has been directed to be sent to additional solicitor general R Sankaranarayanan so that the Union’s response can be obtained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-centre-tn-replies-on-proper-covid-toll-record-101623437367939.html
12-06-2021||India||States must implement One Nation One Ration Card policy for migrants: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the West Bengal government to implement the One Nation One Ration Card scheme “immediately” to help beneficiaries, especially migrant workers, to avail of subsidised food commodities from anywhere in the country.While the counsel for the state government flagged the issue of seeding ration cards with Aadhaar, the top court was emphatic that “no excuse will be considered” and that West Bengal must make the scheme functional.“In fact, all states must implement this scheme so that migrant workers can benefit,” remarked the bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah, which was hearing a suo motu (registered on its own motion) case pertaining to “problems and miseries of migrant workers”.Also Read | State govt informs SC it has launched ‘one nation, one ration card’ schemeThe scheme is currently functional in 32 states and Union territories and allows eligible beneficiaries to get food grain under the National Food Security Act from fair price shops across India without securing a new ration card. Apart from West Bengal, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Delhi are the other states yet to implement it, according to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the Centre. The Delhi government, however, submitted in court on Friday that it will implement the scheme.Reserving its order on issuing further directives in the case, the bench asked counsel for all state governments to submit a brief note on the implementation of the scheme and other policy measures taken to ensure supply of sufficient dry ration and provision of transportation facilities to migrant workers.During the hearing, the court also asked the Union government whether the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Scheme could be extended to migrant workers who did not have the ration cards since the other scheme for distributing free grain, the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana , which has been extended till November, may not cover those not having ration cards.Senior advocates Dushyant Dave, Colin Gonsalves and Anand Grover, appearing for several applicants in the matter, expressed concern that around 30 million workers in the unorganised sector could be left out for want of ration cards.In response, solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who represented the Union government, emphasised that PM Garib Kalyan Yojana had identified around 800 million people for distribution of free food grain amid the coronavirus crisis.Stating that 8 lakh metric tonnes of food grain has been given to the states, the law officers added that it is now for the respective state governments to frame suitable schemes to make certain the supplies received under the Garib Kalyan Yojana reach all the beneficiaries.The bench, however, told the Union government that it should consider extending Garib Kalyan Yojana temporarily to even those who did not have the ration cards. SG Mehta said that he would need to take instructions regarding this from the competent authority.Meanwhile, the court also expressed its displeasure that the creation of a national portal or database to register unrecognised workers has moved slowly and that the Union government was asking for four more months just to create a module.“This project began in August 2020 and not even a module is ready. What is this? ₹417 crore has been released so far but there is nothing done till date and you are asking for 3-4 months more just to create a module,” the bench asked the S-G.Mehta responded that the National Informatics Centre (NIC) has taken over the project and that he will seek instructions on expediting the process.“This cannot be left to the bureaucracy anymore. Your officers have been doing nothing. Just because your director says they do not have time, this cannot be put on hold forever. Identification and registration are the first steps in ensuring benefits reach migrant workers,” said the court, indicating it will also issue some directions regarding the timeline for the national portal to register such workers.On the last date of hearing on May 24, the bench underlined that registration of unorganised workers should be completed as early as possible and there should be a common national database created with the coordination of the state governments.“We also impress upon the Central government and the state governments to complete the process of registration of organised workers at an early date so that unorganised workers are able to reap the benefit of different schemes of the Centre and the states, which, without proper registration and identity card seems to be difficult to implement on the ground,” it said while asking for the status of the national portal.During that hearing, the court directed that migrant workers be provided with dry ration under any suitable scheme of the Centre or state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-must-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-policy-for-migrants-sc-101623437306817.html
12-06-2021||India||Govt released ₹8k cr for jabs: RTI response||A little over ₹8,000 crore has been released by the government from the Covid-19 vaccination budget of ₹35,000 crore so far, the government’s response to a Right To Information (RTI) application has revealed.This includes ₹4,488.75 crore on 285 million doses (210 million of Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine made by Serum Institute of India; and 75 million of Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech), at ₹157.5 a dose.It also includes an advance of 30%, or ₹2,079 crore, on the further purchase of 440 million doses (250 million of Covishield and 190 million of Covaxin).Finally, it includes an advance of ₹1,500 crore on the purchase of 300 million doses of a vaccine being developed (it is currently in Phase 3 trials) by Biological E.That’s aggregates to ₹8,067.75 crore for 1.025 billion vaccines.In addition, the government has already disclosed that India’s vaccine drive kicked off with a ₹1,485.5 crore spend from the PM Cares Fund on 56 million Covishield doses (at ₹210 each) and 10 million Covaxin doses (at ₹309.75 each).All told, then, India has spent ₹9,553.25 crore so far, on 1.091 billion vaccine doses.The RTI was filed by transparency activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retd).“The Union Budget 2021-22 provides for ₹35,000 crores for Covid-19 Vaccination out of this Rs. 8m067.75 crore has been released to the HLL Lifecare Limited (Procurement Agency for MoHFW) (in this amount ₹2,079 crores is 30% advance payment, not the full payment) till date towards procurement of Covid-19 vaccine(s) Covishield (46 crore or 460 million doses ) manufactured by M/s Serum Institute of India and Covaxin (26.5 crore or 265 million doses) manufactured by M/s Bharat Biotech International Limited at the unit cost of Rs. 157.5 including taxes (Rs. 150 + 5% GST),” according to the RTI response from the Covid-19 vaccine administration cell under the health ministry.The Supreme Court, on June 2, termed the government’s vaccine policy “arbitrary” and asked for documents and data establishing the logic behind it. On June 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced free vaccination for all, and also stated that the Union government would take charge of procuring vaccines and allocating them to states. The following day, the government announced a deal it signed a day before to buy 440 million doses from SII and Bharat Biotech, to be delivered between August and December. A 30% advance has been made towards this.After the initial order from PM Cares Fund, the government placed two subsequent orders (one in mid-April and another on April 22) for the supply of a total of 210 million doses of Covishield and 75 million doses of Covaxin according to publicly available information.According to the response provided in the RTI, the next order was to Biological E for 300 million doses. This order, according to the RTI, was placed on June 6. “For this purpose, the Union Ministry of Health would be making an advance payment of ₹1,500 crore to M/s Biological-E. (for more detail you may visit Press Information Bureau, Government of India’s website www.pib.gov.in then go to Home All Press Release then Select Ministry (Ministry of Health & Family Welfare) select Date, Month, Year for date wise release/information. (03.06.2021),” the response stated.On the same day, an advance payment of ₹2,079 crore was also released to HLL Lifecare to procure 250 million more doses of Covishield and 190 million more doses of Covaxin. “Rs. 2,079 crore (was paid) as 30% advance payment to the HLL Lifecare Limited (Procurement Agency for MoHFW) for procuring the Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield 25 crore (250 million) doses and Covaxin19 crore (190 million) doses) at the unit cost of ₹157.50/- including taxes (Rs. 150 + 5% GST),” the response added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-released-8k-cr-for-jabs-rti-response-101623437126785.html
12-06-2021||India||China passes a new, stricter law against criticism of its forces||China has passed a new law banning defamatory remarks against military personnel as the country tries to weed out comments critical of the armed forces, many of which were made on social media in the context of the India-China border conflict.The new law will add to the arsenal of existing legal measures under a 2018 legislation that says any individuals or groups defaming or slandering martyrs’ names, portraits or reputation will be punished and held criminally responsible.It was under the existing legislation that a popular Chinese blogger was given an eight-month jail sentence for posting comments considered slanderous against the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers who were killed in last year’s clash with the Indian Army at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.The new law was passed by China’s rubber stamp Parliament, the National People’s Congress (NPC), on Thursday.“No organisation or individual may in any way slander or derogate the honour of servicemen, nor may they insult or slander the reputation of members of military forces,” the new legislation said, according to a report by the state news agency Xinhua.The Xinhua report said that the new law allows prosecutors to act if the slander seriously affects soldiers’ “performance and missions”. It also banned the desecration of plaques in honour of military personnel.“Prosecutors can file public interest litigation in cases of defamation of military personnel and the infringement on their legitimate rights and interests that have seriously affected their performance of duties and missions and damaged the public interests of society,” the new law states.Song Zhongping, a former PLA instructor and Hong Kong-based military affairs commentator, said the legislation which also covers families of service personnel was meant to bolster the Chinese army’s sense of mission.“Previously, our legal instruments were not complete and this new law will provide more comprehensive protection for the rights and honours of our soldiers,” Song told the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post.Chinese state media listed several cases of perceived defamation – many involving PLA’s deadly clash with the Indian Army in 2020 – that may have hastened the passage of the law that was put up to the NPC in April.In a separate case, a 63-year-old man detained by the “…Beijing police after he was found to have slandered martyr Wang Wei and insulted Wang’s wife in a WeChat group earlier in April. Wang was a Chinese air force pilot who died when his fighter jet collided with a US military reconnaissance aircraft in the South China Sea in 2001,” a state media report said.So far, Beijing has admitted that four of its soldiers died in the fierce hand-to-hand combat between the Indian and the Chinese armies on June 15, 2020, in Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash, which was the most serious military conflict between the two sides in over four decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-backdrop-of-lac-face-off-china-passes-a-new-stricter-law-against-criticism-of-its-forces-101623436707990.html
12-06-2021||India||Blow for BJP as Mukul Roy back in TMC fold||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Mukul Roy returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after four years on Friday amid indications that more dissidents will follow him, dealing a body blow to BJP in a state it hoped to win two months ago.Considered one of the architects of BJP’s rise in a state where it has traditionally struggled, Roy joined TMC at an event in Kolkata in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew and party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. “Mukul is an old boy of our family. Old is always gold,” said Banerjee as Abhishek draped shawls around Roy and his son, former legislator Subhranshu Roy, who also switched from the BJP to the TMC.“Nobody can stay in BJP. They do not allow anyone to live with dignity and peace. Mukul was pressured and threatened by probe agencies. His health was getting affected. He will have mental peace here,” Banerjee added.Banerjee said more BJP leaders will join TMC but added that those who “betrayed” the party won’t be considered. “Mukul did not say a word against us during the elections. The traitors who left us during the polls and helped the BJP will not be taken back,” she said.During the election campaign, Banerjee repeatedly called her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari, who joined BJP last year and is now the leader of opposition, a traitor. Adhikari also threw barbs at her, accusing her of communal bias and calling her “Mamata Begum”.Sitting next to her, Roy said he never had any differences with Banerjee. “I am happy that I have been able to come out.I can see old faces here. I am happy that Bengal will regain its old glory under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, who is a national leader,” he said. BJP leaders said Roy’s absence will not affect them. “We congratulate Roy on his new innings in the old party. The BJP is the world’s largest political party. It is not run by a dynasty. One individual does not make any difference. This was his personal decision. Since he won the Krishnanagar North seat on a BJP ticket we hope he will resign as legislator and start with a clear conscience,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. “However, it would be an insult to Roy if someone says he was in the BJP because he was scared by probe agencies. He is not a child,” added Majumdar. A former Union minister and Rajya Sabha member, Roy was one of the TMC’s founding members in 1998, and acted as the party’s second-in-command and top election strategist. But he was removed as party general secretary in 2015. He finally quit in 2017 and joined the BJP, marking the first high-profile exit from TMC. At the time, Roy was named in the 2013 Saradha chit fund scam and the 2016 Narada sting operation corruption case. Roy was credited with helping the BJP rebound from its loss in the 2016 election in which it won just three seats and post impressive performances in the 2018 village body elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha election, when the party registered its best-ever tally of 18 seats. In the 2021 polls, Roy was named the BJP candidate from Krishnanagar Uttar amid speculation of growing differences between him and Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh. He won the seat, his first electoral victory, but the BJP lost the election to the TMC, which secured 213 seats. Subhranshu Roy also lost his constituency of Bijpur. But on Friday, Banerjee and Roy appeared to have buried the hatchet. “I never had differences with Mukul…,” she said. “I never had differences with Mamata Banerjee, I don’t and never will in the future,” quipped Roy. The development comes amid rising tensions between the BJP and the TMC. Last month, soon after the election results were announced, violence broke out with TMC workers targeting BJP supporters and workers. Then, the Central Bureau of Investigation arrested three senior TMC leaders in the 2016 Narada tapes case, sparking furious protests by Banerjee. West Bengal and the Centre also clashed after Banerjee skipped a cyclone review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the Union government recalling former Bengal chief secretary and the CM refusing to release him and calling the order unconstitutional. Since the election results were announced on May 2, several TMC turncoats have publicly appealed to Banerjee to forgive them.This includes former assembly deputy speaker and Banerjee aide Sonali Guha, and former legislator Dipendu Biswas. Speculation about Roy rose when Abhishek Banerjee called on Roy’s ailing wife Krishna in a Kolkata hospital on June 2. Hours later, Ghosh rushed to the hospital and the next day, Modi called up Roy to inquire about his wife’s health. On June 9, Roy skipped a key meeting called by Ghosh.At Friday’s press conference, Banerjee said she will decide later on what position Roy will hold but added that he will continue working as before. She got agitated at the mention of Adhikari, who defeated Banerjee from the high-profile Nandigram seat, and ended the press conference. “We will take back only those who did not spread bitterness,” she said. Adhikari was in Delhi earlier this week, and met with home minister Amit Shah, BJP President JP Nadda, and the Prime Minister to discuss the post-poll violence in the state although HT learns that the issue of imminent defections from the party also figured in his conversations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blow-for-bjp-as-mukul-roy-back-in-tmc-fold-101623436707360.html
12-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi case: India files affidavits in Dominica||The Indian government has filed two affidavits in the Dominica high court establishing Mehul Choksi’s Indian citizenship and the serious nature of the fraud he committed on Punjab National Bank (PNB), people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. HT first reported on May 30 that this would be the line India’s arguments in Dominica would take.The affidavits were filed by Sharda Raut, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) deputy inspector general handling the PNB fraud investigation, and Azad Singh, consular officer at the high commission of India to the Commonwealth of Dominica, on Thursday, a day before Choksi’s bail plea was to be heard in the high court.The people cited in the first instance said Raut and Singh’s affidavits provide detailed evidence against Choksi pertaining to criminal conspiracy, cheating and money laundering and the reasons why he needs to face investigations in India.The affidavits also explain that Choksi’s surrender of Indian citizenship was never approved by the authorities and he was an Indian citizen when the crime was committed.Choksi’s lawyers have sought to examine India’s affidavits.Indian government officials are confident that Choksi will be sent to India as he entered Dominica illegally and is making up stories of abduction, and the involvement of random persons and woman to delay the whole process.In the coming days, Indian officers will argue in the court in Dominica that Choksi’s Antiguan citizenship is disputed after the Antiguan government initiated the process to revoke the same in 2019, and that he should therefore be sent to India.Dominica hasn’t officially commented on Choksi’s deportation to India yet but its actions have shown that the island nation is inclined to send him to New Delhi for face charges.For example, while issuing a statement earlier this week, Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit of the Republic of Dominica referred to Choksi as an Indian citizen.Subsequently, in multiple affidavits filed by it in the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (ECSC) as well as magistrate’s court in Roseau, Dominica, police has claimed that Choksi is wanted for 11 charges in India and the only document found on him confirmed that he was born in India.Choksi has alleged that he was abducted from Antigua by the Indian and Antiguan police officers along with his female friend, Barbara Jarabik (who was part of the plot according to his version of events) on May 23. He said he was then taken to Dominica in a vessel, in charges denied by Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne.His habeas corpus plea in ECSC, which talks about alleged torture and seeks repatriation back to Antigua, where he is a citizen, has been adjourned sine die. His bail was being heard in the high court at the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-case-india-files-affidavits-in-dominica-101623436706804.html
12-06-2021||India||Pawar, Kishor meet amid buzz of new tie-up||Mumbai: Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday called on Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar at his Mumbai residence and held talks for nearly three hours, fuelling speculations that efforts had already begun to form a national coalition against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre ahead of the 2024 Parliamentary elections.This is Kishor’s first meeting with Pawar after the victory of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress in the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, respectively. He had helped craft the election strategy for these parties in the polls. After the results on May 2, the election strategist had said that he was “quitting this space”.According to people familiar with the development, Kishor arrived at ‘Silver Oak’, Pawar’s residence in south Mumbai, at around 11 am and left the venue at around 2 pm along with the NCP chief’s daughter and Baramati MP Supriya Sule. State NCP chief Jayant Patil also visited Pawar’s residence for some time during this period. The possibility of an alternative to the ruling BJP at the Centre was among the topics of discussion during the meeting, the people cited above said. “Pawar saheb has been working to bring all opposition parties together against the BJP. It is natural that the issue would be discussed,” a senior NCP leader said, preferring anonymity. The meeting with the poll strategist came a day after Pawar said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi -- comprising mainly NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress -- will not only complete its five-year term in Maharashtra but also perform well in the 2019 assembly and Lok Sabha elections. “There was a lot of buzz going around soon after the chief minister’s (Uddhav Thackeray) one-on-one meeting with the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) in Delhi. As I said, we have never worked with the Shiv Sena in the past but Maharashtra has been watching the party for the past many years. Shiv Sena is a party that can be trusted. Even if people are raising doubts over the meeting, I have no doubt that the MVA government will not only complete its tenure of five years but also perform well in the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections and represent the state and the country,” Pawar had told a small gathering of workers at the NCP headquarters on the occasion of the party’s 22nd foundation day on Thursday.During the 2019 polls, Kishor was the political advisor to Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray before the 2019 assembly elections.Senior NCP minister Chhagan Bhujbal said Pawar will definitely consider roping in Kishor if the latter comes up with any strong poll ideas. “He (Prashant Kishor) is a successful election strategist and has helped various parties win the polls. I don’t know the exact reason behind the meeting but if he comes up with a suggestion, the NCP chief will certainly consider it,” Bhujbal said. Deputy chief minister and the NCP chief’s nephew Ajit Pawar, however, downplayed the issue. “Prashant Kishor has already declared quitting the profession as a poll strategist based on his experiences. So, a political discussion is out of the question. People from various walks of life come to meet Pawar saheb,” he told reporters in Pune.“Several leaders wanted to know about Kishor’s strategies, considering the success he has got in different elections. There is nothing wrong in such a meeting,” Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-kishor-meet-amid-buzz-of-new-tieup-101623436647407.html
12-06-2021||India||Pak assembly passes bill to give right of appeal to Jadhav||New Delhi: Pakistan’s Parliament has passed a bill that will help Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav appeal against the death sentence given to him by a military court amid protests by the opposition, which accused the government of violating parliamentary principles.The legislation to facilitate appeals by foreign nationals convicted by a Pakistani military court was among 21 bills passed by the National Assembly or lower house of Parliament on Thursday. The opposition boycotted the session and contended the government had bulldozed the legislation through the House.The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill of 2020 is on the same lines as an ordinance that was issued by the Pakistan government last year to facilitate Jadhav’s right to appeal against the death sentence given to him by a military court for alleged involvement in espionage and subversive activities.Jadhav was arrested in March 2016 in Balochistan on charges of spying and sentenced to death the following year. India has rejected the charges levelled against the formal navy officer and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018.The bills were passed after the Speaker of the National Assembly suspended the rules of business, which was challenged by the opposition. However, the opposition was defeated in a vote 112-101.According to reports in the Pakistani media, opposition members shouted slogans such as “Modi ka jo yaar hai ghaddar hai” (Modi’s friend is a traitor) and “Kulbhushan ko phansi do” (Hang Kulbhushan), and PML-N MP Ahsan Iqbal said the government had passed the bill to provide relief to an “Indian spy”. Foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi defended the decision to pass the bills by saying that they could be delayed once the budget session began on Friday. He also said that opposition MPs who were against the bill to provide relief to Jadhav were “speaking the language of India”.“India wants Pakistan not to abide by the decision of the ICJ and the opposition also wants this,” he said. Law minister Farogh Naseem added the ICJ had asked Pakistan to enact legislation to provide the right of appeal to Jadhav. If the bill wasn’t passed, India could initiate contempt proceedings against Pakistan in the ICJ, Naseem said.Pakistan People’s Party chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari said the bill was meant to give safe passage to an “Indian spy”. He said, “You were advocating the case of Kashmiris and now that of Kulbhushan?”The bills will have to be passed by the opposition-dominated Senate or upper house before the president gives his assent to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-assembly-passes-bill-to-give-right-of-appeal-to-jadhav-101623436526716.html
12-06-2021||India||Roy’s move fans talk of turncoats following suit||Kolkata: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Mukul Roy’s return to the Trinamool Congress on Friday stoked speculation that several leaders who switched sides ahead of the assembly polls were on their way back to Bengal’s ruling party.Some turncoats such as former assembly deputy speaker Sonali Guha, former legislator Dipendu Biswas and leader Sarala Murmu have openly said that they want to return. Some others, like former forest minister Rajib Banerjee, have criticised BJP.“Just like a fish cannot survive out of water, I cannot survive without Mamata Banerjee. I am severing all ties with the BJP and would join the TMC whenever Didi calls me,” Guha told reporters. But on Friday, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee made it clear that the party was not going to accept all turncoats.“Those who had betrayed the party ahead of the elections to strengthen the BJP had bitterly attacked the TMC party during campaigns will not be taken back. Mukul never attacked the TMC. There are, however, some leaders who may have gone with Mukul and may want to come back. The party will take a decision on this,” said Banerjee. At least 34 TMC legislators and former lawmakers joined the BJP in the last two years. Around 19 of them were given assembly tickets but only five won. Earlier this week, BJP leader Rajib Banerjee warned that “people will not take kindly to threats of President’s Rule” against an elected government, referring to statements by Adhikari that post-poll violence necessitated imposition of central rule. Rajib also skipped a meeting of the state BJP on post-poll violence. Prabir Ghosal, former MLA of Uttarpara in Hooghly who joined the BJP with Rajib Banerjee, also expressed his “unhappiness”.Senior TMC leaders said several BJP leaders, including sitting legislators, are in touch with the party. “Let us see how many people are coming back,” said Roy. BJP dismissed the speculation. “We don’t know who these people are [who are willing to leave BJP and return to TMC]We are the largest party in the world and there is a democracy in the party. We are not a family-centric party. We have some ideologies which run the party. If someone feels that he is feeling breathless and would be able to serve the people by moving to another party, then BJP respects it,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s vice president in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roys-move-fans-talk-of-turncoats-following-suit-101623436466681.html
12-06-2021||India||Grant protection to interfaith couple: Allahabad HC to police||The Allahabad high court has directed the Moradabad police to give protection, when it is sought, to an interfaith couple who alleged that private respondents were interfering with their marital life and liberty. The court said the petitioner (woman) having converted to Islam would not be a relevant factor while ensuring that there is no interference in the liberty of the petitioners unless there is any allegation by the woman regarding forcible conversion.Justice Salil Kumar Rai passed the order on June 8 while hearing a petition filed by Yashi Devi, aged about 20 years and Guchhan Khan (second petitioner), aged about 40 years. They got married on January 11, 2021 after Yashi Devi converted to Islam. The matter pertains to Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh.The petitioners requested the court to issue necessary directions to the respondents not to interfere with their marital life and liberty.It was claimed that the petitioners were majors (adults) and had solemnised the marriage of their own free will. Referring to the Supreme Court judgment in the case of Lata Singh vs State of UP, the high court observed that the law is settled that it is the right of couples to live peacefully without any interference in case they are majors.The court said that in view of the clear enunciation of law by the Supreme Court in the Lata Singh matter, “It is obligatory for the concerned authorities to ensure compliance of the above directions in view of Article 141 of the Constitution of India, which clearly provided that the law declared by the Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of India.”The court directed that in case the petitioners face any genuine threat to their life and liberty or they are harassed contrary to the law laid down by the apex court, it shall be open for them to approach the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Moradabad and furnish the necessary details in that regard such as proof of their majority, marriage and the harassment being faced. The SSP shall take all steps as may be required by law to ensure that the petitioners’ life and liberty are not interfered with, keeping in view the directions issued in the Lata Singh case, the high court said.“It is also clarified that the petitioners, if major, are entitled to live together even if not married and, therefore, proof of their marriage would not be required and shall not be insisted upon by the concerned police officer,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grant-protection-to-interfaith-couple-allahabad-hc-to-police-101623436406670.html
12-06-2021||India||Ration distribution: Delhi-Centre feud intensifies after war of words||The political fight over Delhi’s proposed doorstep ration delivery scheme showed no signs of abating on Friday as Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the plan was a false promise and a scam at the behest of the “ration mafia”, drawing a sharp response from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who accused the Centre of obstructing a public welfare initiative.Prasad said the Delhi government plan was nothing but a “jumla” (gimmick), and if it was serious about benefiting citizens, it should institute a separate ration scheme and delivery mechanism.“The Indian government purchases the ration, the Indian government pays for it, the Indian government is required by law (National Food Security Act, 2013) to distribute it. If you (AAP government) are so enthusiastic, then formulate your own separate scheme and come to us. We promise to review it with an open mind,” the minister said at a press conference.Kejriwal said the Union government should work cohesively with state governments for overall progress of the country instead of fighting with them, while his deputy Manish Sisodia mocked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruling at the Centre as “Bharatiya Jhagda Party”.“Today people want to see such a leadership at the Centre which, instead of abusing and fighting the state governments all day, takes everyone along. The country will progress when 130 crore people, all the state governments and the Centre work together as Team India. So being rude is not good,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Earlier, in March, Kejriwal said the scheme would not bear the CM’s name, amid accusations by central functionaries that he was trying to appropriate credit.The National Food Security Act, 2013, mandates the Union government to provide 5kg of subsidised grains every month for each of nearly 800 million eligible beneficiaries. The grains are distributed through a network of fair-price shops across the country, known as the public distribution system (PDS).The Delhi government has floated a proposal to make home delivery of ration for the state’s beneficiaries. Officially spelling out its stand, the food ministry said last week that while it had no objections on the Delhi goverment’s proposal, it was against dismantling of the current system of distribution of cheap grains through PDS. The Centre said the Delhi government should launch a separate scheme for home delivery.Prasad said on Friday that the chief minister “is talking about home delivery of ration when he even failed to provide oxygen to the people of Delhi.The Delhi government is under the control of the ration mafia.” He said Delhi adopted the e-authentication method for ration cards in January 2018 but put an end to it within four months. The e-authentication method is a national programme to digitally record subsidised food distribution.The minister alleged that it was halted because the ration mafia pressured the government, as more than 400,000 fake ration cards were seized. He asked when the state government would resume the process of e-authentication.Sisodia said the Union minister was making excuses for the obstructionist approach adopted by the Centre against states not ruled by the BJP.“They blame Delhi for oxygen shortage. But who messed up on oxygen supply? The BJP-led government at the Centre. It was only after the Supreme Court intervened, they ensured adequate supply of oxygen. Millions of children kept pleading for the board exams to be cancelled but BJP leaders kept them confused until the Supreme Court intervened,” the deputy chief minister said.“ For vaccines, they were adamant in forcing states to approach manufacturers and continued to criticise Delhi, West Bengal, Maharashtra and other non-BJP states… Whether it comes to oxygen, board examinations, ration, vaccines, there is a common factor in all of these and it is the central government’s failure. If an IIT graduate chief minister (Kejriwal) thinks that when pizza and electronics can be delivered at people’s doorstep then why not ration, what is wrong with that?”Prasad hit out at the Delhi government for not adopting the one nation, one ration card scheme even as 34 states/UTs had done so. The programme enables beneficiaries to withdraw ration anywhere in the country, regardless of the state where their ration card is registered.He alleged that the Delhi government had no data on Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe beneficiaries in the national capital. Prasad’s comments came days after Kejriwal alleged that the Narendra Modi-led Centre was deliberately stalling its proposal to ensure home delivery of subsidised food.“Just two days before the doorstep delivery of ration scheme’s implementation in Delhi, the central government stopped it. They say we didn’t take approval. We took approval not just once, but five times,” Kejriwal had said. “Legally, we don’t need the Centre’s approval but we did so out of courtesy.”The Delhi government was set to launch the scheme in early June, planning to cover 7.2 million beneficiaries. Each beneficiary was entitled to 4kg packaged flour and 1kg rice at their doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ration-distribution-delhi-centre-feud-intensifies-after-war-of-words-101623434007166.html
