13-06-2021||India||‘Feeling insulted in BJP’: Party’s Bengal SC front chief, a former TMC MLA||Three days after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Mukul Roy created a stir in Bengal politics by returning to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after 42 months, more ruling party turncoats who joined the saffron camp in the last two years either voiced dissent or kept their options open. “Mukul Roy, being a senior leader, felt insulted in the BJP for various reasons. I, too, felt insulted and betrayed,” Dulal Bar, president of the BJP’s scheduled caste (SC) morcha (front) in Bengal, told HT on Sunday afternoon. Bar, a former TMC legislator from Bagdah in North 24 Parganas district, was not given a ticket. He was not seen at any important meeting of the BJP. Prior to the polls, he resigned from the morcha but was somehow pacified by the leadership. Though the BJP failed to meet its target of winning more than 200 of the state’s 294 seats and bagged only 77, the party was supported by the SC community in several parts of the state. During the 2011 census, the state’s SC population stood at 21.4 million, or 23.51 % of the total population of 91.3 million. The total population is now projected to be 101.9 million. “If I get an invitation from the TMC I will certainly give it a thought. I will decide my next step in case I don’t get one,” added Bar, who joined the BJP in 2019 and was suspended from the assembly for a year on disciplinary ground after staging a protest on the floor of the House against an alleged attack on another turncoat MLA, Biswajit Das. In the recent polls, Das, who earlier represented the Bongaon North assembly seat in North 24 Parganas, was fielded by the BJP from the district’s Bagdah seat that Bar represented. Das, who won the seat, on Saturday said, “I have a very cordial relationship with Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee (TMC national general secretary). Time will decide my next course of action.” Speculations over Das started on September 2, 2020, when he and Sunil Singh, the turncoat MLA from Noapara, who is also a relative of BJP Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh, had a meeting with the chief minister for 20 minutes at her chamber in the state assembly in the presence of two ministers. Das was even seen touching Banerjee’s feet to seek her blessings. A day later, the BJP MLAs were offered security by the state but they declined to take it after senior BJP leaders talked to them. Das and Singh joined the BJP at the party’s headquarters in Delhi in June 2019, a month after the BJP set a record by winning 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. Singh lost the election held in March-April. After Mukul Roy joined the TMC on Friday, Singh said, “Roy is respected by all.” For 67-year-old Roy, the tryst with the BJP ended because of differences between different lobbies of state and central leaders, said leaders aware of the development. They said although Roy successfully contested the Krishnanagar North seat he had differences with state president Dilip Ghosh. “Leaving parties has become a habit for many. The BJP depends only on those who toiled and shed blood to strengthen the organisation. One has to sacrifice to stay in the BJP. Those who only want to enjoy power can’t stay. We will not keep them,” Ghosh tweeted on Sunday afternoon. Leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee in the polls, said he would demand action under the anti-defection law if any of the 77 MLAs switched sides. Explaining the BJP’s stand on TMC turncoats abandoning the saffron camp, state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “We will do nothing if people such as former minister Rajib Banerjee or Sonali Guha (once a close aide of the chief minister) leave the party because they did not win elections. However, the case is quite different for elected representatives.” “In the last 10 years, the assembly speaker did not take action under the anti-defection law against any of the MLAs who left the Congress and Left parties and joined the TMC. We will not allow that. The law passed by the Parliament mandates that two-third of the elected members of a party have to join another camp to escape the law,” Majumdar added. No TMC leader commented on the possibility of more BJP MLAs following Mukul Roy’s footsteps. The speaker, Biman Banerjee, did not take calls. While welcoming Roy and his son, Subhranshu, a former MLA, on Friday, the chief minister said more BJP leaders will join the ruling party in the coming days. But she added a rider. “Traitors who joined the BJP before the elections for money will not be taken back. We will take back only those who do not spread bitterness,” She said. For the record, Banerjee referred to Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee as “gaddar” (traitor) during the election campaign. Rajib Banerjee, who stoked speculations on Saturday by meeting TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, was seen at the funeral of senior minister Partha Chatterjee’s mother on Sunday evening. BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra said, “It can be easily guessed why Banerjee met Kunal Ghosh but his appearance at the funeral is a different issue. He and Chatterjee are old associates.” Hazra, on Friday, raised a storm when he talked of lobbies in the Bengal BJP. “Lobbying in the Bengal unit of the BJP and projecting one or two leaders while ignoring and insulting capable leaders, has had its effect. The Bengal BJP should stop this lobby politics immediately and utilize leaders in accordance to their merit,” Hazra wrote on his social media page. Incidentally, on June 6, the BJP state unit formed a three-member committee to keep a track on social media posts by party leaders in view of growing dissent. Political science professor and poll analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “More people are likely to join the TMC but for the sake of fairness, the MLAs should resign from the assembly because they were elected by people who supported the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feeling-insulted-in-bjp-party-s-bengal-sc-front-chief-a-former-tmc-mla-101623608978203.html
13-06-2021||India||India a natural G7 ally: PM at summit||India is a natural ally for the G7 and its partners to defend democracy and freedom of thought from challenges arising due to authoritarianism, terrorism, disinformation and economic coercion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday.Modi made the pitch in his virtual address to two outreach sessions on climate crisis and open societies at the G7 summit held in the British seaside resort of Cornwall. The meet brought together the leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US, while India, Australia, South Korea and South Africa joined selected sessions as guest countries.Indian officials said the country’s participation in the meet reflects understanding within the G7 that the resolution of key global crises won’t be possible without India’s engagement, involvement and support. India will remain engaged with G7 and its partners on major global issues such as access to vaccines, diversification of supply chains, building economic resilience and climate action, they said.Modi, who was a lead speaker in the outreach session on “open societies and open economies”, highlighted India’s civilisational commitment to democracy, freedom of thought and liberty. “As the world’s largest democracy, India is a natural ally for the G7 and guest countries to defend these shared values from a host of threats stemming from authoritarianism, terrorism and violent extremism, disinformation and infodemics and economic coercion,” he said.While highlighting the impact of digital technologies such as Aadhaar, DBT (direct benefit transfer) and JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) trinity on social inclusion and empowerment, he also pointed to “vulnerabilities inherent in open societies” and asked “tech companies and social media platforms to ensure a safe cyber environment for their users”.Modi’s views in this regard were appreciated by other leaders, P Harish, additional secretary (economic relations) in the external affairs ministry, told a news briefing.The leaders of the G7 states and guest countries emphasised their commitment to a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific and resolved to collaborate with partners in the region, Harish said.Modi also made a strong pitch for reform of the multilateral system based on openness, democracy, transparency and inclusion.At the session on climate crisis, Modi sought collective action and said this challenge couldn’t be addressed in silos. He pointed out that India is the only G20 state on track to meet its Paris Accord commitments, and highlighted the need for climate action to include all aspects of mitigation, technology transfer, financing, climate justice and lifestyle change to provide necessary space to developing countries to grow.Modi also called on the G7 states to meet their “unfulfilled promise of $100 billion annually in climate finance”.India has closely worked with the UK, the current president of G7 and the co-president of the COP26 Summit to be held later this year, on climate action. India is committed to installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030, and it will work with the UK to provide climate resilient infrastructure through a new facility under the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) to small island developing states.India has also endorsed the “30 by 30” targets, which call for protecting 30% of the country’s land and 30% of oceans by 2030. It is committed to achieving domestic land degradation neutrality and restoring 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030. At the same time, India has highlighted at the G7 the importance of recognising the different trajectories and historical responsibilities of developed and developing nations in relation to climate change, Harish said.At another outreach session on health on Saturday, Modi urged the G7 states to adopt a united approach to the coronavirus pandemic and future health emergencies with the mantra of “one earth, one health”. He had also sought support for the India-South Africa proposal at the World Health Organization (WHO) for waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines.Modi was invited to the G7 Summit by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, but did not travel to Cornwall because of the pandemic situation. The theme for the summit was “build back better” in the aftermath of the devastating impact of the pandemic over the past 18 months, and the need for ambitious and targeted recovery measures.The Prime Minister’s speeches at the three sessions focused on health, climate change and open societies, and he highlighted that democratic and transparent societies have additional responsibilities and added advantages in responding to contemporary challenges.Harish said India’s shared values such as democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, unwavering commitment to a rules-based international order and inherently open and transparent systems made the country a natural partner for the G7.With the focus on equitable and affordable access to vaccines in all parts of the world and the need for stronger systems to respond to future pandemics, the G7 pledged to donate an additional one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by 2022. The G7 leaders also called for a fresh investigation into the origins of the pandemic.UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres identified the waiver of patent protections for vaccines as an important element of his “global vaccination plan” to vaccinate the global population by doubling vaccine production, while French President Emmanuel Macron spoke of the need to focus on ramping up vaccine production capacity in Africa with expertise from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-a-natural-g7-ally-pm-at-summit-101623607958486.html
13-06-2021||India||Talks on with SP for U.P. poll alliance, says RLD’s Jayant||Jayant Chaudhary, the newly appointed chief of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), said on Sunday that his party is in talks with the Samajwadi Party (SP) for high-stakes election battle in Uttar Pradesh in 2022. “We are in talks with the Samajwadi Party (SP). We fought the last election together as well. We may formalise the alliance by making a common stand on issues and settle seat sharing soon,” said Chaudhary, appointed as the chief of the RLD last month, after party’s founder-president and his father Chaudhary Ajit Singh succumbed to Covid-19 on May 6.The 42-year-old leader, who has been vocal against the Centre’s three farm laws, is confident that the unity of farmers and the youth in western UP is likely to dent Bharatiya Janata Party’s poll prospects. “The farmers’ struggle and unity is commendable. It will help us bring this government to account in the coming polls. We note that the declining faith in Modi’s personal leadership has come about because of lies to farmers on doubling income and inability to respond to the current protests in a humane and just manner. In western UP, farmers and the youth will break caste and religious boundaries and provide a formidable opposition to the BJP. The same response was observed in the recent Zila Panchayat polls,” the RLD chief said. For the past six months, farmers from across the country are protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws-- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020-- brought by the Centre in September last year. In an interview with news agency PTI, Chaudhary also asserted that his party will not allow a communally polarised campaign to ruin the Hindi heartland state and said that artificial issues such as “love jihad” and “cow terror” will not work. “Love jihad, cow terror, Kairana exodus and other useless artificial issues will be rejected; healthcare, education and balanced development will win (in the polls),” he said.Responding to question on carrying forward the legacy of Chaudhary Ajit Singh, and grandfather and farmer leader, Chaudhary Charan Singh, the RLD chief said, “It is a challenge but not a burden...I am enriched by the history and the bonds that are still strong and am proud of the work and the legacy of these two stalwarts...We will try and address the issues with an eye on the past and a new language to usher in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-on-with-sp-for-u-p-poll-alliance-says-rld-s-jayant-101623607657031.html
13-06-2021||India||'Now Gujarat will change,' says Kejriwal ahead of his visit||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is eyeing to contest the 2022 Gujarat Assembly polls, will be on a one-day visit to the state on Monday, a spokesperson of the party said."Now Gujarat will change. Tomorrow I am coming to Gujarat, and will meet all the brothers and sisters of Gujarat," Kejriwal said in a tweet posted in Gujarati on Sunday. During his visit, Kejriwal is scheduled to inaugurate the party's Gujarat state office in Ahmedabad.This will be Kejriwal's second visit to Gujarat. He had last visited Surat in February after the party emerged as the main opposition after the civic body elections there in its maiden fight there.His visit assumes significance as the AAP is eyeing to contest the December 2022 Gujarat Assembly election and aggressively preparing for it.In a release, the state unit of the AAP said, “As per Kejriwal's day-long itinerary of his Monday visit, he will arrive at Ahmedabad airport at 10.20 am, from where he will go to the circuit house. At 11.40 am, he will hold a press conference at the city's Vallabh Sadan after "taking the blessings of Lord Krishna.”He will then leave to inaugurate the party's new state office located on Ashram Road. Kejriwal will leave for Delhi on the same day, party's spokesperson Tuli Banerjee said.The AAP had made inroads into Gujarat politics by winning 27 seats in the 120-member Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), emerging as the main opposition. The party had also fielded candidates across all the local bodies- municipal corporations, municipalities, as well as district and taluka panchayats, winning on several of them.The AAP is looking to present itself as a formidable alternative to the Congress in Gujarat and challenge the BJP in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home turf. The party is trying to fill in the gap left by the Congress, which has seen setbacks in the recent past with several of its MLAs resigning, and its poor performance in the local body polls held in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-gujarat-will-change-says-kejriwal-ahead-of-his-visit-101623606829146.html
13-06-2021||India||In Odisha, father-son duo beaten to death over suspicions of practising witchcraft||A 55-year-old man and his 22-year-old son were thrashed to death by villagers who suspected them of practising witchcraft in the tribal-dominated Gajapati district of Odisha. The incident occurred on Saturday night.According to police officials in Gajapti, Luka Dalabehera (55) and his son Anak Dalabehera (22) of Muthaguda village under the jurisdiction of Adaba police station were called out from their home on Saturday evening by a few villagers. “The father-son duo was called to a nearby forest where the villagers held a meeting before thrashing them to death. A child had died in the village a month ago and villagers suspected that the father-son duo’s witchcraft led to his death,” said sub-divisional police officer of R Udaygiri, Dilip Kumar Nayak.Luka died in the forest, while a badly injured Anak managed to escape from the spot and returned home. However, he too succumbed to his injuries at home. The local sarpanch reported the incident to the Adaba police. “My father and brother were killed on baseless suspicions of sorcery. The police should arrest the culprits immediately and punish them,” said Luka’s daughter Ludhia.Police said some people in the village have been detained over their alleged involvement in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-father-son-duo-beaten-to-death-over-suspicions-of-practising-witchcraft-101623607237490.html
13-06-2021||India||Assam CM visits family of 2 girls found hanging||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday met the family of two minor sisters who were found hanging from a tree in Kokrajhar district of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) and directed police to probe both murder and suicide angles in the case. The family of the deceased has alleged that the sisters, aged 14 and 16, were raped and murdered. Five persons have been arrested so far, police said. “The family members of the victims said that there was no reason for them to commit suicide. The entire incident appears mysterious. That’s why I came to interact with the family and held discussions with officials, seeking details on the incident,” Sarma told reporters. The two sisters were found hanging from a tree inside a small forest away from their home on Friday evening. The deceased’s family told local media that the sisters went missing on Friday afternoon. The bodies of the victims were sent to Kokrajhar civil hospital on Saturday for post-mortem. The reports of the examination are awaited. “If it is a murder, the accused should be arrested and given appropriate punishment. If it is a case of suicide, then the probe should be on what led the sisters to commit the act. I have directed the police to probe both these angles,” he added. “The role of some persons is suspected and police have already detained five persons for questioning. Two of them were found to have deleted all the messages from their mobile phones but there is evidence of them making calls, lasting for over an hour, to the victims,” the chief minister said. Sarma said such incidents (of crimes against women) were taking place in districts of lower Assam and that a sense of insecurity had developed among the residents here. “I came to visit the family in order to convey a message to all that my government won’t tolerate any such incident, especially those targeting the poor and oppressed sections,” he said.“We have arrested five persons in connection with the incident and are questioning them. The arrested persons are residents of the area to which the victims belonged. The post-mortem reports will give further leads on the exact nature of the deaths. Further investigations are on,” Kokrajhar superintendent of police Thube Prateek Vijay Kumar said. The chief minister was accompanied by BTR chief executive member Pramod Boro, United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) legislator Lawrence Islary and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ashok Singhi. Any political reaction?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-visits-family-of-2-girls-found-hanging-101623607057590.html
13-06-2021||India||U.P. patient’s family accuses hospital staff of molestation||LUCKNOW: The family of a 40-year-old woman, who was admitted to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here black fungus symptoms earlier this month, has alleged she was tortured and molested by the medical staff at the hospital. The woman died on Saturday. The hospital has, however, denied the charges.A complaint letter written by the husband of the deceased said the woman was kept on the fourth floor of the hospital building in Lucknow and the family was denied entry there.When they “somehow” met the woman, she told her family that she was slapped and she also showed cigarette burn marks, the husband said. “My wife told me that medical staff slapped her and also molested her inside the ward,” the husband wrote in the police complaint.Amethi district magistrate Arun Kumar said an inquiry committee has been constituted comprising the Gauriganj deputy collector, the deputy superintendent of police and the ACMO, to probe the allegations, and action will be taken after the committee hands in a report.“The woman was admitted on June 7 and was discharged on the request of the family. She was admitted to the Covid ward with black fungus (mucormycosis) in semi-consciousness (state) and was under CCTV vigilance along with other patients. The family requested for her discharge and took her away on June 12,” said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson for RMLIMS. The patient died on June 12 night, according to a PTI report. “The family has not filed any complaint with us. I don’t know why after two days of discharge, they filed a (police) complaint. But we are ready for any probe,” Singh added.Amethi SP, Dinesh Singh said a medical examination was conducted on the woman on Saturday but refused to elaborate furtherMedical superintendent of Amethi Joint District Hospital, Gauriganj, Dr P K Upadhyay said the woman was being shifted to a hospital in Lucknow on Saturday night as she had developed black fungus, but she died on the way, according to the PTI report.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-patient-s-family-accuses-hospital-staff-of-molestation-101623606998133.html
13-06-2021||India||Child rights body directs social media platforms to share origin of posts advertising adoption of Covid orphans||In a letter addressed to social media platforms like WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook and Telegram, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asked them to report the origin, IP address and other relevant details of any post on their platform that advertises direct adoption of children who lost their parents due to Covid-19. The rights body also warned of strict action in case of non-compliance."In case of inaction or non-reporting of the same from your (social media platforms) end, to the commission or to law enforcement authorities, the commission will be compelled to take strict action against your good office," The NCPCR letter read.Also read: For adoption, the centrality of due process"It is requested that compliance/action taken report of the same, may be sent to the Commission within 10 days," the commission added.The commission said that it had received complaints about many social media pages and posts that publicized the adoption of children orphaned due to the coronavirus pandemic. In the letter, the apex child rights body said that all such adoptions, which happen without following the procedures of the Juvenile Justice Act, are illegal and in violation of the law.The NCPCR said that the Supreme Court has directed that no adoption of affected children should be permitted contrary to the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. The apex court had also ordered the state governments and Union territories to take action against NGOs or individuals involved in illegal adoptions.Also read| Stop illegal adoption of kids orphaned by Covid: SC to states, UTs"Any child who is without family support, orphan, abandoned or lost must be reported to ChildLine services, nearest police station, child welfare committee or to a district child protection unit. The information regarding such a child is to be given to the authorities at the time prescribed ie, within 24 hours. In case of failure of reporting of such a child within the prescribed limit, the Act provides for punitive punishment for the same under Section 34," the commission informed adding that non-reportage of such a child or placing the child in adoption without following due process is illegal and liable to punishment.More than 3,000 children have been orphaned during the pandemic and over 26,000 children have lost one of their parents, according to the commission, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-rights-body-directs-social-media-platforms-to-share-origin-of-posts-advertising-adoption-of-covid-orphans-101623601949506.html
13-06-2021||India||Eminent scientist Smriti Narayan Chatterjee passes away in Kolkata||Eminent scientist Professor Smriti Narayan Chatterjee died at a private hospital in Kolkata on Saturday afternoon after a brief illness. He was 89 and is survived by a son. He was suffering from acute pneumonia. The scientist authored more than 150 research papers and headed the biophysics departments at the School of Tropical Medicine, Indian Institute of Chemical Biology and Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, where he was also the director (1990-91).Chatterjee was the recipient of many awards, including the Rockefeller Foundation Award (1962), the Shakuntala Amirchand Prize (1966) and the Basanti Devi Amirchand Prize (1984) of the Indian Council of Medical Research and Professor Sambhu Nath De Memorial Award (1996) of the Indian National Science Academy.He was a Fellow at the West Bengal Academy of Science and Technology, National Academy of Sciences and the Indian National Science Academy. His wife, who was also a scientist, died in 2011. “My father was never hospitalized in the past. He was getting better when his condition deteriorated. He was in the news last year because the bacterial viruses subcommittee of the International Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) created a new genus and named it Chatterjeevirus in recognition of his contribution to research,” the scientist’s son, Saugata Chatterjee, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eminent-scientist-smriti-narayan-chatterjee-passes-away-in-kolkata-101623603997633.html
13-06-2021||India||Ram Mandir: Opposition alleges 'major' land scam; Won't comment now, says Trust||The Samajwadi Party and the Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday accused the Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust of a major land scam in which the price of a piece of land changed from ₹2 crore to ₹18.5 crore in 10 minutes. General secretary of the Trust Champat Rai said he won't comment on the allegations without studying the matter. "They keep making allegations on us. It has been like this for the last 100 years. They blamed us also for the death of Mahatma Gandhi. I will not say anything in the matter without a study," Rai told news agency ANI.Samajwadi Party leader Tej Narayan Pandey sought a CBI probe into the alleged land scam in which the price of the land was changed within minutes. Trust member Anil Mishra and mayor of Ayodhya Rishikesh Upadhyay are witnesses in both the sale agreements, Pandey said."The Trust purchased a piece of land, which had been bought in ₹2 crores just 10 minutes before, in ₹18.5 crores on March 18," he alleged.रवि मोहन तिवारी और सुल्तान अंसारी ने शाम 7:10 PM पर 2 करोड़ की ज़मीन ख़रीदी शाम 7:15 PM पर राम जन्म भूमि ट्रस्ट के चम्पत राय ने 18.5 करोड़ में उनसे ये ज़मीन ख़रीद ली।क्या दुनिया में कहीं 5.50 लाख रु प्रति सेकेण्ड ज़मीन महँगी होते देखा है ये काम किया है #चंदा_चोर_चम्पत ने pic.twitter.com/kR6bf6uRljAam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh too released several documents on social media and said, "Ravi Mohan Tiwari and Sultan Ansari bought land worth ₹2 crores at 7.10 pm. At 7.15 pm, Champat Rai of Ram Janmabhoomi Trust bought this land from them for ₹18.5 crores. Out of this ₹18.5 crore, ₹17 crore was paid through RTGS. This means, there has been an increase of ₹5.50 lakh every second. Is there any place in the world where land prices change so quickly? But this happens at Lord Ram's birthplace."According to the allegations, the land in Ayodhya belonged to Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak. From them, Sultan Ansari Ravi Mohan Tiwari purchased the land at a price of ₹2 crore. Within minutes, the land was bought from them by the Trust at ₹18 crore. In both the transactions, Anil Mishra and Rishikesh Upadhyay were the witnesses."There is another clue in the irregularities. The stamp for the first transaction was bought at 5.22pm while the stamp for the second transaction was boight at 5.11pm. So, the stamp for buying the land which was not sold at that time was bought first," the AAP leader said.Appealing to PM Modi, CBI and ED for a thorough probe into the money laundering, the AAP leader said, "Devotion of crores of devotees, who donated for the construction of the temple, is at stake," the AAP MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-mandir-opposition-alleges-major-land-scam-won-t-comment-now-says-trust-101623601501512.html
13-06-2021||India||No cyber breach into NIC email system, clarifies govt||The government on Sunday rejected reports that data breaches in organisations like Air India, Big Basket and Domino's have exposed the email accounts and passwords of National Informatics Centre (NIC) emails to the hackers."There has been no cyber breach into the email system of the Government of India maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). The email system is totally safe and secure," the government clarified.Also read: Data of millions on CoWIN portal safe, assures govt, denies reports of ‘hacking’In response to the media report, the Union ministry for electronics and IT said cybersecurity breach on external portals may not impact the users of government email services, unless the government users have registered in the portals using their government email address and have used the same password as the once used in the official government email account.On Saturday, a report claimed to have accessed internal communication and said, "Compromised emails on government domains such as @nic.in and @gov.in are potential cyber threats as they are being used by “adversaries” to send malicious mails to all government users."Several government officials, including defence ministry officials, were sent a malicious link through WhatsApp and SMS, asking them to update their Covid-19 vaccination status. The message asked the officials to click on https://covid19india.in for digital certificate of vaccination. The link would redirect them to a page with the government domain "@gov.in", which resembled the official website mygov.in, and asked for their emails and passwords, as per the report.Dismissing the report, the government said NIC email system has various security measures like two-factor authentication and change of password in 90 days. Any change of password in NIC email requires mobile OTP and if the OTP entered is incorrect, the password could not be changed. The ministry also said NIC email is capable of mitigating any attempt of phishing using NIC email.Also read: Domino’s Pizza says financial info safe, as data of 180 million users breached"NIC also undertakes user awareness drives from time to time and keeps updating the users about potential risks and safety protocols," the ministry said.In the last week of February, a highly sophisticated cyberattack targeted Air India that affected around 45 lakh "data subjects" in the world. Incidentally, government officials frequently choose Air India for their air travel.In April, personal data of over 2 crore customers of Big Basket was put up for sale on the dark web.In May, data of 18 crore orders of Domino's India became public and hackers created a search engine on the dark web. The data leak included name, phone number, email and GPS location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cyber-breach-into-nic-email-system-clarifies-govt-101623594705752.html
13-06-2021||India||Nirmal Kaur, Milkha Singh's wife, dies after fighting Covid-19 for 3 weeks||While Flying Sikh Milkha Singh battles for life at intensive care unit at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, his wife Nirmal Kaur lost battle to Covid-19 almost after three weeks of contracting the deadly virus. Nirmal, 85, breathed her last at Fortis hospital in Mohali on Sunday. Former captain of the Indian women’s volleyball team, Nirmal’s health deteriorated a few days after she was admitted to the hospital.There was a drop in her oxygen level owing to Covid-19 and she was put on HFNC (high flow nasal cannula) and NIV (non-invasive ventilator) intermittently since then. She was stable but her condition had not improved. She was admitted to the hospital in last week of May after she had developed Covid-19 pneumonia. At that time, 91-year-old Milkha was also admitted at the same Mohali hospital. When Milkha’s health improved, on his family’s insistence, he was sent home, however, ailing Nirmal stayed back for further treatment. Their son and India’s ace golfer along with sister doctor Mona had been co-ordinating with the doctors in the hospital.Her family released a statement later on Sunday, “We are deeply saddened to inform you that Mrs Nirmal Milkha Singh passed away after a valiant battle against COVID at 4 PM today. Former Director of Sports for Women in the Punjab Government and former captain of the Indian Women’s National Volleyball Team, Nirmal ji fought a valiant battle till the very end. A back bone of the Milkha Family, she was 85 years old. It is tragic that the Flying Sikh Milkha Singh ji could not attend the cremation which was conducted this evening itself as he is still in the ICU himself. The family has expressed its grateful thanks to everyone for their solidarity and prayers right through the battle which gave them the strength to face it bravely.”As a couple, Milkha and Nirmal ruled the roost and commanded love and respect from all corners in Chandigarh. With Nirmal leaving the world, the world lost a gem and spirit of Milkha household.Legendary Milkha’s love-story with Nirmal goes way back to 1960s. Nirmal was born as in Sheikhupura, Pakistan, on October 8, 1938. She was captain of the Punjab volleyball team on three separate occasions. In 1955, she also went on tour to Ceylon (Sri Lanka) as part of India volleyball team. There she met young Milkha. However, their friendship blossomed while both were deputed as sports administrators in Chandigarh in 1960 and 1961. While Milkha joined Punjab administration in Chandigarh as deputy director of sports, Nirmal was director sports for women. Milkha married Nirmal back in 1962. She had a Political Science Master’s degree in 1958 from Punjab University. She is known to have worn ‘Salwar Kameez’ instead of shorts or skirts during the national as well as international volleyball tournaments.Nirmal was a hard-task master as a director sports for women and responsible for bolstering the sports infrastructure in Chandigarh. She retired in the early 90’s.“Madam has played a huge role in building Chandigarh’s sports infrastructure. The Sector 42 Sector 7 and Sector 46 Sports Complexes were built during her tenure. She made sure Chandigarh had the best sports facilities. Her contribution towards developing sports complexes and playgrounds in Chandigarh, including the hockey and tennis stadiums, has been significant. The standard of sports also improved. Besides national meets, she organised an international level regatta and hockey championship. I remember Chandigarh successfully hosted Asian level rowing and water-sports tournament in 1989. She had a heart of gold. Always very kind towards poor athletes,” said Vijaypal Singh, secretary Volleyball federation of India and also secretary of Chandigarh Volleyball Association. Nirmal remains to be Patron-in-Chief of Chandigarh Volleyball Association. She first captained India women in 1955 during a tour to Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmal-kaur-milkha-singh-s-wife-dies-after-fighting-covid-19-for-3-weeks-101623599387780.html
13-06-2021||India||India natural ally for G7, partners to take on global challenges: PM Modi||India is a natural ally for the G7 and its partners to defend democracy and freedom of thought from challenges arising due to authoritarianism, terrorism, disinformation and economic coercion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. Modi made the pitch in his virtual address to two outreach sessions on climate change and open societies at the G7 Summit held in the British seaside resort of Cornwall. The meet brought together the leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US, while India, Australia, South Korea and South Africa joined selected sessions as guest countries. Indian officials said the country’s participation in the meet reflects understanding within the G7 that the resolution of key global crises won’t be possible without India’s engagement, involvement and support. India will remain engaged with G7 and its partners on major global issues such as access to vaccines, diversification of supply chains, building economic resilience and climate action, they said. Modi, who was a lead speaker in the outreach session on “open societies and open economies”, highlighted India’s civilisational commitment to democracy, freedom of thought and liberty. “As the world’s largest democracy, India is a natural ally for the G7 and guest countries to defend these shared values from a host of threats stemming from authoritarianism, terrorism and violent extremism, disinformation and infodemics and economic coercion,” he said. While highlighting the impact of digital technologies such as Aadhaar, DBT (direct benefit transfer) and JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) trinity on social inclusion and empowerment, he also pointed to “vulnerabilities inherent in open societies” and asked “tech companies and social media platforms to ensure a safe cyber environment for their users”. Modi’s views in this regard were appreciated by other leaders, P Harish, additional secretary (economic relations) in the external affairs ministry, told a news briefing. The leaders of the G7 states and guest countries emphasised their commitment to a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific and resolved to collaborate with partners in the region, Harish said. Modi also made a strong pitch for reform of the multilateral system based on openness, democracy, transparency and inclusion. At the session on climate change, Modi sought collective action and said this challenge couldn’t be addressed in silos. He pointed out that India is the only G20 state on track to meet its Paris Accord commitments, and highlighted the need for climate action to include all aspects of mitigation, technology transfer, financing, climate justice and lifestyle change to provide necessary space to developing countries to grow. Modi also called on the G7 states to meet their “unfulfilled promise of $100 billion annually in climate finance”. India has closely worked with the UK, the current president of G7 and the co-president of the COP26 Summit to be held later this year, on climate action. India is committed to installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030, and it will work with the UK to provide climate resilient infrastructure through a new facility under the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) to small island developing states. India has also endorsed the “30 by 30” targets, which call for protecting 30% of the country’s land and 30% of oceans by 2030. It is committed to achieving domestic land degradation neutrality and restoring 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030. At the same time, India has highlighted at the G7 the importance of recognising the different trajectories and historical responsibilities of developed and developing nations in relation to climate change, Harish said. At another outreach session on health on Saturday, Modi urged the G7 states to adopt a united approach to the Coronavirus pandemic and future health emergencies with the mantra of “One earth, one health”. He had also sought support for the India-South Africa proposal at the World Health Organization (WHO) for waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines. Modi was invited to the G7 Summit by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, but did not travel to Cornwall because of the pandemic situation. The theme for the summit was “build back better” in the aftermath of the devastating impact of the pandemic over the past 18 months and the need for ambitious and targeted recovery measures. The prime minister’s speeches at the three sessions focused health, climate change and open societies, and he highlighted that democratic and transparent societies have additional responsibilities and added advantages in responding to contemporary challenges. Harish said India’s shared values such as democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, unwavering commitment to a rules-based international order and inherently open and transparent systems made the country a natural partner for the G7. With the focus on equitable and affordable access to vaccines in all parts of the world and the need for stronger systems to respond to future pandemics, the G7 pledged to donate an additional one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by 2022. The G7 leaders also called for a fresh investigation into the origins of the pandemic.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres identified the waiver of patent protections for vaccines as an important element of his “global vaccination plan” to vaccinate the global population by doubling vaccine production, while French President Emmanuel Macron spoke of the need to focus on ramping up vaccine production capacity in Africa with expertise from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-natural-ally-for-g7-partners-to-take-on-global-challenges-pm-modi-101623598476929.html
13-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Black Day' to be observed in Lakshadweep as Praful Khoda Patel returns and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Black Day' to be observed in Lakshadweep as Praful Khoda Patel returnsAmid growing protest by the locals, Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel is set to arrive on the island for a seven-day visit from Monday. Ahead of his arrival, protesting group 'Save Lakshadweep Forum' has announced its plan to observe 'Black day' on Monday. Read moreMizoram man believed to head world’s largest family with 38 wives, 89 kids diesA Mizoram man believed to have headed the world’s largest family died at Aizawl on Sunday. He was 76. Ziona Chana, a resident of Baktawng Tlangnuam village in Serchhip district of the small north-eastern state had 38 wives and 89 children and a large number of grandchildren. Read moreSputnik V likely to be available in Delhi: Know price, efficacySputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 is expected to be available at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Delhi from June 15, reports have confirmed. This addition will re-energise the vaccination drive in the Capital as Delhi has been going through a severe vaccine crunch in the past few days. Read moreIndia’s engagement with G7 stands on its own, govt looking forward to COP26: MEABritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson conveyed to the Indian government that he was disappointed for not being able to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi in person at the G7 summit, the ministry of external affairs said on Sunday. Read moreNew Zealand topple India to climb to top spot in ICC Test RankingsNew Zealand Cricket team on Sunday toppled India to climb to the top spot in ICC Test Rankings. The Kiwis achieved the feat after picking up a mammoth eight-wicket win over the hosts England in their 2nd Test to win the two-match Test series 1-0. Read moreSunny Leone sports nothing but a hat for Dabboo Ratnani's 2021 Calendar, see picSunny Leone raised temperatures with her recent photoshoot for Dabboo Ratnani. The actor and television host reunited with the celebrity photographer for the Dabboo Ratnani's 2021 Calendar. Read moreBipasha Basu makes us fall in love with her ‘squat’ energy in new workout videoEven though the leg muscles are large and take too long to show the workout results, it is important to target them with exercises at least once a week to reap serious health rewards and Bipasha Basu was seen aiming for the same as she made us fall in love with her “squat” energy. Read moreCar drowns in sinkhole in Mumbai, viral video shocks tweeple. WatchIn a shocking incident, a car was seen drowning in a deep sinkhole beside a parking area in Mumbai’s Ghatkopar. The incident was shot after heavy rains lashed Mumbai. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-black-day-to-be-observed-in-lakshadweep-as-praful-khoda-patel-returns-and-all-the-latest-news-101623596924412.html
13-06-2021||India||Sputnik V likely to be available in Delhi: Know price, efficacy and other details||Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 is expected to be available at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Delhi from June 15, reports have confirmed. This addition will re-energise the vaccination drive in the Capital as Delhi has been going through a severe vaccine crunch in the past few days. Hospitals were asked only to administer second doses to the population between 18 and 44 years as completing the full course of vaccination is the priority now.Here's all you need to know about the vaccine> Sputnik V is the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19.> The vaccine developed by Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and backed by the Russian Direct Investment Fund was approved in Russia on August 11.> The two-dose vaccine is now authorised in 67 countries.> The World Health Organization has not yet approved Sputnik V as an emergency vaccine.> Sputnik V claimed to have an efficacy rate of over 90 per cent. Moderna and Pfizer vaccines have an efficacy of over 90 per cent.> A single-dose vaccine Sputnik Light is also expected to be approved in India soon.> Hyderabd's Dr Reddy's Laboratory is the local producer of the vaccine. This firm conducted a small trial of the vaccine among the Indian population too.> The vaccine was already available in select hospitals in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam.> Sputnik is given to private hospitals at a rate of ₹995.40 per dose. The doses that will later be produced by Dr Reddy's will cost less, the company said.> Apollo Hospital was administering the vaccine at ₹1,250 per dose, but the Centre has fixed the upper cap of Sputnik at ₹1,145 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-likely-to-be-available-in-delhi-know-price-efficacy-and-other-details-101623591248332.html
13-06-2021||India||'Black Day' to be observed in Lakshadweep as Praful Khoda Patel returns to island||Amid growing protest by the locals, Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel is set to arrive on the island for a seven-day visit from Monday. Ahead of his arrival, protesting group 'Save Lakshadweep Forum' has announced its plan to observe 'Black day' on Monday, following which security has been tightened on the island. Protestors have also sought time to meet the administrator who is holding additional charge of the island. Dadar and Diu administrator was given the additional charge after the death of the former administrator.On Saturday, over a dozen Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members in Lakshadweep resigned over the sedition case against filmmaker Aisha Sultana. During a debate in one of the Malayalam channels, Sultana had termed Patel a bio-weapon launched by the union government, following which BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji filed a police complaint against her, accusing her of sedition.BJP Kerala state vice president KS Radhakrishnan said the BJP members were "terrorised and coerced" into resigning.He said that since the BJP has only a nominal presence in the union territory, the 15 party members were left with no other option but to endorse the view of the majority, news agency ANI reported."There is the nominal presence of BJP in Lakshadweep. The majority of the people do not belong to BJP. They were terrorised and coerced by the majority and they had no other option but to endorse the views adopted by the majority party. That is what happened there," Radhakrishnan told ANI.Witnessing furore for over a month now, residents of the archipelago have been protesting against decisions by the administrator stating that they will affect unique culture and tradition of a group of islands. The locals are up in arms against three draft regulations that propose to develop the island as a major tourist destination, goonda act and the plan to restrict the slaughtering of cattle. They also allege these regulations will destroy the islands' character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the protected scheduled tribe category.People are protesting against the draft legislations like Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 among others.Patel, who was appointed as the Administrator of Lakshadweep in December 2020, is facing opposition over policies introduced by him from the people of the union territory and politicians, both from within Lakshadweep and the neighbouring state of Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-day-to-be-observed-in-lakshadweep-as-praful-khoda-patel-returns-to-island-101623591507017.html
13-06-2021||India||Mizoram man believed to head world’s largest family with 38 wives, 89 kids dies||A Mizoram man believed to have headed the world’s largest family died at Aizawl on Sunday. He was 76. Ziona Chana, a resident of Baktawng Tlangnuam village in Serchhip district of the small north-eastern state had 38 wives and 89 children and a large number of grandchildren. He passed away due to complications related to diabetes and high blood pressure “With a heavy heart, Mizoram bid(s) farewell to Mr Ziona (76), believed to head the world’s largest family with 38 wives and 89 children,” Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted. “Mizoram and his village Baktawng Tlangnuam has become a major tourist attraction in the state because of the family. Rest in peace Sir,” he added. Reports from Mizoram stated that the septuagenarian passed away around 3:00 pm at a private hospital in state capital Aizawl due to complications related to diabetes and high blood pressure. Ziona, was the head of Chana pawl, a minor Christian sect formed in 1942 in Mizoram by his father. The sect follows the practice of polygamy. Born in 1945, Ziona married his first wife, who was three years older to him, at the age of 17. He married his last wife in 2004. Ziona built a four-storied house called Chhuan Thar Run (New Generation Home) in his village where his family including all wives, his sons and their families stayed together. His daughters stayed separately with their husbands and their families. The family, which has over 180 members, attracts a number of tourists from across India. In 2014, the family even featured in an advertisement of a leading dishwashing brand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-man-believed-to-head-world-s-largest-family-with-38-wives-89-kids-dies-101623592176284.html
13-06-2021||India||No physical movement of files required during 'darbar move' as J-K administration goes digital||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday said that it has successfully switched over to e-Office, which has obviated the requirement of physical movement of files and records for the traditional biannual 'darbar move', reported news agency ANI.The Union territory's administration implemented the e-Office project and scanned and digitised more than 2 crore pages from 3.50 lakh files to ensure no physical movement of files are required for the very first time when darbar moved from Jammu to Srinagar in June 2021, the news agency reported, citing the administration as saying.Also read: Amid spike in Covid cases, L-G defers bi-annual Darbar Move to Srinagar"The UT administration's offices in the civil secretariat have completely switched over to e-Office which has obviated the requirement of physical movement of files/ records from Jammu to Srinagar and vice versa," the administration said, according to ANI.The traditional 'darbar move' is a biannual exercise of migrating of administration office between Jammu and Srinagar. Every year, the civil secretariat and all government offices shift from Jammu to Srinagar and vice versa based on the seasons.This shift used to require the physical movement of all files from one capital to another. During the move, the files were physically transferred between the cities in at least 300 trucks, ANI reported PK Pole, the divisional commissioner of Kashmir as saying."Every year the capital of the Jammu and Kashmir is shifted to Jammu during winter and to Srinagar during the summer. All the files with officials were physically moved from one capital to another during the darbar move in at least 300 trucks," Pole told ANI.Also read: Ceiling on social gatherings restricted to 100, Class 11 exams postponed in J-K"For the first time, the files have been digitalized and have been put in the e-Office mode. The files are now available both at Jammu and Srinagar offices. This is important for the developmental project," Pole added as he said when the administration was functional at Jammu, activities at Srinagar would be at a standstill and vice versa, according to the ANI report.Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha in April asserted the requirement of digitization in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic when he announced the postponement of the move.All government offices are housed in Srinagar from May to October, while in the remaining six months Jammu is the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-physical-movement-of-files-required-during-darbar-move-as-j-k-administration-goes-digital-101623587830923.html
13-06-2021||India||10 states allow liquor sale as Covid lockdown eases. Full list here||With the Covid-19 restrictions easing in the country, several states have permitted the sale of liquor, allowing people to purchase it from stores. While several states have reduced curbs in public markets and malls, restrictions continue for liquor shops that will operate in a graded manner.The national capital New Delhi and financial hub Mumbai began a gradual easing of restrictions on Monday as coronavirus infections have been reported at a two-month low this week. In the coming week, several states are set to witness reduced restrictions as the cases dip.India is witnessing the end of a deadly second Covid-19 wave in April and May, with severe shortages of oxygen and other critical medicines. The huge spike saw India report record-breaking numbers of cases and deaths to become the worst-hit nation followed by the United States with just under 29 million infections.Here are the 10 states permitting the sale of liquor:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-allow-alcohol-sale-as-covid-lockdown-eases-full-list-here-101623577929923.html
13-06-2021||India||Clinical trial in US, EUA in Canada: What's next for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech will publish its phase 3 clinical trial data soon, the company has recently said amid criticisms of delay in publishing the findings which were supposed to be out in June. The Food and Drug Administration of the United States has also refused to grant emergency use authorisation to the Indian vaccine, which has also invited backlash from several quarters. However, the company has said that it is fully committed to maintaining transparency. And the FDA denial is not being considered as a setback as the US is not giving emergency use approval to any vaccine now as the Covid-19 situation in the US is relatively under control. Also, the company will now pursue full licence, which no vaccine produced in India has in the US.Clinical trials in the USBharat Biotech will conduct clinical trials of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by the company in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research, in the United States as its US partner Ocugen has said that it will now apply for a full licence in the US. To obtain this, Bharat Biotech — through its US partner will have to follow the process of biologics licence application for which clinical trial will be required. So, the vaccines will be now tested on US participants. It is not yet known whether it will be a large-scale study or a small bridging study. The company will not go down the emergency use authorisation route again after being denied by the Food and Drugs Administration.Research papers on CovaxinThe company said that there is enough data on the efficacy of the vaccine. There are nine research studies on the safety and efficacy of Covaxin in five globally reputed peer-reviewed journals, it said. It is the first and only product to have published any data from human clinical trials in India. It is the only product to have any data on emerging variants. EUA in CanadaBharat Biotech's US partner has said it will pursue an emergency-use approval application in Canada. The company has already secured exclusive right to commercialise Covaxin in CanadaHow many countries are administering Covaxin?Covaxin is being administered in six countries at present while the EUA has been obtained in 13 countries.If Covaxin gets full licensure in the United States, it will be a great leap, the company said as no vaccine manufactured or developed from India has ever received EUA or full licensure from USFDA.Covaxin in IndiaThe government has said that it is satisfied with the data it provided to the Drug Controller General of India and the FDA decision will have no impact on India's ongoing vaccination drive. While the company is ramping up its production, its trial on children between the age of 12 to 18 years is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clinical-trial-in-us-eua-in-canada-what-s-next-for-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-101623588615606.html
13-06-2021||India||Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurates oxygen plant at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital||Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday inaugurated a medical oxygen generating plant at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in New Delhi, the first of seven such units being set up by state-run oil companies in the national capital ahead of the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The medical oxygen generating plant and booster unit at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Punjabi Bagh has been set up by Indraprastha Gas Ltd (IGL), which can also be used to fill oxygen cylinders, an oil ministry statement said. “This is part of an overall strategy to be ready for any possibility of a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic in the country,” Pradhan said while inaugurating the plant. The plant at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital will be operated and maintained by the IGL for one year.The nation came together to meet heightened oxygen demand during the second wave of the pandemic. The steel companies played a major role by supplying liquefied medical oxygen (LMO) across the country by diverting their oxygen producing capacities towards producing LMO and by reducing steel production, he said. Pradhan also has the steel portfolio.The plant at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital has a capacity of 60 NM3/hour, which can give oxygen with purity of upto 96%. The plant can also fill 12 Jumbo type-D Medical oxygen cylinders per hour through an oxygen compressor at 150 bar apart from providing medical oxygen support to the beds connected to the hospital manifold through pipes, the statement said. There is no requirement of any specialized raw material. The PSA uses the technology, whereby a chemical acting as Zeolites Sieve is used which filters nitrogen and other gases from air and end product is medical oxygen, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-inaugurates-oxygen-plant-at-maharaja-agrasen-hospital-101623587795981.html
13-06-2021||India||‘India needs resurgent Congress but…’: Kapil Sibal on crisis in party||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal remarked on Sunday that the country needs a "resurgent" Congress, though he also called for the party to undergo reforms at various levels."India needs a resurgent Congress but it also needs to show it is active and in a mood to engage meaningfully," Sibal told news agency PTI, adding that the party needs organisational polls, widespread reforms at central and state levels to show it is no longer "in a state of inertia."The former Union minister further claimed that currently, there is a void of a political alternative in the country. "The country needs a strong and credible opposition," Sibal, a member of the Congress' dissenting "G-23" group of leaders, said. He also stressed upon the "urgent" need to strike a balance between young and experienced leaders of the party.Sibal's comments come at a time when the Congress is facing troubles on multiple fronts. The party has been without a full-time president for nearly two years now. Rahul Gandhi, the last full-time Congress president, resigned after Congress' defeat in the 2019 general elections. It was the party's second successive defeat in a general election against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Gandhi succeeded his mother Sonia Gandhi as Congress president in 2017 but the latter was forced to return as the party president, albeit in an interim capacity - a post she still holds - in the wake of Gandhi's resignation.The party has also seen defections by several young leaders to the BJP. On June 9, two-term Lok Sabha MP and former Union minister Jitin Prasada joined the BJP, more than a year after Jyotiraditya Scindia switched sides, triggering a collapse of the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh. In other states too, where the Congress is in power, there are rumblings which could bring trouble for the party. Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who nearly walked out last year, is currently in Delhi, and is likely to meet Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday. In Punjab, there is infighting between chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu.Also Read: AICC panel submits report on Punjab Congress infighting to Sonia GandhiPunjab is likely to go to polls early next year. In 2017, the Congress, under Singh, won a comfortable majority, displacing the BJP-Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government in the process. However, in the recently held assembly elections in four states and a Union territory, the Congress was on the winning side only in Tamil Nadu, as a member of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-resurgent-congress-but-kapil-sibal-on-crisis-in-party-101623580875488.html
13-06-2021||India||Tripura reduces 30% syllabi for 10 and 12 board students due to Covid-19||Tripura has reduced syllabi for class 10 and 12 by 30% for the 2022 board examinations, said state’s secondary education board president Dr Bhabatosh Saha.“Students, who would appear for the class 10 and 12 board examinations in 2022, will write exams on 70% of their syllabi. This decision was taken recently eyeing the pandemic,” said Dr Saha, president of Tripura Board of Secondary Education (TBSE)“The reduction of syllabi will be applicable for the board candidates next year”, Saha added.This is the second year in the running when the syllabi in schools under the board have been reduced for selected classes due to the disruptions caused by the pandemic. In academic session 2020-2021, students of classes 9 to 12 followed 30% curtailed syllabi.All the educational institutions including schools, colleges and universities in Tripura are closed since April this year due to rise in Covid-19 infections in the second wave of the pandemic.The secondary education board initially postponed class 10 and 12 examinations this year for all students of academic session 2020-2021 and later said examinations will only be conducted in selected subjects. However, a final decision on the matter has not been taken so far.601 lives have been lost in Tripura from 58,093 Covid 19 infections registered so far; however, the number of active cases is far less at 5,271.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-reduces-30-syllabi-for-10-and-12-board-students-due-to-covid19-101623585335935.html
13-06-2021||India||'Rahul Gandhi must answer': Oil minister on fuel price hikes in Congress-ruled states||Union minister for petroleum Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday trained guns at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his attacks o the central government over rising fuel prices. Pradhan said Gandhi should ask chief ministers of states where Congress is in power if he is concerned about the burden on the common man.Fuel prices in seven Indian states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have already crossed the ₹100-mark, registering historic highs."Rahul Gandhi must answer why is fuel expensive in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab? If Rahul Gandhi is concerned about the poor being hit by fuel prices, he should ask chief ministers of Congress-ruled states to cut taxes," Pradhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | 'Accept rising petrol, diesel prices problematic but...': What minister saidGandhi should ask Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to reduce taxes, Pradhan added.However, the petroleum minister did not suggest a similar action for states ruled by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where the consumers are feeling the pinch of rising fuel prices. The fuel prices have been hiked 23 times since last month.Rahul Gandhi, in his latest attack on the government, asked as to how much will the BJP "loot". "GDP crashing, Unemployment soaring, Fuel prices skyrocketing. In how many more ways is #BJPLootingIndia," he asked in a tweet on Friday.Congress on Friday held demonstrations in several parts of the country against the rising fuel prices, during which over 150 members were detained in Gujarat, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for allegedly violating Covid protocol and protesting without permission.Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. As a result, the petrol retails at over ₹100 per litre mark in six states and union territories - Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh.Also read: Congress protests fuel price hike in Punjab, HaryanaPetrol and diesel have risen to an all-time high across the country after fuel rates rose by ₹5.72 to ₹6.25 per litre in less than six weeks.Pradhan's remarks came during an inauguration of a medical oxygen generating plant at Maharaj Agrasen Hospital in New Delhi, the first of seven such units being set up by state-run oil companies in the national capital ahead of the impending third wave of Covid-19 pandemic.Acknowledging the brunt borne by citizens, Pradhan said he accepts that fuel prices are pinching consumers. The central and state governments need additional money from the taxes on petrol and diesel to meet expenses for fighting pandemic as well as development work, he told the reporters.The spike in fuel prices in India is due to a combination of rising international oil prices and record-high central and state taxes.While international oil prices have crossed USD 72 per barrel in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries.Last year, when rates collapsed to a two-decade low, the Union government instead of passing on the benefit to consumers raised excise duty to record high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-must-answer-oil-minister-on-fuel-price-hikes-in-congress-ruled-states-101623580791726.html
13-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Geeta Rabari gets vaccinated at home, action against healthcare staff and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Singer Geeta Rabari gets Covid vaccine at home in Gujarat, action against healthcare staffAfter cricketer Kuldeep Yadav got vaccinated at a guest house in Kanpur, the photo of Gujarati folk singer Geeta Rabari getting the shot at her home in Kutch district has stoked a fresh controversy, at a time when struggles for Covid-19 vaccine slots and vaccines has not yet become a thing of the past for common people. Read More'Accept rising petrol, diesel prices problematic but...': What minister saidUnion petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday said he knows the rising prices of petrol and diesel are problematic, but it can't be brought down because the government is saving money to spend on welfare schemes. Read MoreHow Delta variant of Covid-19 is now wreaking havoc across the worldA highly transmissible variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is now rapidly spreading across the globe, causing more stringent curbs in some countries and derailing lockdown plans of others. Read MoreAssam CM says deaths of 2 minor sisters ‘mysterious’, calls for thorough probeAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday called for a thorough probe into the deaths of two minor sisters, who were found hanging from a tree in Kokrajhar district of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) on Friday. Read MoreTrudeau leads G7 discussion on China challenge, pushes for unified approachCanadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau led a discussion at the G7 Leaders' Summit 2021 on Saturday over how to respond to China’s growing economic clout. Read MoreDravid replacing Dada as captain was a significant change: Raina recalls 'occasional unrest among seniors' in Team IndiaFormer India batsman Suresh Raina has revealed that he did not have the smoothest of relations with some of the senior players of the Indian team initially in his career. Read MoreITBP shares pics of jawans scaling the Himalayas. Images go viralDo you follow the official Twitter handle of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP)? If you do, chances are you’ve seen the snippets they often share from the lives of the personnel who are posted in the mountainous regions protecting our country. Read MoreAnu Aggarwal reveals why she found Shraddha Kapoor's Aashiqui 2 disappointingActor Anu Aggarwal has revealed the reason she was disappointed with Aashiqui 2. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-geeta-rabari-gets-vaccinated-at-home-action-against-healthcare-staff-and-all-the-latest-news-101623581557675.html
13-06-2021||India||Woman with 4 daughters kidnapped male child from Goa hospital, caught||The Goa Police have successfully traced the one month old male infant, kidnapped from the Goa Medical College and Hospital, to the home of a woman at Saleli village in rural North Goa and arrested the alleged kidnapper, a woman identified as Vishranti Gawas. The police say she wanted to raise the child as her own. The baby is reported to be safe.“Within 24 hours, the teams converged at Saleli in Valpoi and identified the suspect in possession of one infant matching the description. The suspicion was confirmed further as the mother also identified the child. Accordingly, the child was rescued and the suspect identified as Vishranti Gawas was apprehended,” North Goa superintendent of police Shobit Saksena, said.The baby was allegedly kidnapped when the mother, Lalita Naik, handed the child over to another woman and went to buy samosas from the coffee shop within the hospital complex. When she returned the woman and the baby were missing. Naik said she didn’t know the woman, who asked her to get something to eat while she waited with her child.The woman then walked out of the hospital premises, hired a motorcycle taxi and was seen on CCTV cameras at Mapusa heading north.“Upon interrogation, the accused claimed she kidnapped the child as she wanted to raise it as her own. She is a housewife and lives in Saleli with her husband and four daughters,” Saksena added.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant praised the police for successfully completing what he described as one of the “biggest manhunts” in the state.“I congratulate Goa Police for successfully leading one of the biggest manhunts in the State and safely rescuing a one month old child within 24hrs. Safety and security of the citizens is the top priority of our government,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-with-four-daughters-held-for-kidnapping-month-old-male-child-from-goa-hospital-101623581555795.html
13-06-2021||India||'Love Jihad', 'cow terror' will not work in Uttar Pradesh, says RLD chief||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary on Sunday said superficial issues like "love jihad" and " cow terror" will not work in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, according to a PTI report. He said that the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) "apathy" towards the farmers protesting against the contentious farm laws will hurt them the most in the polls, PTI reported."Love jihad, cow terror, Kairana exodus and other useless artificial issues will be rejected; healthcare, education and balanced development will win (in the polls)," Chaudhary said, according to PTI.Also read: As Modi and Yogi meet, the story behind BJP’s UP sagaThe newly appointed chief of the party took over the leadership after the demise of his father Chaudhary Ajit Singh last month. In an interview with PTI, Chaudhary said that his party will not let a communally polarised campaign destroy the Hindi heartland state in the fight to the polls. He also said that RLD and the Samajwadi Party share a good rapport and a strong working relationship. Details for the official tie-up need to be worked out, he said."The Centre’s new laws are prescribing a takeover of the entire market and value chain by the private sector and the withdrawal of the government from procurement and subsequent monopolisation will hurt producer and consumer interests," PTI quoted Chaudhary as saying.The RLD chief has been part of various 'Kisan Mahapanchayats' in western Uttar Pradesh, where his party has a significant presence, protesting against the Centre's farm laws.On the scope of Mahagathbandhan, Jayant Chaudhary said issues come first and an understanding of such issues needs to be worked out among all alliance partners.Also read: Uttar Pradesh govt looking into allegations of caste bias in university appointments in Banda"Social engineering doesn’t come about by tinkering with one or two leaders at the top. The fact is that BJP's Uttar Pradesh government has been caught in a caste-based matrix and has not delivered jobs, economic growth, and efficient governance to people," PTI quoted the RLD chief as saying.He also lashed out at the UP government's response to Covid pandemic and said it has been atrocious and no one can forget the scene of bodies in Ganga, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-jihad-cow-terror-will-not-work-in-uttar-pradesh-says-rld-chief-101623576087684.html
13-06-2021||India||‘Have approached Google for emails’: J&K Police charge sheet on PDP’s Waheed Parra||The Jammu and Kashmir Police have approached US authorities and Google seeking details of email contents allegedly exchanged between Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Waheed Parra and Pakistan-based secessionist leaders and terrorist groups, according to a charge sheet filed by the union territory police.“During investigation, it was found that the accused received instructions and advice from Pakistan-based secessionist and terrorist leaders and communicated action-taken reports as well as a host of inputs in furtherance of terrorism and secessionism,” the 19-page charge sheet, filed by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK) wing of the J&K Police, said.Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti seeks L-G’s intervention in Waheed Parra re-arrest caseThe charge sheet further claimed to have prime facie evidence sufficient to launch prosecution against Parra for establishing a nexus with terrorists to seek their backing for his political gains. It also said that the PDP leader shared information through several email services of which three have been brought on record.“Accordingly, a request has been forwarded through proper channels to Google US as per their standard forms and norms for providing details/contents of emails exchanged by Parra through his three email IDs,” the charge sheet said.Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti denied passport after J-K CID report cites national securityParra’s lawyer, as well as his party, have both denied allegations against him, calling them “politically motivated.” Earlier this month, PDP chief and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti even called upon the United Nations “to step in.”Anyone who raises his voice against GOIs draconian measures is conveniently labelled as a Pakistani agent. A pity that our own institutions have stopped taking notice of such brazen human rights violations & instead the UN has to step in.https://t.co/7UDwTyJ7nvParra, the youth wing president of the PDP, was arrested in November last year by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a terror case. He was granted bail by an NIA court in January but was immediately detained by the CIK and is currently in judicial custody.Also Read: PDP leader Waheed Parra’s custody extended by 9 daysLast year, the CIK filed a case against “unknown” politicians and others after receiving information from “confidential and reliable sources” that some politicians were “misusing their power and helping terrorists.”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-approached-google-for-emails-j-k-police-charge-sheet-on-pdp-s-parra-101623580468808.html
13-06-2021||India||Singer Geeta Rabari gets Covid vaccine at home in Gujarat, action against healthcare staff||After cricketer Kuldeep Yadav got vaccinated at a guest house in Kanpur, the photo of Gujarati folk singer Geeta Rabari getting the shot at her home in Kutch district has stoked a fresh controversy, at a time when struggles for Covid-19 vaccine slots and vaccines has not yet become a thing of the past for common people. The district administration has issued a show-cause notice to the woman health worker, who administered the jab after a complaint was filed with the district administration.Geeta, who had performed at the Namaste Trump event, posted a photo of getting the jab sitting on a sofa at her house, which led to an uproar on social media following which the photo was taken down.Kanpur admin orders probe as cricketer Yadav takes Covid jab at 'guest house'"As per the complaint received by me yesterday, Geeta Rabari had taken vaccination at her house at Madhapar village on Saturday evening. I issued instructions to officials to identify the health staff who went to her home to administer the vaccine, and on whose approval it was done," said Kutch DDO Bhavya Verma, as reported by PTI. He has also confirmed to the news agency that the 25-year-old singer had booked a slot on Saturday but instead of going to the public health centre, she got it done at home. Further action into the case will be taken after the healthcare staff explains to the administration what happened, the DDO said.Sharing the photo of the singer, which she took down, social media users are questioning whether door-to-door vaccination has been started in Kutch. While PM Modi and the chief minister can go to the vaccination centre, why the singer can't, Twitter users have asked.A similar case happened with cricketer Kuldeep Yadav who took the vaccine at a guest house, while his slot was booked at Jageshwar Hospital in Govind Nagar, Kanpur. An inquiry was ordered into the case by Kanpur district magistrate Alok Tiwari.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singer-gets-covid-vaccine-at-home-in-gujarat-action-against-healthcare-staff-101623577782708.html
13-06-2021||India||Assam government asks fully vaccinated employees to join from Monday||The Assam government asked its employees, who have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), to join from Monday. The General Administration Department Commissioner and Secretary M S Manivannan issued this order for the smooth functioning of government offices."In order to ensure smooth functioning of government offices, all the employees of Government of Assam who have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine are hereby directed to attend office from 14/06/2021 regularly," Manivannan told news agency ANI.“This has the approval of the competent authority," he added.The order also stated that all employees will have to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour in the office premises.Assam is currently under partial Covid-19 lockdown that will be in force till June 15. A night curfew has been imposed from 1pm to 5am with a total ban on movement of individuals. All shops and commercial establishments have been ordered to close at 12 noon everyday. Inter-district travel has been suspended, and the odd-even formula of plying vehicles is in operation across the state.Assam recorded 3,463 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, pushing the state-wide tally to 4,57,330. 42 more people succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours; the death toll now stands at 3,915, according to the data published by the National Health Mission (NHM). The highest number of new cases were detected in Sonitpur (267), followed by 264 in Cachar, 246 in Kamrup Metropolitan district, and 212 in Tinsukia.As per the NHM bulletin 47,51,926 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the state till date and out of that 9,16,594 individuals have been administered their second doses. A total of 85,251 individuals were inoculated on Saturday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-government-asks-fully-vaccinated-employees-to-join-from-monday-101623578950340.html
13-06-2021||India||Assam CM says deaths of 2 minor sisters ‘mysterious’, calls for thorough probe||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday called for a thorough probe into the deaths of two minor sisters, who were found hanging from a tree in Kokrajhar district of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) on Friday.“Family members of the victims say that there was no reason for them to die by suicide. The entire incident appears mysterious,” said Sarma, while visiting the victims’ family, which has alleged that the sisters were raped and murdered.The two girls, aged 16 and 14, were found dead inside a small forest, some distance away from their home, on Friday evening a few hours after they went missing. “If it’s [a] murder, [then] the accused should be arrested and handed an appropriate punishment. And if it’s a case of [death by] suicide, the probe should be on what led to it. I have directed the police to probe both these angles,” he added. Bodies of the two victims were sent to Kokrajhar civil hospital on Saturday for post-mortem. The reports were awaited. Sarma said police have already detained five persons for questioning. “Two of them were found to have deleted all messages from their mobiles phones, but there’s evidence of them making calls, lasting over an hour, to the victims,” he said. Sarma added that crimes against women in districts of lower Assam had led to a sense of insecurity, however, his government wouldn’t tolerate such incidents, especially those targeting the poor and the oppressed sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-says-deaths-of-2-minor-sisters-mysterious-calls-for-thorough-probe-101623579275677.html
13-06-2021||India||Malnutrition and diseases directly linked, says UN's WFP India official||Underlining that there is a direct link between malnutrition and diseases, India country director of UN World Food Programme Bishow Parajuli suggested safeguarding and promoting access to nutritious, safe, and affordable diets and investing in improving maternal and child nutrition to protect children's right to nutrition in the Covid-19 pandemic.India has been battling high prevalence of malnutrition among its population, especially children, with National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-4 (2015-16) data showing that 35.7 per cent children below five years are underweight, 38.4 per cent are stunted and 21 per cent are wasted in the country. Even NFHS-5 which was conducted in 22 states and union territories presented a grim scenario and showed a rise in malnutrition.In an interview with PTI, the World Food Programme India's country director said malnutrition is particularly lethal in combination with infectious diseases such as ARI, malaria, measles, diarrhoeal diseases -- the major killer diseases affecting children.Responding to a question if malnutrition can become a comorbidity for children infected with Covid-19, he said in general, there is a direct link between malnutrition and diseases like coronavirus disease."Malnutrition can make a person more susceptible to infection through a lowered immune response, and infection further contributes to malnutrition resulting in a vicious cycle of repeated infections, reduced immunity, and deteriorating nutritional status. It is known that malnutrition magnifies the effect of disease and a malnourished person has more severe disease episodes, more complications, and spends more time ill for each episode," he said.There have been speculations that the third wave of Covid-19 may impact children more. However, the available evidence show that children are as much affected as adults."It is, however, important that parents and caregivers of children get vaccinated so that they act as a protective ring around the children till such time vaccination is not opened up to young children," he said.Noting that even though many programmes are still in place, the country director said to mitigate the impact of the crisis on families and society and to protect the nutrition of the most vulnerable families and individuals, further action is urgently needed from national and state governments.He suggested five urgent actions to protect children's right to nutrition in the Covid-19 pandemic -- safeguarding and promoting access to nutritious, safe, and affordable diets, investing in improving maternal and child nutrition through pregnancy, infancy, and early childhood, re-activating and scaling-up services for the early detection and treatment of child wasting, maintain the provision of nutritious and safe school meals for vulnerable children and expand social protection to safeguard access to nutritious diets and essential services.Elaborating on WFP's work on fortification and take-home ration (THR), he said WFP is collaborating with Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Odisha to design nutritious take-home rations aligned to both ICDS norms and global guidelines for such products for young children and pregnant/lactating women; set up THR production units where the same is produced by women's self-help groups following industrial quality assurance and control protocols; capacity building of women's self-help groups and establish the link between THR and social behaviour change communication."This intervention, though focused on nutrition, is also known to empower women, generate livelihoods whilst at the same time trigger rural economies," he said.The collaboration was done after WFP found that the nutritional value of the THR is limited due to high percentage contribution to energy from sugar, poor quality proteins, and low levels of fats/ micronutrients though the products may be aligned to the norms of energy and proteins established by the government."It was also noticed that quality control protocols were poorly followed and the THR did not find a mention in the nutrition health education sessions conducted by the front line functionaries despite huge spending by the Government on THR. All of this led to the limited acceptability of the products in the community," he said.Responding to a question on impact on children's nutrition over unavailability of mid-day meals due to closure of schools, he said during the period January-March 2021, MDM was found to be functional in various forms in nearly all states and UTs."Seven states are providing hot cooked meals. However, in four states, the government is using a mixed approach where a hot cooked meal is served to upper primary students while FSA (Food Security Allowance) is provided to primary students as schools continue to remain closed for these children. In one State, schools are providing hot cooked meals to elementary students attending classes and also providing FSA to absent students," he said. In the remaining 24 States, he said FSA is being provided."In eight of the 24 States, both dry food rations and the cooking cost is being provided while in the remaining 16 states only dry food rations are being provided which may vary from only grains to a more nutritious food basket consisting of grains, pulses, oil, potatoes, eggs, salt, condiments, etc," Parajuli said.He added that only in one State that the MDM was not found functioning in any form.Welcoming the Centre's decision to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana that entitles each beneficiary 5 kg of free food grain every month until November, he said there are increasing concerns that some of the most deserving families are having difficulties accessing the support."Additionally, like the last time the scheme should include pulses as it would also provide nutritional diversity in the diet," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malnutrition-and-diseases-directly-linked-says-un-s-wfp-india-official-101623576838479.html
13-06-2021||India||Kotkapura firing: Ex-Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal summoned by SIT||A special investigation team (SIT), probing the Kotkapura firing case, has summoned former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. The three-member SIT of Punjab Police is headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav. Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh are the other two members.During the previous government led by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), torn pages of Sikh religious text Guru Granth Sahib were found at Bargari in Faridkot. Later, in an incident of police firing at anti-sacrilege protesters, two people were killed at Behbal Kalan and many injured at Kotkapura.The Punjab and Haryana high court had on April 9 quashed all reports filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in the case.The state governemnt then constituted a new three-member SIT, which was directed to complete the probe in six months.The new SIT started its investigation on May 13 and summoned people, which gave statements to previous investigation team, to appear before it.The SAD has, meanwhile, said that the one-man commission set to probe the 2015 desecration incidents nor the earlier constituted SIT indicted former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Badal in the case.But the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have been targeting the party, demanding action against its leaders in the case.Last month, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu shared on his Twitter handle video clips of purported police action on people protesting the desecration of a religious text in Punjab's Faridkot in 2015 and purported contents of the report of Justice Ranjit Singh Commission that had probed incidents of the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib.The tweet was in response to SAD chief Sukhbir Badal's statement in which he had dared the Congress leaders to share the proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kotkapura-firing-ex-punjab-chief-minister-parkash-singh-badal-summoned-by-sit-101623576874510.html
13-06-2021||India||Whose phones are being tapped? Reveal names, says Rajasthan minister as Pilot loyalists complain||As the Ashok Gehlot government is again facing the old allegations of tapping the phones of its MLAs, Rajashthan minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Sunday said those who are raising these allegations should reveal the names of those MLAs whose phone are being 'tapped'. They should speak to the chief minister instead of passing the buck to other MLAs who presumably said their phones ar being tapped. The comment comes as Congress MLA Ved Prakash Solanki, who belongs to Sachin Pilot camp, said some Congress MLAs talked about phone tapping. He also added that he was not sure whether his phone was being tapped or not."Rajasthan govt doesn't tap anyone's phone, that's not our character. If an MLA says that his phone is not tapped but mentions other MLAs who say that their phones have been tapped, then he should reveal those names and speak to the CM," the minister said.Also Read: Sachin Pilot may meet Priyanka Gandhi today, Cong says trying to resolve issuesSolanki said some MLAs have already informed Gehlot about phone tapping. "I do not know if my phone is being tapped or not. Some legislators have told me that their phones are being tapped. I am also not aware if the state government is involved in phone tapping. Many officials told them (legislators) that it seems that there are efforts underway to trap them," Solanki said.The charges of phone tapping against the Congress government in Rajasthan is not new as this was one of the points the rebel camp, led by Sachin Pilot, highlighted in July last year. The government at that time gave some audio clips to the Rajasthan Police for an investigation into whether these MLAs were hatching any plan against the government. The case was closed after the issue between the Pilot camp and Gehlot was resolved after the intervention of the Congress high command.Amid rumours of Sachin Pilot joining the BJP, which the Congress leader vehemently rubbished, Pilot is likely to meet Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi to push for the demands that have not been fulfilled in the last 10 months after the patch up of the two warring camps in Rajasthan Congress.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whose-phones-are-being-tapped-reveal-names-says-rajasthan-minister-as-sachin-pilot-loyalists-bring-back-old-allegations-101623575986605.html
13-06-2021||India||India's aspirational districts program benefited 21% population: Amitabh Kant||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Sunday said that the Centre's aspirational districts programme, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018, has benefited almost 21% of the nation's population and improved their quality of life."The UN has done an independent third party study and concluded that this program of aspirational districts, launched by PM in January 2018 has been a remarkable success story, aspirational districts have done better than non-aspirational districts. Because of this, almost 21% of India's population has benefited and improved quality of life. This has been a huge transformational change at the grassroot level," Kant was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Kant said that the program has been able to make difference to lives of citizens of India, in education, health, nutrition, financial inclusion, skill development and this has made a difference to some most backward and most geographically far-flung districts of the nation."I am very satisfied that what PM had envisioned for this program. We have come a long way, we have achieved substantial difference in making a qualitative difference to lives of citizens of India," the Niti Aayog CEO said.Talking about the state of India's economy amid coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Kant said, "I am a great believer that for this economy, we need to vaccinate fast which we are doing now, government has ordered a lot of vaccines to come in in subsequent months, so I agree with govt approach that by December we should have vaccinated entire population."An independent appraisal report by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has lauded India's Aspirational Districts Programme (ADP) and said it has resulted in sectoral growth and improvements in governance and administration."A very successful model of local area development" that "should serve as a best practice for several other countries where regional disparities in development status persist for many reasons," the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-aspirational-districts-program-benefited-21-population-amitabh-kant-101623574777585.html
13-06-2021||India||Nationwide sero survey will help in building strategy on Covid vaccination, lockdown: Health expert||Health experts dealing with Covid-19 believe that a nationwide coronavirus serological survey will be beneficial as it will help in bringing out exact viral load and thus help in building up strategies.Sero surveys estimate as well as monitor infection trends in the population which is specifically location-based to understand the current course of the virus.The Centre recently announced that it would commence a nationwide sero surveillance project and has asked the States to participate for fact-based monitoring of the situation.Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, AIIMS Dr Neeraj Nischal told ANI, "Most of the COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. They may not actually seek any test or medical intervention so there can be a substantial chunk of people who have got infected but are not aware of their status. The basic role of sero surveys is to know the exact burden of infection. From this point of view, sero surveillance becomes very important because based on that one can find out which particular area has a susceptible population."According to experts, serological surveillance specific strategies of particular areas can be built up and following them can further lower the positivity rate.Dr Nischal said, "One can always decide a strategy based on this type of surveys. Through this, one can encourage people to take vaccination in the area and thus we can strengthen the vaccination strategy of that area. Also if a disease outbreak happens in any particular area one can impose a micro lockdown in that area and thus the vulnerable population can be protected."A strategy can be decided based on these surveys - it could based on vaccination or a decision regarding lockdown - which can definitely help in saving lots of lives, says doctors.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will start 4th national sero survey in June to assess Covid-19 spread.Member Health NITI Aayog Dr VK Paul on Friday said, "Preparation for national sero survey done. ICMR will begin work for the next sero survey this month. But if we want to protect our geographies we won't have to depend on national sero survey alone, we'll have to encourage states for sero surveys too."India on Saturday reported 80,834 fresh cases and 3,303 deaths, the data released by the Union Health Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationwide-sero-survey-will-help-in-building-strategy-on-covid-vaccination-lockdown-health-expert-101623574904280.html
13-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep administrator to arrive on island tomorrow amid row over orders||Lakshadweep administrator Praful Patel will arrive in the Union territory on Monday amid a raging controversy over a set of orders, which, locals and critics argue, will destroy the unique culture and tradition of the 36-island archipelago.Also Read: Why latest orders have Lakshadweep localsPatel, who was appointed as the 35th administrator of Lakshadweep last December after the death of his predecessor Dineshwar Sharma, is likely to face protests. Save Lakshadweep Forum, a body formed to mount protests against the “draconian” orders, has announced it will observe a “Black Day” on June 14. The protesters have also sought time to meet Praful Patel, who is also the first administrator of the joint UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (DNHDU).Also Read: Lakshadweep residents hold hunger strike over new rulesWith Patel set to arrive in Lakshadweep, security has been tightened on the island.Also Read: Amid ‘disturbing developments’ in Lakshadweep, former bureaucrats write to PM ModiAt the heart of the ongoing protests are norms like Goonda Act, Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) and two-child rule among others. The Goonda Act proposes to detain a person in jail for up to 12 months without any legal representation. Lakshadweep has the lowest crime rate in the country, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report in 2019. Locals, therefore, allege the new law would be misused to detain people without valid reasons, in order to create a “fear psychosis.”Also Read: Kerala assembly to pass resolution seeking withdrawal of latest reforms in LakshadweepLDAR, they say, would give the administrator sweeping powers to take over land forcefully, relocate people and propose harsh punishment to those who object to the regulation. The two-child norm, proposed under the draft Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation Act, 2021, proposes a ban on contesting elections on those with more than two children. Hence, this would take away from the islanders their right to contest an election as the birth rate is very high among the rural populace, critics argue.Another bone of contention is the proposed ban on animal slaughter without a certificate from a competent authority, as well as the removal of beef from the menu of the mid-day meal scheme for students of Lakshadweep. Since the UT has a 95% Muslim population, critics see this as an attempt by the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to impose its political and ideological views on the islanders.The orders have also faced protests from several members of the BJP’s Lakshadweep unit. Over a dozen members have quit in protest over a sedition case filed against filmmaker Aisha Sultana for allegedly calling the Lakshadweep administrator a “bio-weapon launched by the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-administrator-to-arrive-on-island-tomorrow-amid-row-over-regulations-101623571309732.html
13-06-2021||India||How Delta variant of Covid-19 is now wreaking havoc across the world||A highly transmissible variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is now rapidly spreading across the globe, causing more stringent curbs in some countries and derailing lockdown plans of others.The Delta variant, first detected in India, has been listed as 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO).Here's how the Delta variant is affecting the world:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delta-variant-of-covid-19-is-now-wreaking-havoc-across-the-world-101623572791444.html
13-06-2021||India||Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition in Uttarakhand, dies in New Delhi||80-years old Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition in Uttarakhand assembly and veteran Congress leader, died on Sunday in New Delhi, where she attended a party meeting, a senior Congress leader said.“It is shocking that our senior leader has suddenly left us. She met several party leaders and attended a party meeting in New Delhi on Saturday. A day before on Friday, I spoke to her and she told me to continue holding protests against the state government. Her loss is irreparable,” Congress state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said.Hridayesh tested positive for Covid-19 in September last year but recovered. She had been participating regularly in political events and organising protests against the state government in Haldwani.Born on April 7, 1941, the veteran Congress leader started her political career in the mid-1970s. She was a finance minister in Uttarakhand from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indira-hridayesh-leader-of-opposition-in-uttarakhand-dies-in-new-delhi-101623572375648.html
13-06-2021||India||Congress leader Indira Hridayesh dies in New Delhi, condolences pour in||Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand assembly Indira Hridayesh died in New Delhi after suffering a heart attack on Sunday. She was 80. “It is shocking that our senior leader has suddenly left us. She had met various party leaders and attended a party meeting in New Delhi on Saturday. A day before on Friday I had spoken to her and she told me about continuing to hold protests against the state government. Her loss is reparable,” Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress' Uttarakhand unit vice president, said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Congress party as well as several political leaders cutting across the political spectrum condoled Indira Hridayesh's death."Dr. Indira Hridayesh Ji was at the forefront of several community service efforts. She made a mark as an effective legislator and also had rich administrative experience. Saddened by her demise. Condolences to her family and supporters. Om Shanti," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted.Dr. Indira Hridayesh Ji was at the forefront of several community service efforts. She made a mark as an effective legislator and also had rich administrative experience. Saddened by her demise. Condolences to her family and supporters. Om Shanti: PM @narendramodiThe Congress party tweeted about her death, saying it was shocking."The news of the death of Uttarakhand Congress Legislature Party leader Dr Indira Hridayesh ji is shocking. Condolences of the entire Congress family are with her family and loved ones. May God grant the departed soul a place at the feet of Sri," the Congress tweeted in Hindi.Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat also posted his condolence message for Indira Hridayesh on Twitter."Got the sad news of the death of the senior leader of Uttarakhand, former minister, leader of opposition in the current assembly and my elder sister, respected Smt. Indira Hridayesh ji. I pray to God for her soul," Tirath Singh Rawat tweeted in Hindi.उत्तराखण्ड राज्य की वरिष्ठ नेत्री, पूर्व मंत्री एवं वर्तमान विधानसभा में नेता प्रतिपक्ष रहीं, मेरी बड़ी बहन जैसी आदरणीया श्रीमती इंदिरा हृदयेश जी के निधन का दुखद समाचार मिला।मैं उनकी आत्मा की शांति के लिए भगवान के श्री चरणों में प्रार्थना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/rQ2SOijxRn"My acquaintance with Smt Indira Hridayesh ji has been decades old. I always got the warmth of an elder sister from her. She was always at the forefront of raising issues of public interest in the assembly. I express my condolences to her family and supporters during this difficult time," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-indira-hridayesh-dies-in-new-delhi-condolences-pour-in-101623571941697.html
13-06-2021||India||Drones to deliver Covid-19 vaccines in India's remote corners? Govt invites bids||The people living in the remote corners of the country may soon get Covid-19 vaccine through drones. HLL Infra Tech Services Limited, on behalf of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on Friday invited expression of interest for delivery of medical supplies (vaccines/drugs) by Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) at select locations in India.The company said that ICMR will engage UAV operators to operate beyond visual line of site (BVLOS) in fixed pre-defined or pre-approved flight paths and deliver Covid-19 vaccine. It has also given the proforma for interested parties to apply for it.HLL has given specification for the UAVs required. As per the company's note, the drone should be able to cover a minimum aerial distance of 35km at a vertical altitude of minimum of 100 metres, take off vertically and carry minimum payload of 4kg, and capable of returning to home base.HLL has made it clear that parachute-based delivery will not be preferred.The proposed agreement will be valid for 90 days, and can be extended depending on the performance of the UAV operator and need of the programme, HLL further said.This comes nearly two months after ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) granted conditional exemption to ICMR for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones. The ICMR has partnered with IIT-Kanpur for the project.The Centre said that the exemption will be valid for a period of one year or until further orders.Meanwhile, e-commerce company Flipkart on Friday said that it has partnered with Telangana government for delivery of Covid-19 vaccines and other essential supplies using drones in the remote parts of the state. Before launching the 'Medicines from the Sky' project, a six-day pilot project will be carried out in Telangana."Using drones to deliver healthcare supplies to people in remote and inaccessible areas is a one-of-a-kind initiative ever undertaken in our country and we are happy to lead this initiative in collaboration with partners such as Flipkart," said Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary (IT and I&C), Government of TelanganaHe added that it will go a long way in testing best-in-class technology solutions to tide over future crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-to-deliver-covid-19-vaccines-in-india-s-remote-corners-govt-invites-bids-101623570575400.html
13-06-2021||India||Shiv Sena says Centre’s tussle with Bengal was a ‘challenge’ to federal system||Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Centre of indulging in ‘third class’ politics instead of solving the nation’s problems while referring to the Centre’s recent tussles with the West Bengal government in a Sunday editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana.“The ongoing Centre-state tussle is a challenge to the federal system of governance. It’s true that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is very hurt by its crushing defeat in the recently concluded West Bengal polls, but then, there is no need for the Central government to take this defeat by heart,” said Sena MP Sanjay Raut in his weekly column ‘Rokthok’.He said the face-off between the Bengal government and the Centre over former Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay’s resignation was like ‘women fighting over water at the common water tap.’Bandopadhyay was caught in the middle of a political firestorm after chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Bandopadhyay decided to skip a scheduled meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda airbase to review the damage brought about by Cyclone Yaas on May 28, upsetting the Centre.Bandopadhyay, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer of West Bengal cadre, was set to retire on May 31 but the state asked Centre for a three month extension of his tenure, which was granted but with an order to report to the department of training and personnel in New Delhi by 10am on May 31, his last working day. Bandopadhyay chose to retire and was subsequently appointed as the CM Mamata Banerjee’s chief adviser. Centre then show caused the officer for skipping the meeting with the PM and also made vigilance clearance mandatory earlier this month for states or government departments offering post-retirement jobs to bureaucrats.Raut also said that former Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta’s-- who resigned from the Upper House in March to contest the West Bengal assembly elections--renomination to Rajya Sabha after loss in Bengal assembly polls was unprecedented.“Dasgupta has been nominated by the President. This man had resigned from the Rajya Sabha to contest the assembly polls. He was defeated and within one month, he was renominated again. This has never happened in the history of the Rajya Sabha ever since it was founded in 1952,” said Raut.Raut also took potshots at the Central government saying it was spending time and money on the Central Vista Project instead of tackling the important issues facing the nation. “The Central government is focussed on constructing new residences for the Prime Minister and the vice president. They will get new houses, but what about the citizens? Citizens have slipped into poverty, while in April 2020, 130 million people lost their jobs due to Covid-19,” said Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-says-centre-s-tussle-with-bengal-was-a-challenge-to-federal-system-101623569195141.html
13-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sachin Pilot likely to meet Priyanka Gandhi Vadra today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sachin Pilot may meet Priyanka Gandhi today, Cong says trying to resolve issuesSachin Pilot is likely to meet Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday to press for demands that he has said have not been fulfilled even after assurances, reports said. Read moreDigvijaya Singh's Article 370 remark sparks row, Congress points to official standDigvijaya Singh's comments on Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir have invited a volley of criticism by several Union ministers and leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Read moreKL Rahul smokes Jadeja for a massive six, BCCI shares Day 2 highlights of intra-squad match simulationAs Indian cricketers continue to warm-up for the World Test Championship final, the BCCI on Sunday shared a fresh clip featuring several highlights from Day 2 of the intra-squad match simulation. Read moreIndian Idol 12: When Will Smith shocked Mini Mathur with his energy, wanted to give Aishwarya Rai US citizenshipSinging reality show Indian Idol has hosted many Bollywood celebrities over the years but did you know that once even Hollywood star Will Smith paid the show a visit? Read moreRecipe: Ankita Konwar's khichdi with leftover vegetables is a perfect weekend treatAnkita Konwar and her husband, Milind Soman, are the internet’s favourite fitness enthusiasts. The couple is an avid advocate of healthy living and working out regularly. Read more‘Future superstar’: Anand Mahindra reacts to viral video of little girl playing cricketIf you have been using the Internet for the past few days, there is a possibility that you may have seen the viral video of a little girl from Kerala showcasing her impressive cricket skills. Read moreCovid third surge: Will we live or die? Dr Anurag Agrawal on new variants, normsIn the latest episode of The Interview, Dr. Anurag Agrawal speaks to Hindustan Times’ Kumkum Chadha. Dr. Agrawal speaks on the new variants of coronavirus and the norms one must follow. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sachin-pilot-likely-to-meet-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-today-101623568452582.html
13-06-2021||India||Sachin Pilot may meet Priyanka Gandhi today, Cong says trying to resolve issues||Sachin Pilot is likely to meet Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday to press for demands that he has said have not been fulfilled even after assurances, reports said. Sachin Pilot, who left for Delhi on Friday, is in the Capital for the second time in less than a year when the young leader rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. “It has now been 10 months. I was given to understand that there would be swift action by the committee, but now half of the term is done, and those issues haven’t been resolved. It is unfortunate that so many of the party workers who worked and gave their all for getting us the mandate are not being heard,” Sachin Pilot said. The meeting is expected in the backdrop of demands for cabinet expansion and political appointments by Pilot’s loyalists. They have been questioning the delay in addressing the issues raised by then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot against Ashok Gehlot even as a panel set up last year. Earlier this week, Pilot told HT that the Congress high command has failed to deliver on the promises that were made to him when he along with 18 legislators returned to the party after a month-long drama.Priyanka Gandhi, who played an important role in resolving the political crisis, is working to address the dissent within the ruling Congress and to fulfil promises made to Sachin Pilot, people aware of the matter said. The former deputy chief minister is in touch with Priyanka Gandhi and she has assured him of resolving the issues and asked him to be patient, a Pilot loyalist said on condition of anonymity.Pilot is also expected to meet Rajasthan Congress in-charge Ajay Maken and general secretary KC Venugopal, the members of the panel, who are yet to submit their report.Speculations about Pilot’s departure from the party gathered steam after Jitin Prasada, a close aide of Rahul Gandhi, switched to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday. However, Pilot has time and again said he will not join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Friday, he rejected BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s statement that she had spoken to him about joining her party. He added Joshi does not have the courage to speak to him. “Rita Bahuguna Joshi said she spoke to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar. She does not have the courage to speak to me,” Pilot said.HT has reported the Congress’ central leadership was trying to work out a cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan. On Saturday, Congress’ Rajasthan unit president Govind Singh Dotasra said that a cabinet reshuffle will soon take place in the state and asserted there is no problem within the party's state unit. "As told by Ajay Maken Ji (Congress in-charge for Rajasthan), a reshuffle will take place in the state," Dotasra told reporters. Pilot and his supporters left Jaipur in July last year to camp at a secret location in Haryana, threatening the stability of the Gehlot government. Pilot was removed as Pradesh Congress Committee president, and it was only when the Gandhis intervened and set up a committee under Ajay Maken that he returned to the fold.There are nine vacancies in the Rajasthan cabinet as there can be 30 ministers but there are only 21 currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-may-meet-priyanka-gandhi-today-cong-says-trying-to-resolve-issues-101623565909744.html
13-06-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 5 women killed in road accident in Gariaband district||Five women members of a family were killed and six others were injured late on Saturday when the van they were travelling in rammed into a tree in Chhattisgarh’s Gariaband district, police said on Sunday.All the victims hailed from Malgaon village and were returning from Khatti Khorpa village in neighbouring Raipur district after attending a funeral, said a police officer.He added that the accident took place at around 11 pm on Saturday night, when the driver apparently lost control over the van and it crashed into a tree, killing Bagauti Nishad, Kala Bai, Parwat Bai, Kej Bai and Tej Bai, on the spot. Six others, including three women, a 15-year-old boy, and the driver of the van suffered serious injuries, while a girl escaped unhurt, he said.In a similar incident on Thursday, four women died and 11 others were injured when the vehicle they were travelling in rammed into a roadside tree in Rajnandgaon district of the state. Police said the vehicle carried workers of a private company returning home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-5-women-killed-in-road-accident-in-gariaband-district-101623566254904.html
13-06-2021||India||Former Odisha minister Pradip Panigrahi out on bail after 7 months||Former powerful BJD leader and Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahy was released on bail on Sunday after spending little over seven months in jail in a case of cheating youths with fake promises of jobs in Tata Motors.The 56-year-old was granted bail by Orissa high court on Friday in connection with the Tata Motors job fraud case registered at Golanthara police station in Ganjam district. The court had earlier granted him bail in six similar cases registered against him.Three cases were lodged against Panigrahy at Golanthara police station, two with Baidyanathpur police station in Ganjam district and one with Odisha crime branch. Panigrahi deposited a cash security of ₹69.45 lakh for all the cases, including ₹47.45 lakh and ₹6 lakh for the cases lodged with the CID and Baidyanathpur police station respectively.Panigrahy, who recently tested positive for Covid, was lodged in jail since December 3 following his arrest by the state CID for collecting bribes from job aspirants with the false promise of employment in Tata Motors. Police said he was taking money on behalf of Akash Pathak, son of former IFS officer Abhay Pathak, who was given compulsory retirement last month due to corruption charges. Panigrahi’s daughter was scheduled to get married to Akash in December last year at a palace hotel at Udaipur.Once a blue-eyed boy of the chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, Panigrahy took care of CM’s assembly constituency Hinjili in Ganjam district for nearly a decade. He was first elected to Odisha assembly in 2009 from the seaside Gopalpur constituency, the seat he won thrice on a trot. In 2014, Patnaik made him the minister of the rural development, higher education and science and technology departments. He was dropped from the cabinet in 2017 but was still seen to be powerful. He was made BJD’s Ganjam district president in 2015 despite the district having 3 senior cabinet ministers. Ahead of the 2019 assembly elections, Panigrahy was given charge of 12 of the 15 assembly constituencies of the undivided Ganjam district.But he ran out of favour soon. Last year, he wrote several letters to the chief minister, demanding that Odisha bring back migrant workers from Gujarat during Covid-19 lockdown and also to complain that the state government was ignoring local MLAs in the fight against Covid-19.After his arrest, chief minister Naveen Patnaik expelled him from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-odisha-minister-pradip-panigrahi-out-on-bail-after-7-months-101623561694551.html
13-06-2021||India||Digvijaya Singh's Article 370 remark sparks row, Congress points to official stand||Digvijaya Singh's comments on Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir have invited a volley of criticism by several Union ministers and leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP on Saturday leaked an audio chat of Digvijaya Singh allegedly saying that Congress "would certainly have to relook" the decision of revoking Article 370.After Digvijaya Singh's alleged remarks sparked a row, the Congress asked its leaders to follow the party's stance on the issue of abrogation of Article 370. "The Congress party has clearly stated its position on Jammu and Kashmir, in its resolution of August 6, 2019, of the Congress Working Committee (CWC). This is the only official stance of the party. I urge and request all senior leaders to refer to the same," Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said when asked about Singh's remarks.अनपढ़ लोगों की जमात को Shall और Consider में फ़र्क़ शायद समझ में नहीं आता।Khera was referring to the CWC resolution, which said it "deplores the unilateral, brazen and totally undemocratic manner in which Article 370 of the Constitution was abrogated and the State of Jammu and Kashmir was dismembered by misinterpreting the provisions of the Constitution."CWC on Article 370The Centre revoked Article 370 in August 2019, which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the region into two Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh."Every principle of Constitutional law, states’ rights, Parliamentary procedure and democratic governance was violated. The Indian National Congress pledges to stand with the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh and to fight the BJP and its divisive and diabolical agenda with every power in its hands. We urge the people of J&K to maintain peace and calm," it said.Also watch | ‘Congress & Pakistan..’: BJP slams Digvijaya for Kashmir remarkThe CWC "strongly reaffirmed the consistent and stated position" of the Congress that J&K, including the areas under the illegal occupation of Pakistan and the part ceded by it to China, are an integral part of the Republic of India. The integration of J&K with India is final and irrevocable, it said.Clubhouse chatDigvijaya Singh allegedly made these remarks speaking on the audio chatroom app Clubhouse on the issue. He was responding to a question by a Pakistani journalist who asked what the Congress party would do on Article 370 if it happens to return to power at the Centre."Democracy was not there in Kashmir when they revoked Article 370. Then Insaniyat was not there because they had put everyone behind bars. Kashmiriyat is something that is basically the fundamentals of secularism. Because in a Muslim majority state, there was a Hindu Raja and both were together," Digvijaya Singh can be heard saying in the audio clip of the Clubhouse chat released by BJP's Amit Malviya."In fact, Kashmiri Pundits were given reservations in Kashmir in government services. So, therefore, the decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir is an extremely sad decision. And the Congress Party would certainly have to have a relook into this issue," he said.Digvijaya Singh responded to all the criticism in a series of tweets. "....Millions of Congress workers sympathisers and all those who are opposed to BJP Modi Shah regime would fight every inch to vote out this disastrous regime," he said in one of his tweets."Perhaps, a class of illiterate people doesn't understand the difference between 'shall' and 'consider'," Singh said in another tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijaya-singh-s-remark-on-article-370-sparks-row-congress-reacts-101623559912195.html
13-06-2021||India||Explained: How G7 counter to China's Belt and Road Initiative will benefit India||The seven richest economies in the world, known as G7, got in a huddle on Saturday to hammer out a plan to counter China's growing economic clout. They arrived at a consensus and offered developing nations an infrastructure plan which can rival China's multi-million-dollar Belt and Road Initiative or BRI.The infrastructure plan is being led by United States president Joe Biden. The Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative, will provide a transparent infrastructure partnership to help narrow the $40 trillion, the leaders at the G7 summit hoped.Also Read: PM Modi makes global health pitch at G7An official of the Biden administration said that until now, the West had failed to offer a positive alternative to the "lack of transparency, poor environmental and labour standards, and coercive approach" of the Chinese government that had left many countries worse off.What is China's BRI?China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) scheme, which president Xi Jinping launched in 2013, involves development and investment initiatives that would stretch from Asia to Europe and beyond.More than 100 countries have signed agreements with China to cooperate in BRI projects like railways, ports, highways and other infrastructure.Critics say Xi's plan to create a modern version of the ancient Silk Road trade route to link China with Asia, Europe and beyond is a vehicle for the expansion of Communist China. Beijing says such doubts betray the "imperial hangover" of many Western powers that humiliated China for centuries.What the G7 countries are offering?The B3W plan discussed by the US, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and Italy calls for spending hundreds of billions of dollars in collaboration with the private sector while adhering to climate standards and labour practices.It's designed to compete with president Xi's BRI, which has been criticised for creating massive debt and exposing countries to undue influence by Beijing.However, there is no announcement about how exactly the plan would work or how much capital it would ultimately allocate.India's concernsIndia has expressed concerns about the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), the flagship project of BRI, as it traverses through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The massive infrastructure project connects China’s Xinjiang province with Gwadar port in Pakistan’s Balochistan province.China has been defending the CPEC, saying it is an economic project not aimed at any third country.India refused to join the Chinese initiative in the past and raised its voice against the BRI. Though India has officially not reacted to G7 countries' latest plan, it is expected to be a welcome news for New Delhi.Also Read: G7 leaders to sign Carbis Bay Declaration to prevent pandemic in 100 daysAccording to a Refinitiv database, as of mid-last year, more than 2,600 projects at a cost of $3.7 trillion were linked to the BRI, although the Chinese foreign ministry said last June that about 20% of projects had been seriously affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.As part of the G7 plan, the United States will work with the US Congress to supplement existing development financing and to "collectively catalyse hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investment", the White House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-us-led-counter-to-china-s-bri-will-benefit-india-101623560229495.html
13-06-2021||India||Odisha daily wager slays 3yrs old daughter, attacks 4 others before killing self||A 54-year-old tribal who worked as a daily wager in Odisha’s Sambalpur district killed himself on Saturday after having hacked his 3-year-old daughter to death and attempted to kill three other daughters and wife late Friday night.Police officials investigating the case said Suku Kujur of Joutukbahal village under Govindpur police station of Sambalpur district was under home isolation after testing positive for Covid on June 5. His wife Atebari Kujur and five children including four daughters aged between 2-15 years stayed in an adjacent room.“On Friday evening, his wife left food outside his room which he ate. At around midnight, he picked up a meat cleaver and started attacking his children and wife in their sleep. He first killed his 3-year-old daughter Salima Kujur with the cleaver and then attacked his three other daughters and wife, injuring them severely. He however spared his son,” said inspector of Govindpur police station, Pratap Rana.Police said Kujur’s wife somehow ran away from the house with his bleeding children and hid outside. On Saturday morning, she narrated the incident to the villagers, who locked up Suku, who had bolted the room from inside, and informed police. When police opened the room, they found Kujur bleeding heavily from a throat wound apparently received from the same cleaver.He was rushed to the district headquarters hospital and then VIMSAR Medical College and Hospital in Burla, where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday afternoon. His three daughters aged 15, 7 and 2 years along with wife, have been discharged from the hospital.Police officers said they are still unsure why Suku attacked his own family members. “He had married Atebari a few years after his first wife died. But he never fought with his wife as per her own admission. He was not into drinking. But he may be in depression as he was out of work due to [the] lockdown. A few days ago he was asking for money from one of his friends. Now that he is dead, it would be difficult to know why he attacked his own family members,” said inspector Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-daily-wager-slays-3yrs-old-daughter-attacks-4-others-before-killing-self-101623559474537.html
13-06-2021||India||MK Stalin to meet PM Modi this week, request for more Covid-19 vaccines||Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian on Sunday said that the Chief Minister MK Stalin will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week and request for more Covid vaccines.Speaking to ANI, Subramanian said, "When Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin meets PM Modi in Delhi next week he will request to provide more vaccine doses to Tamil Nadu.""Death numbers are expected to decrease in coming days. Vaccination is the only solution to get rid of corona infection so people should come forward to get Vaccination," he added.Health Minister Ma Subramanian, Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan, Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi jointly reviewed the vaccination drive which is going on for vegetable shop vendors in Chennai Koyambedu.Speaking about the drive, Subramanian said, "Koyambedu market was a hot spot in first wave. So Chennai corporation, CMDA, and health department are in the Vaccination drive process here. 9,655 people have been vaccinated in Koyambedu. More than 10,000 will get administered today which will be a huge number per day in a single place.""Vendors are eager to get vaccinated. We have received 1.6 vaccine doses, out of which 98 lakh vaccine doses have been used till now, as per CM's advice," he added.He also informed that the Tamil Nadu government is probably the first in India where handicapped were vaccinated at their place. 5000 handicapped have been vaccinated in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mk-stalin-to-meet-pm-modi-this-week-request-for-more-covid-19-vaccines-101623558201188.html
13-06-2021||India||90 young soldiers join Ladakh Scouts Regiment in Leh||The Ladakh Scouts Regimental Centre in Leh marked the entry of 90 well trained recruits with an attestation parade ceremony on Saturday. The young riflemen were also awarded medals for outstanding performance during training.The young soldiers, hailing from all regions of Ladakh, took the oath to serve the nation at the ceremony, reviewed by Major General Akash Kaushik, Chief Of Staff, Fire and Fury Corps.The Major General congratulated the recruits for the impressive parade and urged them to devote their life in service to the nation as proud soldiers of the Indian Army.He also complimented the parents on having motivated their wards to join the Indian Army and said the soldiers should continue in pursuit of excellence and uphold the name of battle tested ‘Ladakh Scouts’ and their military traditions.The Ladakh Scouts is an infantry regiment of the Indian Army, nicknamed the Snow Warriors or Snow Leopards. The regiment specialises in mountain warfare, and its primary role is to guard India’s borders in the high altitudes of the Union Territory of Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-young-soldiers-join-ladakh-scouts-regiment-in-leh-101623557134464.html
13-06-2021||India||80,834 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in 24 hours, lowest in over 2 months||India on Sunday recorded 80,834 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. This is the lowest tally recorded since April 2.With this, the country's total infections went up to 29,439,989 and as many as 3,303 people died due to the virus in 24 hours, the ministry added, taking the total death toll to 370,384.The total number of tests done during the previous day were 19,00,312, the ministry said.The daily positivity rate went down to 4.25%, less than 10% for 20 consecutive days, and the recovery rate increased to 95.26% in last 24 hours. As many as 1,32,062 recoveries were recorded on Saturday, taking the overall discharges to 28,043,446. The country has vaccinated as many as 25,31,95,048 people against the virus, out of which 34,84,239 were vaccinated in one day.These numbers come as India struggles with the second wave of the deadly disease that has killed over 3 million people worldwide.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the G7 leaders' summit on Saturday, said the member states needed to adopt a united approach to this pandemic and future health emergencies with the mantra of “One earth, one health”. The PM stressed on India’s approach to counter the pandemic that synergised efforts of the government, industry and civil society, and said India is willing to share its expertise with others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80834-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-303-deaths-recorded-in-india-in-24-hours-101623555189687.html
13-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bikaner to be 1st city in India to start door-to-door vaccination and all the latest news||Bikaner to be first city in country to start door-to-door vaccinationBikaner in Rajasthan will become the first town in the country to start a "door-to-door" vaccination drive in the ongoing fight against the coronavirus pandemic, a report said on Sunday. According to Live Hindustan, HT's sister publication, people above the age of 45 will be given the vaccine against Covid-19 during the drive in Bikaner. Read more'Gave dirty water to drink, trampled on my hands...': Cops booked for assaultTwo policemen, working at Chandan Nagar police station in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, were suspended for beating up a vegetable seller while probing an alleged case of theft. A case was also registered against them. Read moreCricket ball-sized mucormycosis removed from man's brain in PatnaDoctors at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Bihar’s capital Patna have successfully removed mucormycosis or black fungus from the brain of a 60-year-old infected patient, HT’s sister publication Livehindustan has reported. Read moreDelhi restaurants may reopen with 50% capacity from MondayThe state government is likely to allow restaurants with 50% capacity and a limited number of weekly markets to open from Monday, senior government officials said on Saturday. Read moreUS fisherman says swallowed by humpback whale, experts weigh inA US lobster fisherman has lived to tell the tale after he claimed he was swallowed by a humpback whale and spat out in less than a minute. Michael Packard told local paper Cape Cod Times he was diving for lobster off the coast of the northeastern state of Massachusetts when the humpback whale trapped him in its mouth before coughing him back up. Read moreHappy birthday Disha Patani: Watch her audition for ad at 19 years oldBefore she romanced stars like Tiger Shroff and Salman Khan in big-budget movies, Disha Patani was known for her small-screen commercials. The actor starred in numerous commercials, promoting products like chocolates, clothes, and beauty products. On the occasion of her 29th birthday, we look back at one of Disha's audition videos from her initial days of acting. Read more'Chris, Chris... I love you': Belgium's Romelu Lukaku gives tribute to Eriksen after scoring goal against Russia - WATCHIt was an emotional night of football at Euro 2020 tournament as Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen suffered a major health scare during the match against Finland. During the 40th minute of the match, Eriksen collapsed on the ground as medical teams rushed in to give him CPR on the field. Read moreApple’s 2021 Apple Design Awards includes one Indian app this year: Here’s what you need to know about NaadSadhanaApple recently hosted the Apple Design Awards for this year where they announced the 12 winners for this year. There were six new award categories this year that recognised developers for their innovation, visual and graphics, interaction, delight and fun, inclusivity, and social impact. Read moreMS Dhoni races with daughter Ziva’s pony, video goes viralSakshi Singh Dhoni, wife of former India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni, recently took to Instagram to share a video involving the cricketer and their daughter Ziva’s pony. Since being shared, the video has gone all kinds of viral. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bikaner-to-be-1st-city-to-start-door-to-door-vaccination-101623553961946.html
13-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir L-G clears ₹40 lakh ex-gratia for councillor Pandita’s kin||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday visited the family of municipal councillor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rakesh Pandita, who was killed by terrorists in Srinagar’s Pulwama on June 2, in solidarity and sanctioned ₹40 lakhs to the family as interim relief.Pandita was killed in the firing and a woman, accompanying him, was injured by terrorists owing allegiance to the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group on June 2 in the Tral area of Pulwama.The L-G told the bereaved family that a high-level investigation has already been initiated in the incident and promised stringent action against the perpetrators.J-K Police earlier said that 20 persons have been questioned in connection with the killing of Pandita but no formal arrests have been made.Officials said investigators also wanted to question the 22-year-old injured woman when she comes out of the hospital.A police hand out released after the incident said Pandita, who was a protected person, defied the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and went to the Tral village without his personal security officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-clears-rs-40-lakh-ex-gratia-for-councillor-pandita-s-kin-101623554794112.html
13-06-2021||India||'Gave me dirty water to drink, trampled upon my hands...': Indore cops booked for assaulting vegetable seller||Two policemen, working at Chandan Nagar police station in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, were suspended for beating up a vegetable seller while probing an alleged case of theft. A case was also registered against them.Ajay Ganwane, the vegetable seller, accused the policemen of beating him severely and said he has injury marks on his body which hadn't healed even after over a week of the incident.The two policemen took him to Sirpur pond on June 4 and beat him "brutally with plastic pipes and sticks." The alleged theft took place three to four months ago, Ganwane added."Again, on June 5, they took me to the police station and thrashed me after tying me up," Ganwane told news agency ANI. "When I asked for water, they gave me dirty water to drink and also trampled upon my hands. I was allowed to go later," he added.Mahesh Chand Jain, superintendent of police (SP), Indore West, said action has been taken against the two policemen."A case has been registered against the two police personnel and they have been suspended," Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gave-me-dirty-water-to-drink-trampled-upon-my-hands-indore-cops-booked-for-assaulting-vegetable-seller-101623544419598.html
13-06-2021||India||Maharana Pratap Jayanti today: 4 facts about the Rajput warrior||The birth anniversary of the 13th king of Mewar, Maharana Pratap, is being observed across India on Sunday. According to the English calendar, Maharana Pratap Jayanti falls on May 9 every year. However, the Hindu calendar shows the warrior king’s birth anniversary on the Tritiya tithi of Jyeshtha’s Shukla Paksha, and hence is being celebrated on June 13 this time.Several states, including Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, celebrate Maharana Pratap Jayanti in full swing and also declare the day as a public holiday.Here are some lesser-known facts about Maharana Pratap:1. Maharana Pratap was born in a Rajput family on May 9, 1540. His father, Udai Singh II was the 12th ruler of the Mewar dynasty and the founder of Udaipur. Pratap, the eldest child in the family, had three brothers and two stepsisters.2. Maharana Pratap is known for his military resistance against the expansionism of the Mughal empire and his crucial role in the Battle of Haldighati and the Battle of Dewair. He had defeated Mughal emperor Akbar thrice - in 1577, 1578 and 1579.3. Maharana Pratap had 11 wives and 17 children. His eldest son, Maharana Amar Singh 1, became his successor and was the 14th king of the Mewar dynasty.4. Maharana Pratap died at the age of 56 on January 19, 1597, after he was injured in a hunting accident.Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Maharana Pratap on May 9 and said he brought glory to the country with his valour, boundless courage and battle skills. His sacrifice and devotion to the motherland will always be memorable, Modi added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharana-pratap-jayanti-today-5-facts-about-the-rajput-warrior-101623551342537.html
13-06-2021||India||GST Council meeting: Amit Mitra's video connectivity was poor, says Anurag Thakur on his 'voice muzzled' accusation||Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on Saturday responded to West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra's accusation that he was not allowed to speak at the end of the GST Council meeting. Mitra claimed that when he tried to voice objections after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the GST Council's decision, his "voice was muzzled as the secretary brought the meeting to a close and the virtual link was cut off".Mitra wrote a letter to Sitharaman in this regard. “I write this letter with great anguish. In your remarks near the end of today’s GST Council Meeting, you referred to several of my observations by name and yet I was not given the floor, despite a repeated request to your comments. Instead, you gave the floor to the minister from UP, who sought deletion of some of my comments by name and shockingly you agreed,” Mitra's letter read.In response, Thakur said such an incident never happened and it was "unbecoming" of a senior leader like Mitra to claim that it did. "The Finance Minister has never stifled dissent in the GST Council. It is unbecoming of a senior member of the Council to suggest tht this has happened. The GST Council embodies the collective spirit of all states towards debate in a healthy manner; it has been & shall continue," Thakur posted on Twitter.Also Read | GST rates slashed on various Covid-related items: Full listThakur, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, said that in his experience as the minister of state in the last two years, he has not seen Sitharaman cut off anyone during the GST Council meeting. "She has patiently given each and every speaker as much time as they needed, even if it meant discussions went on for long hours," he said.He also said that Mitra's connectivity during the meeting was not good. "During the GST Council discussions today(June 12),it seemed as if the Finance Minister frm West Bengal did not have a stable VC connection. Revenue Secy repeatedly informed him his line was breaking, that he was not properly audible & to turn off his video fr better connectivity," he tweeted."Further, during the speech made by the Uttar Pradesh Finance Minister, nobody heard Mitra speak up nor did he ask to have his opinion heard. Other members can attest to this," he said.The minister also said that Mitra remained silent even after Sitharaman asked the GST Council whether anyone would like to speak and add their comments at the end of the meeting. "Mitra again remained silent and did not speak up. The Finance Minister has never stifled dissent in the GST Council. It is unbecoming of a senior member of the Council to suggest that this has happened. The GST Council embodies the collective spirit of all states towards debate in a healthy manner; it has been and shall continue," he said.During the Saturday meeting, it was announced that the recommendations of the Group of Ministers (GoM), set up to look into tax relief on Covid-19 medical supplies, have been accepted by the GST Council and the GST rate has been reduced from 12% earlier to 5% now on Covid-19 testing kits, medical-grade oxygen and ventilators.For ambulances, the GST rate has been reduced from 28% to 12% and for hand sanitisers from 18% to 5%. These rates will be valid till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-meeting-amit-mitra-s-video-connectivity-was-poor-says-anurag-thakur-on-his-voice-muzzled-accusation-101623542004381.html
13-06-2021||India||Bikaner to be first city in country to start door-to-door vaccination||Bikaner in Rajasthan will become the first town in the country to start a "door-to-door" vaccination drive in the ongoing fight against the coronavirus pandemic, a report said on Sunday. According to Live Hindustan, HT's sister publication, people above the age of 45 will be given the vaccine against Covid-19 during the drive in Bikaner.The Rajasthan government has started a helpline and people can register themselves for the Covid-19 vaccine by providing their name and address through the WhatsApp number, Live Hindustan reported. Two ambulances and three mobile teams are have been pressed for this vaccination drive in Bikaner, it added.Also read | Bikaner’s oxygen mitra model gets PM Narendra Modi’s praiseThe vaccine van will reach people's homes only when a minimum of 10 people register for the getting the shot against Covid-19, according to the report, so that doses are not wasted. Ten people can be administered one dose each from a vial of the Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccine van will then move to another address but a medical team will stay back to keep an eye on the people who have been vaccinated, Live Hindustan said.Bikaner, which is about 340km from the state capital of Jaipur, has 16 urban primary health centres. And, officials at these health centres will keep a tab on the team is engaged in the vaccination drive in their area.Bikaner district magistrate Namit Mehta told reporters that experts are anticipating a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "Our goal is to administer the vaccine to 75 per cent of people over the age of 45. Therefore, this process of giving the vaccine at home can prove to be very effective," Namit Mehta said.According to the 2011 Census, the population of Bikaner city is more than 700,000 and so far, 369,000 people have been given the vaccine in the city.Rajasthan recorded 368 new cases of Covid-19 and 16 more fatalities on Saturday, which have taken the infection tally to 949,376 and the death toll to 8815, according to an official report.Of the new deaths, three were reported from Jodhpur, it said. Among the new cases, the maximum 55 were reported from Jaipur, 40 from Alwar and 28 were logged in Bikaner. Data showed that 932,161 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Rjasthan so far and the number of active cases currently stands at 8400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bikaner-to-be-first-city-in-country-to-start-door-to-door-vaccination-101623542485453.html
13-06-2021||India||PM Modi makes global health pitch at G7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urged the G7 states to adopt a united approach to the coronavirus pandemic and future health emergencies with the mantra of “One earth, one health”, amid support for India’s proposal for a waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines.Modi made the pitch for a coordinated global response while virtually addressing an outreach session of the G7 Summit in Cornwall, the theme for which was “Building back stronger”, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Also Read | Internet shut off during G7 session as leaders debate over China: ReportHe pointed to the special responsibility of democratic and transparent societies to prevent future pandemics, and said there should be “One earth, one health” approach. This was echoed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the people said.Modi highlighted India’s approach to counter the pandemic that synergised efforts of government, industry and civil society. He said India is willing to share its expertise with others.While expressing India’s commitment to collective efforts to enhance global health governance, Modi sought the support of G7 states for the proposal by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, also a special invitee to the session, and others supported the proposal for patent waivers.New Delhi’s emphasis on keeping open supply chains to help boost vaccine production received widespread support, the people said. French President Emmanuel Macron said countries such as India should be provided adequate components to ensure the mass production of doses.Modi was invited to the summit by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson but called off his visit because of the devastating second wave of infections in India. He will participate in two more outreach sessions on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-makes-global-health-pitch-at-g7-101623538902313.html
13-06-2021||India||FIR against doctor, 2 others for cheating on pretext of MBBS admission for daughter||A case was registered against three persons, including a Mumbai-based doctor and his peon, for allegedly duping a man of ₹11.09 lakh on the pretext of securing admission for his daughter in a medical course under the government quota, a Nagpur police official said on Saturday. "The main accused, who is a resident of Sion in Mumbai, had allegedly promised the complainant to get his daughter admitted for MBBS course and took ₹11.09 lakh from the complainant during November 2020 to February 2021. As the accused failed to provide admission, the victim realised that he was cheated and approached the police. A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code," he added. No arrest is made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-doctor-2-others-for-cheating-on-pretext-of-mbbs-admission-for-daughter-101623537657957.html
13-06-2021||India||'Productive discussion on bilateral cooperation', says EAM S Jaishankar after talks with Kenyan counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Kenyan counterpart Raychelle Omamo on Saturday held a "productive discussion" on bilateral cooperation that the two countries will take forward through a joint commission.Jaishankar, who arrived in Kenya on Saturday on a three-day visit, had a detailed exchange on regional and global issues with the Kenyan Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs."A detailed exchange on regional and global issues as befitting two UNSC members. A historical solidarity is today a modern partnership," Jaishankar tweeted after the talks.Thanking Omamo for her "gracious welcome and hospitality," Jaishankar said they had a "productive discussion" on bilateral cooperation that the two countries will be taking forward through the Joint Commission.He will chair, along with his Kenyan counterpart, the 3rd meeting of the India-Kenya Joint Commission meeting which will review all aspects of the bilateral relationship.The last meeting of the Joint Commission was held in New Delhi in March 2019.Meanwhile, senior officials from both the countries discussed a wide range of bilateral matters, laying the groundwork for the India-Kenya Joint Commission Meeting, the Indian High Commission here said in a tweet.Jaishankar will also meet with other ministers of the Kenyan government to take forward the India-Kenya relationship."The development partnership is an important aspect of the relationship between the two countries which the visit will seek to deepen," the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi ahead of the visit.The minister will also interact with the thriving Indian-origin community, an important bridge between the two countries.Kenya has a vibrant community of persons of Indian origin presently numbered around 80,000 including an estimated 20,000 Indian citizens.India and Kenya are currently serving in the United Nation Security Council. They are also members of the Commonwealth. Kenya is an active member of the African Union, with which India has longstanding ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/productive-discussion-on-bilateral-cooperation-says-eam-s-jaishankar-after-talks-with-kenyan-counterpart-101623527387823.html
13-06-2021||India||Elephant found dead in Chhattisgarh’s Surguja district||An elephant was found dead in a forest in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district, with a preliminary probe indicating that the pachyderm had been struck by lightning, an official said on Saturday. The decomposed carcass of a male elephant was recovered near Darhora village under Pratappur forest range on Friday, said Anurag Shrivastava, chief conservator of forest (Surguja Circle). Forest officials rushed to the spot after being alerted by locals and a three-member team of veterinarians was constituted for the post-mortem, which was done on Saturday, he said. “According to veterinarians, the tusker died after he was struck by lightning while moving around in the jungle. The carcass had been lying there for seven to eight days,” the CCF said, adding that further probe is underway. When asked how forest personnel on the ground could not locate the carcass, range officer P C Mishra said an investigation was underway and further action would be taken accordingly. On March 29 this year, an elephant calf was found dead in Raigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-s-surguja-district-101623524192327.html
13-06-2021||India||1 in 5 fatalities old: Pandemic toll rises as states reconcile numbers||Nearly one out of every five deaths that added to the national death toll in the past 30 days was a fatality that occurred days ago and had gone unreported, according to data analysed by HT. In the past month, at least six states – Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Goa, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh – have been steadily reconciling their death data and have added a total of 20,741 fatalities not logged earlier.In Bihar, three out of every four deaths in the past month was added to the state’s tally in just one day -- on June 9. In Maharashtra, more than half the number of deaths reported in the last 30 days were old backlog statistics. In Uttarakhand, this proportion was 30%.Such statistical correction has not only pushed up the country’s death count in the past month, but also implied that the fatalities reported during the peak of the outbreak in India during April and May were under-reported.On Saturday, for instance, a total of 3,302 daily deaths were added to the country’s tally. However, only 1,676 deaths actually occurred that day.All figures are from HT’s dashboard of national Covid-19 statistics, which is updated with data released by the authorities of each state.The remaining 1,626 were old deaths due to the disease that were added by states to their respective tallies – 1,606 deaths were added by Maharashtra, nine by Punjab and 11 by Uttar Pradesh. This means that 49% of all new deaths had taken place days before.Similarly on Friday, 4,000 daily deaths were added to the country’s tally. But, on that day Maharashtra added a backlog of 2,213 deaths, Uttarakhand added 10 old fatalities and UP added four. This means that 56% were old. On Thursday, this proportion was 45% of the 3,410 reported deaths that day – 1,522 by Maharashtra, one in Goa, 14 in Uttarakhand, three in Punjab and one in UP.This reconciliation touched a peak on Wednesday, when the national death tally touched a record high of 6,141, according to HT’s dashboard. Of these, 71% were old deaths, with a majority (3,951) coming from Bihar’s reconciliation. Other major contributors were Maharashtra (400) and Uttarakhand (30).For Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, the reconciliation process has been a near-daily occurrence over the past month. The western state has updated its tally 25 days in the last month, while the hill state has done so 27 times in the same period.In absolute numbers, Maharashtra has added 15,756 old deaths to its tally in the past month – constituting 53.5% of all fatalities the state reported in this time period. Uttarakhand has reconciled 807 deaths in the same time period – constituting 30.1% of its fatalities.In Punjab, the process is a little more complicated as while reconciliation is a near-daily occurrence, the state also reduces repeat deaths fairly frequently. UP, which has been updating its case as well as death count like Punjab, has added at least 78 old deaths to its tally in the past month. Goa has only done so on four days between June 7 and June 10, adding a total of 75 deaths (7.7% of fatalities in the past month).The Union health ministry, in response to an article in an international magazine that claimed India has suffered perhaps five to seven times ‘excess deaths’ than the official number, on Saturday said that states and Union territories record Covid-19 deaths as per guidance issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It added what it labelled as “unsound analysis” of extrapolation of data “without any epidemiological evidence”.States and UTs have been urged through formal communications, multiple video conferences and through the deployment of Central teams for correct recording of deaths in accordance with laid down guidelines, Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-in-5-fatalities-old-pandemic-toll-rises-as-states-reconcile-numbers-101623523653390.html
13-06-2021||India||800 OTT, digital news platforms have shared info under new IT rules: Official||Over 800 over the top platforms, which include video streaming services such as Netflix and Hotstar, and digital news media outfits, have shared details under the new intermediary and digital media ethics rules, according to an official from the ministry of information and broadcasting.“Most of the top OTT players have done it, Netflix, Amazon, Jio,” said an official familiar with the matter. “More number of entries have been received from new media houses, this includes both big and small players.”HT reached out to Netflix and Amazon but did not receive a response immediately,The government has also issued a point-by-point clarification to concerns it received regarding the new rules to counter what it said were “misapprehensions” regarding compliance burden on publishers, excessive government control by way of emergency powers, the concerns with the new oversight mechanism by way of an inter-departmental committee and the suggestions relating to the self-regulating body and its registration by the government.The new intermediary and digital media guidelines require platforms to appoint officers, grievance redressal officers in case of OTT and digital news media platforms, institute a three-tier mechanism for grievance redressal with an inter-ministerial committee at its apex and give the I&B ministry takedown powers over the content circulated online. The rules, which were notified in February, have been challenged in the court by several digital news media outfits, including LiveLaw and TheWire.While there is no requirement for the digital news media publishers to be registered with the ministry, information pertaining to their grievance redressal officer in India, self-regulating body of which the publisher is a member and the details of the editor were sought by the ministry on May 26. Similar information has been sought from the video streaming services, with details of the content manager instead of the editor. The ministry had given the platforms two weeks to share the details.The News Broadcasters Federation, which consists of 78 news channels in 14 languages, representing broadcasters from 25 States, wrote on Twitter on Friday that they have complied with the rules.In a separate notification dated June 10, the ministry said that digital arms of traditional media houses would not be exempt from furnishing the details under the new rules.“The rationale for including digital news portals/websites of traditional media houses under the ambit of the digital media rules 2021 is well reasoned,” the ministry has said in its communication. “Making any exception of the nature proposed will be discriminatory to digital news media publishers who do not have a traditional TV/print platform.” Hindustan Times on February 28 first reported that websites of traditional media houses would be brought under the guidelines, in effect making them subject to section 69(A) of the IT Act that gives the government takedown powers.On May 27, the News Broadcasters Association wrote to I&B minister Prakash Javadekar to seek that traditional news media be exempt from the new guidelines as they are already covered under the Cable Television Act. “The IT Rules 2021, if applied to the digital media of the linear television medium, would only result in duplication of the adjudicatory and redressal mechanism resulting in the creation of parallel adjudicatory bodies. The IT Rules, 2021 prescribe administrative regulations, which will make it virtually impossible for small or medium-sized traditional news media organizations to survive,” the letter said. “Any additional mandates as contemplated under the IT Rules, 2021 would result in increasing the employee costs and compliance requirements of the traditional news media organizations along with duplication and creation of parallel processes.”With respect to the issue of the compliance burden, the government has clarified that it will take appropriate action if a representation is received from any digital news publisher citing the exact number of complaints relating to the code of ethics and the redressal of said grievances. With reference to self-regulation, the ministry has clarified it is only an “extension of existing institutional practices”. The government has also assured that the “apprehension of excessive government control is misplaced”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/800-ott-platforms-have-shared-info-under-new-it-rules-official-101623523831613.html
13-06-2021||India||Eye on expansion, JD(U) pitches for berth in Union Cabinet||Amid speculations of expansion of the Union Cabinet, the ruling Janata Dal ( United) has pitched for ministerial berths in the council of ministers with the party reasoning that it should get preference for being a key ally of the NDA government in the state. On Saturday, party’s national president R C P Singh said he was aware of chances of a possible expansion of the Union Cabinet and stressed that the JD(U) should be consulted in getting ministerial berths. “JD(U) is a partner in the NDA and the party should get preference in getting representation in cabinet expansion. Allies should get due respect in the coalition,” he said, while talking to reporters in Patna.Right now, the JD(U) has no representation in the Union Cabinet though it had an offer to join soon after Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had realigned with the BJP by breaking away from the grand alliance in July 2017. Out of 40 parliamentary seats in Bihar, JD(U) had won 16 seats while BJP had won 17 seats. LJP, another ally of the NDA, has six MPs while Congress has one MP. There are five Union ministers from Bihar, all from the BJP. The former Lok Janshakti Party patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan was also a minister in the Union Cabinet till his death last year. The party has not got any representation in the Union Cabinet. Insiders in the NDA said the JD (U) might insist on at least three cabinet berths and two berths of state minister rank with the BJP. Several contenders for ministerial berths include party’s national president, former minister and MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh and party’s Rajya Sabha MP Ramnath Thakur. However, a section of leaders in the JD(U) felt the decision of the party to join the Cabinet would depend much on whether the BJP led NDA government at the Centre chooses to give representation to the LJP or not. “If the LJP gets representation in the Union Cabinet, the JD(U) might not join the ministry. There are many factors at play, which would decide the party’s decision to join the Cabinet,” said a senior JD(U) leader, wishing not to be named. The JD(U) top leadership is said to be still peeved at the LJP for apparently playing spoilsport in the October-November assembly polls when the regional party led by Chirag Paswan had chosen to contest over 100 seats alone following disagreement on seat adjustment with NDA partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-expansion-jd-u-pitches-for-berth-in-union-cabinet-101623523652274.html
13-06-2021||India||Karanataka minister Bommai hails tax cut on Covid goods||Bengaluru: Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai welcomed the recommendations of the Group of Ministers (GoM) to reduce taxes on Covid-19 medicines and said it would ease pressure on people suffering from the virus as taxes on several items have been reduced. The GST Council on Saturday slashed the tax rate on medicines such as Remdesivir and equipment like oxygen concentrators and medical grade oxygen. The tax cut is based on recommendations by GoM amid the pandemic.“In today’s GST Council meeting, the GoM submitted their report and it was discussed in the Council. GoM recommended a reduction in the rate of tax on some medicines from 5% to nil, remdesivir from 12% to 5% and oxygen generation equipment and covid testing kits from 12% to 5%. For temperature checking equipment and gas/electric furnaces for the crematorium, GoM recommended a reduction from 18% to 12%. No reduction was recommended on ambulances,” read a statement. “The minister also thanked the union finance minister and Government of India for approving GST compensation loan of ₹18109 Crore for 2021-22 and stated that this will help in the fight against Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karanataka-minister-bommai-hails-tax-cut-on-covid-goods-101623523531653.html
13-06-2021||India||BJP leaders in Lakshadweep resign to protest sedition case against filmmaker||Over a dozen Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers in Lakshadweep have resigned from the party to protest the sedition case filed against filmmaker Aisha Sultana for her remarks against the Centre’s Covid-19 management in the Union territory.In the resignation letter submitted to the BJP’s Lakshadweep president, C Abdul Khader Haji, the leaders described the case against Sultana as “false, unjustified and against the spirit of the island”.“You have filed a false and unjustified complaint against Sultana who pointed out undemocratic actions of the administrator. This will ruin her family and future and this is not in the right spirit of the island,” said one of the signatories of the letter, Abdul Hameed Mullipuzha, who is the general secretary of the party’s Kavaratti unit.“We can’t go ahead like this. I am resigning from the party,” said B C Cheriya Koya, president of the Andrott unit.On June 10, the Lakshadweep police registered a sedition case against filmmaker Aisha Sultana for allegedly calling the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, a “bio-weapon” launched by the Centre. The FIR was registered against the filmmaker on the complaint of BJP Lakshadweep wing president C Abdul Khader Haji.Sultana, a Lakshadweep resident, allegedly made the comment during a TV discussion amid anger in the region over new rules introduced by Patel, which his opponents say threaten the livelihoods of islanders.The filmmaker later defended her statement, saying she will move the High Court against the police action. “I had used the word bio-weapons in one of the TV debates. I did not attack the country or the union government. I was referring to some of the decisions of Patel which infuriated local people. Despite popular sentiment he continues to antagonise people. As a local resident I have every right to criticise him,” she posted on her Facebook account.Many cine actors and others have extended support to her and deplored the local administration’s move. The Kerala government, too, assured Sultana of legal support.For over a month now, residents of the archipelago have been protesting against the administrator, saying his moves will affect the “unique culture and tradition” of the island.The draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation that Patel has introduced proposes to develop the islands as a major tourist destination. Residents allege it will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands is covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the Scheduled Tribe category.Many parliamentarians, former bureaucrats and artists have described the draft regulations as arbitrary and aimed against the community of the islands.The Kerala assembly passed a unanimous resolution seeking the recall of the administrator. As many as 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticising the “partisan attitude” of the new administrator and urged him to protect the unique culture and tradition of the islands.The BJP, however, underplayed the resignations. “Most of them have quit much early. They are raking up their resignations repeatedly to get attention. The party is intact in the island,” said national vice-president of the party A P Abdullah Kutty.Earlier, on Thursday, the CPI had assured Sultan of legal aid. “Despite local leaders protest the BJP and union Government are going ahead with their plan. It shows adamant posture of both” CPI leader P Raju said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpleaders-in-lakshadweep-resign-to-protest-sedition-case-against-filmmaker-101623523471615.html
13-06-2021||India||PM Modi bats for united approach to Covid-19, future pandemics at G7 meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urged the G7 states to adopt a united approach to the Coronavirus pandemic and future health emergencies with the mantra of “One earth, one health”, amid support for India’s proposal for a waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines.Modi made the pitch for a coordinated global response while virtually addressing an outreach session of the G7 Summit in Cornwall, the theme for which was “Building back stronger - Health”. The session focused on global recovery from the pandemic and strengthening resilience against future pandemics.He pointed to the special responsibility of democratic and transparent societies to prevent future pandemics and called for global unity, leadership and solidarity. The G7 session should send out a message of “One earth, one health”, he said. This was echoed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel.Modi highlighted India’s approach to counter the pandemic that synergised efforts of government, industry and civil society, and spoke of India’s successful use of open source digital tools for contact tracing and vaccine management. He said India is willing to share its experience and expertise with other developing countries.While expressing India’s commitment to collective efforts to enhance global health governance, Modi sought the support of G7 states for the proposal by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines and technologies.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, also a special invitee to the outreach session, and others supported the proposal for patent waivers, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.New Delhi’s emphasis on keeping open supply chains for raw materials and components to help boost vaccine production in countries such as India received widespread support, the people said.French President Emmanuel Macron, in his remarks, said countries such as India should be provided adequate raw materials and components to ensure the mass production of doses.Modi also expressed appreciation for support extended by the G7 states and other countries during the second wave of Coronavirus infections in India.Modi was invited to the Cornwall summit by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson but called off his visit because of the devastating second wave. He will virtually participate in two more outreach sessions on Sunday.Ways to fight the pandemic, a call for a fresh investigation into the origins of the Coronavirus and China’s aggressive actions around the world have dominated the discussions at the G7 Summit that has brought together the leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US in the British seaside resort.The other countries invited as special guests for the outreach sessions are Australia, South Korea and South Africa.India has engaged closely with the G7 states on issues such as health, climate and environment, digital and technology, and economic resilience. Indian ministers and officials have been involved in several working level meetings in these areas.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan participated in the G7 health ministers’ meeting on June 4, while environment minister Prakash Javadekar joined a ministerial meeting on May 21 and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad participated in another ministerial meeting on April 29.Principal economic advisor Sanjeev Sanyal represented India on the G7 Economic Resilience Panel as an observer. The panel is discussing ways to strengthen the resilience of global supply chains and preserve a free and open multilateral trading system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-bats-for-united-approach-to-covid-19-future-pandemics-at-g7-meet-101623522692228.html
13-06-2021||India||Maharashtra govt forms 6-member panel to probe killing of tigress Avni||Following a rap from the Bombay High Court on the forest department’s lack of accountability, the Maharashtra government has finally constituted a six-member committee to hold those accountable in the shooting of the ‘problematic’ tigress, Avni (T1), which witnessed a national outrage a couple of years ago.The tigress was shot by Asghar Ali Khan, a shooter from Hyderabad in Yavatmal district after he was engaged by the forest department to eliminate the tigress that, by then, was believed to be responsible for the death of 13 villagers.Responding to a PIL, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court had criticised the forest department for negligence in fixing accountability of officers who, prima facie, did not perform their duty properly during the shooting of the tigress.The state committee will be headed by senior IFS officer Vikas Gupta, an additional principal chief conservator of forests, while DFO Shatanik Bhagwat will be a member-secretary. Other members include Yavatmal deputy SP, director of Regional Forensic Laboratory, Nagpur, Tushar Bawne, assistant commissioner (animal husbandry), and JP Patil, law and judiciary department. It is the third committee to probe tigress Avni’s killing.Earlier, Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Avinash Gharote, who studied the inquiry reports of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and state committee, apparently found that there had been several gaps in the investigation, especially on the part of the state government during a hearing the PIL in January. The high court had also observed that there were some officers from the forest department who, prima facie, have not performed their duty, and the department made no inquiry into their negligence to fix accountability. The court had also said there was a lack of clarity in the orders issued by the chief wildlife warden and chief conservator of forest (CCF), Yavatmal, regarding the specific role, responsibility and authority delegated.The reports state that there was a lack of transparency in assigning the execution of the operation to Pandharkawda deputy conservator in Yavatmal district, which was a major reason for the operational and other errors in decision-making regarding the execution of the order to capture T1 alive or dead.During the period, the then union minister and BJP leader Maneka Gandhi also criticised the killing of Avni. However, the then Maharashtra forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and union minister for transport Nitin Gadkari defended the killing of the tigress after dubbing it as a man-eater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-forms-6-member-panel-to-probe-killing-of-tigress-avni-101623521671641.html
13-06-2021||India||House panel to discuss ‘misuse of social media’ with Twitter, IT officials||The parliamentary panel on information technology has asked officials from Twitter and the ministry of electronics and information technology to appear before it on June 18 to discuss “prevention of misuse of social media platforms”, with people familiar with the matter saying that the issue of the so-called Congress toolkit may be raised by the panel.The case pertains to a document that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) says demonstrates a conspiracy by the Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, while the opposition party has said the document is fake. Twitter labelled posts linking to the document as “manipulated media” sparking off a spat with the Union government.“The issue is topical and relevant to the panel’s overall discussion,” one of these people said. “The panel members may want appropriate explanations. There will also be other wide ranging discussion as the report of the committee shapes up. If there is quorum, the meeting will be held.”Also Read | Days after banning Twitter, Nigerian govt joins KooThe schedule and agenda of the meeting has been uploaded on the Lok Sabha website. This is the first time that the panel will meet since the onset of the second Covid wave in March. The last panel meeting was held on March 16.The topic has been particularly contentious with BJP MP Nishikant Dubey hitting out panel chairperson and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for demanding an explanation from the ministry over its decision to ask Twitter to remove the manipulated media tag from posts made by several BJP leaders.The controversy began when Twitter tagged a May 18 post by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra and other senior BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and party’s national social media in-charge Priti Gandhi, as “manipulated media”.The BJP alleged the toolkit was aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified Patra’s tweet. The Congress subsequently reached out to Twitter to tag the tweets of the union ministers as well and even registered an FIR in the case.The action prompted the ministry of electronics and information technology to write to Twitter on May 21, asking it to remove the tag as the matter was under investigation by law enforcement agencies. This was followed by a visit and notice to the social media firm from the Delhi Police special cell, which sought information from Twitter -- although the police force was yet to register a case regarding it.The microblogging platform, in turn, raised concerns regarding “intimidation tactics by the police” and with the “core elements” of the new social media and intermediary guidelines on May 27. It also flagged concerns regarding its employees in India and the “potential threat to freedom of expression”.The dispute escalated further when Congress MP and chairperson of the panel Shashi Tharoor wrote to the ministry, asking it to explain why it asked the social media firm to drop the “manipulated media” tag.A petition has been filed in the Delhi high court against Twitter’s decision to leave the tag up, with the petitioner saying the company must adhere to directions under the new Information Technology Act rules, that compel the company to heed to government directions. The company is yet to fully comply with the rules, which has been challenged in at least 8 petitions filed in several high courts for being unconstitutional on several counts.The “manipulated media” tag set off a political spat within the panel itself.BJP MP and panel member Nishikant Dubey accused Tharoor of using the panel to further his “party’s political agenda”. “He (Tharoor) is more concerned about his party’s and Mr Rahul Gandhi’s agenda than the nation itself. Recently, on the Twitter toolkit controversy, he is asking for explanations from the Ministry of Information and Technology when Twitter’s action is against this nation’s IT law,” Dubey said. Dubey wrote to the speaker seeking Tharoor’s removal as chair of the panel.Tharoor, however, clarified that the panel communicates with the ministry in writing, given that it is unable to meet during the pandemic. “W/reference to allegations circulated publicly recently by a member of the ParliamentaryCommittee on IT relating to the #ManipulatedMedia issue, this is to clarify that, given the Cmt’s inability to meet in current circumstances, it communicates w/Ministries in writing as reqd,” he wrote on Twitter. Tharoor added that the ministry had sent the panel a detailed response on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-to-discuss-misuse-of-social-media-with-twitter-it-officials-101623521551533.html
13-06-2021||India||Choksi a fugitive from justice, CBI tells court||Mehul Choksi is a fugitive from justice, the chief conspirator and main beneficiary of the fraud perpetrated on Punjab National Bank (PNB) , and is yet to cooperate with the investigations despite repeated summons, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has said in its affidavit filed in Dominica’s high court of justice. The agency called Choksi’s “gratuitous offer” of being interviewed at the place of his choice outside India meaningless, citing the evidence, physical, oral and documentary, with which he needs to be confronted.The affidavit accuses Choksi of misleading courts in Dominica by claiming there are no proceedings against him in India. He is fully aware of proceedings in India and has even appointed lawyers in the country, says the affidavit, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.The affidavit, filed by deputy inspector general Sharda Raut, explains the procedures of investigations and criminal trials in India. It says Choksi, according to the Criminal Procedure Code, cannot be tried in absentia. It is only after an accused is produced in court or appears in court that charges can be framed for a trial to begin, the document points out.Raut flew to Dominica on May 28 along with other officers in a special jet with documents to back Indian attempts for Choksi’s deportation from Dominica.Choksi went missing from Antigua and Barbuda, where he is a citizen (and fighting a case on not having his citizenship revoked), on May 23. He was found in Dominica the next day and has since been charged with illegal entry into the Caribbean country.Choksi’s lawyers, Vijay Aggarwal, Wayne Marsh, and his wife, Priti Choksi, have alleged he was abducted and taken to Dominica.HT on Saturday reported the two affidavits India has filed in the Dominica court detailing serious fraud charges against Choksi and proof that he continues to be an Indian citizen. That India would argue along these lines in the court was first reported by HT on May 30. Choksi’s lawyers have maintained he has given up his Indian citizenship and hence cannot be deported. India’s argument is that this was not approved by the appropriate authority as required by the rules.The Dominica court refused to grant Choksi bail on Friday saying he is a flight risk, and that he has no ties to the country. It observed the court cannot impose any conditions to ensure he will not abscond.The CBI affidavit has called Choksi the “mastermind” behind a series of shell companies used to launder money from the fraud on the state-owned bank. It says there is evidence that the businessman laundered funds using dummy companies and market operators, round-tripped in the guise of fraudulent export-import transactions with entities in places such as Dubai and Hong Kong.The affidavit says Choksi owes $950 million (close to ₹7,000 crore) to the bank, in which the Indian government has an 85% stake. It adds the CBI made attempts to arrest Choksi after the fraud was unearthed in 2018, but his whereabouts were unknown.The CBI affidavit says there is an Interpol red notice issued against Choksi, which is the highest level of notice that can be issued in respect of a fugitive.It also refers to other cases under investigation against Choksi in India. They include fraud cases registered in Bengaluru and Delhi in 2015 and 2016 as well as a 2018 cheating case.Vijay Aggarwal, Choksi’s lawyer, said the defence team is not bothered by the affidavit as the facts stated therein are not relevant considerations before the court hearing his client’s bail plea. He added they have the liberty to reapply for bail. “Every day in custody is a fresh circumstance and bail can be re-applied (for). The court has not ruled on merits but only on the ground that we need to satisfy the court about my client‘s presence in Dominica to face the trial and prove his innocence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-a-fugitive-from-justice-cbi-tells-court-101623521431629.html
13-06-2021||India||Kerala forms SIT to probe tree felling, smuggling||The Kerala government on Saturday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) under additional director general of police S Sreejith to investigate the alleged illegal cutting and smuggling of hundreds of precious rosewood and teakwood trees from Wayanad and other districts, according to an official order.The SIT comprises officials from the forest department and the vigilance, revenue and crime branch, an order issued by chief secretary V P Joy said.“It (the tree cutting) is suspected to be an outcome of a conspiracy by some people,” he said. The special investigation team was constituted considering the “seriousness, impact and dimensions of the offences”, the top official added.The rampant felling of trees is the first major political controversy faced by the recently re-elected Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF and the opposition plans to move the high court seeking an investigation by a central agency. The smugglers were found to be misusing a government order from last year that allowed the cutting of trees on revenue land allotted to farmers before 1964. After the Muttil (Wayanad) incident, where 101 rosewood trees were found to have been illegally felled and smuggled, similar instances have come to light in many other districts.In Thrissur, officials say they foiled an attempt late on Friday to burn stumps of felled teakwood trees so as to destroy evidence.Green activists said trees worth at least ₹500 crore were plundered using the government order and they suspect a nexus between politicians, officials and the timber mafia . Chief Minister Vijayan on Saturday said it was a serious issue and that his government would not spare the guilty. The government admitted in the high court last week that a big tree-cutting mafia was involved and that the recovery of wood worth ₹50 crore was the tip of the iceberg.In October 2020, the state revenue department issued an order allowing the felling of protected trees such as rosewood and teak grown by farmers on land alloted to them before 1964. It is believed that the modus operandi for what could well be one of India’s largest environment crimes involved members of the timber mafia misusing this order to fell trees in forests, on private land, or on land belonging to poor uneducated farmers who might not have been aware of what was being done.The activists have also claimed that principal secretary (revenue) A Jayathilak should not have issued the controversial order.Indeed, soon after the order was issued, Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdullah warned her superiors of potential misuse but nobody took it seriously. Meanwhile, Divisional Forest Officer (Flying Squad) P Dhanesh Kumar, who played a key role in unearthing the alleged smuggling, was reinstated in the probe team after public outrage over his removal. After the case came to light, he was transferred although forest minister A K Saseendran claimed on Friday that he was not aware of the abrupt transfer of the officer. Kumar has survived two attempts on his life, allegedly by the timber mafia.Kumar was instrumental in reclaiming over 7,500 acres of forest land. The Wildlife Protection Society of India honoured him in 2006 for tiger protection and he received the chief minister’s award in 2007 for busting an inter-state sandalwood gang. Two plants in the Western Ghats have been named after him, Rotala Dhaneshiana and Syzygium Dhaneshia. “I can’t talk about the case. But I will be on the forefront to save forest and wildlife,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-forms-sit-to-probe-tree-felling-smuggling-101623521191573.html
13-06-2021||India||2 more girls missing from Jharkhand shelter home amid sexual assault probe||Two girl inmates have been reported missing from a state-registered shelter home in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district, whose director and staff have been booked for alleged sexual assault and torture of underage girls, senior officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The incident came to light late Friday evening when the authorities were shifting 41 inmates from the home to Bal Kalyan Ashram in Patamda.“Thirty eight inmates have been shifted to Bal Kalyan Ashram in Patamda from the MTWT in Kharanghjar under Telco PS last evening (Friday). It came to notice that two inmates were missing. An investigation is underway in the matter,” said Parameshwar Bhagat, Jamshedpur deputy development commissioner (DDC).One of the two girls missing since last evening hailed from Birsanagar and the other one hailed from Ghatshila.Earlier, on June 5, two other girls were reported missing from the shelter home, which is run by Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT) NGO. The two tribal girls, aged 16 and 17, were later rescued by the police from Birsanagar on June 6 night, and a case was subsequently registered based on their allegations of sexual assault and torture at the home for the past four years.On June 7, a first information report (FIR) was lodged under Posco (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code against Harpal Singh Thapar, director of the home, his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, the chairperson of East Singhbhum district child welfare committee (CWC), warden Geeta Singh, her son Aditya Singh, and another staff member Tony Singh.According to the MTWT’s list of inmates, the shelter home has 43 children, including 23 girls and 20 boys, all of whom are under the age of 18.MTWT has no links with Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity.Meanwhile, more questions marked the investigation after BJP district spokesperson Ankit Anand posted an October 2020 interview of Tirkey, where she told a local newspaper that the home had 55 inmates.“Pushpa Rani Tirkey had said in her interview published on October 24 last year that there were 55 children kept and taken care of at the MTWT in Kharanghjar. But she said there are now 43 inmates in MTWT in her press conference before fleeing from the city in the wake of sexual abuse case. I have requested the DC to probe if this is data mismatch or where 12 inmates vanished,” he said in the tweet.Jamshedpur ASP Kumar Gaurav said: “Nothing could be said conclusively till we get the final list of inmates from the Jamshedpur district Child Welfare Committee (CWC).” Accused Aditya Singh, too, is mentioned in one of the lists of inmates, he added.In a similar case at a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, which came to the fore three years ago, 12 people, including main accused Brajesh Thakur, were sentenced to life imprisonment in February 2020 by a Delhi court, which heard the case following orders from the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-girls-missing-from-jharkhand-shelter-home-amid-sexual-assault-probe-101623521131502.html
13-06-2021||India||GST rates slashed on essential Covid items||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Saturday temporarily removed GST on two medicines, slashed tax rates on 15 other items such as drugs, medical grade oxygen and testing kits to 5%, and reduced the levy on ambulances to 12% for a little over three-and-a-half months to help individuals and governments fight Covid-19 and its fallout.While GST on Amphotericin B (used to combat mucor) and Tocilizumab has been slashed from 5% to zero, tax on remdesivir and anti-coagulant Heparin has been reduced from 12% to 5%. A flat GST rate of 5% has been retained on all drugs recommended by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and the department of pharmaceuticals (DoP) for Covid treatment.After the 44th meeting of the council, its chairperson and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the levy of 5% GST on Covid-19 vaccines will continue as 75% vaccines are available to people free of cost in government hospitals (the tax burden will borne by the central government which is paying for all these vaccines).“These rates will be valid till September as against August-end [that was] recommended by the GoM,” she said, referring to a June recommendation by a ministerial group to the effect. According to the minister, the GST Council will review the situation later and take a decision on extending the exemption period further. The GST Council is chaired by Sitharaman and finance ministers of states are its members.The 43rd meeting of the council on May 28 decided to form a group of ministers (GoM) to consider tax waivers on individual Covid-19 essentials such as vaccines, testing kits, drugs, medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, alcohol-based sanitizers and hand wash. A day later, Sitharaman constituted an eight-member ministerial panel under the convenership of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma, which submitted its recommendations to the council on June 6.In order to bring down costs on oxygen, oxygen generation equipment and related medical devices, the council reduced GST on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator, oxygen generator (including personal imports), ventilator, ventilator mask, canula and helmet, BiPAP machine and high flow nasal canula (HFNC) devices from 12% to 5%.The GST rates on Covid testing kits and specified inflammatory diagnostic kits, D-Dimer, IL-6, Ferritin and LDH , have also been brought down from 12% to 5%.Other Covid-related equipment have been also made cheaper. While GST on pulse oximeters (including for personal imports) has been reduced from 12% to 5%, taxes on hand sanitizer, temperature check equipment, and gas, electric and other types of furnaces for crematoria, including their installation, have been slashed from 18% to 5%. Relief has also been given on the purchase of ambulances by reducing GST on them from 28% to 12%.The immediate revenue impact of these changes is not known.MS Mani, senior director at Deloitte India, said that the shorter duration of exemptions will make it difficult for businesses to plan new investments and expand supply chains. “Businesses engaged in their manufacture and trading will hope that the period is extended beyond 30th September,” he said.Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY, said that the council’s decision to bring down the GST rates on key Covid relief items would “reduce the cost of such critical Covid items for the end users”.The GoM was constituted after several states demanded a GST waiver on Covid essentials. Other members of the GoM were Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Goa transport minister Mauvin Godinho, Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari, Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao and UP finance minister Suresh Kr Khanna.On Saturday, some states demanded a complete waiver on taxes.“This is totally an anti-people decision that is being thrust on us at the GST Council. As representatives of the people, we have no way to justify these decisions of draconian nature,” said West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, expressing his dissent in a letter to Sitharaman. He added that his voice was muzzled at the council meeting on Saturday. Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur denied the allegation that Mitra was not allowed to speak during the council meeting, and wrote in a series of tweets that such accusations were “unbecoming” of a senior leader.Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma. however, welcomed the move. “The government had been taking all possible major and minor step towards fighting Covid from time to time... Cutting GST on Covid related items and services is a major step towards fighting the pandemic and providing people a relief in it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-rates-slashed-on-essential-covid-items-101623521071513.html
13-06-2021||India||SAD, BSP join hands to fight Punjab polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) announced on Saturday they will fight next year’s Punjab election together, with the leaders of the two parties calling it a “historic” move that will usher in inclusive development to the state.“Today is a historic day... A big turn in Punjab’s politics. This is not just an alliance for 2020 assembly polls but for other coming polls as well, as SAD has the history of not betraying its alliance partners,” Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said at a joint press briefing with BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra.The Mayawati-led BSP is likely to contest 20 seats and the SAD the remaining 97 in the 117-member state assembly,Last year, SAD pulled out of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance due to differences over the new agricultural laws that triggered an agitation by farmers, a majority of whom are from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.BSP and Akali Dal also presented themselves as an alternative to the Congress and the BJP in the state, and said they will fight under the umbrella of shared values. The farmers’ agitation and the Dalit vote appear to be the key planks on which the two parties are likely to focus their campaign.BSP general secretary Mishra on Saturday said chief minister Amarinder Singh had “lost the trust” of his own cabinet colleagues. He was referring to the infighting between the ruling Congress government in Punjab, which is currently working to put up a united front ahead of the election next year and has set up a three-member panel to resolve the issues.Mishra added: “The SAD and the BSP are pro-farmer parties, who have worked to uplift Dalits, labourers and weaker sections (of the society).”Nearly one-third (31.94%) of Punjab’s population are Dalits, who are largely settled in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala districts.The Akali Dal and the BSP are coming together into an alliance after 25 years. In 1996, they fought the Lok Sabha election together, with the alliance winning 11 of 13 seats in Punjab.BSP chief Mayawati on Saturday wrote in a tweet that the tie-up was a “new political and social initiative”, which will bring progress and prosperity in the state.After Saturday’s announcement, SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal called Mayawati and invited the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister to visit Punjab. He also described the formation of the SAD-BSP alliance as “the beginning of a secular, federal democratic revolution in the state and the country for a total socio-economic and political revamp of polity”.BSP will contest seven seats in Malwa, five in Majha and eight in Doaba region of Punjab, Sukhbir Badal said, adding that the two parties will form a coordination committee to chalk out various programmes ahead of the polls.The Akali Dal fought the previous assembly election with its former ally BJP in 2017. The alliance won in just 18 constituencies. The BSP contested the 2017 state election on its own, but could not open its tally in Punjab.“This opportunistic tie-up is not going to save the sinking ship of Akalis. BSP leaders may have forgotten the way they were treated after their 1996 alliance which did not even last one year, but Dalits and poor people who associate themselves with the party have not forgotten it,” said PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar.Punjab BJP General Secretary, Subhash Sharma, said, “Addition of Two zeros cannot make any difference. Alliance by SAD with the BSP is a desperate attempt to get Dalit support as BJP has already said the next chief minister of the party will be a Dalit.”With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-bsp-join-hands-to-fight-punjab-polls-101623521072078.html
13-06-2021||India||Cops, civilians among 4 killed in J&K attack||Two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others were injured when terrorists opened fire on the security forces in the main market of north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Saturday, police said, adding that the terrorists have been identified.According to police officials, the terrorists came from an interior lane at Shalpora and attacked the security personnel who were enforcing Covid-19 protocols in the town.In the shootout, two policemen, identified as Waseem Ahmad and Showkat Ahmad, both posted at Sopore police station, and two civilians were killed while three others sustained injuries. The injured policemen were identified as sub-inspector Mukesh Kumar, who was in-charge of the team, and Special Police Officer (SPO) Danish. Both were referred to the Army hospital in Badami Bagh cantonment for advanced treatment, police said.Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar said Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were behind the attack on the forces. “Two police personnel and two civilians were killed in the attack. Three policemen and one civilian were also injured. The policemen were enforcing Covid protocols,” Kumar said.Kumar visited Sopore and inspected the spot where the attack took place and held a meeting with Army’s Sector Commader, Deputy Inspector General of JKP and the CRPF. “Local LeT terrorists are involved in today’s attack and have been identified as Fayaz War and Mudasir Pandit. JKP and security forces are on the job and these terrorists will be neutralised at the earliest,” The inspector general said.Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said that police have identified the Lashkar terrorists who carried out the attack on Saturday. “The forces have launched an operation in the area, and we are hopeful that we will soon bring to justice the perpetrators of the crime... ,” the DGP said, adding, “They (attackers) won’t be spared.”The civilians who died in the firing were identified as Manzoor Ahamd Shalla of Shalimar Colony and Bashir Ahmad Pahloo of Taliyan Sopore. The injured civilian has been identified as Tariq Ahmad Dar of Kralteng, Sopore, police said.Meanwhile, leaders of the mainstream political parties condemned the attack that left four people dead.“Terrible news coming in from Sopore. Such attacks must be condemned without reservation. Prayers for the injured & condolences to the families of the deceased,” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted.Stating these incidents defame Kashmir, Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said be it the “gun of Delhi” or youth of Kashmir who picked the arms, it never helps to resolve things. “These types of attacks defame our Kashmir and give reasons for using more force against common people,” Mufti told reporters at neighbouring town Baramulla.Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone said the attack has left a dozen or more orphans. “Five succumbed in Sopore attack. 3 civilians and 2 policemen. Mr gunmen— Approximately—5 Kashmiri funerals. 5 widows. 10 grieving old parents. A dozen or more orphans. All Kashmiris. So mr gunmen. Really want to know. Whose bloody side r u on (sic),” Lone tweeted.Soon after the attack, the security forces launched a search operation in the area to track the terrorists responsible for the attack.In March, terrorists killed two counsellors of Sopore Municipal Council and a policeman in the attack inside the council office. Later, police claimed that people responsible for that attack were identified and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-civilians-among-4-killed-in-j-k-attack-101623521011509.html
13-06-2021||India||1 in 5 fatalities old: Covid toll rises as states reconcile numbers||Nearly one out of every five deaths that added to the national death toll in the past 30 days was a fatality that occurred days ago and had gone unreported, according to data analysed by HT. In the past month, at least six states – Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Goa, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh – have been steadily reconciling their death data and have added a total of 20,741 fatalities not logged earlier.In Bihar, three out of every four deaths in the past month was added to the state’s tally in just one day -- on June 9. In Maharashtra, more than half the number of deaths reported in the last 30 days were old backlog statistics. In Uttarakhand, this proportion was 30%. Such statistical correction not only pushed up the country’s death count in the past month, but also implied that the fatalities reported during the peak of the outbreak in India during April and May were under-reported. On Saturday, for instance, a total of 3,302 daily deaths were added to the country’s tally. However, only 1,675 deaths actually occurred that day. All figures are from HT’s dashboard of national Covid-19 statistics, which is updated with data released by the authorities of each state.The remaining 1,627 were old deaths due to the disease that were added by states to their respective tallies – 1,607 deaths were added by Maharashtra, nine by Punjab and 11 by Uttar Pradesh. This means that 49% of all new deaths had taken place days before.Similarly on Friday, 4,000 daily deaths were added to the country’s tally. But, on that day Maharashtra added a backlog of 2,213 deaths, Uttarakhand added 10 old fatalities and UP added four. This means that 56% were old. On Thursday, this proportion was 45% of the 3,410 reported deaths that day – 1,522 by Maharashtra, one in Goa, 14 in Uttarakhand, three in Punjab and one in UP. This reconciliation touched a peak on Wednesday, when the national death tally touched a record high of 6,141, according to HT’s dashboard. Of these, 71% were old deaths, with a majority (3,951) coming from Bihar’s reconciliation. Other major contributors were Maharashtra (400) and Uttarakhand (30). For Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, the reconciliation process has been a near-daily occurrence over the past month. The western state has updated its tally 25 days in the last month, while the hill state has done so 27 times in the same period. In absolute numbers, Maharashtra has added 15,756 old deaths to its tally in the past month – constituting 53.5% of all fatalities the state reported in this time period. Uttarakhand has reconciled 807 deaths in the same time period – constituting 30.1% of its fatalities. In Punjab, the process is a little more complicated as while reconciliation is a near-daily occurrence, the state also reduces repeat deaths fairly frequently. UP, which has been updating its case as well as death count like Punjab, has added at least 78 old deaths to its tally in the past month. Goa has only done so on four days between June 7 and June 10, adding a total of 75 deaths (7.7% of fatalities in the past month). The Union health ministry, in response to an article in an international magazine that claimed India has suffered perhaps five to seven times ‘excess deaths’ than the official number, on Saturday said that states and Union territories record Covid-19 deaths as per guidance issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It added what it labelled as “unsound analysis” of extrapolation of data “without any epidemiological evidence”. States and UTs have been urged through formal communications, multiple video conferences and through the deployment of Central teams for correct recording of deaths in accordance with laid down guidelines, Centre said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-in-5-fatalities-old-covid-toll-rises-as-states-reconcile-numbers-101623520952651.html
13-06-2021||India||New Central Vista plantation to be 'as close' to the original Lutyens’ designs||While designing the new Central Vista, the focus of plantation will be to “keep it as close to the original Lutyens’ Delhi” plan, designers and architects working on the project said.Environmentalist and author Pradip Krishen, who is advising the designers in the Central Vista redevelopment project, said that the new plantation scheme has been designed to replicate the British design for the Capital in 1912. It will also rectify the errors that the city’s horticulture departments have made over the years.Krishen said that initially only 13 tree species were chosen to line the avenues of Lutyens’ Delhi; the number was subsequently increased to 16.“The criteria were that the shape and the size of the trees chosen for that particular avenue should be just right in order to frame the feature they were facing. Three things were kept in mind: they had to be the right size, they had to be evergreen and they should not be common. That was the reason why species that the Mughals preferred, such as mango, or shisham did not find space in the avenue scheme,” Krishen explained.Lutyens’s plan accounted for around 450 trees in all, of which at least 385 were rai-jamun trees. Today, however, there are at least 3,200 large trees (4,000 if the smaller ones and shrubs are included). Around 1,080 are rai-jamun trees, a spokesperson for HCP Design Planning and Management Private Limited (HCP), the firm in charge of the project design said. Of these, 21 are being transplanted to make space for amenities like toilets for the public, the spokesperson added.To be sure, trees of this size can’t usually be successfully replanted.Historians said that Lutyens initially designed this part of Delhi with all streets crossing at right angles. However, this was later tweaked, taking into account the dusty Delhi weather. Thus, the trees, hedges, even roundabouts were carefully designed as barriers to seasonal dust storms.Also Read | Centre busts myths around Central Vista, says 'claims mischievously exaggerated'Krishen said that as an advisor to the Central Vista project, he has tried to retain the original patterns of Lutyens’s design as much as possible. He said that the new design might also rectify the plantation done by the Central Public Works Department and the New Delhi Municipal Council over the years.For instance, there was an original grid plan for the plantation of jamun trees. The design, which was called the “diamond grid”, only involved around 385 jamun trees, all planted in a diamond-like pattern.“If you look at aerial images, the pattern is very interesting. It’s like small Xs drawn all over and at each end of the X a jamun tree was planted, and the rest of the space was left empty. But the CPWD in their course of plantation completely lost track of this pattern, mainly because they did not understand the original design,” Krishen said.The spaces left empty by the original gardeners to create that pattern, was filled in by planting new jamun trees.But no one wanted to go back to that plan entirely or immediately because “that would mean getting rid of a huge number of jamun trees and nobody wanted that,” he added.Krishen said that it was finally decided to have a “long-term replacement strategy”.“We decided to adopt a scheme with a validity of at least 30 years, which means that in the future when a tree dies, it will not be replaced by a jamun tree so that a khali (empty space) remains khali and a bhara (occupied space) remains bhara, or will be replaced by a tree of another species,” Krishen said.Project documents shows that 26 old jamun trees will be affected during constructions. These nearly 100-year-old trees, planted around 1921, are to be transplanted and not felled, but experts fear that they might not survive the transplantation.Based on documents and aerial photographs dating back to the 1920s,HCP was able to recreate Lutyens’ tree plan along the avenue: a serrated grid of trees, comprising primarily of rai-jamun trees that flanked either side of the Central Vista Avenue and pines, maulsari and bistendu trees that were to cluster around what is now Vijay Chowk. The trees along the avenue criss-crossed over the waterways providing ample sitting space under the shade.HCP’s proposal, based on advice from horticultural experts Kishen (based in Delhi) and Dr Prabhakar Rao (based in Bengaluru), aims to create a “tree plan” that will be realized over the next two to three decades as these trees reach their natural end.“The draft plan for the plantation at Central Vista Avenue is likely to be a more populated criss-cross grid, similar to Lutyens’ pattern, which aims to preserve as many of these trees as possible without needing to transplant them,” the HCP spokesperson added.“ Many of the jamun trees are already at the end of their life cycles and are likely to die over the next two decades. So when they die, what should come up in that space? Should it be left alone? We’re trying to come up with a planting plan based on Lutyens’ cross pattern,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-central-vista-plantation-to-be-as-close-to-the-original-lutyens-designs-101623519391373.html
13-06-2021||NA||Mumbai Rains: Orange category storm warning alert issued till June 15||As heavy rains continue to lash Mumbai, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for June 13 and June 14. Residents have been advised to stay at home and only move out if essential.According to the latest data presented by IMD’s Santacruz weather station, Mumbai received 137 mm of rain till 5.30 pm on Friday, 37 mm more than that of Thursday's. The IMD has said that rainfall between 115.6-204.4 mm is considered as 'very heavy'.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday appealed to residents to stay away from the sea and coastal areas."People are advised to not visit beaches, seafronts etc. Temporary shelters in BMC schools located in 24 civic wards have been kept ready. The officials of various agencies have been asked to report to the disaster control room for better coordination," an official of the civic body told news agency PTI.Five teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been put on high alert in Mumbai. A total of 15 teams of the response force have been deployed in Maharashtra so far in view of heavy rainfall in several districts. According to the IMD, 21 of the total 36 districts of Maharashtra received 60 per cent excess rains from June 1 to June 10. These 21 districts include Thane, Raigad Palghar, Bhandara and Nagpur etc.Follow live updates hereFollow all the updates here:Mumbai mayor says garbage dumping in drains leading to floodingMumbai's Powai lake overflowed due to heavy rainfall on Saturday. On June 11, mayor Kishori Pednekar had said strict action will taken against those who dump garbage in drains and gutters. "In the nallahs carrying rainwater, it is observed that plastic, goods, garbage etc. are being dumped in many places, which hinders the flow of rainwater. As a result, the citizens of the area are suffering due to flooding," ANI quoted Pednekar as saying.Mumbai receives 706.1mm rainfall from June 1 to 12, greater than monthly averageMumbai recorded a total of 706.1mm of rain, as of 5.30pm on Saturday, from June 1 to 12. This record is in comparison to the monthly average rainfall of 505mm. Mumbai got 107mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Saturday, according to the automatic weather station at Santacruz. The Santacruz observatory recorded 64.8mm rainfall in the nine hours ending 5.30pm.Mumbai under orange alert till June 15As per the Meteorological department, Mumbai and the entire Konkan coast in Maharashtra, are expected to receive heavy to extremely heavy rains at isolated locations on Sunday and Monday. Mumbai, which was earlier placed on red alert, has now been placed under orange category storm warning alert with Thane, Palghar and Sindhudurg districts. While Raigad and Ratnagiri districts have been placed under a red category storm warning alert for Sunday and Monday.Powai lake overflows after heavy rainfallAs a result of heavy rains in Mumbai and surrounding areas over the past few days, Powai lake in the eastern suburbs began overflowing on Saturday afternoon, PTI quoted an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as saying.Steel scaffolding falls at Belapur Fort due to heavy rainsSteel scaffolding fell at Belapur Fort in Navi Mumbai Saturday evening after heavy rains.Train services operational on all corridors: Central RailwayCR Monsoon Updates at 6.00pmTrains are running on all corridorsMumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri to receive extremely heavy rainfall on June 13, 14: Regional met centreMaharashtra's Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri districts very likely to receive extremely heavy rainfall on 13th and 14th June: Regional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai pic.twitter.com/uZUXQ4i8TIRains lashed most parts of Maharashtra's Raigad; Mhasala records highest rainfallRaigad district in Maharashtra received an average of 54 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours that ended Saturday morning. Mhasala recorded the highest 100mm rainfall, PTI quoted an official as saying.Mumbai receives 459% more rainfall from June 1 to 12Mumbai received 107mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8:30am on Saturday, as per the AWS at Santacruz, of which 76.5mm was received after 5:30pm on Friday. The total rainfall received by Mumbai this June surpassed the season average of 505mm, as it received 641mm. This is also 459 per cent greater than the normal rainfall for the period between June 1 and 12, which amounts to 114.8 mm, according to the IMD.Part of Belapur Fort collapses after heavy rainfallA portion of Belapur Fort of Palm Beach Road opposite NMMC headquarters collapsed on Saturday afternoon due to heavy rainfall. No injuries were reported in the collapse, however, it lead to traffic disruption along Palm Beach Road for almost an hour. Around 26.26mm rainfall was received by NMMC since 8.30am in the morning.Bus services hit due to waterlogging after heavy rainsHeavy rains with thunderstorm and strong winds lashed Mumbai on Saturday causing disruption of trains and bus services due to waterlogging at several locations, PTI quoted an official as saying. Various bus services of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were also diverted due to water logging, a BEST official said, reported PTI.Local train services resumes between Kurla and DadarLocal train services resumed between Kurla and Dadar railway stations at 1.15 pm on the Central Railway mainline. Services were suspended from 12.15 pm. Trains are now operational on all railway lines.Central Railway Monsoon Updates at 13.00hrs on 12.6.2021Central Railway Monsoon Updates at 13.00hrs on 12.6.2021 pic.twitter.com/nQp1grKiyvLocal train services suspended due to heavy rain and water loggingLocal train services suspended between Kurla and Dadar railway stations on the Central Railway mainline. Train services suspended due to waterlogging at Sion. Local trains operating between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) and Dadar railway stations.BMC urges residents to stay indoorsGood Morning Mumbai. Heavy rainfall expected in the city today, tomorrow as well as day after. We request you to not venture out especially near the sea. Stay tucked in and safe at home #MyBMCMonsoonUpdateAs Mumbai continues to witness heavy downpour, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday again urged the residents to stay inside and not venture out, especially near the sea. 'Moderate to heavy' rainfall likely to occur in Mumbai and suburbs: Regional Meteorological CenterMaharashtra: Rain continues to lash Mumbai; visuals from Western Express Highway at Vile ParleRegional Meteorological Center, Mumbai says 'moderate to heavy' rainfall is likely to occur in Mumbai & suburbs with 'possibility of very heavy rainfall at a few places' during 48 hrs pic.twitter.com/jmlLUsYctMThe Regional Meteorological Center, Mumbai said on Saturday the city and its suburbs will likely experience 'moderate to heavy' rainfall with the possibility of 'very heavy rainfall' at a few places during the next 48 hours.Subway waterlogged in Mumbai's Andheri#WATCH | Maharashtra: Andheri Subway waterlogged in Mumbai as rain continues to lash the city pic.twitter.com/uJvAEbVMx5Latest visuals from news agency ANI showed that a subway in Mumbai's Andheri area is completely waterlogged as heavy rains continue to last the city. IMD issues red alert for June 13, 14The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for June 13 and June 14. Residents have been advised to stay at home and only move out if essential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-rains-live-updates-monsoon-weather-forecast-today-101623462947630.html
