14-06-2021||India||Teachers in Aurangabad called to schools from Tuesday||All teachers in Aurangabad city and 50 per cent of them in the rural areas of the district will have to be present in their respective schools in Tuesday, an official said on Monday. While schools in Aurangabad were expected to start from June 15, there is no clarity on the issue, the official added. Teachers have been asked to undertake meetings of management committees as well as other activities to get schools ready for classroom teaching, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teachers-in-aurangabad-called-to-schools-from-tuesday-101623693658852.html
14-06-2021||India||Gujarat Congress leader Hardik Patel denies reports on joining AAP, blames BJP of planting fake news||Gujarat Congress’ working president Hardik Patel on Monday denied reports that he would join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the state assembly elections in 2022, news agency PTI reported. Patel also blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the circulation of such “fake reports,” which he discarded as “baseless.”“I am surprised at the reports coming in from various media quarters that I am going to join the AAP and become their face for the next year's Assembly election in Gujarat. Such claims are baseless. Such fake reports are being planted in the media with a malicious intent at the behest of the BJP,” PTI quoted Patel as saying.विभिन्न मीडिया प्लेटफॉर्म्स में मेरे आम आदमी पार्टी में शामिल होने और आने वाले विधानसभा चुनाव में उनका चेहरा बनने की खबरें आने से अचंभित हूँ। ये खबरें निराधार और फर्जी है एवं भाजपा द्वारा कांग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं और विभिन्न समाज में भ्रम फैलाने के उद्देश्य से प्लांट कराई गई हैं।In a series of tweets, Patel also alleged that the BJP is planting fake news in the media to hide its failures during the Covid-19 pandemic times. “Shocked to hear the news of me joining the Aam Aadmi Party and becoming their face in the coming assembly elections in various media platforms. These reports are baseless and fake and have been planted by BJP with the aim of spreading confusion among Congress workers and various societies,” he said in a subsequent tweet in Hindi.While saying that the Indian National Congress party came close to forming the government in Gujarat in the previous assembly elections, he tweeted “Anyone who wants to strengthen the fight against the BJP's misrule is welcome in Gujarat.” He further expressed confidence that the people of the state would elect the Congress with full majority in the upcoming election. He also said that the people have observed the party’s rule in neighbouring Maharashtra and Rajasthan during the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read | AAP to contest all seats in 2022 Gujarat assembly elections: Arvind KejriwalPatel said that he is the youngest working president of the Gujarat Congress and he joined the party “with the sole aim of removing the anti-farmer, anti-worker and anti-Patidar BJP government,” PTI reported.Earlier in the day AAP’s national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during his visit to Ahmedabad, said that the party would contest all 182 seats in the 2022 assembly election. He was in Ahmedabad to inaugurate the AAP office in the city.However, Gujarat BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas rejected Patel’s allegations against the party. “The BJP fights elections on the agenda of development and that is why people elect us. Hardik Patel is having his own agenda and we are not concerned about it. His allegations are far from the truth,” PTI quoted Vyas as saying, earlier on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-congress-leader-hardik-patel-denies-reports-on-joining-aap-blames-bjp-of-planting-fake-news-101623692925878.html
14-06-2021||India||Telangana records 1,511 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths in last 24 hours, active caseload above 20,000||Telangana on Monday reported 1,511 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, pushing the tally so far to 6,04,880 and 3,496 respectively.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 173 followed by Khammam (139) and Nalgonda (113) districts, a bulletin said, providing information as of 5.30 PM today. The number of recovered people outnumbered the fresh cases with 2,175 people recuperating from the infectious disease, taking the cumulative number of recoveries to 5,80,923. The number of active cases was 20,461, the bulletin said. It said 1,10,681 samples were tested today and the total number of samples tested till date was 1,68,34,591. The samples tested per 10 lakh population was 4,52,299. The case fatality rate in the State was 0.57 per cent while it was 1.3 per cent at the national-level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 96.03 per cent while it was 95.39 per cent in the country.Meanwhile, State Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said the virus spread is declining.The positivity rate which was 6.74 per cent at the beginning of lockdown (last month) has now come down to 1.36 per cent. The other parameters, including number of recoveries and bed occupancy ratio, have shown improvement in the situation, he said.He said cases of mucormycosis have also considerably declined. The government is prepared to deal with the situation if a third wave of virus occurs, he said adding that a complaint has been lodged with police against a person who allegedly spread false information about the so-called third wave. Observing that people are already under psychological stress due to the virus, Rao advised against spreading false information on social media about the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-records-1-511-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-in-last-24-hours-active-caseload-above-20000-101623688986787.html
14-06-2021||India||One year post Galwan, Indian forces deeply entrenched along LAC||A year after 20 Army soldiers had lost their lives in the violent faceoff with Chinese troops in the Galwan valley, the Indian defence forces have strengthened themselves in the entire Ladakh sector through multiple initiatives.These include building infrastructure to enhance connectivity and deploying additional troops to tackle any possible aggression by the Chinese.The strengthening of positions has taken place at all levels in the armed forces including both the Indian Army and Air Force."Surprised shortly by the sudden Chinese aggression in the Ladakh sector, the forces have now strengthened themselves significantly," government officials said here.The biggest achievement has been from the infrastructure point of view as road connectivity to all the forward locations have been improved, they said."Whether it is the Zojila pass, the world's new highest motorable road Umling La, Marsmik La, or Khardung La, they have been kept open for troops movement throughout the year, courtesy the Border Roads Organisation," officials said.They added that connectivity has also helped to keep up the supplies at the forward locations throughout the year and provided us the capability to deploy troops in no time.The Indian Army has also strengthened its deployments in Ladakh as well as the entire Line of Actual Control (LAC) as it has now deployed an additional strike corps to tackle the China border."The Mathura-based One Strike Corps has been reoriented towards the northern borders in Ladakh and the 17 Mountain Strike Corps has been given the charge of the entire northeastern states along with providing it an additional Division comprising over 10,000 troops, they said.The Indian Air Force, on its part, is also strengthening itself with the arrival of its Rafale fighter jets every couple of months, officials added.Along with the Rafales, the MiG-29s and the Su-30 fleets have been dominating the skies all along the Northern borders and the second squadron or the planes would be ready for operations by the end of this month.The biggest achievement of the defence forces has been in creating accommodation for the troops as the Military Engineers have created facilities planned to have been built in the next five years within the last 11 months, they added.Officials said the preparedness of the armed forces is now at a level where the Chinese or any other adversary cannot surprise us in any way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-year-post-galwan-indian-forces-deeply-entrenched-along-lac-101623689060007.html
14-06-2021||India||Panneerselvam, new AIADMK deputy leader, teams with Palaniswami against Sasikala||CHENNAI: Former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and his deputy, O Panneerselvam, the two top feuding leaders of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), on Monday came together to block expelled interim general secretary VK Sasikala from trying to regain control of the party and expelled 16 party members including three leaders for their proximity to her.O Panneerselvam was also appointed as deputy leader of the AIADMK legislature party at the three-hour-long meeting at the party headquarters in Chennai to elect leaders to positions in the legislature party, a statement by the party said. Panneerselvam’s supporter, P H Manoj Panidan, was elected as deputy secretary while Palaniswami’s supporters and former ministers, SP Velumani, Kadambur C Raju and K P Anbalagan, were appointed as a whip, treasurer and secretary respectively.Monday’s appointments were a sharp contrast to the tussle between Palaniswami and Panneerselvam, the AIADMK’s dual leadership, which resurfaced after the previous two meetings of the legislature party. Last week, the chill in their relationship also reflected on the streets of Tamil Nadu when their supporters fought a poster war.On Monday, they spoke in one voice in a four-page resolution that threatened to expel anyone who associates with VK Sasikala. A party spokesperson V Pughazhendhi, former MP VK Chinnasamy and former MLA M Anandan were among the 16 who were expelled.The AIADMK’s effort to shield the party from Sasikala comes against the backdrop of her attempts to reach out to party workers sympathetic to her and release audio tapes of her conversation that has workers pleading with her to assume a leadership role.The resolution called the audio clips ‘drama’ and reiterated that the “party will never destroy itself for the desires of one family”. They recalled that Sasikala who had decided to ‘step away’ from politics before the assembly elections wanted to return because the AIADMK alliance won 75 of the 234 assembly seats, with the AIADMK alone securing 66 seats despite being in power for 10 years.Palaniswami had earlier tried to puncture her campaign, telling reporters that she hadn’t been speaking with AIADMK workers but members of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, the party floated by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran. But subsequent audio clips released by Sasikala’s team started mentioning the AIADMK membership details of the party worker as well. “They don’t understand that it is the cadre who decides the leader of this party,” she said.“The dual leadership (of Palaniswami and Panneerselvam) will continue, if not, the party will break,” says political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy. “They both have fallen on Jayalalithaa and Sasikala’s feet. They will set aside their ego and move forward together which will benefit both of them. If Sasikala wants and if she has public support she can be her own leader but the AIADMK and party symbol is in the hands of EPS and OPS. They will not let go of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panneerselvam-new-aiadmk-deputy-leader-teams-with-palaniswami-against-sasikala-101623689205425.html
14-06-2021||India||Odisha wants centre to revise Covid-19 vaccine allocation between state govt, private hospitals||The Odisha government Monday urged the Centre to allocate vaccines between the state and the private hospitals in the ratio of 95:5 instead of 75:25 per cent as per the revised guidelines for implementation of Covid vaccination programme. Stating that the government needs to be given a larger share by the vaccine manufacturers, the state government pointed out that the private hospitals provide health service to only 5 per cent of the state population. In a letter to the Secretary of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Additional Chief Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department, PK Mohapatra sought an increase in the Odisha governments share of Covid vaccine to 95% and allocation of 5% vaccine to private hospitals in the state. Mohapatra said there is poor presence of private hospitals in the health care sector in Odisha. "For the state of Odisha, the government and private vaccine allocation ratio of 75:25 may be revised to 95:5 ratio, keeping in mind the ground reality," Mohapatra wrote in the letter. In the guideline, it has been mentioned that 25 per cent of monthly production of vaccines by the domestic manufactures can be directly procured by the private hopsitals. However, till date, only four private hospitals in Odisha have been able to procure vaccine directly from the manufacturers, he said. The ministry of Health and Family in its revised guidelines for implementation of Covid vaccination programme on June 8, 2021 said it will come into effect from June 21, 2021 across the country. Mohapatras letter also mentioned that distribution of the vaccine to private health care sector may be handed over to the state government for subsequent mobilisation and allocation to private hospitals. Odisha has so far inoculated 76,673 people of different categories like health care workers, front line workers, senior citizens, people above 45 years and those in 18-44 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-wants-centre-to-revise-covid-19-vaccine-allocation-between-state-govt-private-hospitals-101623688205862.html
14-06-2021||India||CISF takes over security of Bharat Biotech’s facility producing Covaxin||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Monday took over the security of Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech facility that produces Covaxin vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Going forward, as many as 64 personnel of the paramilitary force will secure the office and the plant of the company.Bharat Biotech has its registered office and plant in Genome Valley in the Shameerpet area of Telangana’s capital city Hyderabad. Covaxin is the first fully indigenous Covid-19 vaccine of the country and is also one of the only three vaccines being used in India against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Indian biotechnology firm is engaged in drug discovery and drug development along with manufacturing of vaccines, bio-therapeutics, pharmaceuticals and health care products. The company develops vaccines for viral diseases like Chikungunya and Zika and also for Japanese Encephalitis."The biohazard of any accidental or sabotage related leakage of the material has the potential of a widespread disaster. In the light of the increased threat perception to the biotechnology company situated across the country, Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) is inherently vulnerable to threats from anti-nationals & saboteurs. The CISF will provide round-the-clock armed security cover to the BBIL, Hyderabad," a release issued by the CISF in this regard said.Also Read: AIIMS Delhi to begin recruiting children between 6 and 12 years for Covaxin trialThe unit inducted at the facility is headed by an inspector-rank officer, the release said. With this induction, the total units under CISF security cover have risen to 351, it added.“The organisation is an important facility when it comes to ensuring medical and health security of the country and it obviously faces a terror threat from various inimical elements. The CISF, hence, has been tasked to secure the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad,” an official familiar with the developments had said last week after the Centre announced that CISF will be taking over the firm's security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-takes-over-security-of-bharat-biotech-s-facility-producing-covaxin-101623679396387.html
14-06-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown strategy in Kerala to change after June 16, CM Vijayan hints at region-wise restrictions||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said that the Covid-19 lockdown strategy in the state would change from June 16 (Wednesday) and would be implemented region-wise based on the situation, news agency ANI reported. “The lockdown strategy will change after June 16. Depending on the Covid-19 situation, restrictions will be imposed region-wise. It will be implemented by local bodies. Further details about it will be declared tomorrow,” ANI quoted Vijayan as saying, earlier in the day.The chief minister’s comments came as 7,719 people in the state tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the day while 161 more people succumbed to the infection, as the death toll climbed to 11,342. Also, the active caseload in Kerala currently stands at 113,817. Meanwhile, 2,610,368 people have recovered from the disease so far, Vijayan also said.A week ago, on June 7, the Kerala state government extended the then ongoing Covid-19 restrictions till June 16 with complete lockdown on June 12 and 13. However, shops selling essential items and those selling raw materials for industry and construction materials would be allowed to remain functional, the chief minister said.Also read | Active Covid-19 cases fall below 1-million mark after 66 days, accounts for 3.3% of total positive cases: Govt“Lockdown extended till 16 June all over Kerala. Complete lockdown on 12 & 13 June. Stores selling essential commodities, raw materials for industries (including packaging), construction materials and banks will continue to function as they do now,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) announced in a tweet on June 7.Strict lockdown in Kerala was imposed on May 8 for the first time since the advent of the second wave of Covid-19 and has been extended thrice since then -- on May 16, 23 and 31. Previously, a triple lockdown was imposed on four districts reporting a very high number of cases namely Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram. Later it was revoked as cases declined.Earlier on June 11, Vijayan also announced a 100-day action plan to help the state overcome the economic slowdown triggered by the second wave of the pandemic. The plan included projects worth ₹2464.92 crore and also aimed to create 77,350 direct and indirect employment opportunities. “Utmost importance will be given to poverty alleviation, elimination of economic and social inequalities, implementation of eco-friendly development perspective and adoption of modern solid waste management practices conducive to a healthy urban life,” news agency PTI quoted Vijayan as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-strategy-in-kerala-to-change-after-june-16-cm-vijayan-hints-at-region-wise-restrictions-101623685937494.html
14-06-2021||India||‘Misleading narrative’: Bengal tells SC on plea for CBI probe into violence||Most deaths during the post-poll violence in West Bengal took place when the model code of conduct was in place and the state police was under the control of the Election Commission, the West Bengal government has told the Supreme Court, countering petitions that accused the state police of not doing enough to curb the violence after the Trinamool Congress returned to power and sought a probe by the the Central Bureau of Investigation.“The instant writ petition reeks of political motivation by adopting a misleading narrative and shows that the state administration is complicit with the wrong-doers in the alleged incidents of violence,” the affidavit by Nirmalya Ghoshal, additional secretary of West Bengal’s home department said.Ghoshal said 16 people were killed in violence in two days (May 2-3), five people in the next two days (May 3-5), and one person was killed in the next five days (May 5-9).“From the declaration of WB Assembly Election Results on May 2, 2021 till May 3, 2021, the law and order machinery including both Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the State Police was under the superintendence of the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the model code of conduct (MCC) remained in force till May 3 and thus, the ECI was in charge of the law and order situation in the State till the MCC was lifted.”Soon after MCC was lifted and the new government under chief minister Mamata Banerjee took oath on May 5, “the incidents of violence had reduced drastically and the law and order situation was brought to normality.”The state was responding to two petitions demanding an independent agency or Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the killing of party workers belonging to the rival Bharatiya Janata Party allegedly by persons belonging to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) party.The petitions alleged total inaction by the state police and administration, prompting the judges to seek responses from the state government as well as National Human Rights Commission, National Commission for Women, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, National Commission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and National Commission for Backward Classes. The top court will consider the affidavits filed by the parties when it takes up the matter on Tuesday.The Supreme Court is hearing two petitions including one filed by social activist Arun Mukherjee and four others to seek compensation and rehabilitation of persons displaced due to violence. This petition also accused inaction by police to register complaints of victims and demanded a probe into the incidents.The second petition was filed by family members of two BJP workers, Abhijit Sarkar and Haran Adhikari, killed during the violence.Two applications for intervention have also been filed in support of the petitions by a 60-year-old woman and a minor who alleged rape by Trinamool Congress supporters. The woman alleged that five people barged into her house on May 4-5 night, raped her in front of her six-year-old grandson, and left with all her valuables and property title documents. In the other application, the minor belonging to Scheduled Caste was gang-raped by four men on May 9. Later, her family was threatened not to pursue the case by persons linked to a local TMC leader. Both applicants have demanded transfer of probe to SIT since they don’t trust the police investigation.The West Bengal government has called the petitions “politically motivated” and “misleading”, underlining that it conceals the fact that issues raised by them significantly overlapped with proceedings pending before a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court. The high court had formed a three-member committee to examine the issues of persons displaced due to violence and ordered all complaints by victims to be forwarded to the Director General of Police in the state. As an interim measure, the state government announced compensation of ₹2 lakh for families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misleading-narrative-bengal-tells-sc-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-violence-101623682606568.html
14-06-2021||India||Covid second wave: 73% elderly suffered from abuse during lockdown, finds study||At least 73% of the elderly population said that they have experienced abuse during the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic this year, according to a report released by the Agewell Foundation. The report, which took responses from 5,000 elderly also highlighted that 82% of those respondents said that their lives have been adversely affected due to the current Covid-19 situation.The respondents said that cases of abuse against them increased during and after the lockdown period. Among them, 61% claimed interpersonal relationships to be the main factor for increased incidences of elder abuse in households. The survey also showed that 65% of these elderly people were facing neglect in their life while at least 58% of them said that they were suffering abuse in their families and in society.The report also highlighted that every third elderly person (35.1%) claimed that older people face incidents of domestic violence in their old age.“Older persons are the most vulnerable so far as the coronavirus threat and its impact is concerned. There is an urgent need to sensitize the entire community about the growing incidents of elder abuse. Older persons also need to be educated about support systems, legal provisions and non-formal support networks, accessible and available to them,” Himanshu Rath, chairman of the Agewell Foundation, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The report also highlighted that most elderly have to depend on family care which makes them vulnerable and also said mistreatment, elder abuse and harassment occur primarily within their respective families. Among the worst affected are elderly women due to their poor financial status, increased level of dependency and due to longer lifespan compared to elderly men, the report further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-second-wave-73-elderly-suffered-from-abuse-during-lockdown-finds-study-101623678986995.html
14-06-2021||India||Ayodhya land deal: Manish Sisodia alleges 'scam' by Ram temple trust||Deputy chief minister of Delhi and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Monday accused the Ram temple trust of buying a piece of land for the proposed shrine in Ayodhya at an inflated price. He said the trust was partaking in a "scam" and highlighted that the temple is being built using donations made by people and their hard-earned money should not be misused.He further urged the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to not play with the sentiments of the people."The Ram Janmabhoomi Trust has purchased a piece of land in Ayodhya for ₹18.5 crore. It was sold for just ₹2 crore five minutes before it was bought by the Ram temple trust. There has been a scam in purchasing this land for the pious work of building the Ram temple. The Trust must clarify why the land was bought at such a high price," he said at a press conference in Delhi."The temple is being built using donations made by people and their sentiments are attached to it. My request to them (Ram temple trust) is only that they should not play with the sentiments of the people who donated their hard-earned money for the temple," he added.Sisodia's remarks come a day after AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh along with Samajwadi Party leader Pawan Pandey said it was a case of money laundering and sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the matter.Singh accused the general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, of purchasing 1.208 hectares of land worth ₹2 crore in Ayodhya's Bag Bjaisi village for ₹18.5 crore with the help of trust member Anil Mishra, according to news agency PTI.On Monday, Singh, who was also present at Sisodia's press conference, said that Anil Mishra, trustee of the Ram temple trust, and Rishikesh Upadhyay, mayor of Ayodhya, were present during the finalisation of both the sale agreements.Meanwhile, Rai refuted the allegations in a strongly worded statement. "Allegations of assassinating Mahatma Gandhi were also levelled against us. We do not fear allegations. I will study the allegations levelled against us and probe them," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-land-deal-manish-sisodia-alleges-scam-by-ram-temple-trust-101623677545424.html
14-06-2021||India||Jagan Reddy rewarding co-accused, cancel his bail: Rebel YSR Cong MP to court||HYDERABAD: Rebel parliamentarian of YSR Congress K Raghurama Krishnam Raju on Monday told a special CBI court in Hyderabad that Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy was granting undue favours to the co-accused and influencing witnesses in his alleged disproportionate assets cases.Raju, the YSR Congress MP from West Godavari district’s Narasapuram, petitioned the Hyderabad court designated for cases probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation on April 29 to cancel Jagan Mohan Reddy’s bail, complaining that he was influencing witnesses. Jagan Reddy rebutted this charge on June 1. Raju’s affidavit on Monday was a rejoinder to the chief minister’s 98-page rebuttal.The CBI hasn’t expressed a view on Raju’s demand and left it to the judge to take a call.In Monday’s affidavit, K Raghurama Krishnam Raju named several leaders and officials who were Jagan Mohan Reddy’s co-accused in the disproportionate assets cases and were granted favours after the YSR Congress chief became the chief minister in May 2019.For example, Raju’s affidavit pointed out that senior YSRC leader Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, a co- accused named in one of the 11 charge-sheets filed the CBI, was appointed advisor to the state government with powers to carry out reviews and convene meetings including those requiring the presence of police officers.Party leader, Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, also a co-accused was first appointed as a cabinet minister and later elevated as a Rajya Sabha member. Another one, YV Subba Reddy was appointed chairman of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Trust Board. Raju’s affidavit also cited Jagan Mohan Reddy’s decision to send a delegation of party MPs to the minister of external affairs to seek the release of Nimmagadda Prasad, another co-accused, who was detained in Serbia as an instance of how he had helped co-accused in the case. Prasad was brought back to India in March 2020.Raju said the Jagan government issued an order on April 10, 2021, that will make the chief minister the reviewing authority of annual appraisal reports of All India Service officers. “This particular order clearly fortifies the contention that the chief minister is inducing and indirectly threatening senior officers who were witnesses in a number of cases against him. This amounts to a violation of conditions of his bail,” he said. Raju said the chief secretary was earlier the reviewing authority for All India Service officers.“There is no end to the list of undue favours granted by the chief minister to the co-accused in his cases and place them in a position of dominance with a view to put fear psychosis in the minds of witnesses,” Raju said.Raju said the chief minister had already forced the state police to withdraw all the crimes registered against him for various offences, while he was the opposition leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-rewarding-co-accused-cancel-his-bail-rebel-ysr-cong-mp-to-court-101623677924969.html
14-06-2021||India||In Tamil Nadu, opposition AIADMK expels spokesperson, 16 functionaries for anti-party activities||Tamil Nadu’s main opposition party the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Monday expelled 16 of its functionaries and partymen for anti-party activities, a statement from the party showed. The announcement was signed by AIADMK’s coordinator O Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami.Apart from the 16, the AIADMK also expelled V Pugazhendi, party’s spokesperson, from his primary membership and all other responsibilities in the party. Party functionaries across many districts such as Kallakurichi, Erode, Velore, Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Tiruchi, Thiruvannamalai, Kanyakumari and Chennai, have been removed, the statement showed.The expulsions from the party’s management came after a legislature party meeting, during which a decision was unanimously made to take actions against those who had been speaking to VK Sasikala, expelled party leader and close aide to late former chief minister J Jayalalitha.கழக ஒருங்கிணைப்பாளர் திரு. ஓ. பன்னீர்செல்வம், கழக இணை ஒருங்கிணைப்பாளர் திரு. எடப்பாடி கே. பழனிசாமி ஆகியோரின் முக்கிய அறிவிப்பு. pic.twitter.com/DdJ3WxXIeuIn its statement following the legislature meeting, the AIADMK dismissed Sasikala’s plan to return to active politics as “drama” and also said that the party “would never destroy itself for the desires of one particular family.”Earlier on May 30, an audio clip of a telephonic conversation between Sasikala and her loyalist surfaced on social media garnering wide attention. In the audio, she had mentioned her plan to take back the control of AIADMK citing differences and infighting between its leaders, without naming anyone, according to a report by news agency PTI. However, the AIADMK has strongly denied her re-entry into the party.Also read | With Panneerselvam’s photo, Palaniswami camp’s polite counter to poster warningSenior party leaders like deputy coordinator KP Munusamy, former chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and few others have earlier denied Sasikala’s return to the party. “Sasikala is not a member of the AIADMK and has no links whatsoever to the party. I myself and AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munuswamy have already made this amply clear,” PTI quoted Palaniswami as saying, earlier on June 4.On Sunday, senior leader C Ponnaiyan too said that Sasikala was no longer a member of the AIADMK. “Sasikala is not a member of our party. She belongs to TTV Dhinakaran's group. She has no locus standi to say that she is going to revive AIADMK. Whoever is talking to Sasikala, they do not belong to AIADMK,” he told news agency ANI.The AIADMK lost the Tamil Nadu assembly elections in April to arch rival Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). In March 2021, Sasikala had announced her retirement from politics after returning to Chennai from Bengaluru prison. She along with her nephew TTV Dhinakaran were removed from the party in 2017, after which Dhinakaran formed the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tamil-nadu-opposition-aiadmk-expels-spokesperson-16-functionaries-for-anti-party-activities-101623677243810.html
14-06-2021||India||Sacked Telangana health minister joins BJP, vows to expand BJP footprints in South||Former Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender, who was sacked from the state cabinet by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on May 1 following allegations of land grabbing, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday.Welcoming the former minister into the BJP, Union minister of steel Dharmendra Pradhan said Rajender’s entry would further strengthen the party in Telangana. “After Karnataka, Telangana will soon become a stronghold of the BJP in the South,” Pradhan said.Rajender was formally given the primary membership of the BJP by Pradhan in New Delhi. BJP in-charge of Telangana affairs Tarun Chugh, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and other party leaders from Telangana were present on the occasion.Along with Rajender, former Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) parliament member Ramesh Rathod, former TRS lawmaker Enugu Ravinder Reddy, former Karimnagar zilla parishad chairperson Thula Uma, trade union leader P Ashwathama Reddy and a few Osmania University student leaders also joined the BJP.Rajender, a prominent OBC leader representing Huzurabad assembly constituency in northern Telangana, resigned from the TRS on June 4 and from the assembly membership on Saturday. His resignation from the assembly was accepted and the vacancy for the Huzurabad seat was notified immediately.Expressing thanks to the BJP leadership, Rajender said he would make all-out efforts to expand the footprints of the BJP across Telangana and also in the rest of South India. In the coming days, there would be an exodus of more leaders from the TRS into the BJP, he said.Originally from the Leftist background, Rajender was an active leader of the Progressive Democratic Students’ Union (PDSU), a student wing of the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) New Democracy, a splinter group of the Naxalites, in the early ‘80s.In 2003, he joined the TRS founded by K Chandrasekhar Rao and took an active role in the separate Telangana movement. He became the legislator for the first time in 2004 from Kamalapur assembly constituency in Karimnagar district and represented it twice before the constituency was changed into Huzurabad. He continued to represent the same till the 2018 elections.When KCR was a parliament member, Rajender was made the floor leader of the TRS in the state assembly. He was the first finance minister of the Telangana state when it was formed in 2014. In the second term, he was given the medical and health portfolio which he held till he was sacked recently.“My DNA is secular. My agenda now is neither right nor left. My only agenda is to get the Telangana rid of the dictatorial and feudal rule of KCR,” Rajender said after quitting the assembly membership.Meanwhile, Senior TRS leader and state civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar said Rajender’s defection to the BJP would hardly have any impact on the party. “The TRS is very strong in Huzurabad and it is going to win the by-election hands down. We shall develop the constituency 100 times more than what Rajender had done all these years,” Kamalakar, who is looking after the party affairs in the constituency, said. It was unfortunate that Rajender chose to criticise KCR, who had given him a political life, the minister added. Senior journalist and political analyst Sangem Ramakrishna said there might not be an immediate impact of Rajender’s exit on the TRS, which was strongly placed in Telangana. “However, in the long run, he might be a rallying point for the disgruntled elements in the TRS and also the OBC groups in the state. It would strengthen the BJP in northern Telangana,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacked-telangana-health-minister-joins-bjp-vows-to-expand-bjp-footprints-in-south-101623675824995.html
14-06-2021||India||Ayodhya land deal: Congress demands Supreme Court intervention||The Congress on Monday alleged corruption by the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in the purchase of land for the temple in Ayodhya, and sought Supreme Court intervention in it, even as other Opposition parties demanded a clarification from the Trust.Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “Lord Shri Ram is a symbol of faith for this nation. But the misuse and fraud of funds collected from crores of Indians for the construction of Shri Ram temple in Ayodhya is a sin and gross iniquity, in which Bharatiya Janata Party leaders are involved.”The Congress was backing the allegations made by Samajwadi Party (SP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday. AAP’s UP in-charge and MP Sanjay Singh raised the issue at a press conference in Lucknow while SP’s Pawan Pandey made similar allegations in Ayodhya.Also Watch | ‘Hindus being cheated’: Ram Temple trust accused of land scam by OppositionQuoting entries of the registered sale deed of the land, they said that the land was first purchased by Sultan Ansari and Ravi Tiwari on March 18 this year from its original owner Kusum Pathak, wife of Harish Kumar Pathak alias Baba Hardas, for ₹2 crore. Minutes later, the same land was purchased by Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai for a sum of ₹18.50 crore.Trust member Anil Mishra and Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay were signatories to the ₹18.5 crore land sale deed, they alleged.Citing the same land deed, Surjewala asked why the Trust purchased the land at a higher price if the members were aware of its cost.He also alleged that Tiwari, who allegedly sold the land for ₹18.50 crore to the Trust, is related to Upadhyay.Surjewala questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence over “ Ram bhakts being duped in the name of Shri Ram”. He raised three questions for the Prime Minister and demanded answers. He asked if these “sinners who disrespected Lord Ram” have the Prime Minister’s protection. He asked how could BJP leaders, who take a pledge of values and morality in the name of Lord Ram, commit such “heinous sins”. And finally, he demanded to know how much more land of this type has been bought from the donations made in the name of temple construction.Since the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust was formed by the Supreme Court in 2019, he urged the Chief Justice of India and the apex court to “take cognizance of the whole matter and order a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the alleged scam”. The party also requested the Supreme Court to conduct an audit of the donations received and the expenses made by the Trust, along with making the audit report public before the citizens.”Also Read | ‘Misuse of donation an insult to faith’: Priyanka Gandhi on Ayodhya chargesIn Mumbai, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said such allegations against the Trust “have hurt our beliefs and sentiments”. He said, “The head of the trust should come forward and clarify the allegations levelled by the SP.”Delhi deputy chief minister and senior AAP leader Manish Sisodia also sought a clarification from the Trust. Terming it a “scam”, he said the temple is being built using donations made by people and their hard-earned money should not be misused.The Trust has refuted these allegations. Trust’s general secretary, Champat Rai, said in a statement that all land that the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra bought so far has been purchased at a price much lower than the market rates. “We do not fear allegations. I will study the allegations levelled against us and probe them,” he said.UP deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said, “The Trust is the authority here. It has to reply. But I wish to ask why these people start talking about Ram Temple and Lord Ram when elections are close? They must stop being allergic to the name of Lord Ram. It was such people who were raising slogans such as, “Mandir wahin banayengey, lekin date nahin bataayeige (we will build the temple at the Janmabhoomi but won’t say when). And now, when the temple is coming up following the order of the Supreme Court, these people are again creating a nuisance.”With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-land-deal-congress-demands-scintervention-101623674144700.html
14-06-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Safdarjung Airport's IT building, 6 fire tenders at the spot||A minor fire broke out in the IT building of Delhi's Safdarjung Airport on Monday, officials said. At least six fire tenders were rushed to the site.Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said all occupants in the premises were rescued with the help of fire ladder and no casualties have been reported so far.This is the second incident of fire reported from the national capital in past two days after a major fire at Delhi's Lajpat Nagar on Saturday gutted five shops. The fire started from a showroom in the Central Market and at least 16 fire tenders were rushed to the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-safdarjung-airport-s-it-building-6-fire-tenders-at-the-spot-101623673476402.html
14-06-2021||India||Plant extract shown to reduce Sars-CoV-2 viral replication in lab: CSIR study||The plant and root extract of velvetleaf can inhibit the replication of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, by up to 98% in cell cultures, shows a yet-to-be peer reviewed study by three laboratories of the government’s Council for Industrial and Scientific Research. The extract is used in Ayurveda for fever, especially dengue, and the researchers found that it mimicked the working of several antivirals.In the cell cultures, the researchers found that the whole plant aqueous extract reduced the viral content by 57% and the hydroalcoholic extract (a solution made with water and alcohol) reduced it by 98%.Also Read | AIIMS Delhi to begin screening children between 6 and 12 yrs for Covaxin trialsThe researchers also tested the various molecules found in the extract individually against Sars-CoV-2 virus and found pareirarine had the highest inhibition of 80%, according to the pre-print study uploaded on BioRxiv on Sunday.“First we used connectivity map – a platform that has information on the pathways of various drug – to see how the plant extract likely works. What we found is that it has similar pathways of action like many antivirals. When we did the lab-based study, we found this to be true,” said Dr Mitali Mukerji, senior scientist at Genomics and molecular medicine department at CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.She added, “This plant extract is already used in Ayurveda for fever, dengue, and some hormonal problems. So, the safety is established. Now, only a randomised clinical trial can tell whether it does help in reducing the severity or duration of the infection in people.”Drug expert CM Gulati said, “The principle of using plant extract for treating ailments is not new. The best examples would be quinine used to treat malaria that is derived from Cinchona trees and digoxin used to treat cardiac ailments derived from digitalis plants. But the current research is in very, very early stages. The scientists have to zero in on an active ingredient, decipher its chemical structure, and then develop a usable medicine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plant-extract-shown-to-reduce-sars-cov-2-viral-replication-in-lab-csir-study-101623673545039.html
14-06-2021||India||Karnataka announces relief package for BPL families which lost members to Covid||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said all those families under the Below Poverty Line (BPL) that lost their earning or adult members to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be given a relief package of ₹1 lakh, news agency PTI reported."Due to Covid-19, many families are in trouble. Keeping this in mind, we have decided to give ₹1 lakh to each of such members of BPL families which lost their adult members," he said, adding that the benefits of the package will reach around 25,000 to 30,000 families.The initiative will cost the state exchequer between ₹250 crore and ₹300 crore, Yediyurappa said.As many as 32,913 people have died due to Covid-19 in Karnataka till Sunday. The state recorded 125 deaths and 7,810 fresh cases of the virus in a 24-hours-span on Sunday, taking the total infection tally to over 27.65 lakh, according to the state health department.Karnataka currently has 1,80,835 active cases of Covid-19 whereas the total recoveries stand at 25,51,365 after as many as 18,648 people were declared free of Covid-19 virus on Sunday, the health department data showed.Meanwhile, the state government announced it will relax its Covid-19 lockdown from June 14 in all but 11 districts. The existing lockdown rules will continue in these districts as they have a high test-positivity rate.The districts are Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Mysuru, Hassan, Chamarajanagara, Mandya, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Belagavi and Kodagu.It was also announced that night curfew will be in effect from 7pm to 5am in all other districts and the weekend curfew will be in effect from 7pm on Friday till 5am on Monday starting June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-announces-relief-package-for-bpl-families-which-lost-members-to-covid-101623670317178.html
14-06-2021||India||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar asks Kolhapur district admin to double Covid-19 testing as positivity rate remains high||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday asked the Kolhapur administration to increase Covid-19 testing as the positivity rate continued to remain higher in the district. He also warned the citizens against letting their guards down, news agency PTI reported.“In the first wave of the pandemic, the district administration did a commendable job by controlling the infection. However, the positivity rate in the district in the current second wave is still at the higher side. The review meeting discussed measures like the requirement of drugs etc to check the transmission,” PTI quoted Pawar as saying.The deputy chief minister’s remarks came after he conducted a review meeting with state health minister Rajesh Tope regarding the Covid-19 situation in Kolhapur.Also read | Maharashtra Covid-19 death toll goes up as govt reconciles fatality data﻿The district administration has been directed to double the number of samples tested daily for the coronavirus disease. “Currently 9,000 tests are being conducted in the Kolhapur district every day. We told the district administration to increase this number by at least one-and-a-half times or double it. If the testing is increased, no doubt the number of cases will increase for a week, but the case positivity rate will fall in the coming days,” Pawar further said.Kolhapur is currently under the level-4 classification by the state government in its five-layered unlock plan. Districts reporting higher positivity rates are placed under this level. Warning the residents that lockdown-related restrictions can’t be eased if the cases continue to remain high, Pawar said “As Kolhapur district falls under level-4, no relaxations will be given in restrictions. If people do not follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the rules will be made more stringent. I urge the people to adhere to rules and eradicate the coronavirus,” PTI reported.Also, he stressed that vaccination is the key to overcoming the disease and districts where the vaccination rate is higher, the positivity rate is lower. He also assured the people that the number of centres administering the jabs would increase once the supply is increased. He further lauded the district administration for the work done so far and promised of all assistance from the state government.According to a bulletin from the state health department on Sunday, Kolhapur had reported 133,309 total positive cases of the disease. Also, 4,135 people have lost their lives so far in the district, while the active caseload stood at 16,835, the third highest (following Pune and Mumbai) among all districts in the state.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-asks-kolhapur-district-admin-to-double-covid-19-testing-as-positivity-rate-remains-high-101623670813321.html
14-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: AIIMS Delhi to begin screening children for Covaxin trials and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.AIIMS Delhi to begin screening children between 6 and 12 yrs for Covaxin trialsThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Aiims), New Delhi will on Tuesday begin screening children in the age group of 6-12 years for the clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Read moreIrfan Pathan names two Indian batsmen who will face 'a lot of difficulties' in WTC finalFormer India all-rounder Irfan Pathan is of the view that opening batsmen Rohit Sharma and Shubman Gill could face a lot of difficulties when they come out to bat in Southampton. Read moreRhea Chakraborty pens note for 'whole heart' Sushant Singh Rajput on his death anniversary: 'Come back'Rhea Chakraborty remembered Sushant Singh Rajput on his first death anniversary by sharing a picture of the two of them on Instagram, and writing a special note about him. Read moreSamsung Galaxy S21 FE production suspended? Company reacts, here is what it saidIn the mobile community, there is nothing that makes people sit up than reports about some extreme events happening or alleged to have happened. That is exactly what came to pass after rumours started spreading that the Samsung Galaxy S21 FE (Fan Edition) smartphone production has been allegedly suspended. Read moreKoenigsegg, the maker of $3 million supercars, experiments with volcano fuelHypercars with $3 million price tags aren’t usually synonymous with environmental sustainability. Christian von Koenigsegg, founder and chief executive of Koenigsegg Automotive, wants to change that. Read moreMalaika Arora proves exercising on ground is too mainstream, stretches on flightAlways the one to encourage fans towards a healthier lifestyle with her regular Yoga challenges, Malaika Arora kept it super easy this time as she pushed fans to atleast begin with and nail the basic stretches. Read moreRatan Tata helps paralysed stray dog find a forever homeBusiness tycoon Ratan Tata is known for his love towards dogs. He has often come forward and shared posts to help strays find a loving home. Read more'Hindus being cheated': Ram Temple trust accused of land scam by OppositionSamajwadi Party’s Tej Narayan Pandey and AAP’s Sanjay Singh on Sunday leveled corruption charges against the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-aiims-delhi-to-begin-screening-children-for-covaxin-trials-and-all-the-latest-news-101623669129956.html
14-06-2021||India||Days after Supreme Court rap, Mamata Banerjee says no problem with 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her government doesn't have any problem with Centre's 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme and that its implementation is under process. Her remarks came days after the Supreme Court asked the West Bengal government to implement the scheme “immediately" to help beneficiaries."We do not have any problem with the implementation of 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme. It is under process," Mamata Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The scheme allows eligible beneficiaries to get food grain under the National Food Security Act from fair price shops across India without securing a new ration card.On Friday, during a hearing on an application filed by activists, the top court asked West Bengal government to implement it so that beneficiaries, especially migrant workers, can get subsidised food. While the counsel for the Bengal government flagged the issue of seeding ration cards with Aadhaar, the top court was emphatic that “no excuse will be considered” and that West Bengal must make the scheme functional.The scheme is currently functional in 32 states and Union territories.During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that apart from Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Assam have also not implemented the 'one nation, one ration card (ONORC) scheme. The counsel for Delhi said the state government has implemented the scheme.The vacation bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah asked counsel for all state governments to submit a brief note on the implementation of the scheme and other policy measures taken to ensure supply of sufficient dry ration and provision of transportation facilities to migrant workers.The application was filed in the pending suo motu case of 2020 on the issue of problems faced by migrant workers due to curbs clamped in country amid a resurgence of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-problem-with-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-says-mamata-banerjee-101623668698914.html
14-06-2021||India||Aiims Delhi to begin recruiting children between 6 and 12 years for Covaxin trial||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi will on Tuesday begin screening children in the age group of 6-12 years for the clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. “The selection process for the clinical trial of Covaxin among children in the age group of 6-12 years will begin from Tuesday,” Dr Sanjay Rai, professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at AIIMS Delhi, told news agency PTI on Monday.The selection for clinical trials in the 12-18 years is already over and children within this age group have been administered with a single dose of the vaccine. Once the recruitment of children from 6-12 years is done, AIIMS New Delhi will begin trials for children between 2 and 6 years.Prior to Delhi, AIIMS Patna started paediatric trials for Covaxin on 12-18 years from June 3.Also Read| Covaxin trials on children begin at AIIMS Patna: All you need to know“After these trials, the age group will be 6-12 years and then 2-6 years but now we have started trials in the age group of 12-18 years,” Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh, director of AIIMS Patna said last week adding 54 children had registered for the trials of which 16 belonged to the 12-18 years age group.On May 12, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted permission to conduct the second and the third phase of clinical trial of Covaxin among children in 2-18 years group. PTI said on Monday the trial will be conducted in three parts, having 175 volunteers each in 12-18 years, 6-12 years and 2-6 years age groups.The vaccine will be administered by the intramuscular route in two doses on day 0 and on day 28. The trial will assess safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the vaccine in children, PTI further reported.Also Read| Covaxin receives nod for trials on childrenThe decision to launch a mass inoculation drive for children comes after the Centre warned that even though the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has not taken a serious shape among them, the impact of the viral disease can increase if there is a change in virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics.Also Watch | Will the next Covid wave cause serious infection in children? AIIMS director answers﻿India has so far vaccinated 25,48,49,301 beneficiaries against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till now of which nearly 1.5 million beneficiaries were inoculated in the last 24 hours. On Monday, the country saw 70,421 new cases, which pushed the caseload to 29,510,410. Monday’s case count has been the lowest since April 1, when 72,330 were detected Covid-19 positive.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiimsdelhi-to-begin-screening-children-between-6-and-12-yrs-for-covaxin-trials-101623666434053.html
14-06-2021||India||ASI protected monuments to reopen on June 16; tickets to be available online||The Archaeological Society of India (ASI) said that the Taj Mahal and other monuments protected by it and remained closed for visitors for the last two months due to the coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) will reopen on June 16, an official familiar with the development told news agency PTI.The official also said that visitors will be able to book entry tickets online and offline booking facilities will be unavailable.The Taj Mahal and other ASI-protected monuments, sites and museums were declared shut till May 15 by the Union ministry of culture due to the onset of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. The reopening of these monuments, museums and sites is likely to help revive tourism across several states as state governments ease restrictions following a reduction in the number of cases.The ASI also took up important restoration work in several of these monuments including the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri. It said that the restoration work will make the monuments look more beautiful when tourists return, according to another PTI report.“During the closed period, mud pack treatment will be applied to the main dome of Taj Mahal while conservation of minarets in the monument will be done. The old stones of pietra dura art at the royal gate will be changed and the gate itself will be given a new look,” ASI’s superintending archaeologist (Agra circle) Vasant Kumar Swarnkar told PTI.The government had introduced a similar measure in March 2020 when the pandemic broke out but later in December the ASI removed the cap on the number of visitors to its protected monuments when the number of cases fell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-protected-monuments-to-reopen-on-june-16-tickets-to-be-available-online-101623666128090.html
14-06-2021||India||Odisha reports 4,339 new Covid-19 cases, 44 more deaths in last 24 hours||Odisha reported 4,339 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 8,56,121, a Health Department official said.Forty-four more people died in the state, pushing the toll to 3,346, he said.In the last 24 hours, 7,733 people recovered. So far, 7,96,799 patients have recovered in the state.There are 55,923 active cases in the state at present.Even as Covid-19 cases decline, the steep rise in the number of deaths has raised concerns.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, PK Mohapatra said there was no reason to disbelief the government data.He said the number of deaths is released after a proper audit at the district and state levels as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.He also rejected allegations that the number of deaths is being suppressed by the state government.Though the state government has declared 3,346 Covid-19 fatalities so far, about 800 cases are still under audit, as per official sources.These deaths will be attributed to Covid-19 only after proper verification and audit, they said.Of the new infections, 2,475 were detected at quarantine centres, while the rest 1,864 are local contact cases.Khurda district, where state capital Bhubaneswar is located, reported the highest 700 new cases, followed by Cuttack (480), Balasore (296) and Puri (255).Of the new deaths, Khurda reported the most at five.This apart, 53 Covid-19 patients have died due to comorbidities.The state tested 68,535 samples on Sunday.The state has so far administered as many as 88,71,397 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines.Meanwhile, Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said the state government is yet to announce fresh guidelines about the restrictions, whether to continue or withdraw them after June 17."Whatever is circulating on social media is fake. All are requested not to be misled by such news," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-4-339-new-covid-19-cases-44-more-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101623665748513.html
14-06-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases fall below 1-million mark after 66 days, accounts for 3.3% of total positive cases: Govt||The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country fell below the one-million mark after a gap of over two months, the central government said on Monday. Currently, there are 973,158 active cases of Covid-19 which accounts for 3.30% of the total positive cases, according to Union health ministry.“India has also been witnessing a continuous fall in the active caseload. The country’s Active Caseload today stands at 9,73,158. The Caseload has declined below 10 lakh mark after 66 days,” the ministry said in a release on Monday.#Unite2FightCorona➡️ India's Active Caseload dipped to 9,73,158 today. ➡️ The Caseload declines below 10 Lakh mark after 66 days. pic.twitter.com/aMR0SUtG3FThe active cases came down by 53,001 cases in the last 24 hours to reach 9,73,158, according to health ministry update on Monday. On Sunday (June 13), there were 1,026,159 active cases reported in the country, according to the ministry’s data.There were 979,608 active cases in the country on April 9, 2021, the last time when the caseload was recorded below one million, data from the ministry showed.Also read | India sees another dip in daily Covid-19 tally with 70,421 new casesFor the last 32 days, the active cases in India has been witnessing a declining trend, the ministry said, highlighting that on May 10, the caseload was at its peak of 3,745,237 cases. The ministry’s data also showed that earlier in 2020, during the first wave, the active caseload peaked at 1,017,754 on September 18, 2020.Among the states, Karnataka remained the top contributor to the country’s active cases tally with 180,856 cases followed closely by Maharashtra (158,617 cases) and Tamil Nadu (149,927 cases). Apart from the three, only Kerala (123,433 cases) currently has more than 100,000 active cases, according to the Union government’s data as of 8am on the day.Meanwhile, daily new cases in India have also been witnessing a declining trend and the country has reported under 100,000 fresh cases for the seventh straight day on Monday. As many as 70,421 new Covid-19 cases were detected in the last 24 hours while 3,921 people succumbed to the infections in the same time-span.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-1-million-mark-after-66-days-accounts-for-3-3-of-total-positive-cases-govt-101623663899385.html
14-06-2021||India||Monsoon progress over rest of northwest India likely to be slow||After advancing into most parts of the country, including many parts of northwest India, monsoon’s progress is likely to slow down, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Monsoon has so far advanced into entire peninsular India; east central; east and northeast India and some parts of northwest India. It progressed very quickly over most parts of the country in the span of only 10 days, mainly due to active monsoon circulation and the formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal. Also Read | Monsoon likely to cover several parts of northwest India in next 48 hours“However due to approaching of mid-latitude westerlies winds further progress of monsoon over remaining parts of northwest India is likely to be slow. The progress of monsoon is being monitored continuously and further update will be provided on daily basis,” IMD said on Monday. The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar , Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-progress-over-rest-of-northwest-india-likely-to-be-slow-101623663344043.html
14-06-2021||India||AAP to contest all seats in 2022 Gujarat assembly elections: Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday claimed that people in Gujarat were fed up of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP’s) 27-year rule. In Ahmedabad to inaugurate AAP’s state headquarters, Kejriwal said the people of the state needed an alternative to the BJP, and the Opposition Congress, which his party would offer. “BJP and Congress are two sides of the same coin,” he claimed.“The AAP will contest each seat in the 2022 Gujarat assembly elections. AAP is a credible alternative to the BJP and Congress. Gujarat will change soon,” he said. The state assembly has 182 seats. Also Read | Delhi unlock 3.0: All shops in markets, restaurants open todayKejriwal said with the arrival of the AAP, Gujarat is bracing for a change. He added that the entry of Isudan Gadhvi, who joined the party in his presence, would only expedite the process.The Delhi chief minister called Gadhvi’s joining the AAP as a “huge sacrifice of a promising career to clean the mess that the ruling party, together with the Congress, had created in Gujarat.”He added, “Gadhvi has left a plum career for AAP...You can bring a change from outside the system, but there is a limitation to this. So, Gadhvi decided to join the system and clean the mess.”Asked who would be the party’s face in Gujarat, he said, “The 60 million people of Gujarat are the face of AAP.” He added, “It is the 20 million people of Delhi who are AAP’s face, not Kejriwal. Kejriwal is a small fry, it is the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-to-contest-all-seats-in-2022-gujarat-assembly-elections-arvind-kejriwal-101623663224241.html
14-06-2021||India||Journalist found dead in UP’s Pratapgarh, probe on||A journalist of a national news channel was found seriously injured on Katra Road in Pratapgarh district late Sunday night. He was rushed to the district hospital where he was declared dead on arrival by the doctors, police said.Police said Sulabh Srivastava (44), a resident of Station Road area, was returning home around 10pm after work. Commuters found him injured on Katra Road and called the police.Additional director general of police (ADG) Prayagraj zone Prem Prakash, who visited the spot on Monday, said that prima facie it appeared that Srivastava’s motorcycle collided with an electricity pole due to which he received serious head injuries. After commuters called police, they rushed Srivastava to the district hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival, he said. Prakash added that police were investigating all angles.Also Read | HC grants bail to man booked for rape, forced conversion in UPSrivastava had written to the ADG only a day earlier, stating that his and his family’s lives were under threat from certain persons who were unhappy with his coverage of the illicit liquor trade in the district.Srivastava had requested senior police officials to hold an inquiry and provide him and his family with security.An FIR under Sections 302 [murder] and 506 [criminal intimidation] of the Indian Penal Code was filed against unidentified persons at Pratapgarh Kotwali police station on Monday afternoon on the complaint of Srivastava’s wife, Renuka.In her complaint, she said that circumstances suggest that her husband was murdered for running news about mafia who tried to cover up the crime by making it appear like an accident.Meanwhile, Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi criticised the Uttar Pradesh government for Srivastava’s death. “Liquor mafia from Aligarh to Pratapgarh: Dance of death in the entire state. UP government silent. Journalists should expose the truth, warn the administration about the danger. The government is asleep. Does the UP government, which nurtures Jungle Raj, have any answer to the tears of the family members of journalist Sulabh Srivastava?” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.Samajwadi Party leader Richa Singh also flayed the UP government and accused the police of failing to provide Srivastava with security despite his request. “This calls for a thorough probe and action against the guilty,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-found-dead-in-up-s-prayagraj-probe-on-101623663044193.html
14-06-2021||India||States, UTs have been given 260 million Covid vaccine doses till now||The Centre has provided more than 260 million Covid vaccine doses to states and Union Territories (UTs). As per the government data till 8am, Sunday, June 13, in all 266,484,350 doses were provided to states and Union Territories. In what will boost the vaccination drive in the country, officials said that Delhi’s Apollo Hospitals and Madhukar Rainbow Children’s Hospital will start administering the Sputnik V vaccine by the end of this week.Meanwhile, in all 251,266,637 doses, including wastage, were consumed by the states and UTs. That leaves the states and Union Territories with more than 153 million doses. Over 400,000 vaccine doses are also in the pipeline and the states/UTs will get them in another three days, said the Union health ministry.Also Read | Delhi govt sets up vaccine centre for people travelling abroad for studies, workThere was some positive news from Delhi which added fewer than 300 cases on Sunday for the third consecutive day, recording 255 infections with a positivity rate of 0.35%, the government’s health bulletin said. The positivity rate is an indication the spread of the outbreak.Meanwhile, India on Monday recorded 70,421 fresh Covid cases and 3,921 fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 29,510,410 and 374,305 respectively, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Monday’s case count has been the lowest since April 1, when 72,330 people tested positive for the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-uts-have-been-given-260-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101623660943940.html
14-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand to open Char Dham yatra for locals from tomorrow||The Char Dham yatra will be opened for pilgrims from Chamoli, Rudraprayag, and Uttarkashi districts of Uttarakhand from June 15, the government said on Monday. There are the districts where the four Himalayan shrines are located. Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said, “Kedarnath will be open for people in Rudraprayag district, Badrinath will be open for people in Chamoli district, and Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines will be open for people in Uttarkashi district. Locals will have to carry their negative RT-PCR report,” he said. Uniyal said Covid curfew in the state has been extended from June 15 to June 22, with some relaxations in place. He said the number of attendees at weddings and funerals has also been increased from 20 to 50. Also Read | Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till June 22 with some relaxationsRecently, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj had also said that the plan was to open Char Dham yatra in a phased manner, first for locals and then for those from outside. Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri shrines are collectively called Char Dham. The pilgrimage begins from Yamunotri in the west. It proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east.On April 29, the state government put the yatra, which was scheduled for May 14, on hold amid a spike in Covid cases. There were also fears that the yatra could turn into another super-spreader after many seers succumbed to Covid-19 after participating in Mahakumbh in the state’s Haridwar. Following the decision, only portals of the shrines were opened for a ritual worship by the priests. Portals of the Yamunotri shrine were opened on May 14; that of Gangotri on May 15; of Kedarnath on May 17; while the portals of Badrinath were opened on May 18. The yatra could not be held last year as per the schedule on April 26 with the opening of portals of Yamunotri and Gangotri, the first two shrines that are opened after winter, because of the lockdown in March 2020. The shrines were opened for local pilgrims on July 1 last year and for those from other states in the last week of that month. In September, the state government removed the condition of negative Covid-19 reports for pilgrims.  According to Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board officials, last year over 145,000 pilgrims visited Badrinath shrine and overall, 310,000 pilgrims came for Char Dham Yatra. Of the total pilgrims, 134,000 pilgrims visited Kedarnath, 23,837 pilgrims visited Gangotri and 7,731 pilgrims visited Yamunotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-open-char-dham-yatra-for-locals-from-tomorrow-101623659984224.html
14-06-2021||India||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana moves HC seeking anticipatory bail in sedition case for remark against Lakshadweep administrator||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana on Monday approached the Kerala high court seeking anticipatory bail in sedition case against her. Sultana was booked by the Lakshadweep Police on June 10 after a complaint from Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Lakshadweep unit president C Abdul Khader Haji over her remarks in a television debate.Aisha Sultana, appearing on a Malayalam TV channel, allegedly called the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, a “bio-weapon” launched by the Centre. The remarks were made amid anger in the region over new rules introduced by Patel, which his opponents say threaten the livelihoods of islanders.The FIR filed on June 10 Haji's complaint said the accused generated hatred and opposition to the Union government by falsely and with ulterior motives. The case was registered by Kavaratti Police under Sections 121 A (sedition) and 153 (B) (assertions against national integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and she was asked to appear before the police on June 20. Sultana is currently settled in Kochi.The filmmaker said she used the word but did not attack the country or the Union government. “I was referring to some of the decisions of Patel which infuriated local people. Despite popular sentiment, he continues to antagonise people. As a local resident I have right to criticise him,” she said in a Facebook post.Many local BJP leaders protested against the slapping of sedition charge against Sultana. Over a dozen of them quit the party in protest.However, the BJP downplayed the resignations, claiming that the party is intact in the island.Over the last few days, there has been an uproar against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel over the new reforms introduced by him, which many allege are against the interest of the islanders.People are protesting against the draft legislations like Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 among others.Patel, who was appointed as the administrator of Lakshadweep in December 2020, is facing opposition over policies introduced by him from the people of the union territory and politicians, both from within Lakshadweep and the neighbouring state of Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sedition-case-over-bio-weapon-remark-filmmaker-aisha-sultana-moves-kerala-hc-101623658445835.html
14-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till June 22 with some relaxations||The Uttarakhand government on Monday extended its Covid-19 curfew extended till June 22. The current restrictions were ending on June 15. In its order, the government said that old standard operating procedures (SOPs) will have to be followed, but with some changes.The Uttarakhand government also allowed people from three districts of the state to undergo the Char Dham Yatra."People from Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi are now allowed to visit Badrinath, Kedarnath and Gangotri-Yamunotri respectively only with negative RT-PCR report," Uttarakhand minister Subodh Uniyal said, according to news agency ANI. The famous four Himalayan shrines - after which the Char Dham Yatra has been named - are located in these three districts.Announcing other relaxations, Uniyal said that the number attendees allowed in weddings and funerals has been increased from 20 to 50."Revenue courts have been allowed to open with 20 people, sweet shops can open for five days a week; 50 people allowed at both weddings and funerals. Auto-rickshaw such as Vikram can ply as well," the minister said.Shops dealing in essential commodities will open daily from 8am to 12pm during the extended curfew. Bars will remain closed till further orders, the state government order said.All educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, shopping malls, stadiums, gyms, and restaurants will remain closed during the period. Medicine shops and testing labs will remain open for 24 hours, while banks will be open from 10am to 2pm.People who are coming from outside the state will have to register on the Smart City portal and produce a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours on arrival.Uttarakhand had emerged as one of the coronavirus hotspots in India after the Kumbh Mela this year. However, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat assured the people of the state that his government has taken all necessary steps to tackle a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Uttarakhand currently has over 4,600 active Covid-19 cases and nearly 7,000 people have lost their lives due to the infection. Meanwhile, over 3.25 lakh people have recovered from the infection in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-22-with-some-relaxations-101623656415002.html
14-06-2021||India||Telangana CM gifts luxury cars to 32 additional collectors, invites criticism||The Telangana government’s decision to hand out luxury cars made by Kia Motors, bought for approximately ₹9.6 crore, to 32 additional collectors with an aim to help them carry out developmental works has made the opposition accuse it of financial profligacy during a pandemic when the state is in high debt.The vehicles were handed over to the additional collectors after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reviewed the developmental works in urban and rural areas at his camp office at Pragati Bhavan in Hyderabad, an official spokesman from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.“The vehicles, each costing [the state] around ₹30 lakh, were procured by the Telangana State Road Transport Authority on the instructions of the chief minister. The vehicles will help the additional collectors in extensive tours of the villages as part of their duty,” an official in the transport department familiar with the development, said.The Telangana government introduced the post of additional collectors into the bureaucratic structure of the state in February 2020 positioning it as an administrative reform and part of an overhaul of the revenue department. Additional collectors, mostly drawn from Group-I officers, were appointed in each district (except Hyderabad), and were exclusively meant for taking care of developmental projects in rural areas. However, two additional collectors, one each for local bodies and revenue matters, were appointed in 10 districts.At Sunday’s meeting, KCR said the government will extend all facilities to the additional collectors. “In every district collectorate, additional collectors will be provided a room adjacent to the collector and enjoy the same protocol of the collector,” the chief minister said.All the KIA vehicles of Carnival model were lined up at Pragati Bhavan before being flagged off by transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar in the presence of chief secretary Somesh Kumar and deputy transport commissioner Papa Rao.The opposition parties said the chief minister was busy “appeasing” the bureaucrats when the state was reeling under a financial crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic.All India Congress Committee official spokesman Dasoju Sravan called it an “irresponsible” decision and claimed that the state’s debt had crossed ₹4 lakh crore.“These officials already have... their official cars for the last one year. Where is the need to give them the new cars...in this hour of crisis?” Sravan questioned.He alleged that the state government was struggling to increase the number of beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients in government hospitals, and didn’t have money to buy buses for public transport or even to clear the pending bills of contractors.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesman K Krishna Sagar Rao said it was a “criminal splurge” of public money.“This decision to buy ultra-luxury vehicles for additional collectors is horrendous and unthinkable in the current public health situation. We feel this money could have been used to expand beds or provide free treatment to the poor,” Rao said.Political analyst Suresh Dharur said KCR’s move was likely to send a wrong message. “It is not that the officials are going to the villages by bicycles. They must be having vehicles. Why should the government spend nearly ₹10 crore on buying them luxury cars at this stage? This is nothing but fiscal irresponsibility,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-gifts-luxury-cars-to-32-additional-collectors-invites-criticism-101623658124307.html
14-06-2021||India||Pashupati Kumar Paras elected as LJP leader in Lok Sabha||Pashupati Kumar Paras was on Monday unanimously elected as the leader of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in the Lok Sabha, according to news agency ANI. The decision comes after five of the six MPs of the LJP joined hands against Paswan and rallied behind Paras. These MPs will be meeting Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla at 3pm today in Delhi.It has been reported that the 'rebels' have not been happy with the style of functioning of Chirag, who took over the party reins after his father, LJP founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan died in 2020.“There are 6 MPs in our party. It was the desire of 5 MPs to save our party. So, I’ve not broken the party, I’ve saved it. Chirag Paswan is my nephew as well as the party's national president. I have no objection against him,” Paras, who is currently representing the Hajipur Lok Sabha seat in Bihar, told reporters during a media interaction earlier in the day. However, he said that Paswan can continue to remain a member of the party.Amid the fast-paced developments, Chirag visited Paras’ residence on Monday but couldn't meet his uncle as he was not present at that time, PTI reported. Chirag has not commented on the matter yet.The removal of Chirag can also be directly linked to the poor performance of the LJP during the 2020 assembly elections in Bihar as it managed to win only one seat out of the 134 contested.Meanwhile, Pashupati Kumar Paras also said on Monday that the LJP will be a part of the NDA. Contrary to his nephew, Paras also praised Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar by saying he is a good leader and a development oriented man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pashupati-nath-paras-elected-as-ljp-leader-in-lok-sabha-101623657675140.html
14-06-2021||India||LJP MPs, seeking to replace Chirag Paswan, to meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla today||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) party members, seeking to replace Chirag Paswan as the leader of the Parliamentary Party, will be meeting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla at 3pm on this day, reported news agency ANI on Monday, citing people familiar with the development. As many as five out of six LJP members at the Lok Sabha have joined hands intending to replace Chirag Paswan with his uncle, Pashupati Kumar Paras, as the party's leader in the upper house of the Parliament. LJP members have reportedly not been happy with Chirag Paswan's work ever since party founder Ram Vilas Paswan's demise.Also Read: ‘LJP pushed to brink’: Pashupati Kr Paras explains ‘coup’ against Chirag PaswanIn his statement to the media, Pashupati Kumar Paras said that he did not break the party but he "saved" it. "There are six MPs in our party. It was the desire of five MPs to save our party," Paras said while addressing mediapersons in Patna, adding, "I have not broken the party but saved it."Pashupati Kumar Paras reiterated that he has nothing against his nephew and that it was the collective desire of LJP party members to make the organisation strong in Bihar. The change was not done out of revenge but out of ‘majboori’ or a compulsion to correct the course of the party while staying in the NDA, he told HT. “Yah majboori ka faisla hai. (This is a decision taken out of compulsion). We were feeling suffocated,” Hajipur MP and brother of the late union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Pashupati Kumar Paras told Hindustan Times.Also Read: LJP's Chirag Paswan sidelined, reaches out to uncleWhen asked if the Hajipur MP has decided to merge LJP with ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) in Bihar, Paras said, "This is 100% wrong. LJP is our party, the organisation is strong in Bihar." Paras also praised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, describing him as 'Vikas Purush'. So far, there has been no comment from Chirag Paswan, who has not been keeping well. He took over the party after the death of his father Ram Vilas Paswan in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-mps-set-to-replace-chirag-paswan-to-meet-lok-sabha-speaker-today-101623655307418.html
14-06-2021||India||Days after quitting as TRS MLA, former Telangana minister E Rajender joins BJP||Former Telangana minister Etela Rajender, who was dropped from the state cabinet by chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao over an alleged land grabbing charge, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday. The former TRS leader, along with six other party colleagues, joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, G Kishen Reddy, and party general secretaries Dushyant Gautam and Tarun Chugh. Speaking on the occasion, Pradhan said that the BJP is all set to form the government in Telengana after the next assembly election. Also Read | Perform or face action: Telangana CM KCR warns officialsRajender had resigned from his assembly constituency of Huzurabad last week. A four-time MLA, he also said the charges against him were false and he was removed from his position without being offered a chance to give an explanation. While he claims that the accusations are based on anonymous complaints, the Telengana government ordered the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and the Vigilance department to probe the alleged land-grab in the Achampeta and Hakimpet villages of ​​the Medak district in Telangana. Speculation about Rajender’s move was set off following his meeting with BJP leaders, including Telangana affairs in-charge Tarun Chugh, last week .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-quitting-as-trs-mla-former-telangana-minister-e-rajender-joins-bjp-101623655783761.html
14-06-2021||India||‘LJP pushed to brink’: Pashupati Kr Paras explains ‘coup’ against Chirag Paswan||Five Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Lok Sabha members claim to have removed Chirag Paswan as the leader of the parliamentary party on Sunday. His uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who is likely to be chosen their new leader, told HT that the change was done out of ‘majboori’ or a compulsion to correct the course of the party while staying in the NDA (National Democratic Alliance), and there was no intention to merge with any party.“Yah majboori ka faisla hai. (This is a decision taken out of compulsion). We were feeling suffocated,” Hajipur MP and brother of the late union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Pashupati Kumar Paras told Hindustan Times. The rebellion against Chirag Paswan marks an attempt to end the party’s alienation in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which hastened with LJP’s decision to contest against Janata Dal-United (JD-U) in Bihar assembly polls last November. The decision was widely believed to have damaged the JD-U’s electoral prospects, reducing its tally to 43, and nearly costing the NDA power in the state. If that was not enough, Chirag Paswan-led LJP flopped badly, winning only one assembly seat. His clout further eroded when the party’s lone MLC Nutan Singh joined BJP in February this year and in April, the lone party MLA, Raj Kumar Singh joined the JD (U) in the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar.“After the death of Ram Vilas Paswan on October 8, 2020, some of the unilateral decisions taken by the party leadership pushed the LJP to the brink of extinction,” Paras, who was hauled during the assembly elections for praising Nitish Kumar and forced to retract his statement, said reflecting on the reasons for party’s downhill journey after Chirag took over complete control over party’s affairs following his father’s death.LJP leaders aware of the development said that Paras would be formally made the party’s national president and the leader of the parliamentary party. “We met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and handed him a letter regarding these new developments,” confirmed Paras. Besides Paras, the party MPs who have now rebelled against Chirag Paswan’s leadership include his cousin Prince Raj (LJP state president and Samastipur MP), Mehboob Ali Qaiser, Veena Devi and Chandan Singh. LJP won six Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 polls. Paras said some leaders inducted in the party in the run up to Bihar polls were primarily responsible for the bad choices made. “99% of the party leaders and cadres wanted to be in the NDA and contest Bihar assembly elections together. However, influenced by some, it was decided to contest the election independently and everybody knows the humiliation the party suffered. It was a wrong decision and today the LJP doesn’t have a single representation in the assembly,” he said. Paras, however, ruled out merger with any party. “The party is intact, only the leadership has changed. The LJP, which was founded in 2000, has been a part of the NDA since 2014, and we will continue to be in the NDA,” he said, and heaped lavish praise on Nitish Kumar. “He is a vikas purush (man of development). Bihar has developed under his regime, and we will support him in this endeavour,” he added. Leaders in the NDA, aware of the political churning in the LJP, said that Chirag Paswan’s decision to take on Nitish Kumar head on damaged the JD-U’s prospects in 36-40 seats. The JD-U was working silently ever since to damage the LJP. More than 200 LJP leaders joined the JD-U after the polls and even Paras met with JD-U MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh, a close associate of Nitish Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-pushed-to-brink-pashupati-kr-paras-explains-coup-against-chirag-paswan-101623655603739.html
14-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chirag Paswan sidelined from LJP, reaches out to rebel uncle and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.LJP's Chirag Paswan sidelined, reaches out to uncleLJP's Chirag Paswan on Monday went to meet party lawmaker and his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras in New Delhi after five of his party's Lok Sabha MPs rebelled. Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser said to be unhappy with Chirag Paswan's way of working elected Pashupati Kumar Paras in his place. Read moreHimachal forms mitigation panel for third Covid waveThe Himachal Pradesh government has set up a committee for planning and impact mitigation to counter the third wave of Covid-19. Led by the state medical education director, the panel will analyse data trends, experiences of other states/UTs and conduct modelling exercises to foresee and advise on the onset of the next wave and the mutating character of coronavirus. Read moreOn Singur land law anniversary, Mamata Banerjee vows to fight for farmer rightsWest Bengal chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday vowed to continue her fight for the rights of the farmers, remembering how her party's struggle in Singur brought about a positive change in the lives of the farmers. Read moreCanada: Alberta recognises India’s 75th independence anniversary celebrationsAlberta has now become the first Canadian province to formally recognise the 75-week celebrations of 75th anniversary of India’s Independence Day, following a delay as Canada was caught in Covid-19 handling. Read moreTesla Model 3 is 16th best-selling car globally. Here's why that's impressiveTesla Model 3 is the world's best-selling electric vehicle but this has been known for some time now. But the most affordable Tesla currently available is also one of the best-selling cars overall - a mighty impressive achievement owing to a number of factors and something that signals electric vehicles are fast making in-roads into a list long dominated by conventional engines. Read moreVivo V21e 5G may launch in India soon; price to specs, here’s what to expectIt is the season of 5G smartphones and there are launches happening virtually on a daily basis and almost all the top companies have jumped on this particular bandwagon. The latest smartphone in the news now is a Vivo 5G smartphone. Read moreKirron Kher birthday: A look at her elegant saree collectionShe has played the coolest mom in several iconic films of our time and has proved her genius on the silver screen with unforgettable performances. She is a reality TV show host and a member of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP). Surely, her genius is not limited to just one area. Read moreRavindra Jadeja slams unbeaten fifty, BCCI shares Day 3 clip of intra-squad game - WATCHRavindra Jadeja smashed an unbeaten half-century on the third day of India’s intra-squad match simulation in Southampton. The seasoned all-rounder scored 54 not out from 74 balls in the practice game. Read moreNovak Djokovic gives winning racquet to young fan, precious clip goes viralTennis world number one Novak Djokovic has secured the French Open title for the second time after defeating Stefanos Tsitsipas in five sets. Amid all the celebration after Djokovic’s win, one precious moment caught the eye of netizens and a clip of the interaction is now going viral. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chirag-sidelined-from-ljp-reaches-out-to-rebel-uncle-101623653916575.html
14-06-2021||India||AAP to contest 2022 Gujarat polls, announces Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the party will contest on all seats in the 2022 Gujarat legislative assembly polls. He was addressing a press conference in Ahmedabad. "Our candidates will contest on all seats," Kejriwal said."People here (Gujarat) think if electricity can be free in Delhi, why not here? Likewise, for hospitals also the condition has not improved in 70 years here. But things will change now," he added.Earlier in the day, Gujarat's senior journalist Isudan Gadhvi joined the AAP in the presence of Kejriwal.Kejriwal reached Gujarat on Monday for a one-day visit to the state. “Havey badlashe Gujarat. Kaley hun Gujarat aavi rahyo chhu, Gujarat na bhai-behno ney malish (the state will transform now, am coming to Gujarat tomorrow and meet the people of the state),” Kejriwal had tweeted in Gujarati ahead of his visit on Sunday.This is Kejriwal’s second visit to Gujarat after his party won 27 out of 120 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) elections in 2021. The Kejriwal-led party had fielded candidates across all the local bodies such as municipal corporations, municipalities, district and taluka panchayats.He will also inaugurate the party's new state office located on Ashram Road. Kejriwal will leave for Delhi on the same day, according to party spokesperson Tuli Banerjee.Kejriwal's visit comes a day after two estranged sects of the Patidar (Patel) community - Kadva Patel and Leuva Patel - came on a common platform to praise AAP during an event in Rajkot’s Kagwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-to-contest-2022-gujarat-polls-announces-kejriwal-101623651940409.html
14-06-2021||India||On Singur land law anniversary, Mamata Banerjee vows to fight for farmer rights||West Bengal chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday vowed to continue her fight for the rights of the farmers, remembering how her party's struggle in Singur brought about a positive change in the lives of the farmers. Banerjee has been raising her voice and supporting farmers' protest against three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year."On this day, ten years back, the Singur Land Rehabilitation and Development Bill 2011 was passed in the WB assembly after a long & difficult struggle. We unitedly fought for the rights of our farmers & addressed their grievances, bringing in positive change in their lives," Mamata Banerjee said on Twitter."Today, it pains me that across the nation our farmer brethren are suffering owing to the indifference of the Centre. Together, we shall continue our fight to ensure the well-being of the very backbone of our society. Upholding their rights remains a top priority," she added in follow-up tweet.The West Bengal chief minister met Bharatya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait last week where she promised to rally opposition-ruled states in support of the agitating farmers, and said she aims to "remove the Narendra Modi government from power".Political experts see Banerjee's statement as a bid to take her political battle against the BJP into the Hindi heartland.The meeting was part of the BKU's bid to expand its agitation in other states ahead of the assembly elections. Tikait had supported the 'No vote for BJP' campaign ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections and even campaigned for Banerjee in Nandigram.The Singur Land Rehabilitation and Development Bill, which was passed by the West Bengal assembly on June 14, 2011, was among Banerjee's signature triumphs after coming to power for the first time in May 2011. She had defeated the Left Front government, in power for 34 years in Bengal on the back of her intense land agitation.The public protests were against allocation of land to Tata Motors to produce the Nano car. After intest public agitation, Tata shelved the project and moved the company's plant to Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-singur-land-law-anniversary-mamata-banerjee-vows-to-fight-for-farmer-rights-101623653712451.html
14-06-2021||India||LJP's Chirag Paswan sidelined, reaches out to uncle||LJP's Chirag Paswan on Monday went to meet party lawmaker and his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras in New Delhi after five of the party's Lok Sabha MPs rebelled. According to news agency PTI, Paswan drove to his uncle's residence and was allowed inside after waiting for some time in his car. Paras, however, was not home, PTI reported. Chirag Paswan's cousin and MP Prince Raj also lives at the same address.Prince Raj, the LJP's state president and Samastipur MP, along with Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Qaiser--said to be unhappy with Chirag Paswan's way of working--elected Pashupati Kumar Paras in his place. They have also written Lok Sabha Speaker Om Prakash Birla and conveyed their decision of electing Pashupati Kumar Paras as the LJP leader in the Lower House.'Out of compulsion'"I have not broken the party but saved it," Paras, an MP from Hajipur, insisted adding that his group will remain a part of the BJP-led NDA and that Chirag Paswan can be part of the organisation.He also said that 99 per cent of LJP workers were unhappy with the turn of events in Bihar as Paswan led his party against the JD(U) in the 2020 assembly polls and did not perform well.Pashupati Kumar Paras told HT that the change was done out of compulsion to correct the course of the party while staying in the National Democratic Alliance, and there was no intention to merge with any party. “Yah majboori ka faisla hai. (This is a decision taken out of compulsion). We were feeling suffocated,” he said.“After the death of Ram Vilas Paswan on October 8, 2020, some of the unilateral decisions taken by the party leadership pushed the LJP to the brink of extinction,” Paras said.Paras would be formally made the party’s national president and the leader of the parliamentary party, according to LJP leaders aware of the development. “We met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and handed him a letter regarding these new developments,” Paras said.Paras also praised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar as a good leader and "vikas purush" (development-oriented man) indicating the difference with his nephew Chirag Paswan, who has been a strong critic of the JD(U) president."Chirag Paswan is my nephew as well as the party's national president. I have no objection against him," he also said.On his part, Chirag Paswan has not commented on the development.Also read | 175 LJP functionaries join BJP; party disowns turncoatsIn March this year, as many as 175 leaders, ranging from state to district and block-level office bearers, besides panchayat presidents of the LJP, switched over to the BJP. However, LJP's executive chairman Raju Tiwari claimed the desertion was "blown out of proportion." “No, they are not our leaders. Some of them were thrown out of the party months ago, there are many who are not even the primary members,” Tiwari said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljps-chirag-paswan-sidelined-reaches-out-to-uncle-101623653894760.html
14-06-2021||India||Monsoon arrives in Jammu and Kashmir, 17-18 days ahead of normal schedule: IMD||Monsoon arrived in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, more than two weeks ahead of normal schedule, with the intermittent showers over the last two days bringing relief from sweltering heat, the weather department confirmed.“The Monsoon arrived over J&K and Ladakh on 13th June, which is 17 -18 days ahead of normal onset,” the regional head of India Meteorological Department (IMD) Sonum Lotus said.Monsoon has entered almost all parts of the country at least a fortnight in advance this year due to a low-pressure system over the northern Bay of Bengal. When a low-pressure area is formed at the onset of monsoon, it creates conducive conditions for its advancement, weather department officials have explainedLotus said as per IMD forecast J&K and Ladakh will witness normal monsoon rains this season. Kashmir witnessed its hottest day of the year on Tuesday when the mercury rose to 34.3°C in summer capital Srinagar and high temperatures persisted until Friday (34°C). Brief spells of showers on Friday and intermittent showers on Saturday and Sunday have brought much needed relief.In April, the Valley saw some good wet spells after a relatively hot February and cold and rainy month of March due to intermittent precipitation across the union territory. The second half of May and early June, too, witnessed some unusual weather with sunshine during the day and thunderstorms and showers during the evenings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-arrives-in-jammu-and-kashmir-17-18-days-ahead-of-normal-schedule-imd-101623651103491.html
14-06-2021||India||5 LJP MPs join hands against Chirag Paswan, rally behind his uncle Pashupati Paras||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Pashupati Kumar Paras said on Monday that five of the party's six Lok Sabha MPs have joined hands to elect him as the leader in place of Chirag Paswan. He also said that the group of MPs has conveyed their decision to the Lok Sabha Speaker."There are six MPs in our party. It was the desire of five MPs to save our party," Paras said while addressing mediapersons in Patna, adding, "I have not broken the party but saved it."The senior LJP leader and Chirag's uncle also said that he he nothing against his nephew. "Chirag Paswan is my nephew as well as party's national president," said Paras.When asked if the Hajipur MP has decided to merge LJP with ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) in Bihar, Paras said, "This is 100% wrong. LJP is our party, the organisation is strong in Bihar." Paras also praised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, describing him as 'Vikas Purush'."I was with NDA and I will continue to be a part of the alliance," he added. The rebel group includes MPs Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, who have long been unhappy with Chirag Paswan's style of functioning.So far, there has been no comment from Chirag Paswan, who has not been keeping well. He took over the party after the death of his father Ram Vilas Paswan in 2020.News agency PTI quoted leaders close to Chirag as blaming the JD(U) for the split, saying the party had long been working to isolate the LJP president after his decision to go all out against chief minister Nitish Kumar in the 2020 assembly polls damaged the ruling party badly.The LJP has a total of six MPs in Lok Sabha and five MPs have unanimously elected Pashupati Paras as leader of the party in the lower house.The move is seen as a big political development in Bihar politics.LJP is currently a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jolt-to-chirag-paswan-as-5-ljp-mps-break-away-rally-behind-his-uncle-101623650212471.html
14-06-2021||India||Perform or face action: Telangana CM KCR warns officials||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has decided to put the performance of district authorities under the scanner and said that the government would not hesitate to act against the officials who fail to achieve targets in improving civic amenities in every village and municipal body. He said that it is necessary to have the participation of everyone to develop villages and towns.As per the official release by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), Rao made it clear to additional collectors that their performance will be assessed through his surprise visits where he will listen to grievances and warned of stringent action if any issue is found.The chief minister also said that he would himself adopt a district and personally participate in the Palle and Pattana Pragathi programmes. He gave a call to district additional collectors, district Panchayat Raj Department, Municipal department officials and said that they should be committed and should work dedicatedly as if they are doing a holy Yagna and develop villages and urban areas.Rao also suggested that the officials should take up a tree plantation programme as part of the Haritha haram programme as the monsoon season had begun. He said his surprise visits are also aimed at checking the progress made in tree planting and other programmes.He said in the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic and other diseases, the basic infrastructure of the medical and health sector would be strengthened in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/perform-or-face-action-telangana-cm-kcr-warns-officials-101623648335806.html
14-06-2021||India||Drug firm Lupin gets warning letter from US health regulator for Somerset facility||Drug firm Lupin on Sunday said it has received a warning letter from the US health regulator for its Somerset facility in the US.The United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) had inspected the company's Somerset, New Jersey, facility from September 10, 2020, to November 5, 2020, Lupin said in a regulatory filing."The company does not believe that the warning letter will have an impact on disruption of supplies or the existing revenues from operations of this facility," it added.Lupin is committed to addressing the concerns raised by the USFDA and will work with the FDA and the New Jersey district to resolve these issues at the earliest, the filing said."We uphold quality and compliance issues with utmost importance and are committed to be compliant with 'good manufacturing practice' standards across all our facilities," it added.When USFDA finds that a manufacturer has significantly violated FDA regulations, it notifies the manufacturer. This notification is often in the form of a warning letter.Earlier, in November 2020, Lupin in a regulatory filing had said that the USFDA had issued 13 observations after the inspection of its subsidiary's Somerset facility.The company had said that it was confident of addressing these observations and would work closely with the agency to address their concerns.The facility contributes less than 5 per cent of the company's global revenues, Lupin had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-firm-lupin-gets-warning-letter-from-us-health-regulator-for-somerset-facility-101623647537017.html
14-06-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates new Israel PM Naftali Bennett||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Naftali Bennett on being sworn in as Israel's new prime minister, and said he looked forward to meeting him and deepening their countries' strategic partnership as they celebrate 30 years of the upgradation of diplomatic ties next year.In his tweets, Modi also conveyed his "profound gratitude" to Benjamin Netanyahu, whose long tenure as Israeli prime minister ended on Sunday."As you complete your successful tenure as the Prime Minister of the State of Israel, I convey my profound gratitude for your leadership and personal attention to India-Israel strategic partnership @netanyahu," he said.Bennett was on Sunday sworn in as Israel's new prime minister, ending Netanyahu's 12-year hold on power and the political uncertainty that gripped the Jewish nation for months after inconclusive elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-new-israel-pm-naftali-bennett-101623645704101.html
14-06-2021||India||RT-PCR report not required to enter Himachal Pradesh from today||People entering Himachal Pradesh will not be required to produce negative RT-PCR report from Monday, even though curfew would continue from 5pm to 5am. This was decided by the state government in a high-level meeting on Saturday.The state closed its borders for tourists in April due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. With the decline in positivity rate and an increase in recovery rate, the situation with regard to Covid-19 pandemic is improving in Himachal Pradesh.The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday announced that the corona curfew in the state is being relaxed and now the shop can open from 9am-5 pm from Monday.According to the guidelines, intra-state movement of public transport will be allowed with 50% occupancy.Offices with staff strength of 75 and above can operate at 50 per cent occupancy from Monday. All the medical colleges, ayurvedic colleges and dental colleges can open from June 23. Pharmacy and nursing schools can also open from June 28.Himachal on Sunday recorded 273 fresh Covid-19 cases and 7 deaths, taking the tally of infection count to 1,98,550 and 3,375 fatalities respectively, an official said. According to the state health department, the number of active cases stands at 4,777.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-report-not-required-to-enter-himachal-pradesh-from-today-101623642688094.html
14-06-2021||India||UK PM upset he couldn't welcome PM Modi at G7 Summit: India||UK's Boris Johnson was disappointed at not being able to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi in person at the G7 summit, the ministry of external affairs has said. During an MEA briefing on Sunday, additional secretary (Economic Relations) P Harish said that PM Narendra Modi attended the G7 summit virtually. “The UK conveyed to us that while PM Boris Johnson was disappointed at not being able to welcome PM Modi in person at the summit. He was understanding and supportive of his decision," Harish said, reported news agency ANI.PM Modi attended the outreach sessions at the G7 summit virtually from India where he made a pitch for a coordinated global response against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and future pandemics with the mantra of “One earth, one health”. PM Modi also sought support for the proposal, initiated by India and South Africa, at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines and technologies.UK PM Boris Johnson hoped the Group of Seven summit would showcase British leadership on crucial issues, including action to cut carbon emissions and commitments to help vaccinate the world and bring the Covid-19 pandemic to an end.Boris Johnson invited PM Modi to attend the outreach component of the G7 Summit being held in Cornwall in the UK from June 11-13 (guest countries' component starts on June 12) along with Australia, Republic of Korea and South Africa.G7 nations comprise the US, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Canada, Italy and Japan. The UK holds the presidency for G7 Leaders’ Summit 2021 and has invited India, along with Australia, South Korea and South Africa, as guest countries.The three-day summit concluded on Sunday as G7 leaders adopted US President Joe Biden’s ‘build back better’ mantra, vowing to end coronavirus pandemic and combat climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-upset-he-couldn-t-welcome-pm-modi-at-g7-summit-india-101623639745774.html
14-06-2021||India||Bangladesh extends border closure with India in view of Covid-19 situation||Bangladesh extended the duration for which its borders with India will remain closed in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in both countries, reported news agency ANI on Monday, citing Bangladeshi media. The development comes even as Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring districts of the border areas continue to gradually deter. Bangladesh had shut its borders with India earlier in April, and the border closure was extended twice -- on May 8 and then on May 29 -- in view of the lethal, more infectious second of the coronavirus disease pandemic.Bangladesh decided to extend border closure with India at a high-level inter-ministerial meeting on June 13, the country's ministry of foreign affairs reportedly told Dhaka Tribute. The decision was taken amid a backdrop of a rising number of Covid-19 cases in Bangladesh. The country reported its highest single-day spike in the death toll in over a month on Sunday with 47 new fatalities, as authorities take note of the alarming rise in cases. It has also been reported that the Delta variant of the coronavirus disease, which is highly contagious, is more prevalent in Bangladesh.Although borders with India are currently closed, Bangladeshi nationals who have a valid visa of 15 days or less will be allowed to return home to their country, albeit on the condition of a mandatory 14-day Covid-19 necessitated quarantine.Last month, Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen had called the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country a "crisis" and had mounted a diplomatic campaign to acquire Covid-19 vaccines from the US, China, Canada, Russia, and the UK, in addition to India. He had also expressed fears over people carrying the virus into the country, noting that although Bangladesh closed its borders with India on April 26, scores of Bangladeshis who returned from India through Benapole land port may have carried the more infectious strain of the coronavirus.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-extends-border-closure-with-india-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-101623643428594.html
14-06-2021||India||Assam govt employees who got both Covid-19 vaccine doses, told to return to work||The Assam government last week asked its employees who have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine to physically attend office from Monday as the test positivity rate has declined in the state following month-long, curfew-like restrictions.“...All employees of the government of Assam who have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine are hereby directed to attend office from June 14 regularly by following all Covid-related protocols,” said the order issued last week by MS Manivannan, commissioner and secretary to the general administration department.Offices and educational institutions, except emergency services, were shut down across Assam since May 13 due to an alarming surge in infections and deaths during the second wave of Covid-19.On Sunday, Assam recorded 2,167 new infections and 36 deaths-a big drop from nearly 6,000 cases and 80-90 daily deaths on an average a month ago. The positivity rate, which was around 8% in mid-May, stood at 2.16% on Sunday. The present set of restrictions, which include curfew from 1 pm till 5 am daily, as well as ban on inter-district movement, will end on Wednesday and the state government is expected to issue new Covid-19 guidelines within a day or two.However, health experts argued that the government should have allowed for a two-week cooling period after taking the second dose before calling employees to offices."Getting a second dose of Covid-19 vaccine doesn't give protection from possible infection..., though the severity of the infection is considerably less. The second dose doesn't give immediate results and the recipients need to wait for two weeks for the vaccine to work properly. It would have been prudent if the government order clarified that only those employees who have got the second dose at least two weeks ago need to return to work," said Dr Hemanga Baishya, office bearer of the Assam chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA).The government employees’ union in the state says it has no objection to resumption of physical attendance in offices.“Since the decision to allow all employees who have taken both doses of vaccine to join office was taken by the health department after due consideration, we have nothing much to say on the issue,” said Basab Kalita, adviser of Sadou Assam Karmachari Parishad, the umbrella organization of government employees in the state.He, however, warned that the attendance could be low since the ban on inter-district movement was still in place and many employees were yet to get their second doses.“We, however, appeal to all employees to take adequate safety measures at offices. The government should provide sanitisers and other things needed to maintain Covid-19 protocols,” Kalita said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-employees-who-got-both-covid-19-vaccine-doses-told-to-return-to-work-101623644983205.html
14-06-2021||India||Monsoon likely to cover several parts of northwest India in next 48 hours||Conditions are favourable for the monsoon to advance into most parts of Madhya Pradesh; remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh; Delhi; some parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab during the next 48 hours, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar. The low pressure area, which developed over Bay of Bengal, is now over north coastal Odisha and adjoining gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand. It is likely to move west-northwestwards across Jharkhand, north Chhattisgarh and Bihar during the next 2-3 days. Also Read | Delhi likely to witness thunderstorm today: IMDA trough (low pressure area) is running from central Pakistan to the centre of the low pressure area over north coastal Odisha and adjoining gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand, and another trough is running from the cyclonic circulation associated with low pressure area to eastcentral Arabian Sea.An offshore trough at mean sea level is running from north Maharashtra coast to Lakshadweep area.Under the influence of above systems, widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning is likely over most parts of northwest, central, east, northeast and south peninsular India, and over parts of west India. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely over parts of northwest India during the next two days, IMD said in its Monday morning bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-cover-several-parts-of-northwest-india-in-next-48-hours-101623644623044.html
14-06-2021||India||Choksi’s illegal entry case up for hearing in Dominica court today||The trial of fugitive Indian diamantaire Mehul Choksi for an alleged illegal entry into Dominica begins in Roseau Magistrate Court of the Caribbean country today. He has already been denied bail in the Dominica high court.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ministry of external affairs (MEA) have filed affidavits in Dominica high court establishing his Indian citizenship and crime committed by him in India. How did Choksi become one of India’s ‘Top Wanted’ with an Interpol warrant in his name? HT brings to you a quick guide before Choksi takes the stand:Who is Mehul Choksi?Mehul Choksi is the owner of the Gitanjali Group, a retail jewellery company. He is also the uncle of Nirav Modi and together, the duo is alleged to have defrauded Punjab National Bank of ₹13,500 crore. The fraud consisted of taking bank loans by raising Letters of Undertakings and showing fake transactions of jewellery import to India through shell entities.What followedChoksi and Nirav Modi fled India in January 2018. In February, CBI launched an investigation into the alleged scam. The agency made its first arrests in the case soon after -- two PNB employees and an executive of Modi’s group. In the same month, the Enforcement Directorate also seized a cumulative of ₹56.74 billion worth of diamonds, gold and jewellery from the offices of the accused.A Mumbai court in June 2018 issued a non-bailable warrant against Choksi.Also Read | Choksi a fugitive from justice, CBI tells courtIn July 2019, Interpol issued Red Notice against him. A Red Notice is sent to seek the location or arrest of a person wanted by a judicial jurisdiction or an international tribunal with a view to their extradition.Choksi has been in Antigua and Barbuda since 2018 as a citizen from where he went missing on May 23, 2021. He was found in Dominica the next day and has since been charged with illegal entry into the Caribbean country. Choksi’s lawyers, Vijay Aggarwal, Wayne Marsh, and his wife, Priti Choksi, have alleged he was abducted and taken to Dominica. While he is seeking to be repatriated to Antigua where he enjoys citizenship, Antigua PM Gaston Browne has refused to grant him entry and asked the Dominican government to directly deport him to India. Antigua has denied abduction charges but on a complaint filed by his lawyers, the island’s police is looking into the allegations, Browne said last week.Case in Dominica courtHT on Saturday reported about two affidavits India has filed in the Dominica court detailing serious fraud charges against Choksi and proof that he continues to be an Indian citizen. Choksi’s lawyers have maintained he has given up his Indian citizenship and hence cannot be deported.The Dominica court refused to grant Choksi bail saying he is a flight risk, and that he has no ties to the country. It observed the court cannot impose any conditions to ensure he will not abscond.The CBI affidavit has called Choksi the “mastermind” behind a series of companies. It says there is evidence that the businessman laundered funds using dummy companies and market operators, round-tripped in the guise of fraudulent export-import transactions with entities in places such as Dubai and Hong Kong. It says there is an Interpol red notice issued against Choksi, which is the highest level that can be issued in respect of a fugitive.Choksi’s lawyers have pleaded he was abducted, tortured and brought to Dominica on May 23. While Dominica state prosecutors have denied the allegations and have booked him for illegal entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksis-illegal-entry-case-up-for-hearing-in-dominica-court-today-101623642822866.html
14-06-2021||India||India sees another dip in daily Covid-19 tally with 70,421 new cases; deaths slightly up at 3921||India on Monday recorded 70,421 cases and 3,921 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 29,510,410 and 374,305 respectively, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Monday's case count has been the lowest since April 1, when 72,330 people tested positive for the viral disease.More than 119,000 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative figure of recoveries in the country to 28,162,947, the health ministry further said. This is the 32nd day where the daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases. The active cases, meanwhile, have declined to 973,158 and constitute 3.49 per cent of the caseload.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/kXgG9xWyTjNearly 1.5 million samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the total number of samples tested has climbed to 379,624,626, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.From Monday, several states and Union territories (UTs) will be seeing more relaxations under their unlock plans in order to restart their economies. In Delhi, shops and malls are allowed to operate every day from 8 am to 10 pm while restaurants can open with 50%.The neighbouring state of Haryana continues to be under lockdown for one more week. However, as per the new guidelines, all shops can open from 09:00 am to 08:00 pm while malls can function from 10:00 am to 08:00 pm. Industrial activities are allowed in adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Also Read| Delhi unlock 3.0: All shops in markets, restaurants open todayTamil Nadu and Karnataka, on the other hand, have not announced relaxations in all of their districts. In Tamil Nadu, relaxation have been provided in 27 districts including the state capital Chennai. And in Karnataka, only 19 districts will begin their unlocking process.A total of 253,195,048 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in India till now of which 3,484,239 were inoculated in the last 24 hours. Of these, 3,103,522 received the first dose while 380,717 received both doses. With a view to further speed up the vaccination drive, doses may soon be delivered to remote areas through drones. HLL Infra Tech Services Limited, on behalf of the ICMR, called for an expression of interest for delivering vaccine doses and drugs through Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) in such areas, Hindustan Times reported on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-another-dip-in-daily-covid-19-tally-with-70-421-new-cases-101623638145251.html
14-06-2021||India||IMD issues red, orange alerts for these states||IMD has issued a red alert for Konkan and Goa and an orange alert for parts of Maharashtra, coastal districts and south interior of Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Jharkhand for Monday as monsoon advanced in the country.The India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bengaluru unit director CS Patil said the orange alert has been announced for the coastal districts of Karnataka till June 17."Entire Karnataka state is very likely to experience widespread rainfall from June 13 to 17. Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshin Kannada, Shivamogga and Chikmagalur are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall for which orange alert is announced from June 13 to 17," Patil said, according to news agency ANI.Bengaluru is very likely to experience light to moderate rainfall during the next two days, Patil added.Also read | Delhi likely to witness thunderstorm today: IMDThe India Meteorological Department has said that monsoon has entered almost all parts of the country, except some areas of Uttar Pradesh, parts of Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat, within a span of 10 days and its progress is at least a fortnight in advance.On Sunday, monsoon advanced to most parts of Madhya Pradesh, entire Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar, most parts of east Uttar Pradesh and some parts of west Uttar Pradesh, entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and some parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab.Also read | Paediatricians warn of monsoon diseases as deadly as Covid-19 for childrenIMD has said that the northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar. The conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into most parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and some more parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab in the next 48 hours, IMD added.There has been 25 per cent excess rain over the country since June 1. Of the 36 subdivisions, 12 recorded ‘large excess’ rain (60 per cent above normal), 10 recorded ‘excess’ (20 per cent to 59 per cent) and nine recorded ‘normal’ (-19 per cent to 19 per cent).Monsoon is normally expected to cover all parts of the country, except a small part of Rajasthan, by July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-red-orange-alerts-for-these-states-101623640902344.html
14-06-2021||India||Andhra doctors help woman deliver healthy baby before she succumbs to Covid-19||Doctors at King George Hospital here managed to save the baby of a pregnant woman, just seconds before she succumbed to Covid-19 complications during the delivery, hospital officials said.Andhra Pradesh Deputy chief Minister alla Nani appreciated the efforts of doctors who had on Saturday carried out an extremely challenging operation on the woman who was on ventilator and was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 related complications.The nine-month pregnant woman Jayalakshmi was admitted to the hospital on June 2 and later moved to the ICU for ventilator treatment. "We couldn't save the mother after delivering the baby. The baby is healthy but unfortunately, the mother Jayalakshmi died with a severe lung infection due to Covid," doctors at the hospital said.State health minister and deputy chief minister Alla Nani in a press note expressed his condolences to the family members of Jayalakshmi. He has assured that the state government will help the family of Jayalakshmi in raising the child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-doctors-help-woman-deliver-healthy-baby-before-she-succumbs-to-covid19-101623641048110.html
14-06-2021||India||BJP leadership reiterates background checks before engaging professionals||After appointments to the chief minister’s offices in Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand came under a cloud on account of the individuals’ social media statements against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the party high command reiterated that all selections should be made after assessing the ideological leanings of the candidates, said a person aware of the details.“This has been conveyed verbally by the people in-charge to all the states,” said the person.On June 8, Tushar Panchal, who has worked with Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in the past, was appointed as his officer on special duty (OSD), but following an outcry over his social media posts that were perceived to be critical of the BJP government and its ideology, he bowed out from accepting the position.In May, former journalist Dinesh Mansera’s selection for the position of media advisor to Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat was criticised. Mansera was appointed on May 17, but an uproar regarding his social media posts followed, and he declined the position.Also Read | More TMC turncoats voice discontentCommenting on the need for screening candidates, the person quoted above said, “If someone, who has commented against the BJP government or the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) or its leaders, is appointed to a senior position in the government, it sends a wrong message and is embarrassing. It also raises questions about propriety and discipline.”Panchal’s appointment had created a furore in the BJP’s state unit. Among those who tweeted against Panchal’s appointment were Delhi BJP spokesperson Tajinder Bagga and a member of the RSS in Delhi Rajeev Tuli.“Panchal runs an advertisement agency and has been working with the CM for some years now. However, since he did not have an official designation, it was decided to appoint him as OSD in the CMO. A letter announcing his appointment was also issued by the government,” said a second person aware of the details.Asked if the government or the party were aware of his old tweets criticising the BJP, the second person said it could have been a “lapse”.In Mansera’s case, however, an RSS functionary said the criticism was “misplaced” as he is “ideologically inclined towards the Sangh.”Mansera, who has worked in NDTV and Sangh-affiliated newsletter Panchajanya, posted a statement on social media saying he chose not to accept the position due to the criticism he received online.This is not the first time that old tweets of individuals in government positions have been flagged for their anti- BJP stance. Last year, Rekha Sharma, chairperson of the National Commission for Women, was accused of having made disparaging and sexist tweets in 2012 by the Opposition. Sharma had eventually hidden her tweets.“There are some people who have tweeted against the BJP and RSS in the past and called us intolerant. They should at least publicly apologise for such comments,” said Tuli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leadership-reiterates-background-checks-before-engaging-professionals-101623640903240.html
14-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: IMD says Delhi likely to witness thunderstorm today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi likely to witness thunderstorm today: IMDDue to the early arrival of monsoon in the national capital this week, Delhi is likely to witness thunderstorm with rain on Monday with maximum and minimum temperatures likely lower than normal, as per an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Read moreOdisha rolls out 'Pitha-on-Wheels' for Raja festival amid Covid curbsOdisha has launched "Pitha on Wheels" ahead of the three-day Raja festival, one of the most popular ones celebrated at the onset of monsoon, amid the lockdown induced by the coronavirus pandemic in the state. Read moreApple iOS 15 update brings useful multitasking feature for text, images from iPads: Here's how it worksJust a week ago, Apple took the wraps off iOS 15, the latest version of the company’s mobile operating system that was coming to recent as well as older devices later this year. Now that developers have access to the beta version of iOS 15, more features are slowly coming to light – such as a recently discovered multitasking feature that allows to effortlessly move content across apps. Read morePujara admits 'New Zealand have advantage' ahead of WTC final, says Team India 'not worried about that'The stage is set for an epic World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand which kicks off from June 18th at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton. Read moreKajal Aggarwal in hot pink pantsuit nails the boss lady vibes, see new picsKajal Aggarwal surely knows how to play with colours, and there is no denying that. Apart from her acting prowess, the star is also known for her impeccable sartorial choices. From breathtaking ethnic ensembles to chic co-ord dressing, Kajal has always managed to give us fashion goals with her style choices. Read moreSSR death anniversary: From Rhea Chakraborty's arrest to Kangana Ranaut's claims, here's a timelineIt has been a year since Sushant Singh Rajput breathed his last. The actor was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14, 2020, leaving fans and the industry shocked. Read moreMan trying to board moving train slips, cop and train guard save his life. WatchIf you follow various social media handles of different divisions of Indian Railways, then chances are you have seen the advisories warning people to not board or de-board a moving train. Read moreHas terror increased or reduced in J&K? Amit Shah's deputy minister answersWith the second anniversary of the Union government's decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir approaching, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, G. Kishan Reddy, was asked about the security situation in the state-turned-Union Territory. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-imd-says-delhi-likely-to-witness-thunderstorm-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101623637612485.html
14-06-2021||NA||Covid-19 updates: West Bengal logs 3,519 new cases, 78 deaths in last 24hrs||India on Monday recorded 70,421 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 3,921 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 29,510,410 and 374,305 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.The active cases have further declined to 973,158 and constitute nearly 3.49% of the caseload while the overall recoveries have climbed to 28,162,947. On Monday, daily recoveries continued to outnumber the daily infections for the 32nd consecutive day.As the cases in India are witnessing a declining trend, many states and Union territories (UTs) have started easing their lockdown or Covid-19 restrictions with a view to revive their economy.Also Read| Cooperate with Covid-19 probe, WHO tells ChinaDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a slew of relaxations under the phased unlock process in the national capital. Markets and shopping malls, which were earlier allowed to open on an odd-even basis will now open every day from 8 am to 10 pm, Kejriwal said, adding restaurants will be allowed to operate with 50% capacity.In Tamil Nadu, the lockdown has been extended for another week till June 21 with relaxations in 27 districts including the state capital Chennai. According to the latest guidelines, beauty parlours, salons and spas, public parks, shops and liquor shops are allowed to open in these 27 districts from today. However, restrictions will not be eased 11 districts, seven in western and four in Cauvery delta regions.Also Read| ICMR eyes trial to study efficacy of therapies used in Covid treatmentKarnataka has started its phased unlocking process from today in 19 districts. Autos and taxis are allowed to ply with maximum of two passengers, home delivery of food from hotels and restaurants is allowed. Industries can operate with 50% work force. However, the existing lockdown rules will continue for 11 districts including Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Mysuru as they have a high positivity rate.Also Read| AstraZeneca shots should be halted for over 60s too: EMA officialMeanwhile, a total of 253,195,048 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in the country till now of which 3,484,239 were inoculated in the last 24 hours. Of these, 3,103,522 received the first dose while 380,717 received both doses.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal reports 3,519 new Covid-19 cases, 78 deathsWest Bengal reports 3,519 new #COVID19 cases, 2,171 discharges, and 78 deaths today; active cases at 18,921 pic.twitter.com/oZFjOQEANnWest Bengal reported 3,519 new cases of Covid-19 and 78 fresh fatalities as the state's tally reached 1,464,776 and the death toll rose to 16,974, reports ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 12,772 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload at 136,884With 12,772 new Covid-19 cases and 254 deaths in the last 24 hours, Tamil Nadu's tally reached 2,366,493 and the death toll rose to 29,801, according to a bulletin from the state government. The active caseload stands at 136,884.Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 3.5 million doses administered today#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ More than 4.42 Cr Vaccine doses administered in the age group 18-44, so far.➡️ More than 20 Lakh vaccine doses administered to 18-44 age group for first dose today. pic.twitter.com/yCleK3j1lwMore than 258 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered so far in the country, of which over 3.5 million doses were administered today, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Himachal Pradesh reports 326 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths in last 24 hoursHimachal Pradesh reports 326 new #COVID19 cases, 664 discharges & 7 deaths in the past 24 hours. Total cases 1,98,876Total recoveries 1,91,041Death toll 3382Active cases 4432 pic.twitter.com/6H3LR2erN6With 326 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in the last 24 hours, Himachal Pradesh's tally reached 198,876 and the death toll climbed to 3,382, reports ANI.Rajasthan reports 277 new Covid-19 cases, 20 deathsRajasthan reported 277 new cases of the coronavirus on the day and 20 more fatalities, reports PTI citing a state official.Karnataka logs 6,835 new Covid-19 cases, 120 more deathsWith 6,835 new Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths, Karnataka's tally reached 2,771,969 cases and the death toll climbed to 33,033, a bulletin from the state health department showed.Over 1,500 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana, tally at 604,800Telangana reports 1511 new #COVID19 cases, 2175 recoveries, and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours; case tally at 6,04,880 pic.twitter.com/DER6x5pNSfTelangana recorded 1,511 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the state's tally reached 604,880 while the death toll climbed to 3,496, reports ANI.Goa logs 253 new Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths in last 24 hoursGoa reports 253 new COVID cases, 720 recoveries and 9 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 4,406Total recoveries: 1,55,378Death toll: 2,937 pic.twitter.com/iGdhliqguRWith 253 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in last 24 hours, Goa's tally reached 162,721 and the death toll climbed to 2,937, reports ANI.Kerala records over 7,000 new Covid-19 cases, 161 deaths, CM hints at region-wise restrictionsKerala reported 7,719 new #COVID cases, 16,743 recoveries and 161 deaths today. With this, there are 1,13,817 active cases in the state. A total of 26,10,368 patients have recovered and 11,342 have died: Kerala CM Pinarayi VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state has recorded 7,719 new Covid-19 cases and 161 deaths. Active caseload stands at 113,817, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports over 4,500 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 4,549 new #COVID19 cases, 10,114 recoveries and 59 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total cases 18,14,393Total recoveries 17,22,381Death toll 11,999Active cases 80,013 pic.twitter.com/Kmgi1A8gY7Andhra Pradesh reported 4,549 new Covid-19 cases and 59 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active caseload stands at 80,013 reports ANI.Novavax Covid-19 vaccine found 90% effective in UK phase 3 trials, says companyUS company Novavax says its COVID-19 vaccine demonstrated a final efficacy of 90.4% against mild, moderate, and severe disease caused by original COVID-19 strain in a pivotal Phase 3 trial in UKUS company Novavax said its Covid-19 vaccine has demonstrated an efficacy of 90.4% in phase 3 trials in UK, reports ANI.WB govt extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 1, essential services exemptedWest Bengal govt extends restrictions till July 1, essential services exempted. "All govt offices will function with 25% strength. Private and corporate offices will remain open from 10 am to 4 pm with not more than 25% strength," CM Mamata Banerjee says pic.twitter.com/epGIr63hg9The West Bengal government extended Covid-19 related restrictions in the state till July 1, with exemptions for essential services, reports ANI.No new Covid-19 cases in Dharavi today: BMCNo new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Dharavi today for the first time since the second wave of the disease hit the city in February 2021, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Delhi reports 131 new Covid-19 cases, 16 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 131 new COVID cases (positivity rate - 0.22%), 355 recoveries, and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 3,226Total recoveries: 14,03,205Death toll: 24,839 pic.twitter.com/e7D0V1iOxnWith 131 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's caseload reached 1,431,270 and the death toll climbed to 24,839, reports ANI. India's Covid-19 active caseload falls below 1-million mark after 66 days#Unite2FightCorona➡️ India's Active Caseload dipped to 9,73,158 today. ➡️ The Caseload declines below 10 Lakh mark after 66 days. pic.twitter.com/aMR0SUtG3FIndia's Covid-19 active caseload has fallen below the one-million mark after 66 days and currently stands at 973,158, according to the Union health ministry's data. Karnataka to give ₹1 lakh ex-gratia to BPL families which have lost an adult to Covid-19 Every BPL family which has lost an adult member due to Covid-19 would be provided an ex-gratia of Rs. 1 lakh. Our government stands in full solidarity with the families affected by the pandemic and will extend all possible support to ensure their well-being.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced that every BPL family which have lost an adult to Covid-19 would receive an ex-gratia of ₹1 lakh. Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till June 22Covid curfew extended from June 15 to June 22. Old SOP to be followed with some changes. People from Chamoli, Rudraprayag, & Uttarkashi are now allowed to visit Badrinath, Kedarnath & Gangotri-Yamunotri respectively only with negative RT-PCR report: Uttarakhand Min Subodh Uniyal pic.twitter.com/lU3kt22FMKThe Uttarakhand government said on Monday that the ongoing Covid-19 curfew in the state has been extended till June 22 and old guidelines will be followed with some changes. Speaking to news agency ANI, state minister Subodh Uniyal said revenue courts are allowed to open with 20 people, 50 people are allowed to attend weddings as well as funerals and auto-rickshaws such as Vikram can ply. Puducherry records 309 new Covid cases, lowest single-day tally since MayPuducherry on Monday reported 309 new Covid-91 cases, the lowest single day tally since May. Seven more people died due to the viral disease while 686 recovered in the last 24 hours. Barber shops open in Delhi's Chanakyapuri areaDelhi | Barber shops reopen at Chanakyapuri area as COVID restrictions eased in the national capital "I am happy that COVID is fading away and our earnings will again be back on track," says a shop owner pic.twitter.com/HdRqavyDWbBarber shops in Delhi's Chanakyapuri area reopened as the Delhi government began the third phase of the Covid-19 unlock process. Ukraine records 420 new Covid-19 cases, lowest single-day tally since 2020Ukraine on Monday recorded 420 new Covid-19 disease cases, taking the caseload to 2.22 million. Monday's case count has been the lowest since June 8 last year. The total deaths in the European country have climbed to 51,692 . Covid-19 in Thailand: Series of virus outbreaks threaten export sector, recoveryA series of Covid-19 disease outbreaks in the factories of Thailand are raising concerns that the country's export sector could be severely affected, which will also weaken the economy. According to news agency Reuters, the virus has been reported in 130 factories including those which are supplying international brands, with over 7,100 cases across 11 provinces. Delhi Metro to continue with 50% capacity, standing travel bannedThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has said its services in the national capital will continue with 50 per cent seating in accordance with guidelines in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreGermany's Covid caseload climbs to over 3.7 million; 549 new cases recordedGermany on Monday 549 new Covid-19 disease cases, taking the caseload to 3,715,518, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed. As many as 10 people succumbed to the viral disease on Monday, taking the toll to 89,844. India sees another dip in daily Covid-19 tally with 70,421 new casesIndia on Monday recorded 70,421 cases and 3,921 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 29,510,410 and 374,305 respectively, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Read moreDelhi unlock 3.0: All shops in markets, restaurants open todayWith Covid-19 numbers in Delhi dropping to a three-month low, all market activities have been allowed from Monday, but with certain restrictions as part of the phased unlock plan of the Delhi government. Read moreUK records 7,490 new Covid-19 cases, 8 more deathsThe United Kingdom (UK) recorded nearly 7,500 new Covid-19 disease cases and eight more deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 4,565,813 and 127,904 respectively, according to official figures. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is likely to make an announcement that the end of Covid-related restrictions will be further delayed due to the rapid rise of infections of the Delta variant of the virus, news agency Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-june-14-2021-101623635238133.html
14-06-2021||India||World Blood Donor Day 2021: Know about its history, significance and slogan||World Blood Donor Day, an initiative by the World Health Organization (WHO), is observed every year on June 14. This day is celebrated every year to spread awareness about the significance of blood donation and to recognise the contribution of voluntary unpaid blood donors in saving lives.History of World Blood Donor DayThe first World Blood Donor Day was observed by WHO in 2004 and was declared as an annual global event in the 58th World Health Assembly in 2005. The day is celebrated on the birth anniversary of Austrian biologist and physician, Karl Landsteiner. He is considered to be the founder of modern blood transfusion.Significance of World Blood Donor DayThe aim is to raise global awareness of the need for safe blood and blood products for transfusion and of the critical contribution voluntary, unpaid blood donors make to national health systems. The day also provides an opportunity to call to action to governments and national health authorities to provide adequate resources and put into place systems and infrastructures to increase the collection of blood from voluntary, non-remunerated blood donors.Importance of donating bloodAccording to WHO, safe blood and blood products and their transfusion are critical aspects of care and public health. They save millions of lives and improve the health and quality of life of many patients every day. The need for blood is universal, but access to blood for all those who need it is not.This year's slogan for World Blood Donor DayFor 2021, the World Blood Donor Day slogan is 'Give blood and keep the world beating'. The message highlights the essential contribution blood donors make to keeping the world pulsating by saving lives and improving others’ health. It reinforces the global call for more people all over the world to donate blood regularly and contribute to better health. A special focus of this year’s campaign will be the role of young people in ensuring a safe blood supply.Host for World Blood Donor Day 2021 eventsItaly will host World Blood Donor Day 2021 through its National Blood Centre. The global event will be held in Rome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-blood-donor-day-2021-know-about-its-history-significance-and-slogan-101623634775861.html
14-06-2021||India||Odisha rolls out 'Pitha-on-Wheels' for Raja festival amid Covid curbs||Odisha has launched "Pitha on Wheels" ahead of the three-day Raja festival, one of the most popular ones celebrated at the onset of monsoon, amid the lockdown induced by the coronavirus pandemic in the state."Every year during Raja festival, OTDC (Odisha Tourism Development Corporation) makes special arrangements with all varieties of pithas and swings. However, this year it will be a bit different. OTDC has made all the arrangements for the people to celebrate Raja amid Covid-19 guidelines," the corporation's chairperson Shreemayee Mishra was quoted as saying by Odisha TV."Different types of Odia pithas like poda pitha, manda, kakara, arisha, chakuli and chandrakala would be available near Master Canteen, Khandagiri, CRP, Patia, Chandrasekharpur and Rupali squares between 7am to 11pm on June 14-16," Mishra said.Also read | Odisha bans congregation during Raja festival in view of Covid-19 pandemicAccording to the report, "Pitha on Wheels" will also be available in Sambalpur in Odisha.“Special counters have been opened at Pantha Nivas of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Sambalpur, and Rourkela to sell pithas. People can purchase pithas from these counters following all the guidelines of Covid-19,” OTDC's managing director Sachin R Jadhav said.In Odisha, the Raja festival is a tribute to menstruation and girls wear new clothes and take turns on swings hanging from tree branches. According to popular belief, Earth, perceived to be a woman, menstruates during these three days of the Raja festival and a ceremonial bath takes place on the fourth day. Ploughing is forbidden and unmarried girls in the countryside are feted during the three days.Last year, the district administration in Keonjhar, where the Raja festival is celebrated on a bigger scale, banned all congregations related to the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-rolls-out-pitha-on-wheels-for-raja-festival-amid-covid-curbs-101623635456120.html
14-06-2021||India||Guru Arjan Dev martyrdom day: Know about its significance, history||Guru Arjan Dev, the fifth guru of Sikhs, was martyred on June 16, 1606. The Shaheedi Diwas of Guru Arjan Dev in 2021 is on June 14. According to the Hindu calendar, the Shaheedi Diwas or the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev is observed on Jeth Sudi 4, which falls on June 14 this year.Born in 1563 in Goindval of Tarn Taran district, Guru Arjan Dev was the first martyr of the Sikh religion and was executed on the orders of Mughal emperor Jahangir. The Mughals were afraid of his increasing influence in northern India and the spread of Sikhism.He had compiled the first edition of the Sikh scripture Adi Granth, which is now known as Guru Granth Sahib.On Guru Arjan Dev's martyrdom day, people often organise religious events where they read Sri Guru Granth Sahib. Langars are also distributed in Gurudwara. This year due to the second wave of Covid-19, no big event will be organised.Every year, a batch of Sikh pilgrims, also known as jatha, travels to Pakistan to mark the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore. This year, the jatha was scheduled to depart for Pakistan on June 6.The jatha would not be able to travel to Pakistan this year to mark the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev as Pakistan has not granted permission to it due to the coromavirus pandemic, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guru-arjan-dev-martyrdom-day-know-about-its-significance-history-101623633731812.html
14-06-2021||India||Opposition condemns KCR govt's purchasing of luxury vehicles for IAS officers amid Covid crisis||The Telangana government came under Opposition's fire for purchasing a fleet of luxury cars for IAS officers in the state amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.As many as 32 new luxury multi-utility vehicles reached Pragati Bhavan on Sunday for distribution to additional collectors posted in the state.With the state exchequer in a bad condition due to less revenue and insufficient medical infrastructure, the allocation of the cars, estimated to cost about ₹25 lakh each, has raised eyebrows.Criticising the move, BJP spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao registered a strong opposition on his party's behalf against the "criminal splurge of public exchequer" by Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao (KCR) to "appease bureaucrats" in the state."How can Chief Minister KCR justify spending over ₹11 crores to buy 32 ultra-luxury vehicles for additional collectors in Telangana State ?" the BJP leader asked.Claiming that Telangana Chief Minister is indulging into a "massive wastage of public money" in the middle of a pandemic, he termed the decision to buy ultra-luxury vehicles for additional collectors as "horrendous and unthinkable" in the current public health situation.Krishna Sagar Rao further said, "Finance Minister Harish Rao made statements recently that state has lost massive revenue with COVID-19 lockdowns and wanted increased Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) limits to raise more loans."The BJP questioned the Finance Minister's bare minimum fiscal discipline in the current economic situation as his department is releasing crores of rupees for ultra-luxury vehicles.Krishna Sagar suggested that the money used in buying luxury cars could have been used to expand beds or provide free treatment to the poor. He demanded the immediate rollback of the decision and asked the government to stop the purchase of the vehicles.He also blamed the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government for "brazen appeasement" of bureaucrats and said, "BJP wants to know, what is the Chief Minister expecting from the additional collectors with this brazen bureaucrats appeasement splurge?"The move also attracted criticism from Telangana Congress. AICC Spokesperson Sravan Dasoju called the Telangana government's move a "height of irresponsible expenditure"."The TRS government led by KCR is completely irresponsible in handling public money. As such KCR has pushed the surplus state of Telangana into a debt trap with a whopping debt of about ₹4 lakh crores," claimed the Congress leader."On top of it, when the state is in a serious financial crisis due to COVID, KCR has the audacity to buy 32 luxury cars, at a cost of ₹30 lakhs each, as a gift to his additional collectors. They already have government cars with them in good condition. What was the need to buy new cars?" asked Dasoju.The Congress leader further cornered the Telangana CM, saying that he wants to "allure" the collectors with new cars and make them "mere spectators" of his misgovernance."The TRS government does not have money to ramp up the beds in government hospitals. They do not have money to buy buses for public transport, do not have money even for making payments to the contractors, and release bills that are pending for months. In such a crisis it is completely unacceptable that KCR is misusing public money," stated Dasoju.Condemning the callous spending, he said, "We wonder if the KCR government has colluded with the car company and dealers for the unwanted deal worth crores in this financial crisis. I wonder whether it is a dubious deal of the state government to get financial relief from the car company."He further reminded the Chief Minister that he is only a custodian of public money and not the owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-condemns-kcr-govt-s-purchasing-of-luxury-vehicles-for-ias-officers-amid-covid-crisis-101623632545351.html
14-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Here's a list of states which are unlocking from Monday||As the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country continues to slow down, several states have started easing the strict restrictions which were imposed to check the spread of the infection.India on Sunday reported 80,834 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,303 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The nation's infection tally went up to 29,439,989 and the death toll to 370,384. The active Covid-19 cases in the country declined to 10,26,159.Here is a list of states that have started unlocking from Monday:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-here-s-a-list-of-states-which-are-unlocking-from-monday-101623627442851.html
14-06-2021||India||EC gets legal notice over no response to PIL||The Election Commission of India has been served a legal notice on June 13 for failing to respond to a PIL filed in the Delhi high court seeking fair and transparent internal elections in political parties. The poll body has been given seven days to respond, failing which the petitioner, C Rajashekaran, might initiate contempt proceedings against it.The case dates to November 11, 2020, when Rajashekaran approached EC seeking the establishment of internal democracy in political parties. But when he didn’t receive any response, he filed a PIL in the Delhi high court, drawing attention of the court to EC’s 1996 notice that had asked political parties to follow the rules laid down in their own constitutions regarding internal elections.On January 12, HC passed an order in which it asked EC to treat the petition as a representation. The notice sent to the chief election commissioner accused the Commission of treating the representation with “total disregard”. HT has seen a copy of the notice. HT reached out to the EC spokesperson but did not receive a response immediately.The petition had asked EC to de-register a political party for non-compliance.According to a former election commission official familiar with the matter, the 1996 notice issued by the EC that threatened “legal measures as are available, necessary and appropriate”, including de-registering of political parties, was issued in the context of lack of elections in the Indian National Congress.“But the concern was not just limited to Congress. The Commission continued to monitor party elections post 1996 and granted extensions to other political parties, while telling others to hold elections earlier than the time they sought. Many such orders were passed.”The timing of the petition is significant, given the internal turmoil in Congress over affairs in Rajasthan and Punjab, and internal elections deferred due to the pandemic.According to Rajashekaran, starting a political party has become a business. “There is no fair system, there is no oversight,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-gets-legal-notice-over-no-response-to-pil-101623628465406.html
14-06-2021||India||Patent waiver proposal on Covid vaccines gets widespread support at G7: MEA||A proposal by India and South Africa to temporarily waive patents on Covid-19 vaccines to ensure their equitable access received widespread support at the G7 summit in the UK, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Sunday.In a virtual address at an inaugural outreach session of the summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought the support of the grouping to lift patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines.The MEA said Modi's call was supported by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, WTO Director-General Okonjo Iweala and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres."I can confirm that there was widespread support in deliberations for text-based negotiations on the India-South Africa proposal for TRIPS waiver at the World Trade Organisation (WTO)," P Harish, additional secretary (economic relations) in the MEA, said at a press conference.The TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) council of the WTO is likely to start text-based negotiations on the proposal.Calling on the G7 to demonstrate leadership, Modi sought the grouping's strong support for the proposal for a TRIPS waiver at the WTO, Harish said about the prime minister's remarks on Saturday at the session titled 'Building Back Stronger-Health'"His call was echoed by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Referring to his conversation with the prime minister earlier, PM Morrison expressed his strong support for the TRIPS waiver, as did the Director-General of the WTO, Okonjo Iweala, and the UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, who identified the TRIPS waiver as an important element of his 'Global Vaccination Plan'- a roadmap to vaccinate the entire global population by doubling vaccine production," Harish said.He said French President Emmanuel Macron also highlighted the need to focus on ramping up production capacity in Africa and called on India to lend its expertise as an important production hub globally.The Group of Seven (G7) comprises the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.As chair of G7, the UK invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa to the summit as Guest countries.The G7 has pledged to donate an additional one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines within the next year.Asked about G7's views on making available finances to boost vaccine production, the additional secretary said there was a general agreement to increase capacity in various regional manufacturing hubs and provide financing, technology transfer and skilling in these regions.On whether the summit deliberated on how the Covid-19 originated in China, Harish did not give a direct reply."The leaders of the G7 and guest countries had a very intense and detailed discussion on the need for reforming the global health governance," he said."I would like to emphasise in this regard that India has been actively engaged with the international community at the levels of the G20, the G7 and the World Health Assembly on various aspects related to dealing with the current pandemic, learning lessons and preparing for future pandemics," he added.Harish said Prime Minister Modi thanked the G7 and guest countries for the support shown to India during the difficult second wave of the pandemic and urged caution and vigilance even as things were getting better.Modi also highlighted India's 'Whole of Government, Whole of Society' approach to the pandemic, with the efforts of governments at all levels, civil society and industry synergized for best results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patent-waiver-proposal-on-covid-vaccines-gets-widespread-support-at-g7-mea-101623626660242.html
14-06-2021||India||Pangs of displacement in Jewar||It is a sweltering June afternoon and Ranjeet Singh, a resident of Nagla Ganeshi, a village in Jewar, is sitting surrounded by the rubble of what was his ancestral house till two months back. A few household items — a dressing table, a desert cooler, a few chairs, a charpoy and old wooden doors — are strewn around him.“These doors are from our baithak (drawing room), which used to be here,” says Singh, his face pensive and perspiring, pointing to a heap of broken bricks. “Everything in the village, the streets, the shops, the houses, chaupal, are now just one massive mound of rubble”.Indeed Singh’s village today looks like a bombed-out war zone, with all its 125-odd houses having been razed to make way for an upcoming airport — in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Budh Nagar district, roughly 80 kilometres away from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport.Families, including Singh’s, have for now shifted to rented houses in neighbouring villages, but his new rented home was not big enough to accommodate all his belongings and cattle. “So, I sold all my cattle, and until I can figure out what to do with these belongings, I will come and sleep here every day. We had to move out in a hurry as the officials said that the work on the airport cannot begin until we vacate, as the airstrip will come up in our village,” says Singh. In the distance, one can see a few other villagers collecting bricks from the demolished houses and loading them on tractor trolleys.Nagla Ganeshi is among seven villages — Nagla Sharif Khan, Nagla Phool Khan, Nagla Chhittar, Kishorepur, Rohi, and Dayanatpur Kheda — in Jewar where land has been acquired for the airport, officially known as the Noida International Greenfield Airport. The villagers, whose houses need to be demolished, have been allocated plots in an upcoming integrated township on the outskirts of Jewar town, about 11km away from their villages.The administration has set a June-end deadline for the people to move. While all the houses in Singh’s village lie flattened, with almost everyone having shifted, the process of demolition is on in other neighbouring villages. In all, over 750 of 3,003 families whose houses are to demolished, have already moved out.But villagers, most of whom complain of being given little time to shift, say demolishing their ancestral houses and leaving behind a cherished life in the village where they were born and brought up, is an emotionally distressing experience, exacerbated by the fact that their development-induced displacement will forever alter family and neighbourhood-ties, social structure and local traditions of their villages and also the intra-and inter-village relationships that they treasured for decades.In Nagla Phool Khan village, Kayum Khan, 42, has employed about 10 labourers to demolish his house, which is spread across 4,200 square feet. He says, the family has had to demolish seven houses of the same size, belonging to his brothers.“It’s a strangely sad feeling to supervise the demolition of your own ancestral house, and the worst part is that we seven brothers will not be living together next to each other anymore in the new township, where we have been allocated plots far from each other through a draw of lots.”Kunwar Pal, a resident of neighbouring Rohi village, has entirely different worries. He says his fear of the ‘new social order’ in the upcoming sprawling new township and his aversion to norms of urban life are the reasons why instead of moving to the new township in Jewar, he will be moving to a village in Khurja district in UP, where he has some relatives.“I do not want my granddaughter to go to a co-education school here. Besides, our village is being turned into a city enclave, which might over the next few years adopt urban mores and lifestyle. I have never lived in a city, ” says Kunwar Pal, 66, speaking fluent English. “You see, I was a topper in my school,” he says and then quickly returns to the point he was making about the urbanisation of his village. “Our village is already being referred to as ‘Pocket 1’ in the new township. At least the plots should have been allotted according to who is living next to whom here,” he adds.In the new township, each of the seven villages where land has been acquired, is divided into seven pockets. While Rohi is Pocket 1, Nagla Ganeshi (Ranjit Singh’s village) is Pocket 2. Currently, the resettlement township is a vast construction site, with many villagers overseeing the building of their new houses.Ask Kunwar Pal’s 94-year-old father, who is sitting on a charpoy next to him, about what he feels about having to leave his ancestral house, and he answers the question by reciting a verse in Hindi in his low raspy voice. “The death of one’s child, the demise of one’s life partner, and loss of one’s birthplace are the most painful losses in life. I have lived here all my life and I wanted to die here at my birthplace. It would not be possible now,” he says.For Mahendra Sharma, who lives near Pal’s house, the biggest issue is where he would find space for his 26 buffaloes and cows. “They are the source of my livelihood and my entire life has revolved around them. The officials, who have asked us to move, offered no solution about what to do with them,” says Sharma.The displacement is also leading to differences between the village community.Nepal Singh, another Rohi resident, says that the neighbouring villages have doubled land rates as many people in the villages whose land has been acquired are looking to buy some land to build their houses.“Adding to our woes is the administration which wants us to leave by the end of this month even before the new township is properly built. It does not work like this,” he added.Surendra Singh, divisional commissioner (Meerut), who is also the rehabilitation and resettlement commissioner for the airport project, says, “This is a model rehabilitation resettlement project. All the village residents have been compensated for the land and given plots free of cost in the modern township which will have all necessary community infrastructure, including, community centres, school, among others. We have completed the rehabilitation and resettlement process and now it is for them to build their houses as soon as possible. ”Tell him about the villages’ problem with space for their cattle and he says, “ We have provided everything that was legally due as part of rehabilitation and resettlement scheme.”Professor Vivek Kumar, chairperson, Centre for the Study of Social Systems at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, says when a rural community is displaced, people are not displaced just physically, but also sociologically, culturally, and spatially, which lead to a lot of perplexities, uncertainties, and alienation. “So, wherever there is development-induced displacement, the administration should be mindful and ensure that there is a thorough study of the community and it should try to replicate the old settlement as much as possible at the new place,” he says.It is late evening and back in Nagla Ganeshi, Ranjeet Singh has been joined by Jitendra Kumar, his 27-year-old nephew. “I am a university graduate, and the government has promised me a job near the airport. As long as I get a job, I am fine with leaving my village and being resettled anywhere. There is always some price to pay for development,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pangs-of-displacement-in-jewar-101623623500035.html
14-06-2021||India||Cancel bid to extract hydrocarbon from Cauvery: Stalin to Modi||Chennai: In a strongly worded letter, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to cancel a bid called by the union ministry of petroleum and natural gas to extract hydrocarbon from the state’s protected agriculture zone and basin of the river Cauvery.He said that they have learnt of the union ministry inviting bids on June 10 for the development of oil and gas fields at Vadatheru in Tamil Nadu’s Pudukkottai district which falls under a Protected Agricultural Zone, under the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020 which prohibits any new exploration, drilling and extraction of oil, natural gas and other similar hydrocarbons.The identified area also comes within the Cauvery basin, which Stalin said is the ‘bedrock’ of food security and agro-based economy “from time immemorial”. Stalin said that it is his government’s firm view that no hydrocarbon projects should be accepted in these regions, to protect the interests of the Agrarian community and the ecology of the region.“Unfortunately, the sentiments of the people, the probable ecological impact and the legal enactments by the Government of Tamil Nadu have not been taken into account by the relevant authorities,” Stalin said in his letter.“The calling of bids by the Government of India has already ignited public agitation in Pudukkottai and neighbouring districts apprehending the adverse consequences of hydrocarbon extraction in this Agrarian region… This ecologically fragile zone supports the livelihood of millions of farmers and farmworkers. In this context, projects to extract hydrocarbons from the Cauvery basin have faced unanimous strident opposition from all stakeholders.”Stalin urged Modi to immediately intervene and cancel the project and asked his government to consult the state before such moves. “I also request you to instruct the ministry to consult the state government ab initio before bringing any area in Tamil Nadu for any auctions in future for hydrocarbon exploration and extraction,” he said. He added that the state government has consistently opposed hydrocarbon exploration and extraction projects in the Cauvery basin and neighbouring districts.Environmental activists such as Nityanand Jayaraman have welcomed Stalin’s statement asking the union government to withdraw from the mining lease auction. “TN is not for sale, Modiji,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancel-bid-to-extract-hydrocarbon-from-cauvery-stalin-to-modi-101623615158207.html
14-06-2021||India||Women can now train to be priests: TN minister||In a progressive step, temples in Tamil Nadu may soon have women appointed as priests if a proposal to offer them training is approved. “We will take steps to provide training to women who are interested in becoming priests. We will take this proposal to the chief minister (M K Stalin) and get necessary approvals,” PK Sekar Babu, the minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE), told reporters on Saturday. The department, he said, has received petitions from several women seeking permission to perform poojas at temples.There are temples in a few places across India where women are Archakars (temple priests), and the minister noted that women are already performing poojas in temples in rural areas.The new DMK government will also take steps to ensure to recite poojas and mantras in Tamil, besides Sanskrit. They plan to install boards in 47 temples with details of priests’ names and phone numbers who can perform the rituals in Tamil.The minister added that they would implement a government order, passed by the late former chief minister M Karunanidhi in 2006 that allows non-Brahmins who have undergone training to become priests in Tamil Nadu. He said that an announcement on the appointment of priests from all castes would be made soon by the chief minister. “This will happen in another 100 days when the scheme will come into full force,” he said. About 200-dd non-Brahmins, who passed a one-year junior Archakars course in 2007-2008, are still waiting for their appointment. Without specifying a number, the DMK had in its election manifesto promised their jobs.The announcements were made following a review meeting of regional joint commissioners of the HR&CE department to discuss matters such as vacancies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-can-now-train-to-be-priests-tnminister-101623614798230.html
14-06-2021||India||Gujarat is ready for change, says Kejriwal ahead of visit||Gujarat is now ready for transformation,” said Aam Aadmi Party supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday, as he announced his visit to Ahmedabad on Monday ahead of the Gujarat assembly elections in 2022. During his visit, Kejriwal is set to inaugurate the AAP’s new state office and hold meetings with state leaders to discuss the future strategy, said officials familiar with the matter.“Havey badlashe Gujarat. Kaley hun Gujarat aavi rahyo chhu, Gujarat na bhai-behno ney malish (the state will transform now, am coming to Gujarat tomorrow and meet the people of the state),” Kejriwal tweeted in Gujarati.The AAP’s Gujarat media incharge, Tuli Banerjee, said Kejriwal will arrive in Ahmedabad on Monday morning.According to people familiar with the developments, the AAP is looking for a prominent face to lead the election campaign in Gujarat. This will be Kejriwal’s second visit to Gujarat this year.He last visited Surat in February this year, after the AAP’s encouraging performance in the city’s municipal corporation elections. In its debut performance, the AAP emerged as the main opposition to the BJP, winning 27 seats in the 120-member Surat Municipal Corporation and leaving the Congress with zero seats.The visit comes a day after two estranged sects of the powerful Patidar (Patel) community -- Kadva Patel and Leuva Patel -- came on a common platform to praise the AAP during an event in Rajkot’s Kagwad.Patidar leader Naresh Patel appreciated the “work culture of the AAP”. According to Patel, the key topic of discussion during Saturday’ meeting was to push for Patel as a chief minister contender in Gujarat.Patels, who form 14% of the electorate, have been an influential caste right since the anti-reservation agitation of the 80’s and they have been economically powerful. They have been a strong votebank of the BJP, until the 2015 Hardik Patel agitation that had helped immensely helped the Congress in the 2017 assembly polls.Earlier, the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samithi (PAAS) had extended support to the AAP candidates contesting from Patidar-dominated areas in the Surat civic elections.A Patidar leader, who was present at the meeting, said there was resentment among the community leaders that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party was “giving a short shrift to the Patels”.“The chief minister is a Jain, the BJP president (CR) Paatil is a Marathi. They had a Patidar president in Jitu Vaghani, who is a Patel, but has been sidelined,” he said.A BJP spokesperson Yagnesh Dave said,“When a social community leader speaks, he should say that the Chief Minister should work for the welfare of their community. It is very selfish to say that the CM should be only from a certain caste.” As for the Patidar congregation praising the AAP, he said, “That is their personal opinion, we won’t like to comment on this.”Political analyst Vidyut Joshi said, “The Patidar leaders are seeing an opportunity in the emergence of AAP, especially after the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti backed the party in the Surat civic body polls, and AAP may well try to find a constituency in them. In this case, Naresh Patel himself aspires to be the CM, so the Patidar card.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-is-ready-for-change-says-kejriwal-ahead-of-visit-101623613939680.html
14-06-2021||India||Kedarnath shrine to get Adi Shankaracharya’s 12-feet tall statue||A 12 feet tall and 35-tonne statue of Adi Shankaracharya will be set up at Kedarnath Char Dham shrine within a month or so. It will reach Gauchar area in Chamoli district on June 25. Expressing his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said, “This is a moment of great honour for all of us as we welcome the life-size statue of Guru Adi Shankaracharya in our state. The sculptors of Mysore have done a formidable job and have completed this beautiful statue in record time.” Kerala-born Adi Shankaracharya was an 8th-century Indian mystic and philosopher who consolidated the doctrine of Advaita Vedanta and made significant contribution in unifying Hinduism by setting up four mathas (monastic institutions) across India. The Uttarakhand Himalayas hold a lot of significance in the context of Adi Shankaracharya as he is believed to have taken samadhi at Kedarnath. It was in Uttarakhand that he established one of the four mathas at Joshimath and also established the idol at Badrinath. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaaz said Shankaracharya’s philosophy inspires people to live a life with spirituality under the fold of Sanatan Dharma. “The Mathas or monastic seats established by him are the epitome of Advaita Vedanta philosophy. The installation of the statue in Kedarnath is a moment of great pride for all of us and will further motivate us to adopt his teachings for a meaningful and better life.” The 12 feet tall 35-tonne statue has been sculpted by Mysore-based sculptor Arjun Yogiraj. He is a fifth-generation sculptor and has inherited the art from his father. He was selected to make the statue by the PMO last year and began the work in September 2020. The statue is made of Chlorite Schist Stone which is known to withstand rain, sunshine and harsh climate, said officials. In January this year, the Uttarakhand high court had directed the state government to complete the restoration of the samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya near Kedarnath Temple within a year. The samadhi was damaged in the June 2013 Kedarnath tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-shrine-to-get-adi-shankaracharya-s-12-feet-tall-statue-101623609519537.html
14-06-2021||India||Will contest upcoming polls alone: Maha Cong||Mumbai Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s statement at party’s anniversary function and his meeting with poll strategist Prashant Kishor this week have left ally Congress fuming. The Maharashtra Congress, while reacting sharply to the developments, has said that it will go solo in all the elections being held henceforth in Maharashtra and its allies should not take them for granted. Pawar, during the celebration of NCP’s 22nd foundation on Thursday, had said that Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), the alliance of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress in power in the state, will fight the next Lok Sabha and assembly polls together. He said that MVA will complete its term and also hailed Shiv Sena for standing firm on its commitments on political support. A day after it, Pawar along with other party leaders, met poll strategist Prashant Kishor at former’s Mumbai residence, leading to speculations about a national coalition against the BJP. It was NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik who had fuelled the speculations on Saturday when he had said, “There is a need to form a formidable alliance of opposition parties against the BJP at the national level ahead of the next general elections. Pawar saheb had himself spoken about the need to have such a national alliance and had said that he would try to bring together all such forces.” But Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that his party would fight all the forthcoming elections separately. “We have already announced that we will go solo in all the forthcoming local body elections, likely to be held from November, and assembly polls thereafter. We do not want to keep our allies in the dark and ditch them ahead of the polls. We are preparing to go solo, and they are free to do so. Congress would be the single largest party in the 2024 assembly polls,” Patole said. Party’s working president Arif Naseem Khan said that the party will benefit if it fights the local elections on its own. “It will also help in regaining the old glory when the party used to form the government in the state single-handedly. What Patole said is the party’s official stand,” he said. But NCP’s Malik, while reacting to statements by Congress leaders, said on Sunday that no talks were being held among the three members of the MVA alliance on the Lok Sabha or assembly elections. “Patole aspires to become the chief minister of Maharashtra, and the statement reflects it. Every party has the right to spread its wings and such statements are necessary to keep the morale of the party workers high. The MVA alliance is ruling unitedly by taking decisions close to the heart of the people. We may fight the local body elections in alliance of three or two ruling parties or even separately, depending on the political situation at the local level,” he said. But the differences among the three allies are out in the front. The Congress, ever since the MVA government was formed in November 2019, has been complaining about being sidelined by its allies. The party leaders feel that the Sena and NCP have been on the same page when it comes to keeping Congress out of the decision-making process. NCP and Shiv Sena are likely to join hands in most of the local body elections by keeping Congress out. More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils are going to polls over the next 20 months. This one is considered to be a mini assembly election. BJP leader Ram Kadam said that the contradictory statements by Congress and NCP indicate the differences between the ruling parties. “It is proved that Congress is not happy with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and hence they have been talking about going solo. It needs to be understood whether Congress’ anger is over the differences or because of the other two parties grabbing the major share of power,” Kadam said. But Malik said that it would be wrong to conclude based on the statements that there are differences among the allies. Political analyst Pratap Asbe said the Congress’ central leadership decides on electoral alliances, so what the state leadership says has no bearing on it. “As far as the question of putting up an alliance of opposition parties against the BJP at the national level is concerned, it all depends on what stand the Congress will take,” Asbe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-contest-upcoming-polls-alone-maha-cong-101623609458578.html
14-06-2021||India||As Sachin Pilot camps in Delhi, his loyalists continue attack on Gehlot||Demanding a cabinet expansion as well as other political appointments, the Sachin Pilot faction of Rajasthan legislators on Sunday continued to attack the Ashok Gehlot government even as Pilot camped in Delhi waiting for an audience with senior party leaders.Pilot, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan, was unable to meet Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. When contacted, Vadra’s office said there was no meeting slotted with Pilot as she is out of town. Pilot, too, said no meeting was scheduled with her.However, Pilot’s weekend trip to Delhi has triggered speculation about behind-the-scenes discussions on a planned Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle. A senior party leader said on condition of anonymity that a formula was being worked out for cabinet expansion to ensure fairness in the entire process. “We would like to have those who have had more than one term as MLA as ministers. Other options are also being discussed,” the leader said.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot can induct nine ministers to the cabinet that can have 30 members at the most. A second leader, again requesting anonymity, confirmed that talks are on, and matters will be resolved soon.But on Sunday, five-time member of the legislative assembly and former Rajasthan speaker Deepender Singh Shekhawat said the panel formed by All India Congress Committee to resolve the issues raised by Pilot 10 months ago has done nothing. “Those who helped the party form the government in Rajasthan aren’t being respected,” Shekhawat said.So far mum on the unfolding events, Shekhawat finally broke his silence and said a swift decision to ameliorate the pain of the agitating MLAs will be in the interest of the party.Shekhawat’s comments came a day after Congress MLA from Chaksu, Ved Prakash Solanki, a vocal supporter of Pilot, alleged that some MLAs told him about their phones being tapped. He, however, declined to name the MLAs. Party chief whip Mahesh Joshi dismissed Solanki’s charges as baseless.But BJP state president Satish Poonia attacked the Gehlot government and claimed that if phones were being illegally tapped in a democracy, then the chief minister and the home minister have to answer for it in the people’s court one day.This isn’t the first time that phone-tapping charges have been levelled against the Gehlot government. Last July, when Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs loyal to him had rebelled against Gehlot, one of the accusations they had levelled against his government was of illegal phone tapping.The charge got legitimacy when an audio clip of an alleged phone conversation between a Union minister and two Congress MLAs was shared by Gehlot’s officer on special duty Lokesh Sharma.On the current crisis, another senior Congress leader familiar with the developments said the party’s national leadership will take up the Rajasthan issue in a day or two after resolving the crisis in Punjab where infighting has created problems for the Amarinder Singh government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-sachin-pilot-camps-in-delhi-his-loyalists-continue-attack-on-gehlot-101623609459193.html
14-06-2021||India||Govt lines up key bills for passage during next monsoon session||With more than 40 bills and five ordinances pending before Parliament, the Narendra Modi government’s legislative agenda is set to be busy for the monsoon session, which is set to commence in July after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic raged through the country, people aware of the matter said.A bill to designate major airports, proposed laws for the welfare of parents and senior citizens, strengthening the child protection system, and setting up of an interstate river water dispute redressal committee are some of the pending bills before Parliament.The government authorities plan to slot the monsoon session in July as Covid-19 cases are receding in various parts of the country. “We also want to find a suitable slot for the monsoon session, keeping in mind the possibilities of the next surge in Covid-19 cases,” a senior Parliament functionary said on condition of anonymity.The Union government promulgated five ordinances after the budget session had to be wrapped up earlier than scheduled due to the second wave of Covid-19. The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance and The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance are currently in force.These ordinances will be taken up on priority as the Constitution gives a window of only six weeks from the beginning of a Parliament session for the move.The Covid-19 pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020 as it devastated myriad aspects of India’s public affairs and private lives. Last three sessions of Parliament had to be concluded midway while the entire 2020 winter session was cancelled due to the public health crisis.The passage of many bills got delayed while several discussions, primarily those sponsored by opposition parties, could not be taken up or got merged with other debates as the government managers and parliamentary authorities grappled to slot different agenda in the tight schedule.Some of the bills pending before standing committees could face delays as the panels virtually couldn’t function for almost two months in May and June due to the Covid-19 situation, the people quoted above said.Pending bills The Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Bill: Under the Act, maintenance tribunals may direct children to pay up to ₹10,000 per month for their parents.The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill: The Bill seeks measures for strengthening the child protection set-up.The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill: It provides that every Assisted Reproductive Technology clinic and bank must be registered under the National Registry of Banks and Clinics of India.The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Bill: To declare six bodies located in Ahmedabad, Hajipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Guwahati, and Raebareli as Institutions of National Importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-bills-await-passage-this-monsoon-session-101623609397314.html
14-06-2021||India||Govt to give away more food as granaries bulge||The Union government’s record buying of vast quantities of food grains from farmers at minimum support prices this year points to a glut of cereals, with stocks breaching previous limits, prompting the government to make additional plans to pare reserves.Even after distributing subsidised grains to nearly 730 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act and additional distribution of 5kg free grains per month per person under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), the government will be left with more than it requires to mandatorily keep aside as emergency reserves, known as buffer stock.Since the government pays higher prices every year to buy large quantities of cereals because of the annual increase in guaranteed rates known as minimum support prices (MSPs), Indian wheat can hardly be exported competitively. It is pricier compared to wheat from other exporting nations.In the current season, the government has procured over 41 million tonne of wheat, a record. It has so far paid an MSP value of ₹81,000 crore to cereal growers.In May, the government had a total stock of 83 million tonne of cereals (wheat and paddy), which is 11 times more than the mandatory grain reserve limit. This included nearly 30 million tonne of rice and 52 million tonne of wheat, according to official figures.Bulging stocks with the Food Corporation of India, the government’s main food-handling agency, has prompted the government to take extra measures to pare stocks.“The government has resorted to open-market sales. It is also taking steps such as distribution of food to NGOs for onward distribution to the needy, distribution to armed forces and prisons, etc,” an official said, asking not to be named. The government resorts to open-market sales usually at a price below the cost of buying these grains.The government is currently in the process of drawing up plans to make extra allocation to institutions such as NGOs and the armed forces, the official said. It has already sold 300,000 tonne of food grains in May to private traders.The PMGKAY will help clear out storage space for oncoming harvests, the official said. The scheme will continue till November.The government’s procurement of food grains stands nearly 13% higher than the previous year, caused by overproduction of grains even as the country faces a deficit of other essential commodities such as oilseeds and pulses.Of the 41 million tonne of wheat procured, 13.2 million tonne was bought from Punjab’s farmers, the highest, followed by 12.8 million tonne from Madhya Pradesh and 8.4 million tonne from Haryana farmers.“Higher prices mean Indian wheat must be sold at a minimum of $38 a tonne, which is higher than global prices,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.New MSPs announced on Wednesday for summer-sown crops are geared toward nudging farmers to shift away from plentiful cereals, by setting higher prices for oilseeds and pulses, whose output and supply are relatively scarce. For instance, India imports up to two-thirds of its vegetable oil to meet domestic demand.MSPs are federally fixed floor prices for crops aimed at avoiding distress sale by farmers and signalling a benchmark rate for private traders. But private traders can pay higher rates or, as is often the case, lower than MSP, depending on market forces of demand and supply.However, farmers are yet again likely to grow more cereals than oilseeds, a lopsided cropping pattern because the government mainly buys wheat and rice at MSP rates and distributes them to beneficiaries through the public distribution system at subsidised rates. This is primarily how farmers benefit from the MSP system.“This doesn’t really help India’s nutritional security. The PDS system means the poor has access to a lot of carbohydrates but not enough of other nutrients at affordable prices,” said Alokesh Khandekar of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).Experts say the real nudge to farmers to diversify away from plentiful cereals would be to guarantee procurement of oilseeds and pulses in sufficiently large quantities. “The higher MSPs for oilseeds and pulses signals farmers about the rate which they should get, not what they actually get from the markets,” said KS Mani, a former faculty with the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-give-away-more-food-as-granaries-bulge-101623609277278.html
14-06-2021||India||ICMR eyes trial to study efficacy of therapies used in Covid treatment||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is planning an adaptive clinical trial of mild Covid-19 patients to test the safety and efficacy of several therapies used in treatment, including antiviral drugs that have been allowed under restricted use.For the process, ICMR has floated an expression of intent for hospitals and institutions to participate in the initiative, on which it will be collaborating with the Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative (DNDi) to execute the project.“ICMR along with Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative (DNDi) is proposing to conduct a multi-centre, adaptive platform trial in mild COVID-19 patients, titled ‘An open-label, multicentre, randomised, adaptive platform trial of the safety and efficacy of several therapies, including antiviral therapies, versus control in mild cases of COVID-19’,” says the document uploaded on ICMR’s website.In an adaptive clinical trial there is flexibility of making modifications in either dose, or regimen, etc prospectively based on the response as the process goes forward. It will be a phase 3 trial as therapies are already used to treat some other health conditions, and have been repurposed to treat Covid-19.According to the proposal document, the intervention arms to start with will be a combination of oral nitazoxanide (anti-parasitic) and inhaled ciclesonide (corticosteroid); and a fixed dose combination of artesunate and amodiaquine (anti-malarial), and Ivermectin (anti-parasitic).The control arm will be the standard of care arm, which is the basic care needed as opposed to the intervention arm that has new treatment options included for the disease or health condition.“An expression of intent from institutions, hospitals and other organisations interested with the facilities and capacity available to participate in the above-mentioned clinical trial, which will enrol participants from the community,” says the document.The primary objective of the trial is to compare the efficacy of alternative treatment strategies versus control on the risk of progression to moderate or severe respiratory disease.The secondary objectives are: to compare the safety of each study arm to control, up to day 21 of follow up; to compare the rate of hospitalisations due to Covid-19; to compare the time to hospitalisation due to Covid-19; to compare the rate of hospitalisations for other reason than Covid-19; to compare the disease-free rate in each study arm versus control; to compare the death rate; to compare time to worsening of oxygen saturation (SpO2 < 93); to compare the capacity to prevent severe progression between study arms; and to identify risk factors for severe progression.The study duration will be 22 days, and according to the proposal document, between 2,000 and 3,000 patients will be included… with approximately 700 participants meant to be enrolled per arm of intervention.“It’s just an expression of intent at the moment that’s put out for those who might be interested in participating in this adaptive trial that is being planned,” said an official familiar with the developments, on condition of anonymity.The deadline for receiving responses from those eager to participate is June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-eyes-trial-to-study-efficacy-of-therapies-used-in-covid-treatment-101623609037244.html
14-06-2021||India||Low positivity rate during Mahakumbh casts doubt on data accuracy||A probe launched into private labs carrying out fake Covid-19 tests to meet targets during the Mahakumbh in Haridwar will also look into apparent data inconsistencies – the 10-week average test positivity rate beginning April in Haridwar was 4%, while the figure for the rest of Uttarakhand was 13.7% – with officials saying on Sunday that “a comprehensive investigation has been ordered”.The Haridwar district administration has ordered a probe into allegations that fake Covid-19 reports were issued by private labs engaged by the Uttarakhand government to conduct tests during the festival, which was attended by millions between April 1 and April 30.During the Mahakumbh festival period, overall active cases in the state jumped from 100,911 to 179,933. During the period, Haridwar reported an average positivity rate of 2.9%, while the corresponding number for the rest of the state (excluding Haridwar) 14.2%. The test positivity rate is the percentage of people who test positive for the disease among of all samples tested.Dr SK Gupta, director of the State Medical and Health Department, said all aspects will be investigated. “We are also surprised at the low test positivity rate in Haridwar and, therefore, a comprehensive investigation has been ordered.”When asked about the wide gap between the data for Hardiwar and the entire state, Subodh Uniyal, cabinet minister and spokesperson of the state government, said the government had nothing to hide. “On the contrary, we have initiated a probe into this to know the extent to which fake testing was done. The probe will make clear how much testing was fake and how much financial bungling private labs have committed. All things will be clear after the probe report is submitted. And we are committed to having transparency in all this.”Experts said the lopsided nature of data was a matter of concern, indicating irregularities in the tests conducted in the district.Dr DD Choudhary, the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) state secretary, said it was surprising that the area that hosted the planet’s largest religious gathering reported a positivity rate that was lower than other parts of the state.Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities Foundation (SDC), said: “We knew something was not right when it came to data that was coming from Haridwar compared to other districts. Now when allegations of fake tests have come to fore, the state government should not hesitate in accepting errors and after thorough probe, take action against the erring labs and make changes in the state-wide data to nullify the anomalous data.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-positivity-rate-during-mahakumbh-casts-doubt-on-data-accuracy-101623608978606.html
14-06-2021||India||Monsoon advances across country 14 days early: IMD||Monsoon has entered almost all parts of the country, except some areas of Uttar Pradesh, parts of Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat, within a span of 10 days and its progress is at least a fortnight in advance, according to scientists at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).Monsoon is normally expected to cover all parts of the country, except a small part of Rajasthan, by July 5. It advanced to most parts of Madhya Pradesh, entire Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar, most parts of east Uttar Pradesh and some parts of west Uttar Pradesh, entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and some parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab on Sunday.It was in 2013 when the monsoon had last covered the entire country on June 13, as per dates analysed by O P Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD Pune.The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar. The conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into most parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and some more parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab in the next 48 hours, the weather body has said.There has been 25% excess rain over the country since June 1. Of the 36 subdivisions, 12 recorded ‘large excess’ rain (60% above normal), 10 recorded ‘excess’ (20% to 59%) and nine recorded ‘normal’ (-19% to 19%).“In the last two to three days, pre-monsoon rain started occurring in parts of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. Parts of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh reported heavy rain. Some parts of Uttar Pradesh also reported 10 to 12 cm rain. There is no western disturbance affecting the northwestern region now. This is only because of strong monsoon winds blowing over the region. The easterly winds have picked up, so the IMD has declared monsoon onset over many parts of northwest India,” R K Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre, said.“Monsoon has been very active this year right from its onset. The westerly and south-westerly winds are very strong over the Arabian Sea and now a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is pulling the monsoon flow. Both branches on the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal side are supporting the advancement of monsoon over the country, except in dry regions of Rajasthan and Gujarat,” Jenamani explained.The new monsoon dates were issued by the weather body last year based on the onset data from 1961 to 2019, and withdrawal data from 1971 to 2019. Until 2019, the onset and withdrawal dates were determined based on records between 1901 and 1940. As per the old monsoon progress dates, the monsoon would cover the entire country only by July 15.Monsoon’s progress over the entire country has advanced in recent years, according to IMD scientists.“We had issued new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates last year because we noticed that monsoon dates had advanced in some regions and delayed in some regions in recent years due to many factors, including climate change. The thresholds have changed now. For example, the new onset dates are delayed by three to seven days in many parts of central, west and east India because we noticed this delay while the complete coverage of the monsoon in the country has been advanced,” M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said.Rajeevan added: “This year is exceptional because the monsoon has covered parts of central India very early. Monsoon has covered the entire country by June end in the past but this year, its trajectory is exceptional. Monsoon dates have definitely changed in recent decades, it’s a very dynamic system. Its movement is strongly influenced by low pressure systems forming over the Bay of Bengal. I remember a very long time ago the first monsoon low would form over Bay of Bengal around June 15, but now it’s forming early as you can see.”“Last year too the monsoon had covered the entire country by around June 26, so it’s not rare. The movement of monsoon depends on how early a low-pressure system forms. Its active progress will sustain till the low-pressure system sustains and then the monsoon progress may weaken temporarily. In recent years, monsoon onset dates have advanced because of a change in its pattern,” D S Pai, scientist and head of climate research services at IMD Pune, said.A low pressure area is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal and north Odisha. The low pressure area is likely to move west-northwestwards across Odisha, Jharkhand and north Chhattisgarh in the next two to three days. A trough (area of low pressure) is running from central Pakistan to the centre of low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and another trough (area of low pressure) is running from the cyclonic circulation associated with low pressure area to east central Arabian Sea. An offshore trough (area of low pressure) at mean sea level is also running from north Maharashtra coast to Lakshadweep area.Under the influence of above systems, widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning is likely over most parts of northwest, central, east, northeast and south Peninsular India and over parts of west India.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over parts of northwest India during the next three days, over parts of east, central and west India during the next three to four days, over parts of northeast India during the next five days and over parts of south Peninsular India during the next four to five days. Extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also very likely over Konkan and Goa on June 14 and 15 and over coastal Karnataka and central Maharashtra on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-advances-across-country-14-days-earlyimd-101623608917274.html
14-06-2021||India||A year after his death, CBI yet to conclude its Sushant probe||A year after actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Bandra house in Mumbai, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is yet to conclude whether he died by suicide or there was foul play in his death.The premier investigation agency is currently studying a psychiatric evaluation carried out by experts of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) to assess Singh’s state of mind prior to death, people familiar with the development said.It is also examining the reports shared by CFSL on the electronic devices as well as dump data of the relevant cell tower locations to determine what happened on June 14 last year, when Singh was found dead, the officers quoted above said.Also Read | Sushant Singh Rajput dropped out of Ram-Leela, Half Girlfriend and more films. Here's whyTo be sure, the CBI investigation into Singh’s death began in the first week of August last year. Prior to that, Mumbai Police were investigating it and did not find any foul play. Subodh Jaiswal, the current CBI director, was heading Maharashtra police at that time.The 34-year-old actor was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Rajput’s father, KK Singh, lodged a complaint with the Patna police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents and her brother, Showik, on June 25. The case was later transferred to CBI. Two other agencies — the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) — are also investigating different aspects pertaining to the case.A CBI official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the investigators don’t want to rush their findings even though the medical board of AIIMS concluded in September 2020, after studying the post-mortem exam and viscera reports, that the actor’s death was a case of suicide.Dr Sudhir Gupta, head of forensic science and toxicology, AIIMS, said: “We already submitted our findings to the CBI according to which the cause of death was asphyxia due to hanging. There was no injury on Sushant Singh’s body, no struggle marks, no disturbance of clothing. Also, nothing suspicious was found in his viscera.”Gupta further said the AIIMS medical board’s findings are consistent with the post-mortem exam report of Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital in Vile Parle, Mumbai. “It’s a classic case of suicide and the whole panel was unanimous on this,” he added.Singh’s family members and lawyer Vikas Singh have, however, termed the AIIMS report faulty.A CBI officer with knowledge of the matter said the probe team sought clarifications from the AIIMS team on multiple occasions in the last 5-6 months. “It (the team) is studying the forensic, electronic and psychiatric analysis reports right now.”Vikas Singh said on Sunday: “I am only hoping that CBI is able to bring out a watertight case instead of doing a shoddy job, which doesn’t stand scrutiny of courts. It’s a little too long but maybe because CBI wants to look thoroughly into the whole thing that they are taking time.”He asked: “Why hasn’t CBI done custodial interrogation of persons staying with Sushant Singh at that time?”In a statement issued in December 2020, CBI said it was conducting the probe in a thorough and professional manner using the latest scientific techniques.“During the investigation, advanced mobile forensic equipment including the latest software has been used for extraction and analysis of relevant data available in the digital devices and also for analysis of dump data of the relevant cell tower locations related to the case,” CBI said.It visited cities including Aligarh, Faridabad, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Manesar, and Patna to collect evidence and record statements. Among those examined in the last 10 months include Singh’s friends, staff, his doctors, actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family members, several members of the film fraternity, etc.“The investigating team and senior officers have visited the place of incident on numerous occasions for better understanding of the circumstances related to the incident. The experts of CFSL, New Delhi, considered the best in their field in India, also visited and examined the place of the incident. The experts also carried out simulation exercises,” the agency said in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-cbi-yet-to-conclude-probe-into-sushant-s-death-101623608017071.html
14-06-2021||India||More curbs eased in Delhi; all shops, salons to open||Beginning Monday, Delhi will be step closer to a complete unlock as all shops will be allowed to operate through the week, restaurants will reopen for dine-in after nearly two months of closure and restricted functioning of weekly markets will be permitted, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday, with the national capital emerging from of its worst wave of Covid-19 infections so far.Government officials later said salons and barber shops, too, can restart.The chief minister said the outbreak in Delhi is largely in control but the government will continue to observe the trends in the coming weeks. “If (daily) cases continue to keep going further down, all restrictions can be scaled down in a phased manner in the coming days. However, if cases go up, we may have to impose restrictions again. I urge everyone to strictly adhere to regulations and Covid-19-appropriate behaviour,” he said at a digital press briefing.Also Read | As Delhi unlocks, bruised restaurant industry hopes for reprieveSunday’s announcement is the third time that the Delhi government has withdrawn lockdown restrictions in subsequent weeks. “From Monday 5am, more or less all economic activities will be allowed except a few,” Kejriwal added.All shops in markets, market complexes and malls can reopen from 10am to 8pm from Monday, instead of operating in an odd-even basis, the CM said. In the past week, half the shops in markets and malls were allowed to open on alternate days of the week.Now, all shops in the city — essential and non-essential — can open with no restrictions. This also includes salons and barber shops, at least two government officials said. Spas, however, will remain shut for now.Kejriwal said weekly markets — which were barred during the lockdown — can reopen but only one weekly market per municipal zone can operate in a day with up to half of the normal count of vendors at a time. Delhi has a total of 12 municipal zones.“No weekly market will be allowed to function on roadsides. The weekly markets can function at suitable nearby grounds/school grounds, where SOP/guidelines of DDMA are strictly implemented,” an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said. It also said random testing of Covid-19 will be carried out by district authorities outside these markets.Restaurants can open their doors for dine-in patrons, but only with 50% seating capacity to ensure social distancing on a “trial basis” until June 21, the order released after Kejriwal’s address said.Consumption of alcohol, tobacco, pan and gutka is prohibited in restaurants, malls and markets, the DDMA order said. A third senior DDMA official later clarified that restaurants cannot serve alcoholic drinks and bars will remain closed for now.“A very close watch and supervision will be maintained on the overall functioning of markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants,” DDMA said, warning that if cases of the disease start increasing in the city, these places will be “closed forthwith without any loss of time”.Places of worship, too, can open but devotees will not be permitted inside, the DDMA statement said.Some of the previous restrictions and relaxations will remain as they are.This means private offices can function with up to 50% staff in attendance, public buses and Delhi Metro services will run as usual at 50% seating capacity, and cabs and autorickshaws can carry two passengers per vehicle. The cap of 20 guests for weddings, which can only be held at courts or inside personal residence, will remain. Funerals can be held with up to 20 people in attendance.All educational institutes will remain shut; so will swimming pools, gymnasiums, cinema halls, banquet halls, entertainment parks, public parks and banquet halls, the order said. All gatherings — social, political, religious and academic — are still barred.Delhi went into a strict lockdown on April 19 as a mounting caseload of Covid-19 cases weighed down the health infrastructure in the city, which was firmly in the grip of its fourth wave of infections. The runaway outbreak — which was the worst the city has seen in over a year of the pandemic — forced people to scramble from hospital to hospital for medical oxygen and life-saving drugs, while bodies piled on in crematoriums across the Capital.The situation eased in early May as the central and Delhi governments scaled up health facilities and the spread of the virus slowed down, likely as an impact of the lockdown and the adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.The seven-day average of daily infections, which indicates a region’s Covid-19 curve, has fallen to 271 a day for the week ending Sunday – a drop of 99% from the April 23 peak of 25,294 average number of cases a day, the highest ever recorded in the city. On Sunday, Delhi added 255 new cases and 23 more deaths.The Delhi government, which earlier this month allowed factories and construction activities to restart, is now focusing on economic revival along with preparing in advance for a potential fifth wave of infections in the city. The Aam Aadmi Party-led government earlier said it is preparing for a peak of around 37,000 infections per day in the next outbreak by increasing the number of hospital beds, creating robust medical oxygen infrastructure and storing stocks of essential medicines.Experts say it is crucial that restrictions are withdrawn in a phased manner, crowding in public places is banned, and mask compliance is enforced strictly.“The government should be very meticulous about the phased relaxations. Hundred percent mask compliance should be mandatory, not just on paper, but it should be enforced efficiently as more public spaces open up. For markets and offices, the government should draft a policy of staggered timings to ensure that the crowd is under control. The government should keep a close watch on Covid-19 trends and take its time in lifting restrictions from closed spaces such as gyms, cinema halls, etc. Also, gatherings of any kind should not be allowed at this stage,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Vellore.Restaurant owners welcomed Sunday’s announcement, but urged the government to allow bars to open as well. Manpreet Singh, a Delhi-based restaurateur and treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI), said: “It is a welcome decision. The industry could not recover from the shock of the first lockdown by the time the second lockdown happened. The industry is in distress. We hope that in the coming days, we will witness economic recovery. We will ensure that all regulations and Covid-19 protocols are followed. But the government should also allow bars to open. Prohibiting bars, especially when liquor stores are open and dine-in is allowed, makes no sense.”The reaction from organisers of weekly markets echoed similar views. “Allowing weekly markets to finally operate is a welcome move. The government should have allowed them earlier with strict protocols. But better late than never. Weekly market vendors are in extreme distress. Many of them are migrants and they have been struggling for food and ration,” said Arbind Singh, coordinator of the National Association of Street Vendors of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-curbs-eased-all-shops-salons-to-open-101623607957018.html
14-06-2021||India||15 mths after peace pact, NIA begins probe against new rebel Bodo group||Fifteen months after 1,615 cadres of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) signed a peace pact with the Centre and laid down weapons, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has initiated a probe into the formation of a new outfit formed by some of the surrendered ultras, people familiar with the developments said.The new rebel group — National Liberation Front of Bodoland (NLFB) — is headed by MD Batha, who was among 1,615 Bodo insurgents to surrender on January 30, 2020. It is said to be operating from the jungle area of Soraibil-Jamduar in the region, the people quoted above said.Agencies came to know about the outfit in February first week this year, when during a naka (checkpost) checking at Nasraibil Bridge under Soraibil, Assam police officers stopped two vehicles (one Scorpio and one Innova).A huge cache of arms and ammunition, including five AK-56 rifles, eight magazines of AK-56, under barrel grenade launchers, Chinese hand grenades, mobile sets, etc., were recovered and six suspects – Sanmanjay Basumatary alias Bogla, Rabinath Narzary alias Ganda, Pungka Basumatary, Mwktang Basumatary, Manipual Mushahary and Swmkwr Basumatary — were arrested.Initial investigation has revealed that the arms, ammunition and explosives were being taken to the jungle for NLFB so that it can launch violent terror acts in the region. The ministry of home affairs, considering international ramifications of the matter, decided to hand over the probe to NIA recently, the people said.Raising demand for a separate Bodoland state, NLFB announced its formation in March, just ahead of assembly elections in Assam, through a press statement in which it also accused the Centre and the Assam government of not taking interest in resolving the Bodo issue.“We are still not free from the political suppression and oppression. The land, where we breathe is our land and the land which produces resources for us is our land. We want to live in this land free from the threat of our culture, tradition, language and political rights. Today, the unwilling motive of India government and the Assam government to solve the issue has compelled us to take a new decision to struggle and fight for our rights. So, today we have formed a new arms revolutionary group with a nomenclature and style National Liberation Front of Bodoland (NLFB). We swear to fight for our rights till the last drop of our blood in our vein until our demand is fulfilled,” the outfit said in March.Investigators handling the case said they believe that currently, there are 30-40 cadres in NLFB inside the jungle and some overground workers but they have access to arms and ammunition so they can be dangerous.The government signed a memorandum of settlement with NDFB and two other factions on January 27, 2020 to end the 50-year-old Bodo crisis after which 1,615 cadres surrendered with some 4,800 weapons on January 30, 2020. The outfits had disbanded themselves on March 9-10, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-mths-after-peace-pact-nia-begins-probe-against-new-rebel-bodo-group-101623605438064.html
14-06-2021||NA||Covid-19: West Bengal reports 3,984 cases of infection, 84 deaths||India on Sunday reported 80,834 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,303 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. The nation's total infections went up to 29,439,989 and the total death toll to 370,384 respectively. The active Covid-19 cases in country declined to 10,26,159.The Covid-19 pandemic’s US death toll approached 600,000, even as cases and fatalities slowed.Australia's Victoria state expects to announce further easing of Covid-19 restrictions this week, acting Premier James Merlino said on Sunday, as the state reported one new locally acquired infection for a second straight day.The origin of novel coronavirus that caused havoc around the world has remained a mystery even after 1.5 years the first case of infection was reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal reports 3,984 cases of Covid-19, 84 deathsWest Bengal reports 3984 new #COVID19 cases, 2497 recoveries and 84 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,61,257Total recoveries 14,26,710Death toll 16,896Active cases 17,651 pic.twitter.com/1G5vzMJEO9West Bengal reported 3,984 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the state-wide tally of cases to 14,61,257.Haryana extends Covid-induced lockdown till June 21Haryana govt issues order to extend the on-going Covid-19 lockdown till June 21st albeit with some relaxations in the state, reported news agency ANI.Maharashtra records 10,442 fresh Covid-19 cases, 483 deathsMaharashtra recorded 10,442 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the state-wide tally of cases to 59,08,992. The state also reported 483 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,11,104.Tamil Nadu registers 14,016 new Covid-19 cases, 267 deathsTamil Nadu reports 14,016 new #COVID cases, 25,895 recoveries and 267 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 1,49,927Total discharges: 21,74,247Death toll: 29,547 pic.twitter.com/J9BwEqHQVEKarnataka reports 7,810 cases of Covid-19, 125 deathsKarnataka reported 7, 810 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the state-wide tally to 27,65,134. 125 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 32,913, according to the state health bulletin.Manipur reports 530 cases of Covid-19, 15 deathsManipur reports 530 new #COVID cases, 726 recoveries and 15 deaths.Active cases: 8,499Total recoveries: 50,379Death toll: 974 pic.twitter.com/VtNdyCeA4RRajasthan reports 308 cases of Covid-19, 7 deathsRajasthan reported 308 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally of cases to 9,49,684. 7 deaths and 1260 recoveries have also been recorded in the last 24 hours.Kerala reports 11,584 cases of Covid-19, 206 deathsKerala reports 11,584 new #COVID cases, 17,856 recoveries and 206 deaths today.Active cases: 1,23,003Total recoveries: 25,93,625Death toll: 11,181Meghalaya reports 305 cases of Covid-19, 6 deathsMeghalaya recorded 305 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally to 41,906. 6 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 733, as per the state health bulletin.Delhi records 255 new Covid-19 cases, 23 deathsDelhi recorded 255 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative positive cases to 1,431,139. 23 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 24,823.Assam govt tells fully vaccinated employees to join office from MondayThe Assam government on Sunday asked all its employees who have received two doses of Covid- 19 vaccine to join offices from Monday even as a partial lockdown across the state will be in force.Odisha logs 4,469 new Covid-19 cases, 45 more deathsOdisha on Sunday reported 4,469 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state's tally to 8,51,782, a Health Department official said.AstraZeneca shots should be halted for over 60s too: EMA officialCountries should also avoid giving the Astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine to people over 60, the head of the EU drug regulator's Covid-19 task force was quoted on Sunday as saying, amid fears over rare blood clotting and as more vaccines become available.DMRC conducts campaign to raise awareness about benefits of vaccination at construction sitesIn a unique initiative, the Delhi Metro is organizing a campaign to raise awareness about the benefits of vaccination against Covid-19 at DMRC's construction sites across the National Capital Region (NCR).Restaurants will be allowed to open at 50% seating capacity: Arvind KejriwalRestaurants will be allowed to open at 50% seating capacity. We will observe this for one week, if cases increase, stricter restrictions to be imposed, otherwise, it will be continued: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Religious places are allowed to open: Arvind KejriwalReligious places are allowed to open but visitors are not allowed, says Arvind Kejriwal.Markets, malls and restaurants can open from tomorrow from 10am-8pm: Arvind KejriwalMarkets, malls and restaurants can open from tomorrow from 10am-8pm, says Arvind Kejriwal.No social, political sports gathering will be allowed: Arvind KejriwalNo social, political sports gathering will be allowed. Amusement parks, banquet halls will also be closed, says Arvind Kejriwal.All activities, except few, will be allowed from tomorrow after 5am: Arvind KejriwalAll activities, except few, will be allowed from tomorrow after 5am: Arvind KejriwalPuducherry records 402 Covid-19 cases, seven deathsThere was a slight dip in Covid-19 cases in Puducherry on Sunday, with the Union Territory recording 402 cases and seven deaths, taking the caseload to 1,12,528 and the toll to 1,684.Covid-19: Schools, colleges to remain closed till June 30 in BangladeshThe Bangladesh government has extended the closure of all schools and colleges till June 30, in view of a surge in coronavirus cases, according to a media report.Taiwan reports 174 new domestic Covid-19 casesTaiwan reported 174 new domestic Covid-19 infections on Sunday, down from the previous day's figure of 250.Andaman & Nicobar Islands report 10 new Covid-19 cases, 1 more deathAndaman and Nicobar Islands Covid-19 tally rose to 7,243 as 10 more people tested positive for the virus, while one new fatality pushed the coronavirus death toll in the union territory to 126, a health official said on Sunday.Ladakh records 38 new Covid-19 casesLadakh has recorded 38 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the overall tally to 19,544, while the active cases in the region dropped to 746 after 88 more patients recovered from the disease, officials said on Sunday.Arunachal reports 298 new Covid-19 cases, 5 more deathsArunachal Pradesh on Sunday reported 298 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 31,148, a Health Department official said.19,00,312 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR37,81,32,474 samples tested for Covid-19, up to 12th June 2021. Of these, 19,00,312 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Mizoram reports 346 new Covid cases, tally crosses 15,000-markMizoram's Covid-19 count crossed the 15,000-mark on Sunday as 346 more people tested positive for the infection, an official said.MK Stalin to meet PM Modi this week, request for more Covid vaccinesTamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian on Sunday said that the Chief Minister MK Stalin will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week and request for more Covid vaccines.With 80,834 new Covid-19 cases, India reported its lowest daily case in last 71 daysWith 80,834 new Covid-19 cases, India reported its lowest daily case in the last 71 days. The daily positivity rate is at 4.25%, less than 10% for 20 consecutive days. The recovery rate increases to 95.26%, in last 24 hours 1,32,062 recoveries were recorded: Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-june-13-2021-101623557393402.html
