16-06-2021||India||Cops quiz Mithun Chakrabory over poll speeches||Kolkata: Actor Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on March 7 , was questioned by the Kolkata police on Wednesday morning in connection with a case in which he has been accused of advocating violence through his campaign speeches during the recent West Bengal assembly election. The complaint was lodged on May 6 by a Kolkata resident , Mrityunjay Pal, alleging that the 71-year-old national award-winning actor used a monologue from one of his popular Bengali movies in which his character described himself as a cobra whose one bite could kill anyone. The lines, “Ami joldhorao noi, bele borao noi... ami ekta cobra: ek chobolei chhobi (I am not a harmless snake, I am a pure cobra: one bite and you are dead),” came from the 2006 movie Abhimanyu. In the same speech on March 7, Chakraborty mouthed another controversial dialogue from his 2006 superhit Bengali movie MLA Fatakeshto: “Marbo ekhane…laash porbe shoshane (I will thrash you here and you will end up at a crematorium).” The FIR alleges that such speeches played a role in inciting post-poll violence in the state. Last week, Chakraborty moved the Calcutta high court through his lawyer, seeking quashing of the charges, but the court allowed the police to question him virtually. Officers from the Maniktala police station questioned Chakraborty for around 45 minutes. “It was done during a video conference,” said Mrinal Kanti Mukherjee, officer-in-charge of Maniktala police station. He refused to divulge details. The allegation against the actor comes at a time when the BJP has alleged that the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) is sponsoring post-poll violence in the districts. Chakraborty, formerly a Rajya Sabha MP of TMC, joined the BJP at the party’s first rally at the historic Brigade Parade Grounds on March 7 where Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a mammoth crowd. He picked up the BJP flag from top leaders an hour before Modi arrived. Chakraborty used the controversial monologue in his speech on that day. It was heard again in the districts. Chakraborty campaigned extensively, leading as many as three roadshows on some days. The BJP allotted a chopper for him. TMC won the election with 213 seats while the BJP , which was hoping to win over 200, did only 77. Speculations over Chakraborty joining the BJP started on February 16 when Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat had a 90-minute meeting with the actorin Mumbai. At that time, Chakraborty had told the media that the meeting had been due for around two years and had nothing to do with politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-quiz-mithun-chakrabory-over-poll-speeches-101623868091375.html
16-06-2021||India||No arrest shield for AIADMK’s ex-minister accused of rape by Malaysian national||The Madras high court on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail petition of former Tamil Nadu minister M Manikandan who faces allegations that he lured an actor into a relationship for five years on the pretext of marriage, forced her to abort and threatened her.Justice Abdul Qudhose who rejected the petition by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader, ruled that the charges against him were grave and he could tamper with evidence given the powerful position he held in the past.Manikandan, 44, has been accused of cheating, rape, causing miscarriage, hurt and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code apart from section 67 (a) of the Information Technology Act that relates to publishing sexually explicit act online Manikandan, a doctor by qualification, won the 2016 assembly election from Ramanathapuram seat after defeating the sitting MMK lawmaker. He was inducted into J Jayalalithaa’s council of ministers as Tamil Nadu’s information technology minister, a post that he continued to hold till 2019 when he was sacked after he took on his new boss, then chief minister chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami over cable television subscription tariff.According to the prosecution, Manikandan was introduced to the actor, a Malaysian citizen, in May 2017 when she was working with the Malaysian Tourism Development Organisation. The prosecution told the court that Manikandan promised to marry her after divorcing his wife and the two stayed together in Chennai and New Delhi and travelled together. The accused impregnated her thrice, forced her to abort and continued to have sexual intervource with her in a forceful and brutal manner, the prosecution alleged.Manikandan has denied the allegations, insisting that the actor filed the First Information Report against him after “several attempts for compromise” did not succeed since he didn’t accept what he described as her “extortionist demands”.“Further, the time of the complaint, especially after the change of Government clearly shows that the defacto complainant is not aggrieved but has lodged a false complaint only with an ulterior motive to extort money,” Manikandan’s lawyer told the high court, insisting that their relationship was consensual.In his ruling, Justice Qudhose dealt at length on what constitutes consent to a sexual act and of consent given after being assured of a marriage. “On a prima facie consideration, we cannot rule out the perpetration of fraud by the petitioner (the accused) by falsely promising the defacto complainant that he will marry her in order to quench his lust for sex,” the judge said in its order, citing verdicts of the Suoreme Court.“In the case on hand, the petitioner has been charged with a heinous crime,” the court said. “If granted anticipatory bail at this preliminary stage, that too for offence of grave nature involving a woman, the investigation may get delayed as there is every possibility that the petitioner with his influence and affluence may scuttle the investigation,” the court ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-arrest-shield-for-aiadmk-s-ex-minister-accused-of-rape-by-malaysian-national-101623867913032.html
16-06-2021||India||At PAC meet, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury clashes with NDA MPs over Covid-19-related issues||The Parliament's Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on Wednesday saw heated arguments between chairman Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and MPs from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as the Congress leader Adhir wanted to raise the issue of the vaccination drive for discussion in the panel, people familiar with the development told news agency PTI.This the first time the PAC has met following the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 to finalise subjects for discussion for the current year. The people cited above said Chowdhury started reading a suo-motu statement which was critical of the Centre’s response to the second wave. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Jagdambika Pal and Janata Dal (United) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that the reading of a statement is not in line with the rules.The leaders were also opposed to taking up the Covid-19 vaccination for discussion. Following the argument, Chowdhury said if the panel feels these issues are inappropriate, he is ready to resign. The NDA MPs later suggested that the broader purpose of the PAC is to audit the revenue and the expenditure of the Union government and also to examine the audit report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) after it is laid before Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-pac-meet-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-clashes-with-nda-mps-over-covid-19-related-issues-101623866955921.html
16-06-2021||India||Only 4.09% fully vaccinated healthcare staff across Apollo Hospitals got Covid-19||Only 4.09% of the healthcare workers who had received both the doses of their vaccine developed a subsequent coronavirus infection, according to data from 43 units of Apollo Healthcare across India. Among those who had received only one shot of the vaccine, 5.14% got the infection. The data also showed a higher rate of infection among the healthcare workers who were administered the Indian variant of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. 4.32% of the people given Covishield developed an infection afterwards in comparison to 3.85% among the group administered Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Of the 1,355 who developed an infection, only 90 were hospitalised with three people needing ICU care, showing that severe disease after vaccination is rare. The infection on average happened six weeks after they received a shot. The data of 31,621 healthcare workers was collected between January 16 when the vaccination drive was rolled out and May 30. Of them, 81.9% were fully vaccinated and 18.1% had received only one dose. “This study period covered the second wave and the maximum infections occurred in April and May 2021. Despite the high infection rate in the community during this period, the vaccinated HCWs were protected.” said SV Kiran, senior vice president and head - Human Resources, Apollo Hospitals Group in a release. The proportion of fully vaccinated healthcare workers developing an infection at Apollo Group was much lower than what has been reported from public hospitals like Lok Nayak and associated Maulana Azad Medical College or Christian Medical College Vellore. A study from a Delhi hospital that has been treating only Covid-19 patients for over a year saw an 11% infection rate in vaccinated health care workers. The researchers of the study say that the higher rate of infection was likely a function of exposure to the virus at the hospital that has been treating only Covid-19 patients. The study from Christian Medical College-Vellore found 9.6% of completely vaccinated health care workers contracted the viral infection as against 27.2% of those who were unvaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-4-09-fully-vaccinated-healthcare-staff-across-apollo-hospitals-got-covid19-101623866772216.html
16-06-2021||India||Covishield vaccinated Indians not required to quarantine in South Korea, says envoy||South Korea has decided to withdraw the compulsory two-week quarantine guidelines from July 1 and only Indians, who have been vaccinated with the double dose of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine will be able to enter the country freely. Those who are vaccinated with Covaxin will have to follow quarantine guidelines for two weeks."The South Korean government has decided to withdraw the mandatory two-week quarantine if individuals have fully vaccinated. There is no need to serve a mandatory quarantine if the person took Covishield, but those vaccinated for Covaxin are required to serve a two-week quarantine," ANI quoted South Korea's envoy to India Shin Bong-Kil as saying.Also read | Explained: Why there are demands to cut the gap between two Covishield dosesNoting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been vaccinated with the home-grown shot of Covaxin, the envoy said that the restrictions are only meant for the general public and not for heads of state and high dignitaries."We have seen that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken Covaxin and if PM Modi wants to visit Korea at any point of time he can visit Korea without quarantine. High ranking officials, for example, if Chief of Army Staff India visited Korea, he does not need to be in quarantine," ANI quoted him as saying.South Korea's ambassador to India also lauded the country's decision to provide the Covid-19 vaccine for free to the neighboring countries and said it was a great gesture.Also read | India missed early alarm, let deadly coronavirus variant spread: Health experts"As a diplomat, I think it's a good gesture to provide vaccines to the surrounding countries of India... If India had not helped them, then who would have come forward to help the neighbouring countries like Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Maldives and others. I think this is a good gesture from India. We should help each other," the Korean envoy said, ANI reported.The envoy said the ties between the two countries have never been better and it has strengthened with the Covid pandemic. India will overcome the devastation caused due to the second wave of the virus, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-vaccinated-indians-not-required-to-quarantine-in-south-korea-says-envoy-101623859501943.html
16-06-2021||India||Sputnik vaccine in final leg of pilot testing, commercial launch soon: Dr Reddy’s||Russian made Sputnik V vaccine against the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is in its final leg of pilot testing in the country, the vaccine’s distributor in India, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL), announced on Wednesday to update on launch arrangements in the country.“The limited pilot soft launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India that was initiated by Dr Reddy’s in Hyderabad on May 14…is currently in its final leg as we gear up to ensure a smooth commercial launch,” said Dr Reddy’s Labs in a statement.Sputnik V vaccine is developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute with assistance from the Russian sovereign wealth fund (RDIF) that is also marketing it globally. The vaccine is a two-dose shot (but two unidentical doses unlike other two-dose vaccines) that is 91.6% effective in preventing serious illness. As part of the soft launch, the vaccine has been administered in nine cities so far, and is likely to be expanded to other cities. The cities where the vaccine is being currently administered are Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Baddi, Chennai, Miryalaguda, and Kolhapur.The slots for Sputnik V vaccination, however, are not available on the central government’s digital vaccine delivery platform, CoWin, at the moment.“Being a limited pilot phase presently, registration on CoWin is not open yet to members of the public. This will become open at the time of our commercial launch,” the company said.“This pilot phase has allowed us to test our cold storage arrangements of -18 degree Celsius temperature in these cities, CoWin integration, track and trace and other logistical arrangements ahead of our commercial launch,” it added in its statement.The company currently is making arrangements for deploying adequate cold chain units, with the last mile cold chain arrangement being validated at every hospital that the company has partnered with to administered the shots. The arrangements are being made for seamless storage and handling of the vaccine.“All necessary supply arrangements are being executed to ensure availability of both dose components in the right quantity, and at the right time, at partner hospitals. Once the plot phase is completed, Dr Reddy’s will announce the commercial launch of Sputnik V,” said the company. Dr Reddy’s entered a partnership with RDIF for distribution of first 250 million vaccine doses. The company also locally tested the vaccine on 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study”.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be given Emergency Use Authorisation in India after Covishield, Serum Institute of India’s local version of the Oxford University -AstraZeneca vaccine and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-vaccine-in-final-leg-of-pilot-testing-commercial-launch-soon-dr-reddys-101623863291838.html
16-06-2021||India||Minor killed by three friends after altercation over mobile game in Bengal||A 13-year-old boy was killed by his friends, two of whom were minors, after an altercation over a mobile game at South 24 Parganas in West Bengal. On Wednesday, two of the accused boys aged 13 years and 15 years were detained on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim’s father. The local police is looking for the third accused. “There were three boys, two of whom have been detained. We are looking for the third accused, aged 17–18 years. Preliminary investigation says they had a fight after an altercation broke out over some mobile game,” said a senior police official. The incident occurred at Mandirbazar in South 24 Parganas. The 13-year-old boy went to a friend’s house on Monday night and since then he was missing. “The family members said that when he didn’t return home, they initially thought that he had stayed back at the friend’s house. But when he didn’t return even on Tuesday morning, the family started looking for him. The police were also informed,” said a senior official. On Wednesday his body was found near the railway tracks. The family lodged a complaint based on which two boys were detained. The victim was last seen sitting on the terrace of one of the accused, according to his mother. “I saw him on the terrace of a friend’s house. I asked him when he would return home. He shouted back that he would be late as he had gone to a friend’s house after some days. But he never came back,” the victim’s mother told the media. According to the police, though the post mortem report was still pending, preliminary investigations revealed that the victim was hit on the head by some blunt object.“We are not sure what role each of the accused played in the alleged crime. We are waiting for the post mortem report. Till all of them are detained and questioned nothing can be said,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-killed-by-three-friends-after-altercation-over-mobile-game-in-bengal-101623859391808.html
16-06-2021||India||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman calls for written representations on issues, glitches with new Income Tax portal||Ahead of the proposed meeting between senior officials of the ministry of finance and Infosys on June 22, Union minister of finance (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday invited written representations regarding the issues and glitches with the new Income Tax Portal. She also shared the email address to which the issues should be addressed.Written representations are invited regarding the issues/glitches on the new Income Tax Portal on the email address fmo@nic.in latest by 7 PM on Friday, June 18, 2021. (Prior to the meeting between senior Finance Ministry officials & Infosys on June 22) https://t.co/r9UMt5Xy7T“Written representations are invited regarding the issues/glitches on the new Income Tax Portal on the email address fmo@nic.in latest by 7 PM on Friday, June 18, 2021. (Prior to the meeting between senior Finance Ministry officials & Infosys on June 22),” the finance minister’s office tweeted. The ministry had previously invited written representations too, as mentioned in its press release on Tuesday, however, the FM’s office in its tweet shared the email address ‘fmo@nic.in’ for the complaints.Earlier on Tuesday (June 15) the ministry announced that senior officials would hold a meeting with Infosys, the vendor for the new IT e-filing portal.Also read | GST Council: Covid-19 vaccines to carry 5% tax rate, says finance minister“Senior Finance Ministry officials will hold an interactive meeting with Infosys on 22nd June, 2021 on issues in the new IT e-Filing portal. Stakeholders including ICAI members, auditors, consultants & taxpayers to be part of the interaction. @Infosys team to clarify on glitches faced,” the Income Tax department had announced previously on Tuesday. “The new portal has been fraught with several technical glitches/issues leading to taxpayer inconvenience,” the ministry too had noted in a statement on the same day.On June 7, the new e-filing portal of the Income Tax department was launched in India, with the aim of “providing taxpayer convenience and a modern, seamless experience to taxpayers.” However, a day after the launch, Nirmala Sitharaman said that she noticed grievances and glitches being shared by users on Twitter about the new portal. “The much awaited e-filing portal 2.0 was launched last night at 20:45hrs. I see in my TL grievances and glitches. Hope @Infosys & @NandanNilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided. Ease in compliance for the taxpayer should be our priority,” she had tweeted on June 8.Due to the difficulties faced by the users in the electronic filing of Income Tax forms 15CA and 15CB, the ministry extended the timeline to submit the two forms till June 30 and asked taxpayers to do it manually. It also said that a new facility would later be provided in the new tax portal for generating the Document Identification Number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-calls-for-written-representations-on-issues-glitches-with-new-income-tax-portal-101623858114220.html
16-06-2021||India||Security scaled on Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border amid Maoist movement||Security has been stepped up in some areas on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border following information that Maoists will infiltrate Tamil Nadu via Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve Forest area, police said on Wednesday. Armed police personnel have been deputed on the border police stations of Thalavadi, Hassanure, Bhavanisagar, Kadambur and Burgur. The police also provided additional armed guards at ten Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border checkposts in the forest area alone and round the clock monitoring is being done to prevent entry of any Maoists into Tamil Nadu via Erode district forests, police said. According to V. Sasi Mohan, Superintendent of Police, ten specially trained commando personnel have been selected among the Armed Reserve Police and they will be sent to the forests along with armed policemen to keep vigil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-scaled-on-tamil-nadu-karnataka-border-amid-maoist-movement-101623856888425.html
16-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cabinet clears corporatisation of OFB, to be split into 7 entities and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cabinet clears corporatisation of OFB, to be split into 7 entitiesThe Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday cleared the corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) --- India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment --- to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector, top officials familiar with the developments said. Read moreMore corpses surface as swollen Ganga rapidly erodes riverbank in PrayagrajThe early arrival of monsoon this year has brought about new concerns for the district administration and the Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) as the rising level of the Ganga is rapidly eroding large chunks of the riverbank and exposing a large number of bodies, presumably of Covid-19 victims, buried in the sand near Phaphamau Ghat. Read moreCovid-19 deaths could be 8-9 times official count in TN: NGO reportDeaths due to Covid-19 are likely to have been underreported at least 8.4 to 9.8 times at six Tamil Nadu government hospitals in April and May, NGO Arappor Iyakkam has concluded in a report based on an analysis of data on the mortality there. Read moreChaos at Biden-Putin summit as US, Russian reporters yell, shove to enter roomUS President Joe Biden’s high-stakes meeting with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, got off to an unusual start on Wednesday as chaotic scenes between the competitive press corps unfolded. Read more'It gives depth to batting': Sunil Gavaskar picks India's combination for WTC final, bats for both Ashwin and JadejaQuestions are plenty as far as India’s team combination is concerned for the World Test Championship (WTC) final against New Zealand starting on June 18 at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton. For legendary India cricketer Sunil Gavaskar, it is not that difficult a choice. Read moreWatch when Shashi Kapoor repeatedly shut down questions about wife Jennifer in interview, called it 'zaati mamla'While many celebrities love to share their personal lives with their fans and the media, some old school stars believed in keeping their private lives away from limelight. Late actor Shashi Kapoor was one such an actor. Read moreSalma Hayek recalls when her pet owl coughed up a hairball on Harry StylesAs far as funny pet stories go, this one shared by Salma Hayek about her pet owl Kering is one you shouldn’t miss. The actor was speaking to television host Ellen DeGeneres on The Ellen Show when she recalled an incident involving her owl and singer Harry Styles. Read moreSpotify launches ‘Spotify Greenroom’ for Clubhouse-like live audio roomsSpotify today announced the launch of ‘Spotify Greenroom’, a platform for live audio conversations. Spotify Greenroom is essentially the Locker Room app that the company acquired earlier this year in March. Read moreWatch | 'Rules not paper tigers anymore': Twitter to face 'barrage' of FIRs, says expert||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cabinet-clears-corporatisation-of-ofb-to-be-split-into-7-entities-and-all-the-latest-news-101623854131778.html
16-06-2021||India||'Remdesivir was distributed from BJP office to save lives': Gujarat MLA to HC||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Harsh Sanghavi told the Gujarat high court on Tuesday that Remdesivir injections were made available by Bharatiya Janata Party leaders to needy patients in Surat and Navsari in south Gujarat between April 10 and 12 on grounds of "compassion and humanity" and to "save a number of lives", news agency PTI reported.The MLA was defending himself against charges of hoarding and illegally distributing the antiviral drug. It was distributed with the "sole intention of compassion and humanity" as injections were "urgently required to save a number of lives", he said in an affidavit submitted in the court.It was during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, in April and May, that the MLA was found in possession of the Remdesivir viles. It was also the time when the whole country faced a severe shortage of the drug which is used to treat serious Covid-19 patients, as its demand was high.Rejecting the charges levelled against him by Gujarat Congress leader Paresh Dhanani as a political stunt, the BJP legislator said a total of 2,506 vials of the injection were procured from a distributor on payments made on bills. It was only after proper verification of documents concerned at the BJP office in Surat that the vials were made available to patients, he said. Charges of hoarding and illegal distribution of the drug were "absolutely false, frivolous, baseless and made without verifying the correct facts," Sanghavi said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe "distribution" was done in accordance with the procedure established by law, and was in no case an "illegal, irregular or unlawful" act, the BJP legislator further clarified.Dhanani had filed the PIL in the HC seeking an independent inquiry against Sanghavi and Lok Sabha MP and Gujarat BJP president CR Paatil for “illegal and unauthorised distribution of Remdesivir injections” from the BJP's office in Surat.Paatil, who is yet to file his affidavit, was given a week by the court on Tuesday to do so. The court also made it clear that "no further time will be granted." The matter will come up for further hearing on July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-was-distributed-from-bjp-office-to-save-lives-gujarat-mla-to-hc-101623855380630.html
16-06-2021||India||Cabinet clears corporatisation of OFB, to be split into 7 entities||The Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday cleared the corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) -- India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment --- to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector, top officials familiar with the developments said. The OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories, will be split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, opto-electronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products, said one of the officials cited above, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Ordnance factories are currently engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers. “The restructuring will transform the ordnance factories into productive and profitable assets, deepen product specialisation, boost performance and improve quality, cost efficiency and accountability,” said a second official. He said it was a big step towards achieving self-reliance in defence manufacturing. The government expects the seven new professionally-managed entities - likely to come up by the year-end – to increase their share in the domestic market through better capacity utilisation and also tap new export opportunities. “The new structure will help overcome various shortcomings in the existing OFB set-up by eliminating inefficient supply chains and provide these companies incentive to become competitive. It will boost their autonomy too,” said the first official. During the last two decades, various high-level committees have underlined the need to improve the functioning of the OFB and making its factories vehicles of self-reliance for the country’s defence preparedness. Defence minister Rajnath Singh described the decision to corporatise the OFB as a “historic one.” “It is also a big decision from the point of view of national security,” Singh said. The factories controlled by the board employ at least 70,000 people who have been against the move to corporatise it. Three federations of defence civilian employees of the OFB gave a joint strike notice last August against the government’s plans to corporatise the board. The workers’ federations called off their proposed countrywide strike last year after a reconciliation meeting. Singh said there would be no change in the service conditions of the OFB employees and the government was committed to safeguarding their interests. All OFB employees (Group A, B and C) from different production units will be transferred to the corporate entities on deemed deputation for an initial period of two years without changing their service conditions as government employees, Hindustan Times has learnt. “The pension liabilities of the retirees and existing employees will continue to be borne by the government,” said the second official cited above. An empowered group of ministers (EGoM), constituted under the defence minister last year, will oversee the board’s corporatisation and also take decisions on other related matters, the official added. An internal army assessment last year flagged concerns about faulty ammunition and armament supplied by the OFB causing army casualties and bleeding the exchequer. It said 403 accidents over the previous six years resulted in the deaths of 27 soldiers and a loss of ₹960 crore. “Lack of accountability and poor quality of production result in frequent accidents. This results in injuries and death of soldiers. On an average, one accident takes place per week,” the note said. The OFB reacted to the army’s assessment as factually incorrect. In 2017, the government took action against 13 defence ministry bureaucrats from the Indian Ordnance Factories Service for the repeated failures of the ordnance factories to meet the shortfall in ammunition and poor quality of products. The Comptroller and Auditor General has also raised questions about the quality of products supplied by the OFB and its overall performance in its reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-clears-corporatisation-of-ofb-to-be-split-into-7-entities-101623856153716.html
16-06-2021||India||Net Direct Tax collections in 2021-22 grown at over 100% despite Covid-19 pandemic: Ministry of finance||The Union ministry of finance on Wednesday said that the net direct tax collections for the financial year 2021-2022 stood at ₹1,85,871 crore as of June 15. The figures, the ministry said, showed an increase of 100.4% over the collections of the same period in the previous year, which was ₹92,762 crore.In a statement announcing the figures on Wednesday evening, the ministry said “ The net Direct Tax collections include Corporation Tax (CIT) at Rs. 74,356 crore (net of refund) and Personal Income Tax(PIT) including Security Transaction Tax(STT) at Rs. 1,11,043 crore (net of refund).”✅100% growth - Net Direct Tax collections for the Financial Year 2021-22✅Rs. 28,780 crore (146% growth) Advance Tax collections for FY 2021-22✅Rs. 30,731 crore - Refunds have been issued in the FY 2021-22https://t.co/tAtvUFG8QF| @FinMinIndia | pic.twitter.com/nXlGzswijSGross collection of direct taxes (before adjusting for refunds) for the current financial year stood at ₹2,16,602 crore. It is also higher than the gross collection recorded at the corresponding period in the last year which was ₹1,37,825 crore, the ministry further said. “This includes Corporation Tax(CIT) at Rs. 96,923 crore and Personal Income Tax (PIT) including Security Transaction Tax (STT) at Rs. 1,19,197 crore,” it added.Also read | Finance ministry officials to meet Infosys over glitches in income tax portal“Minor head wise collection comprises Advance Tax of Rs. 28,780 crore, Tax Deducted at Source of Rs.1,56,824 crore, Self-Assessment Tax of Rs. 15,343 crore; Regular Assessment Tax of Rs. 14,079 crore; Dividend Distribution Tax of Rs.1086 crore and Tax under other minor heads of Rs. 491 crore,” the ministry further said in its statement.The ministry also said that the advanced tax collections for the first quarter of the current financial year stood at ₹28,780 crore, a growth of approximately 146% over the ₹11,714 crore collected in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. The ministry highlighted that this was done despite the extremely challenging initial months of the new fiscal. “This comprises Corporation Tax (CIT) at Rs. 18,358 crore and Personal Income Tax (PIT) at Rs. 10,422 crore. This amount is expected to increase as further information is received from Banks,” the ministry’s statement showed.As much as ₹30,731 crore have also been issued as refunds in the current financial year, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/net-direct-tax-collections-in-2021-22-grown-at-over-100-despite-covid-19-pandemic-ministry-of-finance-101623855061124.html
16-06-2021||India||Was trying to make a point, says Kashmiri man arrested for offending IAS official||Srinagar: A man from central Kashmir’s Ganderbal arrested on charges of promoting enmity between groups for his comments during a public outreach programme last week has been released after spending five days in jail, police said.“I was just trying to make a point to the Lt Governor’s advisor (Basheer Khan) as a fellow Kashmiri and we had met him three times before this for some developmental plans of the area,” said Sajad Rashid Sofi, a social activist, after his release.“I told Khan sahab that being a Kashmir I can only grab your collar as to why the work is not happening. I can’t tell that to an officer from outside who comes and goes,” said Sofi, who has also contested elections to local bodies in the past. “Khan responded in Urdu, saying ‘what are you saying we are all Indians here’ which gave the DC (deputy commissioner) a wrong impression that we were talking about her. It was not the case,” he said.Ganderbal deputy commissioner Krittika Jyotsna, an IAS officer from Uttar Pradesh, took offence to the remark at the programme. Krittika Jyotsna and her husband, Rahul Pandey, who is posted with the Raj Bhavan as the director of information, came to Jammu and Kashmir in February this year on inter-cadre deputation from Uttar Pradesh. Jyotsna could not be reached for her response.A police report said that Jyotsna stood up from her seat and “strongly objected” to Sofi’s comments at the June 10 outreach programme, according to PTI. Sofi was summoned and booked by the police under Section 153 of the penal code the same night for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups.Sofi was granted bail on Saturday but stayed in custody after the police invoked sections 107 and 151 under which a person can be placed under preventive detention on the directions of an executive magistrate if there is an apprehension of breach of peace.Many political leaders and parties had strongly criticised Sofi’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-trying-to-make-a-point-says-kashmiri-man-arrested-for-offending-iasofficial-101623855371415.html
16-06-2021||India||Congress to launch campaign to help Covid-affected people, gather data on dead||The Congress on Wednesday announced that it will undertake a nationwide outreach campaign to help those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and to gather data on coronavirus infected patients and the deceased.In a statement, Congress general secretary, organization, K C Venugopal said party president Sonia Gandhi and state unit presidents will also be writing condolence letters to the next of kin of those who passed away due to Covid."This outreach programme aims to cover approximately three crore households in 30 days, thereby indirectly touching approximately 12 crore people at an average of four members per family," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageVenugopal said the total expected feet on ground would be 1,51,340 at the peak of the campaign.Pursuant to extensive humanitarian and service driven efforts of crores of Congress men and women, driven by the national Covid task force, Pradesh Congress Committees (PCCs) and Covid relief committees, he said, the Congress has decided to launch a nationwide outreach campaign."Through this effort, the party seeks to reach out to frontline health workers as also to those severely affected by the pandemic with a helping hand," Venugopal said.A subsidiary aim is also to gather primary data of Covid-affected families, patients and the deceased, he said.As part of the campaign, PCCs in states will be setting up a control room at their respective offices, according to Venugopal."PCCs and district congress committees (DCCs) and city congress committees (CCCs) will be appointing a minimum of one point person as a coordinator per block or corporation or ward to monitor activities in his/her block for the duration of the campaign," the senior Congress leader said.Also Read: Regeneron cocktail treatment reduces death risk in Covid patients, says studyThe block or town area presidents will be further identifying 10 workers who were active in helping people during the pandemic in every block and every town. They will designate them as 'Covid warriors' to collect data from the ground and relay the information collected through BCCs, DCCs and PCCs to the All India Congress Committee (AICC) control room or the party's data department, he said.The campaign will cover 7,199 blocks and 7,935 towns in 736 districts of the country, Venugopal said.He said an information campaign on Covid through leaflets and SMS services will also be run to create awareness among people as also for COVID-affected families for a period of 30 days.In coordination with the AICC social media team, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, and all former legislators will be holding virtual meetings to educate, motivate and explain the task to these identified 'Covid warriors'.Each designated 'Covid warrior' is expected to visit a minimum of 10 to 15 households per day during the period of 30 days, expectedly covering a total of not less than 200 households in 30 days, Venugopal said.They will be "carrying a questionnaire with questions like -- 'Was anyone from your family infected by Covid-19; Has any family member died due to Covid-19, their name and age; Was he/she the breadwinner of the family; Has anyone in your family lost his/her job due to Covid-19 lockdown; Any support that they may be needing (ration, job, education, financial support) etc.", he said.Venugopal said the teams visiting the families in consultation with PCCs will facilitate delivery of government-approved medicine kits, masks and sanitisers.The teams will also help in the delivery of ration and food for extremely vulnerable families and also help arrange vaccination registration and coordinate with ambulance service as provided by the Congress in affected areas, he saod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-campaign-to-help-covid-affected-people-gather-data-on-dead-101623850798183.html
16-06-2021||India||GMR Hyderabad International Airport uses video analytics for passenger safety amid Covid-19||In order to ensure Covid-19 pandemic protocols complaince at the airport for the safety of passengers and staff, GMR Hyderabad International Airport(GHIAL) implemented Queue Management Systems combining IoT security cameras and AI (artificial intelligence) video analytics that help improve passenger experience by reducing waiting time at passenger touchpoints.Realising that queue management at various touchpoints of the airport such as entry, check-in, security, immigration, and reducing passenger wait time is key to enhanced passenger experience and safety, the GHIAL has collaborated with technology partner AllGoVision Technologies, in this implementation, a press release issued by GHIAL said.The smart queue management solution uses advanced camera-based Video Analytics which helps the GMR Hyderabad International Airport staff to constantly monitor various key parameters such as peak passenger waiting time and take corrective actions as needed which are very essential for the safety of both passengers and airport staff in these pandemic times.The advanced video analytics platform analyses the video feed from various cameras and uses Deep Learning based Artificial Intelligence (AI) models to accurately estimate passenger statistics over time. In addition to Queue Management analytics, GHIAL is also using the technology for enhanced security such as camera tampering, loitering, parking violation, object classification, wrong-way detection, and left object detection.Pradeep Panicker, CEO, GHIAL, said, "GHIAL has adopted a slew of safety measures to ensure our passengers feel safe when they transit through the airport. With this smart queue management technology, security and safety takes the airport experience one notch higher and creates passenger confidence while ensuring seamless operations."K Srinivasan, the CEO, AllGoVision, said, "Leveraging the Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning technology, our detailed Queue Management solution aids in providing accurate business intelligence for managing people at Airport entrance, service counters, security booths, and immigration counters."GHIAL is a joint venture company promoted by the GMR Group (63 per cent) in partnership with the Airports Authority of India (13 per cent), the government of Telangana (13 per cent) and Malaysia Airports Holdings Berhad (11 per cent), read the release.The Company was incorporated to design, finance, build, operate and maintain a world-class Greenfield airport at Shamshabad, Hyderabad.Hyderabad airport was commissioned in a record time of 31 months in March 2008, with an initial capacity of 12 million passengers per annum (MPPA) and 1,50,000 MT of cargo handling capacity per annum. The Project has the flexibility to increase capacity to accommodate over 40 MPPA and shall be developed in a phased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-airport-uses-video-analytics-for-passenger-safety-amid-covid-101623850880829.html
16-06-2021||India||Bengal to get 2 makeshift Covid hospitals with ₹41cr from PM CARES Fund||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Wednesday announced that over ₹41 crore have been allocated from the PM CARES Fund to establish two 250-bedmakeshift Covid Hospitals in Murshidabad and Kalyani in West Bengal. While the hospitals will be set up by DRDO, PMO said that certain infrastructure support would also be given by the state government and the Centre.“This proposal will augment health infrastructure in West Bengal to effectively manage the COVID situation,” the PMO said in a statement. To address the medical staff shortage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also launch a Customized Crash Course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers on June 18. The course will be imparted at 111 training centres spread over 26 states.“The programme aims to skill and upskill over one lakh Covid warriors across the country. The training will be imparted to Covid warriors in six customised job roles namely Home Care Support, Basic Care Support, Advanced Care Support, Emergency Care Support, Sample Collection Support, and Medical Equipment Support,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-get-2-makeshift-covid-hospitals-with-rs-41cr-from-pm-cares-fund-101623851352284.html
16-06-2021||India||Covid-19 deaths could be 8-9 times official count in TN: NGO report||Deaths due to Covid-19 are likely to have been underreported at least 8.4 to 9.8 times at six Tamil Nadu government hospitals in April and May, NGO Arappor Iyakkam has concluded in a report based on an analysis of data on the mortality there. The report has approximated the underreporting for the entire state and concluded the likely number of deaths due to Covid in Tamil Nadu may be between 108,721 and 126,841 against the reported number of 12,943.“There was no other major disease or cause that could have led to this drastic increase in deaths during this time other than Covid-19,” said Arappor Iyakkam founder Jayaram Venkatesan.Also Read | ‘Will set party straight’, says Sasikala in clipThe report said only six of the hospitals uploaded month-wise death certificates online and they represented all regions of Tamil Nadu. The report has also analysed the daily data on fatalities at the hospitals in 2019, 2020, and 2021 from January to May.The report said the number of death certificates issued at these hospitals in April and May was 4,437 and 3,261 for 2019 and 2020. The number has increased to 11, 699 this year.The report said there has been an increase of at least 8,438 deaths in April and May this year, compared to these months in 2020. The report said Covid-19 related deaths at the six hospitals during the same period by the health department were just 863.The second Covid-19 wave peaked in May in Tamil Nadu. A lockdown was imposed in the state on May 10 to check the wave. The state has begun opening up in a staggered manner from Tuesday.The report said the increased mortality is directly proportional to the rise in the cases during the second wave. “Therefore, the increased numbers (of fatalities) in April and May compared to previous years are most likely due to Covid and its complications,” the report said. It added the number of likely deaths due to Covid-19 and its complications in these six hospitals are between 7,262 and 8,438 in April and May. “Given the government has consistently underreported (deaths) in each of the hospitals, it could be attributed that this phenomenon exists throughout the state as well,” the report said.State health minister M Subramanian said they do not need to hide Covid-19 deaths and questioned what they will achieve by underreporting. “...We have been following ICMR guidelines for certifying Covid-19 deaths.” He said they do not want to dismiss the report, so they are directing an investigation in these hospitals. “We only want to be transparent.”Also Read | Covid-19 has created an ‘ecosystem’ of innovation in India: Kiran Mazumdar-ShawThere have been reports of underreporting of deaths also from other states. Dr A Rathinavel, the dean of Government Rajaji Hospital (Madurai), which is one of the six hospitals, denied underreporting of deaths. “We are 100% following ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines (on Covid mortality),” he said.The hospital issued 3,152 certificates for deaths in April and May out of which only 172 were attributed to Covid-19. “The swab test of a person has to be positive for the death to be certified as Covid-19 related,” said Rathinavel.Subramanian last week cited ICMR guidelines and said even if a patient is positive at the time of admission to a hospital and turns negative before death, it will not be considered as a Covid-19 fatality.Coimbatore Medical College Hospital dean A Nirmala said they certify causes of death after analysing every individual patient and not by just following guidelines. “Every day, our panel of doctors meets to analyse the deaths. Deaths can be due to incidental Covid which we brand as fatalities due to other causes. For instance, an incidental death is directly due to other causes such as uncontrolled hypertension, kidney disease. While treating that cause we have to take a swab. If it turns positive but the patient does not have Covid-19 related symptoms, it will be reported as death due to other causes. Just because people are infected, it does not mean they are dying due to Covid-19 alone.”The Coimbatore hospital issued 3,464 death certificates in April and May out of which only 323 related to Covid-19.Arappor Iyakkam said it has sent the report to chief minister MK Stalin and Subramanian while asking the government to provide data on deaths at hospitals and homes compared to the previous years for the state.The NGO said it carried out the exercise to help families avail compensation announced by the government in cases of Covid-19 deaths. “Underreporting can cause a huge problem for thousands and thousands of families who require documentation to avail compensation,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-deaths-could-be-8-9-times-official-count-in-tnngoreport-101623850451114.html
16-06-2021||India||Museum dedicated to India's maritime history to come up in Gujarat||A museum dedicated to the country's 5,000-year maritime history will be set up in Gujarat's Lothal by the Culture Ministry in collaboration with the shipping and port ministry, officials said on Wednesday.The two ministries signed a Memorandum of Understanding for 'Cooperation in Development of National Maritime Heritage Complex (NMHC) at Lothal, Gujarat' on Wednesday.According to a statement from the Culture Ministry, the world-class facility will be developed in the vicinity of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) site in Lothal, located about 80 km away from Ahmedabad.NMHC would be developed as an international tourist destination where the maritime heritage of India -- from ancient to modern times -- would be showcased and an edutainment approach using the latest technology would be adopted to spread awareness about the country's maritime heritage, it said.The NMHC project has been taken up under the unique and innovative projects category of the Sagarmala programme under MoSPW. The Government of Gujarat has transferred 375 acres of land in Saragvada village on lease for 99 years at a token rate to MoSPW."The complex will be showcasing the thousands of year old maritime strength of India," said Culture Minister Prahlad Patel.Renowned architect Hafeez Contractor has been selected as the Principal Project Consultant to prepare a master plan and requisite design and engineering documents for inviting EPC tenders and project management consultancy.NMHC would be developed in an area of about 400 acres with various unique structures such as the National Maritime Heritage Museum, lighthouse museum, heritage theme park, museum-themed hotels, maritime-themed eco-resorts and maritime institute among others which would be developed in a phased manner.The unique feature of NMHC is the recreation of ancient Lothal city, which was one of the prominent cities of the Indus valley civilization."NMHC is to be developed as a first of its kind in the country dedicated to the legacy of the maritime heritage of India, to showcase India's rich and diverse maritime glory," Mansukh Mandaviya, the Minister of MoPSW said during the signing ceremony.The museum is set to be completed in three years from the date the project commences.As a part of the museum, 14 galleries have been proposed to exhibit the evolution of India's maritime heritage during various eras.Key galleries include mythologies and wilderness of Indian Ocean, Harappans: The Pioneer Master Seafarers, Indian Ocean: an Interactive Sphere, India's contact with the Roman World: The Quest for the Spice, Trade, Commerce and Cultural Interaction with China and South-East Asia.Other notable galleries that have been proposed are Age of Emporia Contact, Landing of Vasco da Gama/The Arrival of the Europeans, Maratha Naval Power, Emergence of Indian Navy, Maritime Traditions of Gujarat, Traditional Ship Building and Navigation Techniques of India, Heritage of the Coastal Communities of India and Indian Shipping: Post Independence (Shipping Industries, Sagarmala, contemporary Ports, Port Association of India).It is also proposed to have a pavilion for each coastal states and union territories at NMHC to showcase the artefacts and maritime heritage of the states and union territories.The Culture Ministry will facilitate the fundraising for NMHC through National Culture Fund (NCF). The services of NCF shall be used to receive funds by way of grant, donation, CSR and foreign contribution.Artefacts from Lothal and Dholavira will also be displayed at the NMHC complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/museum-dedicated-to-india-s-maritime-history-to-come-up-in-gujarat-101623845059813.html
16-06-2021||India||‘May 2021 is as horrific as November 1918, during the influenza pandemic’||The Age of Pandemics author Chinmay Tumbe, who studied death registrations in five states, found they exceed by at least 10 times the official toll from the second wave of Covid-19. Tumbe, a professor at the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about his study amid reports of underreporting of Covid-19 deaths. Edited excerpts:What did you find when you looked at the data from Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Madhya Pradesh?If you just look at four states...Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu...from January 1 to roughly May 31, (they) cumulatively and collectively recorded over half a million excess deaths. More than 500,000 excess deaths as compared to...46,000 deaths, which were reported of Covid. Now, that is a large difference if you multiply 46,000 to 10, you get 460,000. So, this is a factor of more than 10. Now, not all excess deaths need to be of Covid... but if you plot a monthly or annual distribution chart of deaths in India for the last 50 years, you see very little variation from month to month in general in non-pandemic times. One of the things that pandemics do is precisely increase death substantially. That is why pandemics are so dangerous. So, if you look at any state government chart, you will see very little variation across months, even across years. Obviously, as the population is growing, fewer deaths will grow which poses some trend line.Also Read | The growing urban bias of India’s vaccination driveNow when you get numbers from Madhya Pradesh or Andhra Pradesh, where you see more deaths in May. ...May 2021 is as horrific as November 1918, hundred years back during the influenza pandemic...because I’ve looked at those numbers as well...that’s precisely the kind of spikes that you’ve seen in the data when you see for the last 20 years...months are reporting the same death rates, and then suddenly you see three or five times more.So, it’s clearly the signature of the pandemic... these 500,000 excess deaths...are not accidents. They’re definitely related to the pandemic. It could be, of course, that some of these deaths are of people who got a heart attack and could not get to the hospital in time because there’s a lockdown or the hospitals were full of other patients. So, there’s obviously some diversion of resources that have claimed deaths. But there’s no doubt that the bulk of this is Covid, and especially because of massive deaths in rural areas on a per capita basis.Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are much more rural than Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. You’re seeing a much higher excess deaths per capita ratio. What this also tells you is because we are counting Covid dead only. ...a lot of people who simply didn’t have testing facilities can never be counted as a Covid death, even if they actually got Covid. So, this is an important point to keep in mind and that is why excess deaths is a very powerful metric...it’s a very horrifying statistic because these four states comprise 300 million people. That’s about the size of the US.And you’re seeing deaths which are about the same as were reported for the US, which is about half a million deaths. So, all this while people say, you know, India’s death numbers are not very high, and you can discount it because on a per capita basis they are very low. Unfortunately, now what we’re finding is that on a per capita basis, India ranks very badly for the data that is available.The thing that strikes immediately is that 10 times figure. Now I know that you’ve just studied four or five states. But is it, if we extrapolate, that means that at the moment 370,000 death figures could be actually 10 times more?I think you have to break down wave one and wave two. So, what we should be doing is ideally look at 2020 and 2021 very differently. So that 370,000 figure you said is basically about, let us say, 210,000 for this year. Right. And 150,000 or 170,000 deaths as reported for the first year. Now there is some work that suggests that the underreporting factors in the first year were very low. You know, because these underreporting factors themselves vary from state to state. ...It will also vary from wave to wave. So, I don’t think we should be applying this factor of 10 to 370,000.Could you apply it to, say 200,000 for wave two? I’m focusing right now on wave two because that is where really the pandemic hit us very hard. And so, if we just focus on wave two, how plausible is 10 times as an all-India factor?We still have data from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, and so many states to come, where the underreporting factors are, in my view, definitely going to be substantially more than what we’re seeing for Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. So, while obviously, one has to wait for the eventual data, clearly, this is going to be now a lower bound for an all-India factor and that is why it’s very horrific. So, I wouldn’t multiply 10 with 370,000 of the overall deaths so far. But if you want to multiply 10 with, say, 180 or 200,000 deaths of wave two, because my analysis is only for wave two, that is 2021. That’s the kind of number you see.Also Read | Ajit Singh: Face of Jat politics in UP and champion of farmers’ rightsSo, whereas earlier, I was placing a lower bound estimate of 1,000,000 excess deaths based on just the stuff I’ve done on Gujarat, which is only 5% of India. Now we have more data for a longer period, so I’m revising that lower bound from 1 to 1.5 million.So how are you calculating this? Just to be sure, because, you know, when the Economist came out with its data and said the other factor was five to seven times the government suggested data, the government immediately pushed back saying, no, it’s wrong. Would you like to explain your particular study, which has looked at particular states, what is the data that you are going by yet?The data comes from the civil registration system. This is where the deaths are registered. Think of it as when somebody dies, you get a death certificate issued. So, all those death certificates are counted. And so, we have a process called death registration. Obviously, this varies from state to state. In some states, virtually every death is registered while in some states, it is less. But the fact is that this is one of the most scientific ways to calculate deaths to give some sense of how much the pandemic really hit. I mean, you can’t just think that nobody died of Covid in India if you supposedly did not have a testing mechanism. Think of the 1918 pandemic. They didn’t have any testing mechanism. They in fact used more common sense and said if a person died of fever in October-November 1918, it must be a very high chance that it was influenza which we are not doing.You’re saying you have to test positive to be counted as Covid dead. And then there’s an ICMR protocol on how you deal with comorbidities, which is one classically many states are using for underreporting and so on.Also Read | Ownership patterns prevent intervention to repair monumentsBut my point is that a lot of India does not have access to testing facilities, especially in rural India. So, if you go with a strict approach to ICMR protocol, we are missing a huge part of the deaths. We basically have to assume that if deaths are going up by five times in May, it means that most of it is likely to be Covid, and it’s quite likely that none of those people actually tested for it because the testing facilities were not there in the first place.So, this data that we are using comes from death certificates and I would say, it is probably one of the most scientific methods to do.There is another method... the intercensal growth rate method, which is using census data. And so, you might ask, but look, the bodies floating in the Ganga, they never left a death certificate. Even those deaths could be estimated to a certain extent. When the next census is conducted, we can find the shortfall in certain age cohorts.If you compare 2001 to the next census, you can find out how many people are missing in villages and so on. And that is why that is an additional method to calculate deaths. So, for example, I did this for the 1918 pandemic, the first estimate was six million, and this was based on something like fever, which was actually a better way to understand the severity than now. But that six million figure was revised again by various researchers and now the number is 20 million.So, the underreporting factor at that time was three, which is lower than what it is now because people use a very simple idea of fever, just a fever. Today, we have a very stringent norm to be classified as Covid dead; you have to be tested positive then you should have died because of Covid. So, it’s a very stringent claim. I think the government needs to just ensure that all the statistics which researchers have been asking the government to release for more than one and a half years now, should be open.If the government does want the scientific analysis of this, they just have to make all the registration statistics public, which is already there online. They just have to literally sign a document saying just go and make it public, and then it’s up to researchers to make the decisions.Tamil Nadu did not really have many excess deaths and it wasn’t really that much of a difference. Right? Does that show that perhaps they had a better way of counting their deaths and ascribing it to Covid than perhaps how the other states were doing it?Yeah, I think the difference in these four states is that if you look at Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, they have an urbanisation rate of 30%. If you look at Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, they have an urbanisation rate of 50%.Now, here is one speculation and one theory as to the numbers we’re seeing, the more urban the state, the lower the underreporting factor you’re likely to see. This is because there are going to be better testing facilities. People are going to be saved more because there are more hospitals, so that’s a simple reason.In wave one, the virus did not go to rural areas. Mumbai was a big problem last year. Thus, we can characterise wave one as predominantly urban-centric. But wave two has moved to rural areas where there are simply no testing facilities. And so that is why what we have observed, and that is why researchers have been trying for the last year asking to make the registration statistics visible. What is visible today are the Covid numbers that are being tested.Also Read | TMC wants to expand beyond Bengal. But it won’t be easyBut that’s a huge urban bias towards places that have testing facilities. So, imagine a state which has no testing available, but that doesn’t mean that nobody has died of Covid.Compared to the rest of the world, where do we stand in the underreporting?Oh, very bad. In wave two very, very bad, again. As I said, you have to separate out waves one and two, but there have been estimates for the US, for the richer countries, which, by the way, have been publishing these registration statistics on a very regular basis. Those studies are putting the underreporting factors from 1.5 to 2. That’s the kind of range. There’s a study that says that in wave one in India, the underreporting factor could be 2.2. In Mumbai, there are studies for 2020 where many places have a factor excess of 1.6. So that’s the kind of underreporting you would get in, you know, in normal times, in urban areas with good medical facilities, good testing facilities. These underreporting factors, however, are still very large. Just for these four states, if you’re getting a factor of 11 cumulatively, that’s one of the highest in the world, I would imagine.And explain to people who are just saying, you know, why does it matter so much? I mean, people are dying. They’re going to die anyway. Why is it important to know exactly how it stands or know the exact number of people who died? What would you say to them?There are two reasons. One is, if we know the places which have been hit very hard, that’s precisely the places where we need to invest more if at all there is a third wave coming. Because now what we need to do is a plan for the next wave. So, we need to firstly get a sense of which are the districts of India which were caught up and that’s what these numbers are going to tell us, not the official numbers. The official numbers tell you districts, you know, with virtually zero deaths, but huge excess mortality. So, one it helps you in better planning for the next wave or two. Second thing is that, If we make these numbers publicly available regularly, we can actually start identifying when the wave is going to pick up because then we have an addition. We just don’t have the numbers. We have just this excess death number to see if it’s going up in precisely those places that don’t have the facilities. We can then start diverting resources and give a simple example, we can use the official Covid numbers for that oxygen allocation.Now, just think of it as saying that actually more oxygen was technically required in Madhya Pradesh, it has huge relevance. This is not just an academic matter. It’s a matter which can save lives and that’s why we need to publish these statistics as soon as possible.Apart from more transparency of publishing in all the deaths that happen, is there anything else that we need for better covid management?I think, broadly put, there are maybe two or three things that you can do better than what we are doing. One is in terms of investing in tracking new mutations. I think why wave two was so different was primarily because of this strain and we do not track the mutations very well. This is also a lesson from past pandemics. So, investment in understanding the strain varieties that are in the public. Increasing testing capacity, even more, would be the second while the third is to ramp up the facilities. Hopefully, there’s no third wave, but if it is, you know, you don’t want to be in the same situation that we faced in the second wave. What people are now saying is, you know, the first wave, nobody expected and now people are saying again in the second wave that nobody expected. Then, I don’t know which way people are going to expect. The idea should be to now ramp up as much as possible, before a third wave if at all it materializes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-2021-is-as-horrific-as-november-1918-during-the-influenza-pandemic-101623849671033.html
16-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination | 'Nobody will be left out due to digital barrier': NHA CEO||As the country rushes to get its citizens vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the earliest, doubts over the reach of the vaccine in rural areas and other interiors have cropped up. There are fears that the digital divide existing in the country may become a hurdle in the way of mass inoculation in spite of there being an awareness about vaccination at the ground level.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, National Health Authority (NHA) CEO R S Sharma on Wednesday said nobody would be left out of the inoculation process due to the digital divide, news agency ANI reported. "There does exist a digital divide in the country but I do not think that anybody who wants to get vaccinated will be left out because of the digital barrier," he said."Since the beginning, we have allowed walk-ins, which means one does not have to register. We have also opened the call centre at the National Health Authority as well as assisted registration through common service centres," he said, adding that digital systems do not discriminate between people based on their knowledge of the system.Also Read: India’s daily Covid tally rises marginally to 62,224; new fatalities at 2,542 while active cases slump below 900,000"People in villages are doing digital transactions and these systems are not more complicated. Neither language nor not having a mobile phone should be a barrier," Sharma added. To provide better services to its users, CoWin has integrated over 12 languages in its system, ANI reported. It has issued 25.69 crore vaccination certificates till date.Meanwhile, out of the total 26,19,72,014 people in the country who have got their vaccination, around 80% were inoculated through walk-ins, ANI reported.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-will-be-left-out-due-to-digital-barrier-nha-ceo-on-covid-19-vaccination-101623846970629.html
16-06-2021||India||Goa Congress chief says central leadership to decide on pre-poll alliances||Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) chief Girish Chodankar on Wednesday said a decision on a pre-poll alliance for the 2022 state Assembly elections will be taken by the party's central leadership after consulting local leaders and cadres. Chodankar's statement comes ahead of the four-day visit of All India Congress Committee (AICC) observer Dinesh Gundu Rao, who will arrive in Goa on Thursday to work on reorganising the party. "The central leadership will take a decision on alliance after consulting local leaders, cadres and taking people's opinion,” Chodankar said. When asked about the Goa Forward Party's willingness for a pre-poll alliance with the Congress, he said the party's state has nothing to do with the decision on an alliance, it will only provide inputs. Chodankar had tendered his resignation from the post of GPCC president, after the party's defeat in Zilla Panchayat election, which is yet to be accepted by the party high command. The Congress has a “strong presence” in 30 (out of 40) Assembly constituencies and can add four to five more constituencies to its kitty in the coming days, the party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-congress-chief-says-central-leadership-to-decide-on-pre-poll-alliances-101623847956690.html
16-06-2021||India||Another lion dies of Covid-19 in Vandalur Zoo near Chennai||A second Asiatic lion succumbed to the Covid-19 virus at the Arignar Anna Zoological Park, more popularly known as the Vandalur Zoo, on the outskirts of Chennai. A 12-year-old lion, named Pathmanathan passed away at about 10.15 am on Wednesday, a statement from the zoo indicated. The samples of the lion tested positive for the coronavirus infection on June 3 as per a report of the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal. “The lion was under intensive treatment since then,” the zoo’s statement read. The lion was housed in the lion safari area of the zoo.Earlier, on June 3, a 9-year-old lioness, Neela died in the same zoo after a Covid-19 outbreak among Asiatic lions was reported. Nine lions had tested positive for the infection in the zoo at that time. Senior vets from the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) are supervising the treatment. Following this, as a precautionary measure, samples from 28 elephants from the Theppakadu camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve were collected and sent for Covid-19 testing last week. As preventive measures and for appropriate treatment, the Vandalur Zoo is taking the help of Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology which is an approved animal SARS CoV-2 virus sequencing centre to sequence this variant of the virus for better understanding of zoonotic transmission. The Tamil Nadu government had closed all zoos from April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-lion-dies-of-covid-19-in-vandalur-zoo-near-chennai-101623848830887.html
16-06-2021||India||PM Modi invites world to invest in India based on country’s 5 pillars: Talent, market, capital, ecosystem, openness||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday invited the world to invest in India and listed what he called as the “five pillars” -- talent, market, capital, ecosystem and a culture of openness -- to do so. Modi also heaped praises for the tech and start-up sectors of the country. He made the remarks during his keynote address at the fifth edition of the VivaTech Summit on Wednesday evening.“I invite the world to invest in India based on the five pillars of: Talent, Market, Capital, Eco-system and, Culture of openness,” Modi said in his address, assuring that the country offers what the innovators and investors needed.“India's strides in the world of tech and start-up are well-known. Our nation is home to one of the world's largest start-up eco systems. Several unicorns have come up in recent years. Indian tech-talent pool is famous across the world. Indian youth have given tech solutions to some of the world's most pressing problems,” he added.Also read | India adaptable, agile even amid Covid-19 pandemic: PM Modi at VivaTechCongratulating the organisers of the event, Modi said that the platform reflected the “technological vision of France.” He also called technology and digital as the two emerging areas of close cooperation with France among the many other wide range of topics. “Many youngsters saw the French Open with great enthusiasm. One of India's tech companies, Infosys provided tech support for the tournament. Likewise, the French Company Atos is involved in a project for making the fastest supercomputer in India. Whether it is France's Capgemini or India's TCS and Wipro, our IT talent is serving companies and citizens all over the world,” Modi said.Supporting his call for investments, Modi highlighted that the digital expansion is powered by creating a state-of-the-art public digital infrastructure in India. Mentioning that public wifi networks across the country are coming up, Modi said that 523,000km long fibre optic cables connected the 156,000 village councils in the country. “Likewise, India is working actively to nurture a culture of innovation. There are state-of-the-art innovation labs in Seven Thousand Five Hundred schools under the Atal Innovation Mission,” he added.VivaTech, which occurs in Paris every year, is a digital and startup event in Europe, jointly organized by Publicis Groupe, a prominent advertising and marketing conglomerate, and Les Echos, a leading French media group. Modi was invited as a guest of honour to deliver the keynote address at the event this year, his office (PMO) had said earlier on Tuesday. He addressed the event virtually which was also attended by French President Emmanuel Macron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invites-world-to-invest-in-india-based-on-country-s-5-pillars-talent-market-capital-ecosystem-openness-101623847966119.html
16-06-2021||India||Sasikala's divide and rule policy won't work with AIADMK: Senior leader D Jayakumar||Days after AIADMK expelled 16 of its party members for interacting with former party president Sasikala, party's leader D Jayakumar said that Sasikala is following a policy of divide and rule which will not work in AIADMK."Sasikala isn't a member of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). How can she inherit the party? Earlier she had said that she will stay away from politics. We got a better vote bank in the last Assembly polls. O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami are doing good," Jayakumar told reporters here."Sasikala is following the policy of divide and rule which will not work in AIADMK. Whoever is going against the party's law can't be accepted. Action has been taken against those who went away from abiding law of AIADMK," he said.In an audio clip released by Sasikala's Personal Assistant Karthikeyan yesterday, Sasikala said, "I will definitely come to save AIADMK party because its cadres are important for me. It's time now to come forward and I'll do it. Sure, when I'll come, good things will happen."On June 14, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) expelled sixteen of its party functionaries who interacted with VK Sasikala.This comes after the Legislature Party meeting had passed a resolution calling for actions against those who spoke to Sasikala, a close-aid of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa. The party also expelled party spokesperson V Pugazhendi, stating that the leader was against the party.AIADMK, in its statement earlier termed Sasikala's telephonic conversations with its cadre as "drama" and stated: "The party will never destroy itself for the desires of one family."Earlier, on May 30, Sasikala had dropped enough hints of returning to active politics after the Covid-19 pandemic. In an audio clip of a phone conversation between Sasikala and one of the party cadres, which has gone viral on social media, the leader was heard confirming her plans of her return into politics. This followed after AIADMK lost the power in Tamil Nadu elections to DMK.The phone call has been verified by Janarthanan, the personal assistant for AMMK General Secretary TTV Dinakaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikalas-divide-and-rule-policy-won-t-work-with-aiadmk-senior-leader-d-jayakumar-101623847035070.html
16-06-2021||India||TMC wants to expand beyond Bengal. But it won’t be easy||West Bengal chief minister (CM) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee’s plans to contest polls in other states with a target to win assembly elections has triggered questions about the limitations of regional parties beyond their regions, whether TMC will able to break the pattern, and the possible areas of its expansion.The CM’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who is seen as the driving force behind the expansion plan, announced on June 8 that his party will set up units in other states with the sole aim to win elections and face the BJP head-on. He said, “If we go to any state we will not do so only to win one or two seats. We want to be the platform of choice for people of that state.”He did not specify any region but, on Tuesday, a senior TMC leader said, “We are exploring the possibility of contesting in some big states rather than eyeing the smaller ones first.”Buoyed by the resounding victory over the BJP in Bengal, the TMC has renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor — the renewed contract will cover the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which Banerjee wishes to see her party playing a bigger role in national politics. Kishor has, on paper, left I-Pac to let his team function on its own. Top TMC leaders told HT that Kishor will play a different role from now on, though this wasn’t specified.To political observers, the TMC’s announcement is ambitious as no regional party has so far been able to form government outside the state it is based in.Of regional parties beyond their regions Regional parties have had limited success outside their regions. Take a few examples:The Delhi-based Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has legislators in Congress-ruled Punjab. But this has been its only substantial success. It has fought elections in over a dozen states since 2013, a feat no other regional party has tried to match in this period, without the electoral dividends it had hoped for.Also Read | Kolkata Police question Mithun Chakraborty over election speechThe Uttar Pradesh-based Samajwadi Party (SP) has two members each in legislative assemblies in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Bihar’s main Opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), has one legislator in the adjoining state of Jharkhand.Bihar’s ruling party, the Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), is the second largest party in BJP-ruled Arunachal Pradesh where it has seven MLAs. Though it is an ally of the BJP at the Centre, the JD(U), in 2019, contested against the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh where the assembly has 60 seats.The TMC itself is limited by geography. In Manipur, the TMC bagged seven assembly seats in 2012 but subsequently lost its ground to the Congress and BJP. The party won one seat in Assam in 2001 but never resurfaced. Among other states in the country, the TMC has a unit in Left-ruled Kerala.An eye on Tripura TMC leaders, who did not want to be quoted, said the leadership has its eyes on Tripura where Bengali-speaking people constitute a sizeable part of the population and the TMC still has a unit.With 60 seats in the assembly, Tripura goes to the polls in 2023 along with Meghalaya, Nagaland, Mizoram, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Telengana. The TMC has no presence in the other states.States that go to the polls in 2022 are Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. The TMC has no presence in these states as well.And so Tripura may well be the only state where the party can realistically hope to make a dent. Bengal TMC leaders said Mukul Roy, who left the BJP, where he was a national vice-president, and returned to the ruling party last week, played the key role in building the TMC’s base in Tripura by breaking the Congress.“Under Roy’s leadership, Sudip Roy Barman, who was Leader of the Opposition in the assembly during the Left regime and who is the son of former Congress chief minister Samir Ranjan Barman, left the Congress and joined TMC along with five MLAs in 2016. Barman left and joined the BJP with his followers in 2017 when Roy switched sides. Roy may be entrusted with the task of rebuilding the organisation,” a senior TMC office-bearer said on condition of anonymity.Also Read | Former TMC leader sends legal notice to Suvendu Adhikari over tweetsAfter Roy joined the BJP, the TMC had put Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of Salt Lake township in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata, in charge of the Tripura unit but he, too, joined the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Ashish Lal Singh, the son of Tripura’s first chief minister Sachindra Lal Singh, heads the TMC state unit right now.Manik Saha, the BJP’s Tripura state unit president, said the TMC is free to try its luck but the efforts will be futile.“The TMC tried twice to win elections in Tripura but failed. On those occasions, people believed that the TMC supremo would overthrow the Left government. They had faith and the situation was conducive. Some Congress MLAs, who are now in the BJP, joined the TMC. But ultimately nothing materialised. The ground realities in Tripura and Bengal are quite different now. In a democracy, every party is free to contest polls but I don’t think the TMC can fulfill its dream,” said Saha.Leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), who ruled Tripura from 1978 to 1988 and again from 1993 to 2018, said the TMC’s base in the state eroded drastically after a mass defection to the BJP and efforts to reverse the process may not work.“The TMC is running a dictatorial government in Bengal, just like the BJP in Tripura. No other party is allowed to work. I doubt if people will accept this. Moreover, TMC never enjoyed the support of the Tripuris, the biggest tribal community,” said CPI(M) state secretary Gautam Das.Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “The TMC can make a breakthrough in Tripura only if there is an exodus from the BJP. It has to win the trust of tribal voters as well. Biplab Deb came to power by using the anti-incumbency factor. The CPI(M) is still alienated from the people although Manik Sarkar was a good chief minister.”The views of allies and adversariesThe TMC’s decision has sparked contrasting responses from its political friends and adversaries.SP and RJD leaders, who recognise Mamata Banerjee as an ally against the BJP, told HT that they welcome the TMC’s decision to emerge as a bigger force at the national level.SP vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda, a close aide of former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, said, “It is only natural that TMC will now try to expand in other states. It formed units in the Northeast in the past. Mamata Banerjee’s victory was the outcome of a challenge people across India posed before the BJP. The SP not only supported her but campaigned for her in Bengal. Jaya Bachchan led roadshows. Like us, the BJP took the Bengal polls as the most crucial contest. If a third force emerges under Banerjee’s leadership, we will welcome it.”Also Read | ‘Where are your 25 MLAs?,’ TMC MP Banerjee asks BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari“Our sole target is to defeat the BJP. If Abhishek Banerjee wants to expand the TMC to other states, he has our best wishes. We want a strong anti-BJP platform that will focus on the plight of youths, essential needs of people and of course, secularism,” said Shyam Rajak, RJD national general secretary. President of the RJD’s Bengal unit, B P Rai, said, “We supported the Left Front for decades. But Tejashwi Yadav (son of Lalu Prasad Yadav) met Mamata Banerjee before the polls and severed ties with the Left although we were not given a seat to contest.”But regional parties on the other side of the divide are skeptical.JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan, however, described the TMC’s target to win assembly polls in other states as impractical.“One can understand that the TMC is excited but this is an unrealistic ambition that can lead to misunderstanding among regional parties. As far as becoming part of a national alliance is concerned, Prashant Kishor is making his efforts. However, no viable alternative is possible without the Congress or BJP. The federal front has no future because people did not accept such alternatives in the past. It will be wrong to think that the TMC’s victory, no matter how big, can make it acceptable in other states,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-wants-to-expand-beyond-bengal-but-it-won-t-be-easy-101623846850772.html
16-06-2021||India||'Even Aryabhatta, Aristotle...': Harsh Vardhan's Covishield jibe at Rahul Gandhi||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday tore into Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the gap between the two doses of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine and said even Aryabhatta and Aristotle would bow in front of Rahul Gandhi for his knowledge. The health minister also said that the agenda of spreading confusion over vaccine will no longer work.On Tuesday, Reuters quoted three members of the expert panel who reportedly said that extending the gap between two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks was not a unanimous decision. What was unanimously agreed upon was a gap of 8-12 weeks, as advised by the World Health Organization. The government on Wednesday issued statements dismissing the claim and it also published the minutes of the meeting in which the decision to widen the gap between the two doses. The Centre reiterated that it was a unanimous decision based on scientific evidence.Need quick, complete inoculation, not BJP’s lies: Rahul Gandhi on Centre 'extending' Covishield dose gap“We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on scientific basis. The COVID Working Group took that decision, with no dissenting voice. This issue was then discussed threadbare at an NTAGI meeting, again with no dissenting notes. The recommendation was that the vaccine interval has to be 12 - 16 weeks," Chairman of India's COVID-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) said.#COVISHIELD की डोज़ के बीच अंतराल बढ़ाने का फ़ैसला पारदर्शी व वैज्ञानिक सबूतों पर आधारित है,लेकिन अतुल्य प्रतिभा के धनी @INCIndia युवराज श्री @RahulGandhi जी के ज्ञान के सामने तो आर्यभट्ट व अरस्तु जैसे विद्वान भी नतमस्तक हो जाएं।वैक्सीन पर भ्रम फ़ैलाने का एजेंडा अब नहीं चलेगा। https://t.co/4qghSxKcQWIn another statement, the government released the names of the members who were present at the meeting and it includes Dr Mathew Varghese, Dr MD Gupte and Dr JP Muliyil. "Further, it is on record that Dr Mathew Varghese has denied talking to Reuters on the issue of his alleged dissent," the statement said."The country needs immediate and complete vaccination – not the daily lies and hollow slogans of the BJP to hide the shortage of vaccines," Rahul Gandhi tweeted.Addressing Rahul Gandhi as 'Signor', Harsh Vardhan said Rahul continues to remain "lost t in a mythical land furthering mythical claims without checking any facts."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-aryabhatta-aristotle-harsh-vardhan-s-covishield-jibe-to-rahul-gandhi-101623845339532.html
16-06-2021||India||Congress hits out at RSS, accuses it of corruption||The Congress on Wednesday accused Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) of arm twisting, blackmailing, and threatening companies for commission while claiming there was corruption at the highest levels of the organisation.Pawan Khera, a Congress spokesperson, presented video and audio recordings at a press briefing and claimed they show the involvement of Nimba Ram, an RSS leader, in Jaipur and Rajaram Gurjar, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, negotiating a commission with a company that was given the contract of waste management when the BJP ruled Rajasthan.Khera claimed the negotiations took place at RSS’s Jaipur office and that Ram “strictly asked for the commission to be cash, instead of cheque.” He referred to alleged claims that the money received in commission was for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “Do not hide behind Lord Ram and Bharat Mata every time you get caught red-handed in corruption. People know your real face,” he said. He said RSS does not have the moral courage to register itself and does not have the decency to pay income taxes.Also Read | ‘Rahul Gandhi must answer’: Minister on fuel price hikes in Congress statesHe cited the alleged commission demands in Jaipur and added this was the situation in states where they are not in power. “...imagine what they would be doing in states where they are in power,” Khera said. He asked for an audit of funds RSS has raised since 1991 in the name of Ram Mandir and for making its report public. He questioned how much of these funds have been transferred to the Trust overseeing the temple construction. Khera accused the RSS of befooling three generations of Indians.Rajasthan BJP media-in-charge Vimal Katiyar accused Congress of making the allegations based on fake video and audio recordings to defame the BJP and its ideological fountainhead, the RSS. He hit out at the Congress and said it has no right to talk about Lord Ram because it allegedly refused to acknowledge his existence. “...they (Congress) have been against the building of the Ram Mandir, which is a symbol of devotion and faith for Indians,” Katiyar said. He added they did not raise funds for the temple and that it is for the Trust to do so. “And no one is asking not to audit the Trust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-rss-accuses-it-of-corruption-101623845770762.html
16-06-2021||India||Fresh probe ordered into Covid-19 testing during Mahakumbh||Authorities have ordered a fresh probe into the sampling, swab collection, Covid-19 testing, and data feeding by two private laboratories during the Mahakumbh in Haridwar after it has come to light that they tabulated wrong data, a health official said on Wednesday.Kumbh Mela health officer Arjun Singh Sengar said he has formed the four-member committee to probe the irregularities by the labs which were tasked to carry out Covid-19 testing during Mahakumbh. “It has come to light that wrong data has been tabulated by some labs. We are probing this matter and due action will be taken accordingly as per the recommendations of the committee. Kumbh Mela Health department had empanelled 11 labs from Haridwar, Dehradun, Roorkee, and Haryana for the Covid-19 testing,” he said.Officials said the two private labs from Haryana under scrutiny conducted over 100,000 rapid antigen tests during one month of the fair and a majority of them were negative.Also Read | Low positivity rate during Mahakumbh casts doubt on data accuracyA separate probe panel set up by the district administration is probing fake Covid-19 tests during Mahakumbh. It was ordered after questions were raised about the low Covid positivity rate beginning April in Haridwar as compared to the rest of the state. The 10-week average test positivity rate in Haridwar was 4%, while the figure for the rest of Uttarakhand was 13.7%.The panel constituted first questioned health and Kumbh officials on Wednesday.Chief Development Officer (CDO) Saurabh Geharwar, who is heading the three-member committee formed by the district magistrate, said they are investigating the matter and will submit the report in due time by July 26. “I cannot divulge further on this matter until the probe gets completed and is submitted,” said Geharwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-probe-ordered-into-covid-testing-during-mahakumbh-101623845290850.html
16-06-2021||India||Bihar Raj Bhawan begins appointment process for VCs in varsities||Raj Bhawan in Bihar has initiated the process for appointment of vice chancellors for two universities and the pro-VC for one university, raising hopes that the rampant ad hoc situation in the state varsities may end in the coming months. At present seven of the state’s 17 universities are without VCs and eight under additional charge, as one VC has been asked to go on leave.OSD-Judicial at the Raj Bhawan Vinod Tiwari said that the process of appointments in all the universities was underway. “The appointments will be made as per the required process. It is the domain of the Chancellor,” he added.The ad hoc appointments in Bihar’s higher education sector has developed a unique pattern, with continuing experiments and frequent reshuffles on key positions for one reason or the other, which has affected the long-term vision of institutions at a time when the new education policy (NEP) has gradually started unfolding.Since July 2019, when Phagu Chauhan assumed the charge of Bihar Governor, (he also happens to be Chancellor of state universities), the state institutions have been increasingly under interim charge of vice chancellors, registrars, financial advisors and finance officers due to frequent resignations, removals and reshuffles, besides the uncertainty caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Though appointments to key positions remained held up, except for the time ahead of Assembly elections when six vice chancellors and seven Pro-VCs were appointed to fill vacant positions after a long delay, removals and reshuffles have continued.The much-hyped experiment with Brigadiers as the registrars of universities to bring in discipline, which was initiated during the tenure of former Governor Satyapal Malik, has been done away with, with many officials with Army backgrounds removed before time to hand over charge of multiple universities to professors even from affiliated colleges. Earlier, professors from affiliated colleges never held the post of registrar.The result was that not only VCs, but registrars are also holding multiple charge. If one VC is holding charge of four universities, another VC of three and yet another of two universities, there is a registrar from an affiliated college holding charge of three universities and another two registrars holding charge of two universities each. This is also evident in the case of college principals.“The situation is strange, as even in rampant ad hocism there is a pattern. There is a race even to grab interim positions, which often results in frequent changes even in makeshift arrangements. When one VC and registrar is not capable of handling even one university properly, which is evident in more ways than one due to the apparent mess on campuses, how and why should one person be given charge of 3-4 universities and then be reshuffled frequently. If one is not competent at one place or indulges in wrong practices, there should be accountability fixed. Even appointment of such officials should be under question,” said Prof NK Choudhary, social activist and former head of economics in Patna University.In the last couple of years, at least half a dozen VCs either resigned or were asked to go by the Chancellor midway through their tenure, the latest being Veer Kuer Singh University (Ara) VC Devi Prasad Tiwari. There are also a couple of other VCs facing charges and inquiry, but one of them has still got additional responsibility. Even P-VCs were asked to quit. The same happened with several registrars and finance officers. In a recent case, the registrar of Magadh University, Vijay Kumar, was removed, while the finance officer resigned and the financial advisor was transferred after their joint complaint to the Chancellor regarding a tender and the pressure on them. The Raj Bhawan also took cognisance of the complaint and public interest litigation has also been filed in the Patna High Court.Former director of AN Sinha institute of Social Studies and social analyst DM Diwakar said that so many removals of incumbents to key positions by the Chancellor’s office within a short span of time meant that the appointment process was not able to bring in the right people. “This calls for serious thinking at the highest level. If officials are removed on corruption charges, mere removal should not be the end of it. Besides, attempts should be made to appoint the right people and due precaution must be taken before hand,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-raj-bhawan-begins-appointment-process-for-vcs-in-varsities-101623845050782.html
16-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi booked for destruction of evidence in CBI's fresh charge sheet||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on June 10 filed a fresh charge sheet against diamantaire Mehul Choksi and 21 others in Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam in which the fugitive has been charged with destruction of evidence for the first time.The agency’s charge sheet claims Choksi, in connivance with officials of PNB, got 165 Letters of Undertaking (LOUs) and 58 FLCs (Foreign Letters of Credit) issued fraudulently in 2017 causing loss of ₹6,097 crore ($952 million) to the bank and then indulged in a cover-up.The supplementary charge sheet charges Choksi under sections 201 (destruction of evidence), and cheating, criminal conspiracy and prevention of corruption act.Officials familiar with developments said the latest charge sheet will be shared with authorities and court in Dominica to boost India’s deportation plea. HT has accessed a copy of the charge sheet.Apart from Choksi, 21 individuals and companies are named in the charge sheet, including retired deputy manager of PNB Gokulnath Shetty, single window operator Hanumant Karat, former managing director of Allahabad Bank Usha Ananthasubramaniam, former executive directors of PNB KV Brahmaji Rao and Sanjiv Sharan, former general manager of the bank Nehal Ahad, former vice president of Choksi’s Gitanjali Group Vipul Chitalia, and several companies.The charge sheet says, “In December 2017, Mehul Choksi visited Hong Kong and met dummy directors of Hong Kong-based supplier entities (controlled by him) and told them that problems are going on in India related to his company – Gitanjali Group and that they might have to face Enforcement Directorate (ED) enquiries.”“This shows that Mehul Choksi had prior knowledge about the impending criminal proceedings. Hence, he fled the country on January 4, 2018, with dishonest intent, to evade the process of law”.Choksi also told his companies’ dummy directors in Hong Kong that they must apply for Thailand visa as the operation in Hong Kong would be closed, the charge sheet adds. “He got them (dummy directors) shifted to Bangkok in February 2018, when fraud came to light, and persuaded them not to visit India to face investigating agencies.”CBI has stated it is further investigating the bogus LOUs and FLCs issued in favour of Choksi’s companies in 2014, 2015 and 2016. It is suspected that total 347 bogus FLCs were issued between 2014 and 2016.The investigators, during raids in 2018, recovered records of fraudulent LOUs and FLCs transactions maintained in the Google drive by Vipul Chitalia at the behest of Mehul Chinubhai Choksi, which have been included in the charge sheet.CBI has said it is also probing alleged diversion of another ₹942 crore by Choksi’s companies, including Asmi Jewellery India Ltd as well as the role of chief internal auditor of PNB, Brady House branch, Bishnubrata Mishra.The premier agency, as reported by HT, filed an affidavit in Dominica HC saying that Choksi is a fugitive from justice, the chief conspirator and main beneficiary of the PNB scam, and is yet to join investigations despite repeated summons. It has claimed that there is string, oral and documentary, evidence against the businessman in $950 million scam.The government, while seeking his deportation to New Delhi, has also informed the Dominica high court last week that Choksi is still an Indian citizen and needs to face the law here.Choksi went missing from Antigua and Barbuda, where he is a citizen, on May 23. He was found in Dominica the next day and has since been charged with illegal entry into the Caribbean country. His lawyers, Vijay Aggarwal, Wayne Marsh, and his wife, Priti Choksi, have alleged he was abducted and taken to Dominica.Reacting to the CBI’s latest charge sheet, Vijay Aggarwal said on Wednesday, “This supplementary charge sheet after three years shows that it is only an attempt to cover up anomalies that the defence has pointed out in first charge sheet. Moreover, addition of section 201 of IPC (destruction of evidence) is not legally tenable as a document becomes evidence only after filing of the court, and the allegations are of a period much prior to even First Information Report (FIR).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-destroyed-evidence-says-cbi-in-fresh-charge-sheet-filed-last-week-101623844630712.html
16-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: LJP leader Chirag Paswan writes to LS speaker Om Birla and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.LJP leader Chirag Paswan writes to LS speaker Om Birla, makes a requestLok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan on Wednesday wrote to Speaker Om Birla and urged him to issue a circular saying that the former still holds the position of leader of LJP in the lower house. Read moreNeed quick, complete inoculation, not BJP’s lies: Rahul Gandhi on Centre 'extending' Covishield dose gapRahul Gandhi on Wednesday targeted the central government over extending the gap between two doses of AstraZeneca’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreKarnataka Congress asks BJP to resolve feuds later, focus on helping common manKarnataka Congress on Wednesday alleged that the ruling party was busy resolving internal feuds instead of focusing on helping the people of the country. Read more‘Worst PR award’: Chinese media mocks US donation of 80 Covid vaccine vials to Trinidad and TobagoChinese state media have mocked the United States for highlighting its donation of 80 vials of Pfizer vaccine to Trinidad and Tobago for inoculation against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreSwara Bhasker says Kangana Ranaut’s ‘B-grade’ comment about her came from an ‘agenda’Swara Bhasker, in a new interview, reacted to Kangana Ranaut’s ‘B-grade’ jibe about her. She said that she was unaffected by it as she knew it was coming from an ‘agenda’ and was not a ‘fair criticism’ of her work. Read moreHonda rides in 2021 Gold Wing Tour premium tourer in India at ₹37.20 lakh, gets airbag & DCT gearboxHonda Motorcycle & Scooter India on Wednesday announced the launch of the 2021 Gold Wing Tour in India. The new model has been introduced as a CBU (Completely Built-Up) model from Japan. Read moreSundar Pichai surprises winner of Doodle for Google contest with a video callSundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Google, recently tweeted a video that shows him surprising a US student named Milo Golding by video calling him to tell him that he has won the Doodle for Google. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ljp-leader-chirag-paswan-writes-to-ls-speaker-om-birla-and-all-the-latest-news-101623842719833.html
16-06-2021||India||‘They want to divide and rule’: Chirag Paswan blames JD(U) for split in party||Facing rebellion within the party, Jamui MP and LJP leader Chirag Paswan on Wednesday blamed the ruling JD(U) in Bihar for engineering the split in the party. Camping in New Delhi, Paswan in his first interaction with the media after the rumblings in his party began on Sunday, also targeted his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras for his non-co-operation. “During the Bihar assembly polls, and even before that and after the poll results were announced, some people particularly those belonging to JD(U) had been continuously trying to break the party. We contested the assembly polls with full support of the party,” he said and alleged, “My uncle (Paras) did not play any role in the election campaign. Some of my party MPs kept themselves busy.” Without pointedly naming Nitish Kumar, Paswan alleged that the JD(U) first caused a division between Dalits and Maha Dalits in Bihar and had now targeted the LJP. “They want to divide and rule,” he said. The LJP leader said people including party leaders connived against him when he was ill. “I tried to talk to my uncle but was unsuccessful. I tried to keep my family and party together,” he added. Refusing to budge from his post, Paswan said that he had been elected as party president as per the constitution of the party. “The leader of the house is decided by the parliamentary committee and not by the MPs. I have been informed that they have removed me from the post of president. A party president is only removed in case of death or if he resigns,” argued Paswan. He also made it clear that he was not going to buckle under pressure. “It’s going to be a long-drawn legal battle and the people of Bihar are with me,” he said. Earlier, in the day, Paswan wrote a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla questioning his decision to appoint Paras as the leader of the LJP Parliamentary Party. “Since Article 26 of the Constitution of the LJP empowers the central Parliamentary Board of the party to decide who would be the leader of the party in the Lok Sabha, hence the decision announcing Pashupati Kumar Paras, MP, as leader of LJP in the Lok Sabha is contrary to that provision of the constitution of LJP,” Paswan wrote in his letter to the Speaker. He requested the Speaker to review the decision and issue a new circular in his favour.The newly-elected president of the party, Pashupati Kumar Paras got a tumultuous welcome by party leaders. “Decision on party president will be taken on Thursday,” he said on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-want-to-divide-and-rule-chirag-paswan-blames-jd-u-for-split-in-party-101623842950737.html
16-06-2021||India||Ram Mandir: Sanjay Singh releases new papers, says old agreement was cancelled||Challenging BJP spokespersons' claims regarding what the Opposition is terming as Ram Temple 'land scam', Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh on Wednesday presented new documents regarding the land deal in which land worth ₹2 crore was purchased by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust at over ₹18 crore within 'minutes'. Taking part in television debates over the issue, BJP spokespersons claimed that the land agreement was done over a decade, as also 'confirmed' by Sultan Ansari and Ravi Mohan Tiwari. Hence, the allegations of price change in minutes are baseless.Sanjay Singh on Wednesday said the previous agreement was cancelled before the new agreement was made in March 2021 and hence the defence that the price has increased over a period of time does not hold water. A day after his Delhi residence allegedly came under attack for his Ram Temple allegations, the MP said, "No matter how many times you attack me, I will continue to raise my voice against the corruption committed in the name of Lord Ram..if there is anything that is posing as a roadblock to the construction work, it is the embezzlement of the fund. AAP too wants Ram Temple construction work to be completed soon."What is the Ram Temple land controversy?Ram Temple Trust head Champat Rai bought this land in question from Ravi Mohan Tiwari and Sultan Ansari at ₹18.50 crore. Minutes before, Tiwari and Ansari bought the land from Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak at ₹2 crore. Both the transactions took place in front of the same witnesses and minutes apart. Out of this ₹18.5 crore, ₹17 crore was paid through RTGS. The land measuring 1.208 hectares is located in Bag Bjaisi village under Sadar tehsil of Ayodhya district.What did Ram Temple Trust say?The Trust said that the land was purchased at the rate of ₹1,423 per Square Feet, which is much less than the actual market rate in Ayodhya. "For the same land, agreements were made between different parties many times starting since 2011 but due to some reasons they never matured," the Trust said. It also said that nine individuals, including three Muslims, were involved in the agreement.What are Sanjay Singh's new allegations?Revealing the names of the nine people, Sanjay Singh claimed that Ravi Mohan Tiwari was not among them. His name has been included in the agreement made in March 2021, after cancelling the earlier agreement. Since the earlier agreement was cancelled, the AAP MP said, the original owner of the land Harish Pathak and Kusum Pathak could sell the land directly to the Trust, without Ravi Mohan Tiwari and Sultan Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-wants-ram-temple-to-be-completed-soon-sanjay-singh-presents-new-documents-101623841640396.html
16-06-2021||India||India adaptable, agile even amid Covid-19 pandemic: PM Modi at VivaTech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said India as a nation is adaptable and agile while commending the startups and the private sector in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic."We in India implemented huge reforms across sectors, be it mining, space, banking, atomic energy and more. This goes on to show that India as a nation is adaptable and agile, even in the middle of the pandemic," the Prime Minister said at the fifth edition of VivaTech on Wednesday.Also read: One Earth, one health, PM Modi says at G7; seeks support for TRIPS waiverThe Prime Minister invited the world to invest in the country as he said "India offers what innovators and investors need." Modi invited the world to invest in India based on five pillars of talent, market, capital, ecosystem and culture of openness.Speaking of the digital expansion in India, the PM said this expansion is being powered by creating state-of-the-art public digital infrastructure. Around 523,000km of fiber optic network already links our 156,000 villages and many more are being connected in the times to come, Modi added."Today India has 1.18 billion mobile phones and 75 million internet users. This is more than the population of several nations. Data consumption in India is among the highest and the cheapest in the world. Indians are the largest users of social media. There is a diverse and extensive market that awaits," Modi said.VivaTech, one of the largest digital and startup events in Europe, is held in Paris every year since 2016. The event is jointly organised by Publicis Groupe —a prominent advertising and marketing conglomerate — and Les Echos, a leading French media group.During the virtual address Modi said that the country's strides in the world of tech and startups are well known. Our nation is home to one of the world's largest startup ecosystems, PM said, adding that several unicorns have also come up in recent years.Emphasizing the significance of innovation, the Prime Minister said where convention fails, innovation helps, which, he said, has been seen during the Covid-19 pandemic, the biggest disruption of our age.India is working to nurture the culture of innovation, the Prime Minister said as he cited more than 7,000 innovation labs under the Atala Innovation mission."Over the past year, we have witnessed a lot of disruption in different sectors. Much of it is still there. Yet, disruption does not have to mean despair. Instead, we must keep the focus on the twin foundations of repair and preparation," the Prime Minister said, adding to continue preparing healthcare infrastructure and economies.Also read: PM Modi to expand cabinet soon, senior BJP leaders and allies may be inductedHe urged to insulate the planet from the next pandemic, ensure focus on sustainable lifestyle, stop ecological degradation, strengthen cooperation in furthering research and innovation. The challenges that the planet faces can only be overcome with a collective spirit and human-centric approach, Modi added, as he called upon the startup community to take the lead in global transformation. He urged the startups to explore healthcare, eco-friendly tech including waste recycling, agriculture, and new-age tools of learning.The Prime Minister also said that India and France have been working closely on a wide range of subjects, among which, technology and digital are emerging areas of cooperation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adaptable-and-agile-even-in-middle-of-pandemic-pm-modi-101623839785262.html
16-06-2021||India||Kolkata Police question Mithun Chakraborty over election speech||The Kolkata Police on Wednesday questioned actor Mithun Chakraborty, who campaigned for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after joining it ahead of the March-April West Bengal polls, for about 45 minutes via video conferencing for allegedly “preaching violence” in his speeches.Mrinal Kanti Mukherjee, a local police officer, confirmed the questioning but refused to elaborate.There was no immediate comment from Chakraborty or the BJP.Mrityunjay Pal, a Kolkata resident, lodged a complaint against Chakraborty on May 6, saying the actor used a monologue from one of his popular Bengali movies in which his character describes himself as a cobra whose bite can kill anyone. Last week, Chakraborty moved the Calcutta high court seeking quashing of the case. But the court allowed the police to question him virtually.Also Read | Former TMC leader sends legal notice to Suvendu Adhikari over tweetsChakraborty joined the BJP at a rally in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He used the monologue in his speech on that day and repeated it again later.Chakraborty campaigned extensively and led as many as three road shows on some days. The BJP even allotted him a chopper for campaigning.The Bengal elections were among the most keenly contested recently with Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah leading the BJP from the front. Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept back to power by winning 213 seats while the BJP bagged only 77. Tensions between the two parties have continued with the BJP accusing TMC workers of their involvement in post-poll violence. The Central Bureau of Investigation arrested four politicians including two ministers last month on corruption charges. The four were later released on bail even as the TMC linked the arrests to BJP’s vendetta politics for losing the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-police-question-mithun-chakraborty-over-election-speech-101623841091068.html
16-06-2021||India||TN underreported Covid deaths in 6 TN hospitals: NGO||Deaths that are due to Covid and its complications is likely to be 8.4 times to 9.8 times more than the number of Covid-19 deaths declared by the state government in six hospitals, according to a report from Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam -- a movement started for transparent and accountable governance.In its report, released on Tuesday, Arappor Iyakkam analysed death data from six government hospitals in Tamil Nadu and found that the number of deaths has drastically increased in April and May, compared to the same months in the past three years, suggesting a gross underreporting of Covid-19 deaths.“Deaths due to Covid are likely to be underreported at least 8.4 to 9.8 times in these six hospitals,” says the report.“There is no other major disease or cause that has led to this drastic increase in deaths during this time other than Covid-19,” says Jayaram Venkatesan, founder of Arappor Iyakkam.Tamil Nadu has reported 12,943 deaths in April and May this year (as of 13 June, some deaths from previous months are reported belatedly in health bulletins, which are accommodated in the report). “Approximating the same underreporting factor of 8.4 to 9.8 times for the entire state, the likely number of deaths due to Covid in Tamil Nadu may be between 108,721 and 126,841 against the reported number of 12,943,” the report said.The group chose six hospitals for their analysis, Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital, Trichy, Government Vellore Medical College, Government Medical College and Hospital, Karur, Government Hospital Headquarters Tiruppur. The report said that only these six hospitals had uploaded month-wise death certificates online, and they represented all regions of Tamil Nadu. The report uses daily data for the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 from January up to May.Death data from the six hospitals revealed that the total number of death certificates issued in April and May combined are 4,437 and 3,261 for 2019 and 2020, respectively. This has increased to 11, 699 this year.The report found that there has been an increase of at least 8,438 deaths in April and May together compared to the same months in 2020. However, the total number of deaths of patients declared as Covid-19 victims during the same period by the daily medical bulletin of Tamil Nadu’s health department is only 863 in these six hospitals.The second wave started in April this year and began peaking in May in Tamil Nadu. After the hotspot of Chennai saw a peak up until the third week of May, the virus hit the district and hinterlands, and cases began rising in the southern and western districts of the state. That was also the time when the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) won the assembly elections on May 2 and formed the government on May 7. The state went into a lockdown on May 10 and has begun opening up staggeringly from Tuesday. “The increased mortality is directly proportional to the rise of the second wave of Covid. Therefore, the increased numbers in April and May compared to previous years are most likely due to Covid and its complications,” the report said.The analysis concluded that the number of deaths is likely due to Covid-19 and its complications in these six hospitals is likely between 7,262 and 8,438 in April and May this year. “Given that the government has consistently underreported in each of these hospitals, it could be attributed that this phenomenon exists throughout the state as well,” the report said.The hospitals have denied that it is a case of underreporting. “We are 100% following only ICMR guidelines,” said Dr A Rathinavel, dean, Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai. The hospital has issued 3,152 death certificates in April-May this year, out of which only 172 were declared as Covid-19 deaths. “The swab test has to be positive to be certified as a Covid-19 death.” The state health minister M Subramanian had last week reiterated this as the ICMR guideline that even if a patient is positive at the time of admission and turns negative before their death, it will not be considered a Covid-19 death. Forms 4 and 4a of the ICMR guidelines are for the treating doctors to record the underlying cause, contributing factors and immediate cause. WHO provides codes such as U07.1 for Covid deaths and U07.2 for probable Covid deaths.In Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, 3,464 death certificates were issued in April-May this year, out of which only 323 were declared as Covid-19 deaths. “We certify a cause of death after analysing every individual patient and not by just following guidelines,” says the dean of the hospital, Dr A Nirmala. “Every day, our panel of doctors meet to analyse the death. Deaths can be due to incidental Covid, which we brand as death due to other causes. For instance, some deaths are directly due to other causes such as uncontrolled hypertension, kidney disease. While treating that cause, we have to take a swab. If it turns positive, but the patient doesn’t have Covid-19 related symptoms, it will be considered a death due to other causes. Just because the person is infected, it doesn’t mean they are dying due to Covid-19 alone.”The report has been sent to chief minister M K Stalin and health minister Subramanian. The report asks the government to come out with death numbers at hospitals and homes compared to the previous years for the entire state. The exercise was carried out to help eligible families avail compensation announced by the government in case of Covid-19 death. The report highlighted Covid-19 patients whose cause of death was declared as other reasons such as viral pneumonia, who cannot avail compensation. “Underreporting can cause a huge problem for thousands of families who require documentation to avail compensation,” the report said. Last week, a PIL was filed with the Madras high court regarding accurate reporting of Covid-19 deaths for receiving compensation. It sought a report on the issue from the state and the union government on the case.“We don’t have any necessity to hide Covid-19 deaths,” Subramanian said. “What are we going to achieve by underreporting? My opinion is that only if we show the true number of Covid-19 deaths, will people have a combined feeling of fear as well as awareness. We have been following ICMR set guidelines for certifying Covid-19 deaths. However, we don’t want to dismiss the report, so we are directing an investigation in these hospitals. We only want to be transparent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-underreported-covid-deaths-in-6-tn-hospitals-ngo-101623840130782.html
16-06-2021||India||Now, English medium must in Andhra colleges||Hyderabad The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday made English the medium of instruction in all undergraduate colleges in the state, doing away with Telugu as the medium , with effect from the ongoing academic year 2021-22, in a move that it said was aimed at improving the prospects of students. Andhra Pradesh is the first major state or Union Territory in the country to do this. An official release from the department of higher education said the decision to do this in all government, private and government-aided degree colleges was taken at a recent meeting held by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. A notification issued by the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) on Tuesday said all private unaided and aided degrees colleges offering Telugu medium courses should submit proposals for conversion into English medium between June 18 and 28. However, the colleges can continue to have Telugu as a language course in the curriculum, the notification said. The Jagan government planned to make English the medium of instruction in all government schools , from the primary level, in 2020-21 itself, but the decision was struck down by the Andhra Pradesh high court in April last year. The issue is now pending before the Supreme Court. It is likely that the order on colleges will also be challenged. According to the department’s official release, the government strongly feels that making English the medium of instruction at the undergraduate level will enhance the career prospects of graduates. Out of over 262,000 students who started college education in the state in 2020-21, only 65,981 enrolled in Telugu medium colleges. Of these, 24,007 students opted for BA, 16,925 BCom and 24,960 BSc , according to the state government. The government said a majority of BSc students will be looking for job opportunities in various parts of the country and abroad. Similarly, a large number of BA and B Com graduates prefer getting into sales and marketing, apart from journalism and research. “It is essential that these students pursue their undergraduate courses in English. The transition from Telugu medium to English Medium will be easier at the graduate level,” the official release said, adding that it will also introduce spoken English courses at various levels in the undergraduate courses.  Professor S Prasanna Sree, chairperson of board of studies at Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, said it was a bold decision to make English the medium of instruction at the graduate level. “It is essential to have higher education in English because it makes the students globally competitive. At the same time, the government should not ignore the native language of the students and (must) promote it as one of the subjects,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-english-medium-must-in-andhra-colleges-101623840129855.html
16-06-2021||India||Odisha to relax lockdown partially from June 17||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced unlock plans to relax the restrictions imposed across the state since May to check the Covid-19 infection.Chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra announced guidelines for the state starting Thursday, June 17.Lockdown will be lifted in 17 districts, put in category A, between 6am and 5pm as these have the test positivity rate below 5, and an active caseload of less than 1,000. Test positivity rate is the number of cases testing positive out of the total samples tested for an infection. These districts are Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh, Deogarh, Bolangir, Sonepur, Rayagada and Boudh. In 13 other states, slotted in Category B, most of which have a TPR above 7.5% and an active caseload of over 2,000, the lockdown will be lifted between 6am and 1pm. These are: Khurda, Cuttack, Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Puri, Dhenkanal, Angul, Keonjhar and Nayagarh. “The Covid-19 infection rate has drastically declined and the TPR has come down to 6% this week ...The peak period in the state is over and I hope if people continue to coordinate with the government, the situation can be completely brought under control in few days,” said the chief secretary.All essential shops, including sweet shops and roadside eateries, would be allowed to open during these hours. However, these eateries can only provide takeaways.Cycle (sale) and automobile repair shops will also be allowed to open from July 17. Morning walk, cycling and jogging activities will be allowed till 9am but parks and gyms will remain closed.All the restrictions regarding marriage, cremation, meetings, social gatherings, opening of temples will continue as before, as per the partial unlocking measures. All essential services, transport of goods, industrial activities, construction activities will be allowed but public bus services have been restricted.The Covid-19 lockdown was initially imposed in the state from May 5 to May 17. It was first extended to June 1 and subsequently to June 17 following the rise in the infection in the state.Though the rate of infection has come down across the state, the daily deaths continued to remain above 40 for last 11 days. On Wednesday, 44 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the total Covid fatalities to 3,432.Officials in the health department said the government is planning to vaccinate all the eligible beneficiaries. So far, over 8.9 million people have been given at least one dose while more than 1.2 millions are fully vaccinated. “The state government plans to raise the daily vaccination target to 300,000 so that those eligible can be vaccinated before the onset of a possible third wave. Everything, however, depends upon vaccine availability,” said nodal officer for Covid vaccination, Dr Bijay Panigrahi.To be sure, while overall vaccine supplies may be there at the state level, individual vaccination centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-relax-lockdown-partially-from-june-17-101623840071613.html
16-06-2021||India||Need quick, complete inoculation, not BJP’s lies: Rahul Gandhi on Centre 'extending' Covishield dose gap||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday targeted the central government over extending the gap between two doses of AstraZeneca’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In India, the vaccine is named as Covishield and is produced by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).Rahul Gandhi, who has been the most vocal critic of the Centre’s response to the pandemic, has time and again criticised it over its vaccination policy. On May 28, he said vaccination is the only permanent solution to combat Covid-19 and only a minuscule percentage of the country’s population was inoculated. He also pointed out that if vaccination continues at the present pace, the entire population will be only inoculated by 2024.Also Read| Covishield: Govt says extending gap to 12-16 weeks was a unanimous decisionCiting a report from news agency Reuters on his Twitter handle, Gandhi said on Wednesday the country needs quick and complete vaccination against the viral disease and not the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) usual brand of lies and rhyming slogans to cover up the vaccine shortage caused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government. “GOI’s constant attempts to save the PM's fake image are facilitating the virus & costing people’s lives,” Gandhi added.India needs quick & complete vaccination- not BJP’s usual brand of lies & rhyming slogans to cover-up vaccine shortage caused by Modi Govt’s inaction. GOI’s constant attempts to save PM’s fake image are facilitating the virus & costing people’s lives. pic.twitter.com/UUeRpDabSDThe Reuters report which Gandhi referred to, stated the Centre increased the gap between two doses of Covishield from 12 to 16 weeks on May 13 without the agreement of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTGAI). The Centre said that the NTGAI recommended the move. But three of the 14 core members of the advisory group dismissed this claim and said the NTAGI did not have enough information to make such a recommendation.Echoing the claims of the three NTAGI members , M.D. Gupte, a former director of the state-run National Institute of Epidemiology, told Reuters on Tuesday that the NTAGI supported increasing the interval between two doses of Covishield to 8 to 12 weeks- the gap which is also advised by the World Health Organization (WHO). Gupte added the advisory group had no data with regard to extending the time interval beyond 12 weeks.Also Read| Didn't back increased interval between Covid-19 vaccine doses: NTAGI scientistsHowever, Dr NK Arora, the chairman of NTAGI, said on Wednesday the decision to increase the gap between two doses of Covishield to 12-16 weeks is based on fundamental scientific reasons adding there was no dissent when this decision was taken.“We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on a scientific basis. The Covid Working Group took that decision, with no dissenting voice. This issue was then discussed threadbare at an NTAGI meeting, again with no dissenting notes. The recommendation was that the vaccine interval has to be 12 - 16 weeks,” Dr Arora told ANI.More than 260 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in India till now, data from the Union health ministry showed. Of these, 2,800,458 were inoculated in the last 24 hours. The country saw a slight increase in its daily tally after 62,224 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 29,633,105.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-centre-over-prolonged-gap-between-covishield-doses-101623839222394.html
16-06-2021||India||BSY hints at further easing of Covid curbs||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday indicated the possibility of announcing more relaxations in lockdown restrictions in the coming days as the state continued to register a dip in Covid-19 cases. “After analysing the situation today and tomorrow, we will look into - what is to be done, with the situation improving, and what all to be relaxed further- and we will do it,” Yediyurappa said in Bengaluru. On Tuesday, the state reported 5,041 cases, taking the overall tally to 2,777,010. With 115 deaths, the toll rose to 33,148. For the first time in over two months, Bengaluru’s daily infection count dropped below 1,000 as it recorded 985 new Covid-19 cases.“Covid cases fell below 1,000 in Bengaluru for the first time in two months. Cases in Karnataka fell to 5,041. The positivity rate in the state fell to 3.8%. Daily deaths fell to 115. Total tests today at 1.32 lakh,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said on Tuesday.According to officials, the government is deliberating on which sectors should be relaxed in the coming days so as to ensure a phase-by-phase reopening of the state.Gaurav Gupta, chief commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body), said it is necessary to lift the curbs in a phase-wise manner. “If everything is opened all together, then it is possible that things can go out of control. That’s why we have to keep the practical situations in mind and open in a phase-by-phase manner,” he said.Small hotels, including darshinis or self service restaurants, which continue to remain shut, depend largely on dine-in customers and their business has been largely hit due to the takeaway rules, people aware of the developments said.The chief minister’s decision for additional relaxations in lockdown curbs comes a day after the state government eased restrictions in 19 districts, including Bengaluru, amid a steady decline in new Covid-19 infections in these regions.As per latest guidelines, industries and private enterprises are allowed to reopen with 50% capacity among other provisions. The government also extended the duration of shops selling essential goods, permission for autos and taxis to ply with maximum two passengers, among others.Last week, Yediyurappa had said that the restrictions would, however, continue in 11 districts of the state with a high positivity rate till June 21. The eleven districts where strict lockdown measures have continued are Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Davangere, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Belagavi and Kodagu.The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days ‘close-down’ from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as cases continued to spike. Citing lockdown yielding results and experts’ advice, it was further extended till June 7 and then again till June 14.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-hints-at-further-easing-of-covid-curbs-101623839889833.html
16-06-2021||India||Santitaion worker held for murder of Covid patient in Chennai||Police on Tuesday arrested a sanitation staff member, Rathi Devi (40), of a government hospital in Chennai for the murder of a Covid-19 patient admitted there. Devi confessed that she had killed the patient for money and her mobile phone, police said. The port-mortem report revealed strangulation marks on her neck.Chennai Police began investigating after a Covid-19 patient, M Sunitha, 41, went missing . Her decomposed body was found later. She was undergoing treatment after being admitted to the hospital on May 21.Also Read | Ludhiana MC committee to visit Chennai to study solid waste mgmt model “She had gone missing since May 25 and we found her body on the eighth floor of tower 3 at the hospital on June 8,” police said in a statement. Eye-witnesses had informed the police that they saw Devi speaking with the patient in tower 3 of the hospital. The victim’s husband, Mouli, had filed a complaint after she went missing and police case of suspicious death under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Investigations revealed that Devi had taken the victim out of the Covid-19 ward using a wheelchair on the pretext of taking her for a scan and dumped her body on the 8th floor. Police said that Devi has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/santitaion-worker-held-for-murder-of-covid-patient-in-chennai-101623837490312.html
16-06-2021||India||Defame Amarinder Singh: Prashant Kishor's impersonators incite Punjab leaders, case registered||The Punjab Police on Wednesday registered a criminal case against unknown persons for impersonating Prashant Kishor to incite some political leaders against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. For the last few days, these calls were being made to leaders asking them to make statements against the Punjab CM, to criticise his leadership. The caller also assured the leaders that he would take up the case with the Congress High Command if they act accordingly. All these calls were made in the name of Prashant Kishor, the principal advisor to the chief minister.A criminal case under sections 416, 419, 420, 109, 120-B of the IPC and section 66-D of the IT Act 2000 has been registered at PS Division no. 6, Commissionerate of Police, Ludhiana against the unknown callers, news agency ANI reported.Punjab troubleThe development comes amid troubles mounting up in the Congress leadership in Punjab owing to the disagreement between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu. A three-member Congress panel was set up to end the factionalism in the Punjab Congress, which submitted its report to Sonia Gandhi. The panel, led by senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, Harish Rawat, JP Aggarwal, reportedly pitched for the accommodation of Sidu in the leadership.Controversy over Prashant Kishor in PunjabIn 2017, Prashant Kishor had handled the Congress poll campaign. In March 2021, Kishor was appointed as the principal advisor to Amarinder Singh, ahead of Punjab Assembly Election 2022. There were speculations that Prashant Kishor will play a decisive role in ticket distribution, which the chief ministers dismissed and clarified that Prashant's role is advisory, not executive.Election strategist Prashant Kishor who had strategised for PM Modi in 2014 recently said he wanted to quit this business. The decision was announced soon after Trinamool and DMK's victory in the state assembly elections.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defame-amarinder-singh-prashant-kishor-s-impersonators-incite-punjab-leaders-case-registered-101623834702413.html
16-06-2021||India||Amid stand-off with govt, Twitter shares details of interim compliance officer||Twitter on Wednesday shared with the government details of the interim compliance officer it has appointed as per the new social media guidelines that came into effect on May 26, people familiar with the matter said.The move came after Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit out at the company for “deliberately” choosing not to comply with the guidelines while officials said Twitter will lose its legal protection from penal action for third party content over the non-compliance.HT reached out to the electronics and information technology ministry for comments but did not receive a response immediately. There was also no immediate response from Twitter.An official separately told HT that Twitter will be considered an intermediary once it follows the new Information Technology (IT) rules. The official said Twitter will no longer be protected from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third-party content, if it did not do so.Also Read | Govt says Twitter not entitled to safe harbour, experts argue otherwiseThe Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules were notified in February. They require significant social media intermediaries, which have five million users or above, to appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance redressal officer. Until Wednesday, Twitter was the only major social media firm that had not shared the details of the compliance. WhatsApp, Facebook and Google shared the details in May.Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed the interim chief compliance officer and the details of the appointment will be shared directly with the ministry. The decision came after the government gave Twitter one last chance to comply with the new rules as the microblogging platform did not make immediate appointments of key personnel, mandated under the new guidelines.Twitter assured the government last week that it is in the advanced stages of finalising the appointment of the chief compliance officer and would submit additional details within a week.Twitter this month conveyed to the government that it was “committed to complying with the new rules”, even as it raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and intimidation by the police. It sought a week to comply with the new guidelines after the government issued it an ultimatum saying Twitter would have to face “unintended consequences” including losing its legal protection from criminal liability for user content.The guidelines also require companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Twitter and the government have had disagreements over content takedown orders and the company’s actions against prominent people linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party for violation of its terms of use.Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the stand-off last month, with Twitter earlier asking for three months to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the norms, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after a visit by the Delhi Police.The new rules have been contested by several parties, including WhatsApp which has argued that the traceability provision mandated in the guidelines would violate end-to-end encryption.Raman Chima, Asia Pacific policy director, Access Now, a digital civil rights organisation, said the government does not have the sole authority to device how intermediaries are able to make use of the legal protection granted to them by Parliament. “Whether the government’s rules are constitutional and whether partial or incomplete compliance impacts this legal immunity provided in law will ultimately be decided by judges, and not just by the executive branch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-stand-off-with-govt-twitter-shares-details-of-interim-compliance-officer-101623834855522.html
16-06-2021||India||Maratha outfits begin silent protest for quota; Govt invites leaders for talks||A statewide agitation in favour of reservation for the Maratha community began with a silent march in Kolhapur, Maharashtra, on Wednesday. Politicians, ministers from state government, and elected representatives participated in the march led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati from Shahu Samathi Sthal, the resting place of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj in Kolhapur. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said similar protests will be held in Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Raigad in the next few days and a march from Pune to Mumbai in August if the demands are not met by then. Calling it an apolitical platform, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati also appealed to the protesters to remain silent while public representatives addressed them. He demanded immediate steps by the state government to restore the reservation and extend its benefits to the community. The state government, in turn, has invited the MP for a round of talks with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and senior Cabinet ministers on Thursday. Also Read | Uddhav Thackeray meets PM Modi, discusses Maratha quota, GST compensationSenior leaders who participated in the march include BJP state president Chandrakant Patil, minister of state for home and Kolhapur’s guardian minister Satej Patil, minister Hasan Mushrif, minister of state Rajesh Yadravkar, MPs Sanjay Mandalik, and Dhairyasheel Mane, and MLAs Prakash Awade, Chandrakant Jadhav, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s grandson Prakash Ambedkar.Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has demanded a review as well as curative petitions in Supreme Court against the May 5 order to scrap Maratha quota; a petition to the Centre for reservation from the central list and constitution of a state backward class commission. He has also demanded that elected representatives from all parties push the quota demand in the coming monsoon session of the state assembly.Minister Satej Patil said that the state government was positive about the demands and has already started taking steps towards their resolution. “The state government is ready to hold talks with the community leaders. I invite Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati for a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other senior ministers on Thursday. We are very positive over the steps that need to taken by the state government,” he said.On May 5, the Supreme Court quashed 12% and 13% quota to Marathas in education and jobs respectively under Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act 2018. The state government is planning to file a review petition in the apex court as recommended by a committee of retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale constituted to study the ruling and recommend a way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maratha-outfits-begin-silent-protest-for-quota-govt-invites-leaders-for-talks-101623833651191.html
16-06-2021||India||Delhi Police arrest judo coach in Sagar Dhankar murder case||The Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested a judo coach, identified as Subash, in connection with the murder of national wrestler Sagar Dhankar at national capital’s Chhatrasal Stadium last month. This is the eleventh arrest made in this case, the prime accused in which is wrestler and two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar.Subash was arrested by the Delhi Police’s crime branch from the national capital, a senior official said.The case pertains to the death of Dhankar after being allegedly assaulted by Kumar and his associates on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. The 23-year-old’s friends, Sonu and Amit Kumar, sustained injuries in the alleged assault.Also Read: 'Indian wrestling's image has been tarnished due to accusations against Sushil'Sushil Kumar, who fled from Delhi after the incident, was arrested on May 23 from the city’s outer Mundka area along with co-accused Ajay Kumar. He was sent to six-day police custody by a court, which was later extended by four more days. On June 2, the Olympian was sent to judicial custody for nine days, with the court rejecting the Delhi Police’s plea for three more days of custodial interrogation.On June 11, Kumar’s judicial custody was extended till June 25. He is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping.Also Read: Wrestler Sushil Kumar’s judicial custody extended till June 25The Delhi Police have described Kumar as the “main culprit and mastermind” and claim to have electronic evidence in which the Olympian and his associates can be seen assaulting Dhankar with sticks. This is an apparent reference to a video which surfaced on social media in which Kumar and his men can be seen beating up a man, purported to be Dhankar.The video, the Delhi Police have claimed, was shot so that Kumar could continue to maintain his “fear” among fellow and junior wrestlers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-arrest-judo-coach-in-sagar-dhankar-murder-case-101623832315183.html
16-06-2021||India||Don’t ‘slacken’ vaccination drive against Covid-19: Assam CM tells officials||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has told the state officials to not "slacken" the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He also ordered the deputy commissioners (DCs) to carry out vulnerability mapping at the block level as more people are testing positive for the viral disease in smaller towns and rural areas of the state.The directions were issued at a review meeting chaired by Sarma late on Tuesday.Nearly five million beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Assam till now of which 3,983,642 have received the first doses and 967,589 have received both doses, according to government data. On Tuesday, only 62,052 beneficiaries were inoculated against 78,923 on Monday.“The DCs must thereafter earmark priority-vaccine areas, which will stem the spread of the infection to villages and tea gardens,” Sarma said and urged officials to come up with district-specific strategies to achieve 100 per cent vaccination.Three days back, the state government had asked all its employees who have been fully vaccinated to join work from June 14. Employees will have to follow all Covid-appropriate behaviour in the office premises.“In order to ensure smooth functioning of government offices, all the employees of Government of Assam who have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine are hereby directed to attend office from 14/06/2021 regularly,” general administration department commissioner and secretary MS Manivannan said in the order.Assam on Tuesday recorded 3,415 new cases and 34 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 466,590 and 4,028 respectively. The overall positivity rate stands at 3.62 per cent. The active cases in the state have come down to 39,837 and 421,378 people have recovered so far.Chief minister Sarma pointed out on Tuesday the daily infections in the state are showing a gradual decline and asked officials to not lower the guard and ensure that restrictions imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 are strictly followed. The ongoing restrictions have been extended till June 22 with relaxations provided in some districts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-slacken-vaccination-drive-against-covid-19-assam-cm-tells-officials-101623832491199.html
16-06-2021||India||Sony camera, arms and ammunition recovered after encounter with Maoists||Five days after a Maoist, carrying ₹5 lakh reward on his head, was killed during an encounter with Odisha Police in Bargarh district, the security officials on Tuesday seized an INSAS rifle, a Sony camera, several magazines of INSAS and AK-47 rifles from the forests of Malkangiri district.Police officials said the recovery was made after a brief exchange of fire between Maoists and teams of the Special Operation Group (SOG) and the District Voluntary Force (DVF) during a combing operation near Kulabeda forests of Mathili in bordering areas of Malkangiri and Koraput district.Inspector general of police (IGP) (anti-Maoist operations) Amitabh Thakur said the special forces retaliated after facing unprovoked firing from the outlawed insurgents. “But the Maoists managed to run from that area,” he said.After the encounter, the police teams recovered an INSAS rifle, 34 rounds of bullets, a AK-47 magazine, 2 INSAS magazines, detonators, power bank, batteries and other IED (improvised explosive devices) making material along with a Sony digital camera.On June 12, BSF and Odisha Police in Malkangiri district had a lucky escape when they found 3 Tiffin IEDs and explosives in the general area of Mandapalli in Swabhimaan Anchal on Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border. The Swabhiman Anchal, formerly known as the cut-off area, has long been a stronghold of the left-wing extremists. The region is covered by water from three sides and inhospitable terrain on the fourth side.A day earlier on Friday, police killed Rabindra, a member of Bolangir-Bargarh-Mahasamund (BBM) divisional committee of the Maoists during an encounter at Jhanj Reserve Forest in Bargarh district. He had ₹5 lakh reward on his head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sony-camera-recovered-apart-from-arms-ammunition-after-encounter-with-maoists-101623832090084.html
16-06-2021||India||Nagaland extends lockdown till June 30||The Nagaland government on Wednesday extended the lockdown in the state till June 30. It also empowered the district Covid task forces to work out relaxations as per the situation in the respective districts.“The situation is improving but we are still not out of the woods. Given the circumstances, we have to continue with the lockdown for now,” said government spokesperson on Covid-19, MLA Mmhonlumo Kikon. The legislator said the decision to extend lockdown was taken at a review meeting of the state high power committee on Wednesday.Also Read | Nagaland forms lawmakers’ panel to facilitate talks with the CentreNagaland went into lockdown on May 14, restricting all activities except for essential services and movement of goods transport. The state reported 101 new cases and three deaths on Tuesday, taking the total caseload to 23,854 and 445 deaths. As on June 15, a total of 369,238 people in the state have been vaccinated, out of which 54,875 were administered the second dose and 311,235 have taken the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-101623831669991.html
16-06-2021||India||Does Covaxin production involve cattle? Govt clarifies as RTI doc goes viral||Does Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, contain serum of the newborn calf? As an RTI document shared by Congress's Gaurav Pandhi has gone viral, the government dismissed such "twisted and misrepresented" facts. Calf serum is involved in the process of developing the vaccine but the finished product does not contain calf serum, the government claimed, adding that this is the standard process of preparing Vero cells and a similar procedure is used across the world. This is also the process used for decades in Polio, Rabies and Influenza vaccines."Newborn calf serum is used only for preparation/ growth of Vero cells. Different kinds of bovine and other animal serum are standard enrichment ingredient used globally for Vero cell growth. Vero cells are used to establish cell lives which help in the production of vaccines. This technique has been used for decades in Polio, Rabies, and Influenza vaccines," the government said.Explained: Why there are demands to cut the gap between two Covishield dosesAfter the growth, these Vero cells are washed with water and buffer. And the washing process gets repeated multiple times which effectively remove calf serum from the vero cells. Then these cells are infected with Coronavirus for the development of the vaccine.During the time of the growth of the virus, the Vero cells are completely destroyed and then the virus is killed and purified. From that inactivated virus, the vaccine is developed. "Hence, the final vaccine does not contain newborn calf serum at all and the calf serum is not an ingredient of the final vaccine product," the government clarified.What was the necessity of the clarification?Congress's Gaurav Pandhi on Tuesday shared an RTI document which answers a question — Does the process of making Covaxin involve FBS (fetal bovine serum). The reply said, "As per information provided by the firm, newborn calf serum is used in revival process of Vero cells which is used for the production of the Coronavirus during the manufacturing of Covaxin bulk vaccine.In an RTI response, the Modi Govt has admitted that COVAXIN consists Newborn Calf Serum .....which is a portion of clotted blood obtained from less than 20 days young cow-calves, after slaughtering them. THIS IS HEINOUS! This information should have been made public before. pic.twitter.com/sngVr0cE29Terming it heinous, Pandhi wrote, "In an RTI response, the Modi Govt has admitted that COVAXIN consists Newborn Calf Serum .....which is a portion of clotted blood obtained from less than 20 days young cow-calves, after slaughtering them. THIS IS HEINOUS! This information should have been made public before."Why Covaxin uses calf serum and not CovishieldCovaxin is developed from a live, inactivated Coronavirus. Oxford vaccine, Covishield, on the other hand, used a chimpanzee common cold viral vector, which delivers the code that allows our cells to make the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein.What does Bharat Biotech say?Bharat Biotech too has issued a statement and clarified that this practice is neither new nor hidden. “Newborn calf serum is used in the manufacturing of viral vaccines. It is used for the growth of cells, but neither used in the growth of SARS CoV2 virus nor in the final formulation. Covaxin is highly purified to contain only the inactivated virus components by removing all other impurities.”Listing out the name of the publication, the company said, "The usage of new born calf serum was transparently documented in the following publications since the last 9 months."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-covaxin-production-involve-cattle-govt-clarifies-as-rti-docu-goes-viral-101623830699624.html
16-06-2021||India||6 Maoists killed in encounter with Greyhounds in Visakhapatnam forests||Six members of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in an exchange of fire with the Greyhound forces of Andhra Pradesh police in Visakhapatnam early on Wednesday, the police said.The encounter took place at Theegalametta forest area of Koyyuru block, when the Greyhounds, specially trained for anti-Maoist operations, were conducting combing operations.“According to the preliminary information received from the spot, six bodies of Maoists were recovered along with an AK-47 rifle, a SLR (self-loading rifle), a carbine, three .303 rifles and a country-made weapon,” an official release from the Visakhapatnam (rural) district police said.Koyyuru inspector of police Venkataramana said the exact details of the killed and injured Maoists were not yet known since the encounter spot was very deep in the forests. “Search operation is still underway. Additional police forces are being rushed to the area,” he said.Unconfirmed reports said some of the top Maoist leaders managed to escape during the exchange of fire. The police forces are using helicopters to track the Maoist leaders, the reports said. Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-maoists-killed-in-encounter-with-greyhounds-in-visakhapatnam-forests-101623829870162.html
16-06-2021||India||65-yr-old man arrested in Assam for allegedly molesting a minor||A 65-year-old man from Kanakpur area near Silchar town of Assam has been arrested for allegedly molesting a nine-year-old girl. The incident allegedly took place on Tuesday afternoon and the man was arrested from Sonai in Cachar following a First Information Report (FIR) by the girl’s father.Officer in-charge of Silchar Sadar police station Ditumoni Goswami said the girl, as well as the accused, are neighbours in a slum area. The man allegedly barged into her room and locked it from inside though other family members were at home. He threatened her and tried to force himself upon her. However, the child made a noise, alerting her family and neighbours at which the accused rushed out, escaping through one of the lanes. Also Read | Out on bail, rape accused rapes same minor girl in JaipurThe girl has been through a medical examination. While the medical report is awaited, police lodged a case of rape based on the girl’s statements. The girl’s father said she was traumatised by the incident. He said, “My girl is now afraid and traumatised. We never expected that she will go through such an experience. This person should be punished to deter others from committing such crimes.”Superintendent of police of Cachar district, Vaibhav Chandrakant Nimbalkar, said, “When the family informed the police about the incident, our team started searching for the accused and caught him. The person has been arrested on charges of rape. A case has also been registered under POCSO Act 2012. He will be produced before the court after police interrogation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65yrold-man-arrested-in-assam-for-allegedly-molesting-a-minor-101623829689805.html
16-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kolkata Police question Mithun Chakraborty over controversial poll speech and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mithun Chakraborty questioned by Kolkata Police over controversial poll speechActor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mithun Chakraborty was on Wednesday questioned by the Kolkata Police over a controversial speech while campaigning during West Bengal assembly polls. Read more'He can get as many as 3 hundreds in this five-Test series': Sunil Gavaskar makes huge prediction about India batsmanIndia's batsmen will be in for a stiff challenge when they take on England in a five-Test series starting in August. Read moreThe Family Man creators Raj and DK reveal they're 'behind' on season 3, say they're taking in feedbackFilmmakers Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK are 'behind' on season three of The Family Man. The second season of the popular Amazon Prime Video show debuted on June 4 to positive critical and fan reception. Read more2021 Skoda Kushaq SUV, rival to Creta and Seltos, to launch on June 28Skoda has announced that the much-anticipated Kushaq SUV will go on sale in the Indian market on June 28th. It will set foot in the highly competitive compact SUV segment against the rivals such as Hyundai Creta and Kia Seltos. Read moreTaapsee Pannu adds boho vibes to ₹10k crop top and harem pants on Moscow tripTaapsee Pannu is having the time of her life in Moscow, where she is currently holidaying with her sister Shagun Pannu. Read moreShe asked sibling to wake her up, what they did has tweeple saying 'savage'If you’ve grown up with a brother or sister, then you may be aware of the bittersweet rivalry that encompasses many sibling relationships. This post shared on Twitter about an interaction between two siblings captures that perfectly. Read moreCould Covid deaths be 10 times the declared number? | On The RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks with Professor Chinmay Tumbe on the number of Covid-19 deaths in India. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kolkata-police-question-mithun-chakraborty-over-controversial-poll-speech-and-all-the-latest-news-101623829064954.html
16-06-2021||India||Govt says Twitter not entitled to safe harbour, experts argue otherwise||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday said Twitter has “deliberately” chosen not to comply with the new social media and intermediary guidelines even as officials said the company will lose its legal protection from penal action for third party content over the non-compliance.“There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May. Further, it was given multiple opportunities to comply with the same, however it has deliberately chosen the path of non-compliance,” Prasad wrote on Twitter.Prasad defended the guidelines and said they were brought to counter the menace of fake news. “The culture of India varies like its large geography. In certain scenarios, with the amplification of social media, even a small spark can cause a fire, especially with the menace of fake news. This was one of the objectives of bringing the Intermediary Guidelines,” he said.Prasad called it astounding that Twitter, “which portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech”, has chosen the path of “deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines.” He hit out at the company for “arbitrarily” deciding which posts to mark as “manipulated media”.Also Read | Twitter loses legal protection, fails to comply with new IT rules: OfficialTwitter has flagged posts by several ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leaders that accused the Congress of defaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Prasad said what happened in Uttar Pradesh was “illustrative of Twitter’s arbitrariness” in fighting fake news. “While Twitter has been over enthusiastic about its fact checking mechanism, it’s failure to act in multiple cases like U.P. (Uttar Pradesh) is perplexing as well as points towards its inconsistency in fighting misinformation,” Prasad said. ”If any foreign entity believes that they can portray itself as the flag bearer of free speech in India to excuse itself from complying with the law of the land, such attempts are misplaced.”Prasad was apparently referring to the posting of an allegedly manipulated video of an elderly Muslim man’s assault in Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh Police have registered a First Information Report (FIR) against Twitter, news portal wire.in, and seven others for allegedly inciting rioting and promoting enmity between religions by promoting the video. Twitter has been named in the FIR for allegedly failing to prevent the video from going viral and helped in its promotion and circulation.Prasad’s comments came hours after an official told HT that Twitter will be considered an intermediary once it follows the new Information Technology (IT) rules. The official said Twitter will no longer be protected from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third-party content, if it did not do so.“Now, if there is a case in court, Twitter cannot seek safe harbour under the Information Technology Act. In any case, filed after May 26, Twitter cannot say it is an intermediary and claim exception,” the official said, requesting anonymityThe Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules were notified in February and came into force on May 25.The official said, as a gesture of goodwill, the government gave Twitter extra time to comply with the rules. But Twitter has failed to meet even its own deadline of a week to make the appointments as per the new rules, the official said. The official added that details of the compliance officer’s appointment were yet to be shared with the government.Raman Chima, Asia Pacific policy director, Access Now, a digital civil rights organisation, said the government does not have the sole authority to device how intermediaries are able to make use of the legal protection granted to them by Parliament. “Whether the government’s rules are constitutional and whether partial or incomplete compliance impacts this legal immunity provided in law will ultimately be decided by judges, and not just by the executive branch.”Digital advocacy rights group Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) said the “so-called intermediary status” is actually a technical qualification as per criteria under Section 2(1)(ua)(w) of the IT Act. “As per Section 79, intermediaries are immune from liability/penalty if they comply with legal takedown requests of user posts from courts & public authorities. As we explain, this is threatened by the IT Rules, 2021,” IFF tweeted. “Even if we presume that the IT Rules are legal and constitutional, where alleged non-compliance is for appointment of officers etc., when companies like Twitter are prosecuted, courts will decide if it is an intermediary and not the government.”IFF added that there is no power or process for the grant or revocation of an intermediary status. “There is no immediate penalty which flows from non-compliance beyond loss of immunity determined by Courts on evidence and legal submissions,” tweeted IFF.Also Read | Twitter loses intermediary status: What does it mean for Twitter and its users?Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed an interim chief compliance officer and the details of the appointment will be shared directly with the IT ministry. The decision came after the government gave Twitter one last chance to comply with the new rules as the microblogging platform did not make immediate appointments of key personnel, mandated under the new guidelines that came into effect on May 26.Twitter assured the government last week that it is in the advanced stages of finalising the appointment of the chief compliance officer and would submit additional details within a week.A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said the company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines and is keeping the IT ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process.Twitter this month conveyed to the government that it was “committed to complying with the new rules”, even as it raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and intimidation by the police. It sought a week to comply with the new guidelines after the government issued it an ultimatum saying Twitter would have to face “unintended consequences” including losing its legal protection from criminal liability for user content.The guidelines require companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Twitter and the government have had disagreements over content takedown orders and the company’s actions against prominent people linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party for violation of its terms of use.Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the stand-off last month, with Twitter earlier asking for three months to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the norms, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after a visit by the Delhi Police.Google, WhatsApp, and Facebook have shared the details of the officers with the government. The new rules have been contested by several parties, including WhatsApp which has argued that the traceability provision mandated in the guidelines would violate end-to-end encryption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-twitter-not-entitled-to-safe-harbour-experts-argue-otherwise-101623828790061.html
16-06-2021||India||Ownership patterns prevent intervention to repair monuments||Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the imam of Delhi’s iconic Jama Masjid, has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to inspect the monument and carry out necessary repairs after a squall damaged a minaret of the 17th-century mosque. Owned by the Delhi Waqf Board, the monument is not protected by ASI, which has over the years undertaken repairs at the mosque but only through a special arrangement. The masjid committee makes requests for the repairs as part of the arrangement. The ASI on its own does not undertake repairsBesides Jama Masjid, there are multiple such heritage structures in the city, and beyond in need of repairs. But they do not often get timely support from ASI due to ownership patterns. Some of the sites are under the control of the Waqf Board, which is in charge of Muslim endowments, or privately owned. While ASI officials say the body is bound by jurisdictions, heritage experts argue it should not shirk the responsibility of heritage protection on account of ownership patterns.Experts have called for a wider approach so that conservation does not suffer from the ASI washing its hands off monuments that need critical intervention.Fatehpuri Masjid is among the monuments that have fallen into disrepair over the years in the absence of conservation support.Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, said the 371-year-old mosque has not been repaired in over 50 years. “The minarets and the red stonework have never been assessed for repairs. Earlier this month, a lattice piece from the mosque fell off due to the impact of rain and wind. The corridors need urgent attention. One can even see the minarets bending,” said Ahmed, highlighting the condition of the mosque that dates back to the 1650s.Some years back, Ahmed wrote to the Union minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi highlighting the dire need for repairs but to no avail. Ahmed said repairs were last undertaken by the ASI on the directions of local Parliament member Kapil Sibal in 2012-13. “ASI undertook some work, but the process was mired with obstacles. The work was abandoned before completion,” said Ahmed.Seeking urgent intervention, he said that ASI, Waqf Board, Central Waqf Council, or the tourism ministry could intervene to stop the deterioration of the mosque. “One should not shirk the responsibility of conservation simply because the mosque is a place of worship. The mosque is historically crucial and a monument of national importance. Its significance should not be reduced because the Waqf is the custodian,” said Ahmed.Mehfooz Mohammad, section officer of Delhi Waqf Board, cited the established mechanism and added stakeholders of heritage mosques and places should approach them if there is a need for repairs. “We are the nodal agency and will either rope in experts or route requests to the ASI,” said Mohammad.The Waqf Board does not have the wherewithal, or the expertise needed for undertaking conservation efforts.“As a special case, Jama Masjid has been repaired by the ASI over the years. The Waqf Board is also responsible but has not paid much attention to the concern. The board does not always have funds to undertake such exercises,” said Bukhari.He added despite the immense potential for tourism, monuments did not always get the attention they deserved due to a cumbersome conservation process. “The greater the attention that we give to our heritage, the better potential it will have. The country will benefit if we are able to salvage our heritage. The government should pay attention to the concerns,” said Bukhari.Holistic conservation neededHistorian Swapna Liddle said it is crucial for bodies such as the ASI to undertake a more nuanced and wider conservation approach. Liddle added it did not make sense for the ASI to restrict itself to only places that were under its protection. “I do not see why the ASI is only interested in buildings it owns. If there is a building of national importance, it does not matter who owns it. If we continue to follow this approach, it gives out a message that any building owned by an institution or trust is not worth saving. This should not be the case. Even if it is a religious building in use, we need to protect and preserve it.”She said there was a policy lacuna that needed to be filled for timely conservation efforts. “A proper policy is needed for heritage that is privately or institutionally owned... Bodies like the ASI need to take responsibility in partnership with the owner,” said Liddle.DN Dimri, former ASI joint director-general, said that while the ASI was bound by restrictions, a committee could be constituted for addressing conservation needs at Jama Masjid and other monuments that were not centrally protected by ASI. He said that since conservation was an ongoing process, it needed to be prioritised. He advocated a comprehensive management plan that could be put in place for timely intervention. “It could help to have a committee comprising members of the Waqf Board, ministry of culture, ASI, and other domain experts who can work towards a holistic conservation approach for Jama Masjid and other such places. Work can be undertaken in a phased manner under the purview of this committee,” said Dimri.He said at times, one could not determine the damage that structures sustained without undertaking proper assessments. Such issues could be addressed by timely checks. “It is true that a holistic conservation management plan is required to chart the current status of monuments and areas facing threat. One needs to determine the nature of short-term and long-term threats that the structure might face so that adequate steps can be taken before deterioration,” said Dimri.Conservation is keyDimri called for a need to examine waqf properties from the conservation point of view and suggested that all monuments under the body be assessed to find out their condition. “All major monuments that are with the waqf board can at least be assessed as part of a preliminary survey so that a detailed management plan can be created for vulnerable monuments. This can help us to determine which place needs immediate support and which needs a long-term approach,” said Dimri.Liddle said the fear that ASI might take over buildings needed to be stemmed. “Since the ASI only protects places it owns, people end up believing that any intervention from the ASI would mean that it will manage and take over the premises. Institutions start seeing ASI’s role as interference when it is conservation.”An ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said that the agency did not have jurisdiction over heritage properties that were under the custodianship of the Waqf Board. “ASI does not take cognisance unless a request is placed through proper channels. When monuments or places that are not under our jurisdiction write to us, it takes time to get necessary approvals. A lot of paperwork is involved. Funds are also an important component. Our priority remains to take care of centrally-protected monuments,” said the ASI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ownership-patterns-prevent-intervention-to-repair-monuments-101623826389832.html
16-06-2021||India||‘Twitter got several opportunities to comply with IT Rules’: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union information and technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday justified Twitter losing legal protection in India, saying that the social media giant failed to comply with the new IT guidelines despite being given multiple opportunities.Also Read | Twitter loses legal protection, fails to comply with new IT rules: Official“There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May. Further, it was given multiple opportunities to comply with the same, however it has deliberately chosen the path of non-compliance,” Prasad posted on his account on Koo, which is touted by many as the Indian version of Twitter.Also Read | Twitter loses intermediary status: What does it mean for Twitter and its users?Further justifying the action, the minister said that in a country like India, with the amplification of social media, “even a small spark can cause fire”, adding that this was one of the many reasons why the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules were notified. “It is astounding that Twitter, which portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines,” he added.Prasad also termed as “perplexing” what he said was Twitter’s failure to address the grievances of users by refusing to set up its processes as mandated by the law of the land. Alluding to an FIR filed against Twitter, among others, in Uttar Pradesh, he posted, “What happened in Uttar Pradesh was illustrative of Twitter’s arbitrariness in fighting fake news. While Twitter has been about its fact-checking mechanism, its failure to act in multiple cases like Uttar Pradesh is perplexing and indicates its inconsistency in fighting misinformation.”He also remarked that Indian firms doing business in the USA (where Twitter is headquartered) or in any other foreign country follow the local rules but the same cannot be said about Twitter in India.“The rule of law is the bedrock of Indian society. India’s commitment to the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech was yet again reaffirmed at the G7 summit. However, if any foreign entity believes they can portray themselves as the flag bearer of speech in India to excuse itself from complying with the law of the land, such attempts are misplaced,” Prasad further said.Also Read | India a natural G7 ally: PM at summitThe minister also posted the same statements on his Twitter account.This latest development comes despite Twitter naming a compliance officer, albeit on an interim basis, one of the several conditions it has to follow under the new guidelines. The rules were announced on February 25 and social media companies were given three months, or May 25, to ensure compliance. Twitter, which is now the only mainstream platform to lose legal immunity in India, was engaged in a faceoff with the Ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), which Prasad heads, over the rules.Also Read | Interim compliance officer named: TwitterThe loss of legal protection means that Twitter can now be prosecuted under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for content posted by a user on the platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-got-several-opportunities-to-comply-with-it-rules-ravi-shankar-prasad-101623825396449.html
16-06-2021||India||Kerala to ease Covid-19 lockdown from June 17. Check what’s allowed||More relaxations will come into effect in Kerala from Thursday, when the previous set of restrictions announced by the state government end. The relaxations are being given on the basis of test positivity rate. On June 7, the state government extended the restrictions till June 16 with complete lockdown on June 12 and June 13, Hindustan Times reported.“Relaxation in lockdown will be allowed on the basis of test positivity rate under local self-government bodies. Local bodies with below 8 per cent test positivity rate (TPR) to function normally with restrictions, the opening of shops will also be allowed,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday while relaxing the curbs. He added that complete lockdown will be imposed across the state during the weekend.Also Read| Covid-19 lockdown to be eased in these states from todayLocal bodies with 8-20 per cent TPR will be under a partial lockdown and those with 20-30 per cent TPR will be under a full lockdown, Vijayan said. A triple lockdown will be imposed in areas which have a TPR higher than 30 per cent. “As of June 14, there are 147 local bodies with a TPR less than 8 per cent, 716 between 8-20 per cent, 146 in the 20-30 per cent and 25 with a TPR above 30 per cent,” the chief minister said.Here is the list of relaxations announced by CM Vijayan:1. Shops selling essential items will be allowed to operate daily from 7am to 7pm. On the other hand, all shops with 50 per cent staff, can operate from 7am to 7pm in areas with TPR of up to 8 per cent.2. Central and state government offices, Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), government companies, corporations, commissions and autonomous institutions can function with 25 per cent staff on a rotational basis. The secretariat can function with 50 per cent staff on a rotational basis. Private companies can operate with 50 per cent employees.3. Akshaya Kendras are allowed to open from Monday to Friday.4. Banks can only operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.5. Public transport will be allowed on a limited basis.6. The number of people attending marriages and funerals will continue to be limited to 20.7. All kinds of social gatherings, public events are banned.8. Restaurants are only allowed to do home deliveries and takeaways.9. Kerala state Beverages Corporation (BEVCO) outlets and bars can open from 9am to 7am and slots should be booked through the app.10. Tourism, recreation and indoor activities in crowded areas, including malls are not allowed.11. Activities in the industrial and agricultural sector will be allowed in all local bodies and transportation will be provided to workers in these areas.Also Read| No evidence of severe illness among children in third wave: ReportKerala has so far reported 2,748,204 cases and 11,508 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Tuesday, 12,246 new cases were recorded while 166 more people succumbed to the viral disease. Daily recoveries continued to outnumber the fresh cases as 13,536 recovered on Tuesday, taking the cumulative figures to over 2.62 million.Chief minister Vijayan said on Tuesday the average number of infections per day is expected to drop by 16 per cent in next week and pointed out the state’s health infrastructure was able to cope with the stress of the second wave of the pandemic as it was strengthened at various levels.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-ease-covid-19-lockdown-from-june-17-check-what-s-allowed-101623825171451.html
16-06-2021||India||Twitter loses intermediary status: What does it mean for Twitter and its users?||Twitter became the first US-based social media platform to lose legal protection in India, following a series of events that amplified the disagreement between the government and the social media platform. Twitter, however, continues to maintain its cooperative stance and has said that it is making every effort to comply with the new guideline.What this means for TwitterTwitter will now be held responsible for tweets, data hosted by it. It will not be considered as a platform hosting something that somebody has tweeted, but it will be editorially responsible for the posts.According to an ANI report, Twitter has been named in an FIR filed by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with an incident in Ghaziabad. So, Twitter is not immune to criminal charges for what somebody posts on the platform. Its top executives may now be questioned for any content that the authorities feel unlawful, inflammatory etc.If there is any charge against Twitter, then it will be liable for any punishment under any law, including the Indian Penal Code.If Twitter decides to comply with the IT rules, it may again come under the legal cover of a third party.What does Section 79 of the Information Technology Act 2020 say?An intermediary will be exempted from liability for any third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by it. It will be exempted if the function of the intermediary is "limited to providing access to a communication system over which information made available by third parties is transmitted or temporarily stored or hosted".The exemption is provided if the intermediary does not initiate the transmission, select the receiver of the transmission and select or modify the information.Will Twitter users be affected? Will Twitter be banned?No, the withdrawal of the intermediary status does not mean either of the two. There will be no impact on Twitter users.Why Twitter lost the legal coverIT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said Twitter has failed to comply with the intermediary guidelines which were introduced on March 25 and came into effect on May 26. Twitter was given multiple opportunities but it "deliberately" chose to not comply. On India's mico-blogging platform, the minister posted his statement and said Twitter chooses to flag content "only when it suits".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-loses-intermediary-status-what-does-it-mean-for-twitter-and-its-users-101623824196154.html
16-06-2021||India||Soon, get your driving license from RTO without giving test||In a bid to cut down on long queues and extended waiting periods at regional transport offices (RTOs), the Union ministry of road transport and highways has notified rules for accredited driving training centres where candidates will be provided high-quality driving courses. Once they clear their driving course tests, they will be granted an exemption from driving tests while obtaining a driving license from an RTO.Also Read: Govt rolls out Aadhaar-based driver license services making RTO visits thing of the pastThese training centres, the ministry said, will be equipped with simulators and dedicated driving tracks for candidates to undergo training. Additionally, the centres will also be allowed to provide industry-specific specialised training, it said, adding that the new rules will come into effect from July 1.Here are some key features of these new rules:(1.) Five-year accreditation: Training centres will be granted accreditation for a period of five years at the end of which they can get it renewed as well.(2.) Course duration for light motor vehicles: For light motor vehicles (LMVs), the duration of driving course will be 29 hours in a span of maximum four weeks from the date of commencement of the course, as per the notification. The course will be divided in two parts: theory and practice.(3.) Course duration for heavy motor vehicles: Candidates undergoing training to drive medium or heavy motor vehicles (HMVs) at such centres will be trained across 38 hours in a span of six weeks. Similar to the LMV course, the HMV course, too, will be divided into theory and practice.(4.) Behaviour while driving: Another key highlight of this course is training for how one should behave while driving. In this, candidates will undergo training for ethical and courteous behaviour with other road users, while driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-get-your-driving-license-from-rto-without-giving-test-101623823134067.html
16-06-2021||India||Mithun Chakraborty questioned by Kolkata Police over controversial poll speech||Actor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mithun Chakraborty was on Wednesday questioned by the Kolkata Police over a controversial speech while campaigning during West Bengal assembly polls. The questioning was held virtually after an FIR was registered in Maniktala against Chakraborty.The complaint claimed that Mithun Chakraborty incited post-poll violence through his election speeches.Also Read: Bengal witnessed worst post-poll violence since Independence, says governorThe Calcutta high court had on Friday directed Chakraborty to provide his e-mail address to the state so that he can make himself available for questioning through video conferencing.The national award-winning actor had moved court last week for quashing the case filed against him.At the hearing on Friday, Chakraborty told the court that he had just uttered popular dialogues from his films. The actor claimed that the utterances of such film dialogues were only recreational and that he is innocent and in no way connected with any offence as alleged by the complainant.The complaint against Chakraborty had portions from his speech where he used dialogues like "marbo ekhane lash porbe shoshane (Will hit you here and the body will land in the crematorium)" and "ek chobole chabi (one snake bite and you will turn into a photograph)" at a rally in Kolkata after he joined the BJP on March 7.Also Read: ‘Not defections but violence will weaken BJP unit in West Bengal’The complaint alleged that these dialogues were a cause for post-poll violence in the state. He has been accused of promoting enmity between different groups, an intentional insult to provoke breach of peace, and making statements conducing to public mischief.The court has fixed the matter for hearing on June 18 giving time to the police to question Chakraborty.Clashes were reported from several places in the state following the declaration of assembly poll results on May 2.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said last month that at least 16 people have lost their lives in post- poll violence in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mithun-chakraborty-questioned-by-kolkata-police-over-controversial-poll-speech-101623823760863.html
16-06-2021||India||Bengal gears up for 3rd Covid wave; earmarks 10k hospital beds for kids, moms||The West Bengal government has started earmarking beds in various hospitals to treat children up to 12 years of age, in case the third wave of Covid-19 later this year. A senior official said that as children, with mild to moderate symptoms, may have their mothers accompanying them, around 10,000 general beds will be earmarked for women and pediatric cases. “Many scientists are of the opinion that children may be affected more in number during the next wave of Covid-19. State government has planned to protect the children by escalating inpatient Covid facilities for the younger group,” said a state government order issued on Monday. To be sure, India’s top experts have clarified that there is no evidence to assume that the third wave will hit children harder. “If we look at the data, and compare both the Covid-19 waves, children are usually protected as the numbers are fewer. Even if they get infection, the disease is usually mild...there is no indication that in the third Covid-19 wave, children will be more impacted,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“There could also be another theory that says since kids aren’t exposed much yet, in the next wave there’s a possibility that proportionally they may get more affected by virtue of greater exposure,” he added.Meanwhile, Bengal is setting aside around 350 Sick Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) beds for mild to critical cases among infants up to three months of age . Another 1,300 Pediatric ICU (PICU) beds are being arranged at adult Covid centres also. “In Kolkata, around 10 hospitals have been identified in which around 240 beds in PICU will be arranged. Another nine SNCU units in the city have been identified where 45 beds will be set aside,” said the official cited above. Doctors and nurses posted in such units will be trained to handle severe and critically ill paediatric patients. “Do’s and don’ts are being prepared for mothers and caregivers who will be staying with the children. Such training would be completed by July. Supply of equipment, installation and demonstration of gadgets would be done by August,” the official said. The daily count in the state during the second wave hit a peak on May 14 with 20,846 cases. Data shared by the state health department, however, shows that the number of cases is steadily dropping and was at 3,268 on June 15. The number of deaths reported has also dropped below 100 now. “Going by the experience of some other countries such as UK and Canada, we expect the third wave to hit sometimes around October-November,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-gears-up-for-3rd-covid-wave-earmarks-10k-hospital-beds-for-kids-moms-101623822971234.html
16-06-2021||India||Rajnath Singh calls for free and open Indo Pacific at key ASEAN meet||India calls for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo Pacific, said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday, adding that New Delhi supports freedom of navigation, overflight, and unimpeded commerce in the international waterways including the South China Sea.During the virtual address at the ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting Plus (ADMM-Plus), Singh asserted that maritime security challenges are another area of concern to India and it hopes that the Code of Conduct negotiations regarding the South China Sea will lead to outcomes that are in keeping with international law."India calls for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific, based upon respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolution of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international rules and laws," he said."India has strengthened its cooperative engagements in the Indo-Pacific based on converging visions and values for promotion of peace, stability, and prosperity in the region. Premised upon the centrality of ASEAN, India supports the utilisation of ASEAN-led mechanisms as important platforms for the implementation of our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific," he added.Stating that the sea lanes of communication are critical for peace, stability, prosperity and development of the Indo-Pacific region, the Minister said developments in the South China Sea have attracted attention in the region and beyond."India supports freedom of navigation, overflight, and unimpeded commerce in these international waterways. India hopes that the Code of Conduct negotiations will lead to outcomes that are in keeping with international law, including the UNCLOS and do not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of nations that are not a party to these discussions," he saidChina claims sovereignty over almost the entire South China Sea and has overlapping territorial claims with Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Taiwan.Beijing's "nine-dash line" territorial claim covers 90 per cent of the 3.5-million-sq. km South China Sea, despite the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague ruling against the claim in 2016.Last week, ASEAN and China agreed to expedite the resumption of negotiations on the code, which were halted by the pandemic.China and Asean started negotiations in 2013 on a supposedly binding code of conduct to regulate maritime behaviour in the strategically important waterway that is claimed by China as well as ASEAN members such as Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam.Speaking at the virtual meeting, Singh said India shares a deep connect with ASEAN and has continued its active engagement in many areas contributing to regional peace and stability, particularly through ASEAN led mechanisms, such as East Asia Summit, ASEAN Regional Forum and ADMM-Plus."The India-ASEAN strategic partnership has been strengthened by virtue of flourishing cultural and civilizational links and enhanced people-to-people cooperation. India continues to attach importance to ASEAN centrality and unity in ensuring peace and stability in the region," he said.Terming terrorism and radicalisation as the "gravest threats" to peace and security, the Minister said that India remains committed to combating financing terrorism as a member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF)."India shares global concerns about terrorism and believes that in an era when networking amongst terrorists is reaching alarming proportions, only through collective cooperation can the terror organisations and their networks be fully disrupted, the perpetrators identified and held accountable, and strong measures are undertaken against those who encourage, support and finance terrorism and provide sanctuary to terrorism," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-calls-for-free-and-open-indo-pacific-at-key-asean-meet-101623820514789.html
16-06-2021||India||Explained: Why there are demands to cut the gap between two Covishield doses||The gap between the two doses of Covishield has become a contentious issue in India as many experts have now cast doubt over India's latest decision to extend the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks from six to eight weeks. According to a Reuters report, some scientists of the government panel did not back the decision to expand the gap, which the government on Wednesday refuted and asserted that it was a unanimous decision. But why does the gap matter so much? What is the controversy all about? And why are there demands to now narrow down the gap? Here is all you need to know.Why does the gap matter?The gap between the two shots matters because that's how the vaccine works. The first shot increases antibodies while the second shot is a booster one. If the second shot is delayed, the first shot gets more time to work. In April, Public Health England said the vaccine efficacy increases when the interval is 12 weeks. The United Kingdom also overcame the surge caused by the Alpha variant keeping the gap at 12 weeks.Why are there new demands to reverse the gap?Two-three days after India increased the gap between the two Covidhsield doses, new studies emerged claiming that the single dose of Covishield gives only 33 per cent protection, not 65 to 85%, which was estimated earlier. Several countries are now reducing the gap once again.From 4 weeks to 4-6 weeks to 12 to 12 to 16 weeks: govt clarifiesIn a detailed statement, the chairman of the National Technical Group on Immunisation, Dr NK Arora said all this decision to change the gap between the two doses have been based on studies available at hand.The first decision to keep a gap of four weeks between the two doses of Covishield was based on the bridging trial data. "Initial studies on Covishield were very heterogeneous. Some countries like the UK went for a dose interval of 12 weeks when they introduced the vaccine, in December 2020. While we were privy to this data, when we had to decide our interval, we went for four weeks interval based on our bridging trial data which showed good immune response. Later we came across additional scientific and laboratory data, based on which after six weeks or so, we felt we should increase the interval from four weeks to eight weeks, since studies showed that vaccine efficacy is about 57% when it is four weeks and about 60% when it is eight weeks.” Dr Arora said.Will India now reduce the gap between the doses of Covishield?The government has said whatever decision is taken, paramount importance will be given to the health and protection of the community. “Covid-19 and the vaccination are very dynamic. Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5% - 10%, the Committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom. On the other hand, if it turns out that the current decision is fine, we will continue with it," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-there-are-demands-to-cut-the-gap-between-two-covishield-doses-101623818989591.html
16-06-2021||India||India has administered over 260 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 260 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Tuesday, June 15. In a significant move, government experts are considering slashing the gap between the two doses of Covishield, at least for the vulnerable groups, amid more evidence that the second shots were crucial for adequate protection against the virus.Meanwhile, by Tuesday 7pm, 261,740,273 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 10,078,623 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,999,669 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 16,905,708 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,906,072 have got their second dose too.In the 45-60-year age group, 77,240,865 people have got their first dose and another 12,193,878 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 63,264,880 people have been administered their first dose while 20,268,057 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | Punjab to unlock from today: Check latest guidelines hereIn the 18-45 year age group, 1,313,438 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine and 54,375 got their second dose on Tuesday and cumulatively, 44,987,004 of this age group have had their first dose while 895,517 have got their second dose as well across the country.In all, as many as 2,568,858 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 2,198,144 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 370,714 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.India on Wednesday reported 62,224 new cases and 2,542 related fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 29,633,105 and 379,573 respectively, according to the Union health ministry. This is the ninth consecutive day that the daily cases remained below the 100,000-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-260-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101623818889441.html
16-06-2021||India||Taj Mahal reopens today after 2 months. Check guidelines for tourists||Taj Mahal, which was closed for two months due to the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, is set to reopen from today. It was first closed on March 17 last year during the first wave of the pandemic. It reopened on September 21, 2020 with several restrictions.However, the historic monument in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra was again closed on April 16 this year as the country witnessed its worst health crisis due to the second wave and was adding a record surge in daily cases and deaths.Here are the guidelines which are to be followed by people visiting Taj Mahal:1. Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said on Tuesday that only 650 people will be allowed inside the monument at one point of time in order to ensure all Covid-protocols are followed. Teams will be deployed to monitor the crowd at all times, he added.2. Taj Mahal will be sanitised three times a day, superintending archaeologist, ASI, Agra Circle, Vasant Kumar Swarnakar told news agency PTI on Tuesday.3. Only online booking will be allowed and no ticket counter in the premises will be open, Swarnakar said. Meanwhile, Agra district magistrate Singh said people can only book five tickets via one phone number.4. It is mandatory for all visitors to wear masks. They will be thermal screened at the gates of the monument and would be sanitised before entering.5. Swarnakar added that visitors will have to follow social distancing and they are not allowed to touch any object inside the monument. He also advised visitors should also carry their own water bottles and hand sanitisers.On Monday, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) issued an order where it allowed all centrally protected monuments, museums and sites to re-open from June 16. With this, a total of 3,693 monuments and 50 museums will open across the country.“Today @MinOfCultureGoI has given approval to @ASIGoI to duly open all the monuments of India from 16 June 2021. Tourists can visit the monuments following Covid rules. Good luck to all,” minister of state of culture and tourism,Prahlad Singh Patel tweeted on Monday.Meanwhile, India on Wednesday saw a slight increase in its daily coronavirus disease tally after 62,224 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 29,633,105, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll has climbed to 379,573 after 2,542 people succumbed to the viral disease on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-reopens-today-after-2-months-check-guidelines-for-tourists-101623818415856.html
16-06-2021||India||Twitter loses legal protection, fails to comply with new IT rules: Official||Twitter will be considered an intermediary once it follows the new Information Technology (IT) rules and it will no longer be protected from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third party content, if it did not do so, a government official said on Wednesday.“Now, if there is a case in court, Twitter cannot seek safe harbour under the Information Technology Act. In any case, filed after May 26, Twitter cannot say it is an intermediary and claim exception.”The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules were notified in February and came into force on May 25. The official said, as a gesture of goodwill, the government gave Twitter extra time to comply with the rules. But Twitter has failed to meet even its own deadline of a week to make the appointments as per the new rules, the official said. The official added that details of the compliance officer’s appointment were yet to be shared with the government.Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed an interim chief compliance officer and the details of the appointment will be shared directly with the IT ministry. The decision came after the government gave Twitter one last chance to comply with the new rules as the microblogging platform did not make immediate appointments of key personnel, mandated under the new guidelines that came into effect on May 26.Also Read | Interim compliance officer named: TwitterTwitter assured the government last week that it is in the advanced stages of finalising the appointment of the chief compliance officer and would submit additional details within a week.A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said the company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines and is keeping the IT ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process. Twitter this month conveyed to the government that it was “committed to complying with the new rules”, even as it raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and intimidation by the police. It sought a week to comply with the new guidelines after the government issued it an ultimatum saying Twitter would have to face “unintended consequences” that can involve it losing its legal protection from criminal liability for user content.The guidelines require companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Twitter and the government have had disagreements over content takedown orders and the company’s actions against prominent people linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party for violation of its terms of use.Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the stand-off last month, with Twitter earlier asking for three months to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the norms, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after a visit by the Delhi Police.Google, WhatsApp and Facebook have shared the details of the officers with the government. The new rules have been contested by several parties, including WhatsApp which has argued that the traceability provision mandated in the guidelines would violate end to end encryption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-loses-legal-protection-fails-to-comply-with-new-it-rules-official-101623817509418.html
16-06-2021||India||Punjab to unlock from today: Check latest guidelines here||With Punjab's Covid-19 positivity rate coming down to 2%, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced easing of the restrictions, allowing restaurants and other eating joints, as well as cinemas and gyms to reopen at 50% capacity from Wednesday.The announcement was made after chief secretary Vini Mahajan, citing a University of Cambridge Judge Business School report of June 14 on Growth of Infection in Punjab, said that all districts are on downward trajectories in terms of new Covid-19 cases."The estimated trend value of the daily growth rate was -9.2 per cent as of June 14. This implies that reported new cases will halve in 7 days, under the assumption that the growth rate remains constant. As of June 14, the estimated Reproduction number Rt for Punjab stood at 0.69, significantly below one. Newly reported Covid-19 cases are likely to decline to about 210 per day by June 28," she added, according to news agency PTI.Mahajan also said that while number of Covid-19 cases are low, there are indications that the growth rates of cases, while negative, have recently reversed direction from their downward paths in Fazilka, Jalandhar, and Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar.Here are the latest guidelines:5.District authorities have been asked to determine opening timings of non-essential shops, including on Sunday, on the basis of the local situation, while ensuring that crowds are avoided. They shall also continue to ensure strict implementation of all the extant directives of MHA/state government on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including social/physical distancing, wearing of face masks etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-to-unlock-from-today-check-latest-guidelines-here-101623816114573.html
16-06-2021||India||Covishield: Govt says extending gap to 12-16 weeks was a unanimous decision||A day after three members of the Centre's expert group on vaccines, National Technical Advisory Group on Innumnisation (NTAGI), reportedly claimed that they did not support the decision of widening the gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccine to 12 to 18 weeks, the government on Wednesday clarified that there was no dissent regarding the decision. Chairman of the expert group NK Arora said the working group agreed unanimously to increase the gap between the doses from eight weeks to 12 weeks. “We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on scientific basis. The Covid Working Group took that decision, with no dissenting voice. This issue was then discussed threadbare at an NTAGI meeting, again with no dissenting notes. The recommendation was that the vaccine interval has to be 12 - 16 weeks," Dr Arora said.Also Read: Didn't back increased interval between Covid-19 vaccine doses, says NTAGI scientistsWhat is the controversy?The controversy is regarding the gap between the first and the second dose of the Covishield vaccine. On May 13, India increased the gap between the doses to 12 to 16 weeks, following in the footsteps of the United Kingdom and several other countries. The decision was backed by real-life findings which initially showed that the cover offered by the first dose stays long.Now more recent studies have revealed that the protection is not as much as it was estimated earlier. Hence, countries are again coming back to 8-12 week gap between the two doses of Covishield.A Reuters report quoted a former director of the National Institute of Epidemiology, MD Gupte, who claimed that the government's expert panel did not agree to increase the gap to 12 to 16 weeks at one leap. It agreed to widen the gap to 8-12 weeks, as advised by the World Health Organization. "Eight to 12 weeks is something we all accepted, 12 to 16 weeks is something the government has come out with...This may be alright, may not be. We have no information on that," he told Reuters.Reports of disagreement among experts regarding various aspect of the Covid-19 pandemic and its handling is not new. Shahid Jameel, a top Indian virologist, who was heading Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium reportedly quit the group over a disagreement, though he did not give any reason for his decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-govt-says-extending-gap-to-12-16-weeks-was-a-unanimous-decision-101623816878425.html
16-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress leaders booked for tweets on Ghaziabad incident and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress leaders, others booked for tweets on Ghaziabad incidentPolice in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad have filed an FIR against nine, including Twitter India and two Congress leaders, for falsely giving communal colour to an incident in Loni where an elderly Muslim man was assaulted and had his beard chopped off. Read moreMonsoon progress continues to be slowMonsoon hasn’t progressed in the past couple of days mainly due to approaching mid latitude westerlies which have weakened the monsoon winds over northwest India. Read moreMumbai Police return stolen valuables worth nearly ₹2 Cr to ownersMumbai Police on Tuesday returned stolen and robbed valuables worth nearly ₹2 crore to their respective owners. Commissioner of police Hemant Nagrale handed over the recovered valuables at a function in Byculla. Read moreJune 16: When Valentina Tereshkova became first woman to go to space 58 yrs agoJune 16 has an important place in the history of space endeavours made by the humans, as Russian cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova became the first woman to go to space on this day. She undertook the historic flight in 1963. Read moreNo Ravindra Jadeja, Ishant Sharma in Sanjay Manjrekar's India XI for WTC final against New ZealandFormer India cricketer and now a renowned broadcaster, Sanjay Manjrekar picked India’s XI for the World Test Championship (WTC) final against New Zealand starting on June 18th at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton. Read moreOppo Band Style review: Looks good, gets the basics rightOppo stepped into the wearable fitness tracker space last year with the Oppo Watch. And the company recently launched the Oppo Band Style, offering an affordable fitness tracker for users, particularly for those who want to monitor health parameters like their heart rate and blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) levels. Read moreRashmika Mandanna's romantic slip dress is what you need to ace date-night lookRashmika Mandanna made a strong case for soothing hues in a romantic slip dress in her latest post, and her fans are swooning. Nothing beats the elegance of a silky slip dress, especially when they come in unexpected colours. And no one understands it better than the Sulthan actor. Read moreNeena Gupta tells all about failed first marriage that lasted less than a year: 'I became too ambitious'Neena Gupta in her autobiography, Sach Kahun Toh, has revealed that she briefly married at a young age. She separated from her first husband within a year. Read moreThis author’s personal library of over 4,000 books is winning hearts on TwitterIf you’re someone who loves reading and enjoy picking up new books to add to your collection, this tweet is one you shouldn’t miss. An author has shared pictures of his personal library and his tweets are winning several hearts on Twitter. Read moreWatch| 1st death post vaccination: Why 30-minute watch time post jab is important﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cong-leaders-booked-for-tweets-on-ghaziabad-incident-101623813891349.html
16-06-2021||India||India’s daily Covid tally rises marginally to 62,224; new fatalities at 2,542 while active cases slump below 900,000||India on Wednesday reported 62,224 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 2,542 related fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 29,633,105 and 379,573 respectively, according to the Union health ministry. This is the ninth consecutive day that the daily cases remained below the 100,000-mark. On Tuesday, 60,471 people had tested positive for the viral disease.More than 107,600 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours which took the total recoveries in the country to 28,388,100, the health ministry update at 8am showed. The active cases, meanwhile, declined to 865,432 and now constitute 3.09 per cent of the caseload.A total of 383,306,971 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease till now of which 1,930,987 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Wednesday.Also Read| Covid-19 lockdown to be eased in these states from todayDaily infections in India have been ebbing since May as a result of lockdown or lockdown-like restrictions imposed by states and Union Territories (UTs). And due to this declining trend, several states including Delhi, have begun their unlocking process with a view to revive their economies.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/ShwkFsJPVxDelhi on Monday saw re-opening of restaurants with 50% seating capacity, salons and opening of market complexes and malls daily from 10am to 8pm. Maharashtra has devised a five level-unlock plan on the basis of Covid-19 positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds in cities and districts. State capital Mumbai, which has been placed under-level two, has allowed malls and movie theatres to function at 50 per cent capacity, reopening of gymnasiums etc.Lockdown in Haryana has been extended till June 21 but the state government has provided relaxations such as 50 per cent seating capacity for restaurants and bars from 10am to 10pm, opening of gymnasiums from 6am to 8pm with 50 per cent capacity, opening of shops on daily basis among others.However, experts have warned that resuming business activities in a hurry would compromise vaccination efforts. According to news agency Reuters, India has been administering an average of 2.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses per day. Health officials told Reuters that vaccination needs to be at four times higher in order to avoid a third wave of the pandemic.Also Read| The growing urban bias of India’s vaccination driveThe country has so far inoculated 259,044,072 beneficiaries so far, of which 3,927,154 were inoculated in the last 24 hours.The National AEFI (Adverse Events Following Immunisation) committee in its recent report confirmed the death of a 68-year old man due to anaphylaxis after he was administered the Covishield vaccine on March 8.“It is the first death linked to Covid vaccination due to anaphylaxis. It re-emphasises the need to wait for 30 minutes at the inoculation centre after receiving the jab. Most anaphylactic reactions occur during this period and prompt treatment prevents deaths,” Dr NK Arora, advisor to the National AEFI committee told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-rises-marginally-to-62-224-active-cases-below-900000-101623814012532.html
16-06-2021||India||Assam relaxes curfew in districts with declining Covid-19 cases||Assam government on Tuesday announced a fresh set of guidelines including shortening of curfew hours in districts where Covid-19 cases have declined considerably and warned districts with rising number of cases with harsher curbs if situation didn’t improve in a week. It also announced continuation of the existing ban on inter-district movement of persons and vehicles. The new guidelines will come into force from 5 am on July 16 and continue till 5 am of June 22.Health minister Keshab Mahanta, said urban areas with a positivity rate of 5% and above and rural areas with a positivity rate of 10% and above will be declared containment zones, only allowing for essential services. Earlier, district authorities were empowered to declare any urban or rural area with positivity rate of 10% or more as a containment zone.Kamrup (Metropolitan) district, which includes Guwahati, was rewarded with one extra hour of relaxation in curfew after it registered a sharp drop in the positivity rate.“In view of the drop in positivity rate, the curfew timings for Kamrup (Metropolitan) district have been changed from the existing 1 pm to 5 am daily to 2 pm to 5 am. Shops and business establishments, which were closing at 12 pm, will now have to down shutters at 1 pm,” Mahanta said.On Monday, the test positivity rate (TPR) in Kamrup (M) was 1.3% while the state recorded 2.52% TPR. This was in sharp contrast to May 8, when the district recorded 18.1% TPR compared to state-wide TPR of 8.84%.In South Salmara, Majuli, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Udalguri, West Karbi Anglong, Dima Hasao and Charideo districts, which recorded less than 400 new cases daily in the past few days, the new curfew timings would be from 5 pm to 5 am daily with relaxation for 12 hours.However the minister cautioned Cachar, Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, Sonitpur and Nagaon districts since they have shown an increasing trend in the number of Covid cases in the past few days. “...Existing measures would be implemented strictly and vaccinations increased in these districts. If the figures don’t show a declining trend by June 21, stricter measures including total lockdown might be enforced,” Mahanta said.In other districts, the existing restrictions i.e., daily curfew from 1 pm to 5 am and closure of shops and businesses at 12 pm will continue for the time being.As per an earlier order, all government employees who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine resumed office from Monday. But the order won’t be applicable to pregnant women, those with children below five years and specially-abled employees.All religious places will continue to remain closed and gatherings of not more than 10 people will be allowed to perform last rites. Hotels and restaurants will be able to serve outside guests during non-curfew hours and after that home delivery will be allowed.Weekly markets will continue to remain closed. Pharmacies, hospitals and other emergency services have been kept outside the purview of curfew restrictions. Tea gardens and other industries will continue to operate as per the existing guidelines.Assam recorded 3,678 new Covid cases on Monday and 43 deaths. The positivity rate for the state stood at 2.52%. The state has 39,362 active cases at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-relaxes-curfew-in-districts-with-declining-covid-19-cases-101623814629143.html
16-06-2021||India||Spectrum allocation to help eliminate train collisions due to human error: Rlys||The five megahertz allocation of 4G spectrum to the railways will help eliminate train collisions due to human error through the Automatic Train Protection (ATP) System, the railway ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. The Union Cabinet last week allotted the spectrum to enable the country’s largest mass transport system to switch from its current 2G data network for better communications and operational safety.A switch to 4G is expected to enable real-time and faster operation of communication systems of the carrier. It will boost bandwidth and other technical parameters such as peak capacity.“These systems prevent collisions due to any human error by Loco Pilot. In order to improve safety, a decision has now been taken to provide ATP systems on Indian Railways (IR) in a Mission Mode. So far IR was dependent on foreign technology for ATP systems. IR with Indian firms has now successfully developed indigenous cost-effective technology for ATP – called Train Collision Avoidance System (TCAS),” the statement said.The statement said TCAS is being adopted under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India).The statement said TCAS has been approved for 37,300 km covering important routes in the first phase. “The roll-out of TCAS will eliminate train collision due to human error and enhance speed potential of IR thereby reducing travel time.”The railways plans to invest around ₹55,000 crore for this modernisation of signalling and telecommunication.It plans to use the spectrum allocation to provide long-term evolution (LTE) based mobile train radio communication for seamless communication between its running staff, the traffic controller, and maintenance personnel to enhance safety and security.Railway Board member (infrastructure) Sanjeev Mittal said the project, which would considerably boost the safety of trains as well as movement across the network, will be completed in the next five years with an estimated investment of ₹25,000 crore. “The purpose of the LTE for Indian Railways is to provide secure and reliable voice, video and data communication services for operational, safety and security applications of the railways.”The system will help in the deployment of a modern cab-based signalling system with automatic train protection. It is expected to increase safety and throughput in train operation and also help during foggy conditions.The statement said LTE will be used for mission-critical voice communication with seamless connectivity in train operations between the driver, guard, station master, train traffic controller and maintenance staff. “It will also be used in monitoring limited video surveillance (live feed) through CCTV cameras in trains to enhance passenger security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spectrum-allocation-to-help-eliminate-train-collisions-due-to-human-error-rlys-101623814089147.html
16-06-2021||India||Monsoon progress continues to be slow||Monsoon hasn’t progressed in the past couple of days mainly due to approaching mid latitude westerlies which have weakened the monsoon winds over northwest India.Monsoon has so far advanced into the entire peninsular India; east central; east and northeast India and some parts of northwest India. It progressed very quickly over most parts of the country in the span of only ten days mainly due to active monsoon circulation and formation of a low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal.“Due to approaching of mid-latitude westerlies winds, further progress of monsoon over remaining parts of northwest India is likely to be slow. The progress of monsoon is being monitored continuously and further update will be provided on daily basis,” IMD said on Wednesday in it’s bulletin.Also Read | Rain lashes various parts of Mumbai, ThaneThe northern limit of monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar.A low pressure area which had formed over Bay of Bengal is lying over east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining Bihar while the trough is running from northwest Rajasthan to northwest Bay of Bengal across Haryana and southwest Uttar Pradesh.Under the influence of these systems, widespread rain with isolated thunderstorms and lightning is likely over most parts of east, central and northeast India during the next 4-5 days. Isolated thunderstorms and lightning is likely over most parts of northwest India during the next two days and decrease in rainfall activity thereafter, except over east Uttar Pradesh where fairly widespread rain is likely to continue during the next 4-5 days.Under the influence of an offshore trough, running from north Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast, widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning is likely over south Konkan, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe during the next three days.“We are expecting a 7-10 days’ delay from now. There is no monsoon activity over west UP now. There is a trough (area of low pressure) in the westerlies which is affecting the easterly wind flow. Monsoon winds are reaching only up to east UP. We don’t expect progress in the next 7-10 days to the rest of northwest India. There may be some thunderstorm activity but moisture is very low,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Last week, following monsoon’s rapid progress to some parts of northwest India, IMD had announced that it is likely to hit Delhi between June 12 and 15. The normal date for monsoon arrival in Delhi is June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-progress-continues-to-be-slow-101623811868906.html
16-06-2021||India||Set up ‘buffer zones’ to stop border conflicts: Retd PLA colonel||India and China should establish “buffer zones” in potentially the most dangerous areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to prevent the festering border dispute from triggering an armed conflict like it happened at Galwan Valley a year ago, a retired People’s Liberation Army (PLA) officer has suggested.Calling it the “boldest step”, Senior Colonel (Retd) Zhou Bo of PLA said the setting up of buffer zones or areas where armed forces will not patrol could be an effective way to disengage.“Perhaps the boldest step might be to establish buffer zones in the most dangerous areas along the LAC. Without prejudicing their respective positions on the boundary question, this is the most effective way to disengage and prevent conflict,” Bo wrote for the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post (SCMP) in an article titled “China and India should look back to move forward on border impasse”.“Both sides agree they shall not follow or tail patrols of the other side in areas where there is no common understanding of the LAC. Building buffer zones is a step further. And it is possible, too,” Bo noted.“From the mountains around Pangong Lake, a de facto buffer zone has already been established after the mutual withdrawal of troops,” he pointed out referring to the disengagement of forces and armoured units by both sides on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February.The article marked a year of the first deadly clash along the boundary in decades, in which India said it lost 20 soldiers and China claimed to have lost four troops in the Galwan Valley area in a brutal hand-to-hand combat. India, however, maintains that the Chinese death toll was much higher.It triggered the worst chill in bilateral ties in recent history and large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both armies at the friction points in eastern Ladakh.India has consistently said that the Chinese troops were the first to trespass across the disputed boundary, triggering the faceoff and deaths of border troops on both sides.“A year after the shock of a fatal border clash, tensions remain high with no consensus on how to resolve the issues over an unverified LAC,” Zhou wrote.The disengagement process remains incomplete with diplomatic and military talks not leading to a breakthrough at friction points such as Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs in the eastern Ladakh sector. India maintains that bilateral ties were “very significantly damaged” by Beijing’s violation of border agreements and earlier this month, it asked for “speedy completion” of the disengagement process for complete restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and facilitate the progress in bilateral relations. Beijing, however, in a statement issued on Tuesday, asked India to stop being suspicious of China and urged New Delhi to “work with Beijing to strengthen ties instead of working towards building obstacles”..Following the tension, Beijing was given the cold shoulder when it offered to help pandemic-devastated India; such resentment speaks volumes of the frosty relationship, he pointed out.“To prevent conflict, both sides should dust off previously agreed confidence-building measures and enforce the less-contentious ones,” he suggested.He suggested establishing hotlines for real-time communication, pointing out that China has military hotlines with Russia, the United States, South Korea and Vietnam.“India often uses its hotline with Pakistan. There is no reason the two immediate neighbours with territorial disputes should not have similar instruments,” he said.The former PLA officer acknowledged the complexity of the Sino-India border dispute.“The complexity of the China-India border dispute is daunting. Even the length of the border is not necessarily agreed on. China believes it is 2,000-km-long, while India believes it is 3,488-km,” he pointed out.At the same time, both countries should realise the futility of war, Zhou, who is also a senior fellow of the Centre for International Security and Strategy at Beijing’s Tsinghua University, indicated.“It is ridiculous if, in the 21st century, Beijing and New Delhi are still hijacked by a dispute that is a colonial remnant, not least because apart from this dispute, they have no outstanding problems with each other,” Bo said.“Gone are the days when India said “Hindi Chini bhai bhai,” Bo noted. “But China and India have every reason not to become foes. The border issue should not be a perennial curse. The two nuclear neighbours can ill-afford even a conventional war,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-up-lac-buffer-zones-to-stop-border-conflict-retired-pla-colonel-101623811029161.html
16-06-2021||India||Bengal government questions governor Dhankhar's letter to CM Mamata on post-poll violence||Slamming West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar over his letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on post-poll violence, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government on Tuesday said the contents of the letter were "not consistent with real facts".Also Read | Bengal witnessed worst post-poll violence since Independence: DhankharIn a series of tweets, the Home Department of the West Bengal government said the Governor's act of making the letter public was "violative of all established norms, and disrupts sanctity of such communications"."The government of West Bengal has observed with dismay and distress that the Governor of West Bengal has suddenly made public, a letter of his to the Chief Minister of West Bengal, with contents that are not consistent with real facts," it said.Also Read | Bengal post-poll violence: Victims file affidavit, say still facing ‘hostility’The department went on to say that the "unusual" step of going public in this manner "abruptly and unilaterally" has shocked the state government all the more because the "contents are fabricated".On post-poll violence in Bengal and the state government's efforts to bring back normalcy, it said: "While the post-poll violence in the State was somewhat unabated when the Election Commission of India was in charge of the law and order machinery, after the swearing-in, the State Cabinet has reigned in the situation, restored normalcy, and established full command over anti-law elements. The state police have been firmly directed to bring to book all anti-socials and the Government remains committed to maintain the basic fabric of society and to uphold law and order."Also Read | Anti-defection law under spotlight amid Bengal political tussleThis comes after West Bengal Governor in a letter urged Chief Minister Banerjee to break her silence on post poll retributive violence and restore law and order.In a tweet, while making the letter public, Dhankhar said he called upon Banerjee to have an interaction on the issues mentioned in the letter at the earliest."With a heavy heart, I am constrained to observe your continued silence and inaction over post-poll retributive bloodshed, violation of human rights. outrageous assault on the dignity of women, wanton destruction of property, the perpetuation of untold miseries on political opponents- worst since independence and it ill augurs for democracy," he said in the letter.Dhankhar in the letter claimed that "in spite of drawing her attention to the enormity of situation, huge exodus of people in search of cover for life and destruction of property worth crores, there has only been stunning silence at Banerjee's end and she did not deem it necessary to even deliberate this grave human tragedy in any of the cabinet meetings so far.""Your studied silence, coupled with an absence of any steps to engage in rehabilitation and compensation to alleviate the unimaginable suffering of people, force an inevitable conclusion that all this is state-driven. Your stance is plunging the vast suffering populace in a state of hopelessness and helplessness. Such 'punitive' decimation of human rights and dignity shames democracy," the Governor said.Cornering West Bengal Police, he stated that the administration and police of the state, in "such alarmingly grim situation" were expected to act in a stern manner and according to law, however, nothing of the kind happened."Their role suffers from partisan stance as also the abandonment of lawful obligations... I beseech you to reflect and ponder over the premise of ongoing violence, i.e. -- 'punishing' and 'disciplining' those who 'dared' to vote out of volition and for the opposition," he said.Dhankhar noted that during his May 13-15 visits to poll violence-affected areas, people in Coochbehar, Nandigram and Ranpagli Camp in Assam narrated "heart-rendering tales and woes of arson, loot, rapes and killings apart from wanton destruction of property"."Madam Chief Minister, you will agree that such a scenario sounds death knell for democracy. How can people be made to suffer for exercising right to vote in democracy?" he asked, adding that he expected that Banerjee will brief him on the post-poll violence and Cyclone Yaas disaster."It will be greatly appreciated that keeping in view our respective constitutional positions, an interaction fructifies on these issues at the earliest. Am sure you will accord priority to this," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-questions-guv-dhankhar-s-letter-to-cm-mamata-on-post-poll-violence-101623809167727.html
16-06-2021||India||Indian Army releases video song on 1st anniversary of Galwan clash||The Indian Army has released a video song on the first anniversary of the Galwan valley clash, in which they have paid a tribute to the Indian soldiers who fought the Chinese troops valiantly in Ladakh.Noted singer Hariharan has lent his voice to the song titled 'Galwan ke Veer'. It highlights the valour of the Indian soldiers guarding the Galwan and says the "heroes" rose to the occasion when challenged on the mountains.The nearly five-minute video song captures glimpses of the lives of the troops deployed in Ladakh, including their round-the-clock vigil, training and combat readiness to deal with any threat.#गलवानकेवीर #GalwanKeVeer“ मुझे तोड़ लेना वनमाली!उस पथ पर देना तुम फेंक,मातृभूमि पर शीश चढ़ानेजिस पथ जावें वीर अनेक ”#IndianArmy#StrongAndCapable pic.twitter.com/EUvxvBNH5WOn this occasion, Leh-based 14 Corps known as 'Fire and Fury Corps' paid homage to Galwan heroes, a spokesperson of the Northern Command said, according to news agency PTI.As many as 20 Indian Army personnel had laid down their lives in the clashes on June 15 last year in Galwan valley in Ladakh. In February 2021, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army.The Army last year built a memorial for the 'Gallants of Galwan' at Post 120 in eastern Ladakh. The memorial mentioned their heroic deeds under operation 'Snow Leopard' and the way they evicted the PLA troops from the area.Both India and China completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. They are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-releases-video-song-on-1st-anniversary-of-galwan-clash-101623803890855.html
16-06-2021||India||Centre issues guidelines for employees for office attendance||From Wednesday, central government employees will have to work from office on all working days till June 30, Live Hindustan, Hindustan Times’ sister publication has reported. The direction is a part of new guidelines issued by the Union government for its staff, and is applicable to all central ministries and departments.Also Read | 15 days casual leave for Central govt employees whose parents test positiveAccording to the guidelines, of the officers below the rank of under secretary, 50% will work from office, while the remaining 50% will work from home. The first shift will be from 9am-5:30pm, the second between 9:30am and 6pm, while the third and final one will begin at 10am and get over at 6pm. However, staff members who are specially abled or pregnant can continue to work from home. Also, officials who live in areas declared as containment zones will continue to work from home till the time the area is excluded from the list of containment zones.Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayAdditionally, the guidelines mandate a strict compliance with all Covid-19 norms. Employees have been directed to frequently wash and sanitise their hands, wear masks and follow social distancing at all times. Any violation or laxity in this regard will be taken seriously, employees have been warned.Earlier this month, Union minister Jitendra Singh said that the Centre has extended ‘flexy’ attendance option for its employees till June 15.As the deadly second wave of Covid-19 is declining, several state governments have announced relaxations in lockdown or lockdown-like restrictions which were imposed to contain the spread of the disease. These relaxations include directing at least 50% government officials to come to office for work. Private offices, too, have been allowed to function with 50% staff, though they have been recommended to continue with the work from home mode or, if calling employees to office, do so in staggered shift timings to avoid crowding in offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-guidelines-for-employees-for-office-attendance-101623803468268.html
16-06-2021||India||Left parties' fortnight-long stir against fuel price hike begins today||The fortnight-long agitation of the Left parties against rising prices of fuel, essential commodities and medicines will begin from Wednesday. The protest will end on June 30 during which the parties will ask the Centre to roll back increased price of petrol and diesel and control the rates of other essential items.The Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, All India Forward Bloc, Revolutionary Socialist Party and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist)-Liberation issued a joint statement in this regard on Sunday."More assaults on people's livelihood are being mounted by this relentless rise in prices of all essential commodities. Instead of helping people to combat the ravages of the Covid health catastrophe, the Narendra Modi government hiked the prices of petroleum products by at least 21 times after the announcement of the results of the recent assembly elections on May 2, 2021," the parties said in the statement.This is leading to a cascading inflationary spiral with the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) rising to an eleven-year high, they further said.The Left parties also demanded that the central government must immediately give direct cash transfers of ₹7,500 per month for six months to all families not falling in the income tax-paying bracket.The protests will be carried out in accordance with the Covid-19 norms put in place by the government, the parties said.The prices of petrol and diesel have soared across India in the past few weeks, with both the fuels retailing at record prices in some cities. Rates have been increased across the country and differ from state to state depending on the incidence of value-added tax.The rising fuel prices drove the WPI inflation to reach to a record high of 12.94 per cent in May. This is the fifth straight month of uptick seen in the WPI-based inflation. In April, 2021, it hit double digit at 10.49 per cent.Inflation in fuel and power basket spiked to 37.61 per cent during May, against 20.94 per cent in April. Prices of crude petroleum and other fuels had crashed last year in May due to lockdowns across the globe which had caused demand to plummet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-parties-fortnight-long-stir-against-fuel-price-hike-begins-today-101623802967986.html
16-06-2021||India||Puducherry to conduct 4-day vaccination festival from today||The Puducherry government will be conducting a four-day vaccination festival from Wednesday to combat the spread of Covid-19 in the union territory. Health secretary T Arun said in a release that his department is conducting the festival along with other departments at more than 100 centres in the union territory.Arun said that a special camp was held in Karuvadikuppam on Tuesday to vaccinate differently-abled persons and their parents or care-takers. Nearly 150 people were vaccinated at the camp, he added.The official further said that the government would also soon deploy health staff to inoculate differently-abled people at their homes.Vaccination would be done in government hospitals, primary health centres also at designated centres in all the four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam.Arun said the joint efforts by the health department in association with other departments, political leaders, leaders of public opinion, voluntary organisations, self- help groups and other stakeholders had been initiated to hold the vaccination festival.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first taken the initiative of organising the 'Tika Utsav' (vaccination festival) to speed up the nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19.The four-day-long 'Tika Utsav' started on April 11 and ended on April 14.PM Modi called it the beginning of the second big war against the Covid-19 pandemic and urged for maximum inoculations among eligible age groups. “We have to move towards optimum utilisation of the country’s vaccination capacity. This is a way to augment our capacity,” he said.According to health experts and the government, vaccinating as many people as possible is one of the effective ways to counter the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-to-conduct-4-day-vaccination-festival-from-today-101623801836366.html
16-06-2021||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address at 5th edition of VivaTech today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the 5th edition of VivaTech today at around 4 pm via video conferencing.Other prominent speakers in the event include President of France Emmanuel Macron, Prime Minister of Spain Pedro Sanchez and ministers and MPs from various European countries.The event will also witness the participation of corporate leaders including Apple CEO Tim Cook, Chairman and CEO, Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg and President, Microsoft Brad Smith.A PMO release said that the Prime Minister has been invited as a Guest of Honour to deliver the keynote address at VivaTech 2021.The Prime Minister, who also made a tweet, said that he will address the event through video conferencing."Through this forum, will be speaking about India's strides in the world of tech and start-up," he said.The release said VivaTech is one of the largest digital and startup events in Europe, held in Paris every year since 2016. It is jointly organised by Publicis Groupe - a prominent advertising and marketing conglomerate and Les Echos - a leading French media group. The event brings together stakeholders in technology innovation and the startup ecosystem and includes exhibitions, awards, panel discussions and startup contests. The 5th edition of VivaTech is scheduled to be held between June 16 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-5th-edition-of-vivatech-today-101623802786018.html
16-06-2021||India||‘Will set party straight’, says Sasikala in clip||A day after the dual leadership in the AIADMK expelled 16 party members for speaking to their ousted former interim general secretary V K Sasikala, new audio clips emerged on Tuesday where she reveals that everyone back-stabbed her and that she would have picked O Panneerselvam as chief minister before she went to prison in 2017. She also offers an explanation for her decision to step away from politics before elections and her determination to reclaim the party now.Sasikala’s team released nine audio clips of her telephonic conversations with party functionaries from across Tamil Nadu. “I have a responsibility. I am confident that I’d be able to set the party straight. My wish is that the AIADMK should be strong even if it turns 100 years. We would definitely bring Amma (Jayalalithaa) rule. I will meet all of you soon,” she is heard saying in one of the audioclips.Palaniswami and Panneerselvam who head the party as coordinators, and in the assembly as leader of opposition and deputy, were Sasikala’s loyalists who turned against her at different points. “Everyone back-stabbed me. There is no more space left on my back to be stabbed anymore,” Sasikala said. “But how can I be a mute spectator if they do this to cadres also?”Her statement is unexpected as at that point, Panneerselvam staged a dramatic revolt against Sasikala after he resigned as chief minister to make way for her. Palaniswami was in Sasikala’s camp and hence she picked him before leaving for Bengaluru to serve her four-year jail term as a convict in the disproportionate assets case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-set-party-straight-says-sasikala-in-clip-101623802554515.html
16-06-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown to be eased in these states from today||Amid a dip in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country, some state governments have announced more relaxations in lockdown-like restrictions from Wednesday, which were imposed to control the spread of the viral disease.India on Tuesday registered 60,471 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours - the lowest in 75 days - and 2,726 related deaths, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said. With this, the national tally of coronavirus cases rose to 29,570,881, while the death toll stood at 377,031, Tuesday’s data showed.Here's a list of states that have eased the curbs:1. Assam--The Assam State Disaster Management Authority has issued a new set of lockdown guidelines that will be in effect from 5am on June 16 till 5am on June 22. As per the order, lockdown-like curbs have been relaxed in South Salmara, Majuli, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Udalguri, West Karbi Anglong, Dima Hasao and Charaideo districts. Public movement will be allowed in these districts from 5am to 5pm.2. West Bengal--The West Bengal government has announced that there will be some relaxation from June 16 including the opening of restaurants and bars (even those which are located inside shopping complexes) between 12 noon to 8pm with 50% sitting capacity.3. Bihar--Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced further relaxations in Covid-19-linked restrictions in the state starting from June 16. As part of the unlock process in the state, government and private offices have been allowed to function in full strength till 5pm, while shops will be allowed to remain open till 6pm. However, the night curfew will be in place from 8pm to 5am.4. Punjab--The state government has announced that restaurants, cinema halls and gyms can open and operate at 50% capacity beginning Wednesday.5. Rajasthan--The Rajasthan government has announced a revised guideline which will come into effect from Wednesday. Aaccording to it, all government and private offices with more than 10 employees can function with 50% staff capacity following Covid-19 protocols, which includes wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-to-be-eased-in-these-states-from-today-101623800732273.html
16-06-2021||India||Centrally protected monuments open from today, 650 people allowed in Taj Mahal||All centrally protected monuments, museums and sites closed for around two months due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will reopen on Wednesday. An order in this regard was issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Monday.After the order, 3,693 monuments and 50 museums across the country will welcome tourists and visitors.According to ASI, visitors will be able to book entry tickets online and no offline booking facility has been made available.The ASI order has mandated strict compliance with the executive orders, if any, issued by the state, district or the disaster management authority. Appropriate guidelines and SOPs issued by Union and states governments, ministries and departments will also be scrupulously followed while regulating the flow of visitors, the order further said.In accordance with the order, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said on Tuesday that only 650 people will be allowed to enter the Taj Mahal at a time when the monument reopens for visitors.Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Agra Circle, Vasant Kumar Swarnakar said that the monument premises will be sanitised three times a day."Masks will be mandatory for tourists. Thermal screening of tourists would be done at the gates and they would be sanitised before entering the monument premises," said the official."The visitors would not be allowed to touch any object on the monument premises and they would have to follow social distancing norms," he added.In an order on April 15, the ASI had shut these monuments till May 31 due to surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave.Last year, all monuments and sites maintained by the ASI were closed due to the Cpvod-19 pandemic on March 17. They reopened in July with strict restrictions like mandatory wearing of masks, a cap on the number of visitors and social distancing.The curbs were relaxed later in the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centrally-protected-monuments-open-from-today-650-people-allowed-in-taj-mahal-101623801619322.html
16-06-2021||NA||Breaking: Fire breaks out in AIIMS Delhi, 26 fire tenders rushed to the spot||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Fire breaks out in AIIMS Delhi, 26 fire tenders rushed to the spotA fire broke out on the ninth floor of a building at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences(AIIMS) on Wednesday. 26 fire tenders were dispatched after the fire control room received a distress call at 10.25 pm. A fire officer told HT that "the fire started at an office in the convergence block within the campus. The fire fighting operation is on. 26 fire tenders have been sent. There are no casualties yet,"Biden warns of devastating consequences if Alexei Navalny dies"How could I be the president of the United States and not speak out about human rights? It's not just about going after Russia, but it about who we are," Biden said. On being asked about what happens if Alexei Navalny dies, Biden warned of devastating consequences. Read more366 FIRs over 'communal' social media posts in a year: UP Police ADGIn a year, from June 1, 2020 to May 31, 2021, 366 First Information Reports (FIR) have been filed in Uttar Pradesh over the allegation of disruption to communal harmony through posts, comments on social media platforms, said Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar.EU tech rules threaten security of iPhones: Tim Cook at VivaTechApple CEO Tim Cook on Wednesday at the VivaTech conference said the proposed European rules to control the power of US tech giants could possibly pose security and privacy risks to iPhones.Chirag Paswan appoints Raju Tiwari as LJP's Bihar chiefLok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan has appointed Raju Tiwari as party's Bihar unit president in place of MP Prince Raj.'May be compromises' with US: Putin on prisoner exchange#BREAKING Putin says 'may be compromises' with US on prisoner exchange pic.twitter.com/D5i05mSsmJFacebook expands fact-checking in India amid Covid concernsFacebook will be expanding its third-party fact-checking programme in India. The social media giant has partnered with The Healthy Indian Project (THIP) to boost its capabilities to understand and deal with health-related misinformation on the platform.US, Russia agree to return ambassadors#BREAKING US, Russia agree to return ambassadors: Putin pic.twitter.com/9VRUH0brScPutin says US and Russia have agreed to return ambassadors.US buys 200mn more Moderna Covid-19 jabsUnited States reaches deal with Moderna to buy 200 million more doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine. The deal also has the option to purchase variant-specific boosters that are in the pipeline.Chicago: 5 killed in shootingFive people standing outside on Chicago's West Side shot dead. Hours earlier three women and a man were fatally shot and four other people suffered gunshot wounds inside a house on the South Side.BJP national general secretary Arun Singh in KarnatakaThe senior BJP leader is holding a meeting with Karnataka ministers, reported ANI.Govt said prices of edible oil has reduced in the last monthThe ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution said that prices have reduced by 20% in certain categories. The ministry said that the rise in prices is due to disparity between domestic consumption and production, ANI reported.Chennai minor sexual abuse case: School founder arrested near DelhiTamil Nadu CBCID arrests Chennai school founder, Siva Sankar Baba, near Delhi. He was charged for sexually assaulting students.French government says masks not compulsory in outdoor settingsThe French government while easing Covid-19 restrictions said that masks are not compulsory outdoors, reports AFP. Biden-Putin summit begins#BREAKING Biden and Putin shake hands, kicking off Geneva summit pic.twitter.com/o8AfwiZEHaThis is US President Biden's first in-person meet after getting elected with the Russian president. Clashes erupt between cadres of the BJP and Shiv Sena in DadarClashes erupted between the workers of the BJP and Shiv Sena after the BJP workers led a protest march at Shiv Sena Bhavan, the party's headquarters in Dadar. The protests are being held over Sena's comment on alleged land deal scam for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.'Ask startup community to take the lead in innovating country': PM ModiPM Modi asks India's startup community to focus on healthcare industry. Health infrastructure, economy needs to be repaired frequently: PM ModiPM Modi says India is an 'adaptable and agile' nation. He said India is focusing on insulating the world against the next pandemic. 'Talent, market, capital, ecosystem and culture of openness in India': PM Modi invites world to invest in countryPM Modi said India is working actively to nurture a culture of innovation. 'India offers what investors and innovators need': PM Modi'Indian youth have given technological solution to world's pressing problems,' says PM Modi at Vivatech Summit. PM Modi addresses Vivatech Summit, says technology, innovation came to rescue of mankind during pandemic'Innovation came to our rescue during pandemic,' says PM Modi at VivaTech Summit. Moscow makes vaccinations mandatory in service sectorMoscow mayor Sergei Sobyanin ordered mandatory vaccination for Russians working in the service industry. Premier League fixtures releasedThe English Premier League has released its fixtures for 2021-2022 season. Premier League champions Manchester City will start their title defence as they visit London club Tottenham Hotspurs on August 14. Chirag Paswan says his uncle, JD(U) tried to break LJPLJP chief Chirag Paswan said that his uncle and several leaders from the JD(U) tried to break the party after his father Ram Vilas Paswan's demise.Shivraj Singh Chouhan asks PM Modi to allow states' borrowing limit to 5.5%The Madhya Pradesh chief minister said that states faced a revenue loss due to Covid-19 and asked the Prime Minister to allow states' borrowing limit to 5.5% of the GDP for development work. PM Modi to launch Customized Crash Course programPM Modi will launch a Customized Crash Course program to upskill over 1 lakh frontline workers and Covid-19 warriors, the PMO said in a release. Iran to elect new president on FridayIran will choose a new president on Friday. The countrywide voter turnout hit a record low during the polls. Iranians are likely to choose ultraconservative Ebrahim Raisi to replace Hassan Rouhani. PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia to family of deceased in road accident in Gujarat's Anand district"Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident in Anand district in Gujarat. Condolences to those who lost their near and dear ones. An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be provided to the next of kin of those deceased," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted.BJP's Embalam R Selvam sworn in as Puducherry assembly speakerBJP state general secretary and MLA from the Manavely constituency Embalam R Selvam sworn is speaker of Puducherry Legislative Assembly, reports ANI.Child among 3 killed in west Afghanistan shootingTwo women and a child were killed in a shooting in the western Afghan province of Herat on Tuesday night.Twitter got multiple opportunities to comply with laws: RS PrasadTwitter got multiple opportunities to comply with laws, says IT minister Prasad after social media giant loses legal protection in India.Taiwan reports 167 new domestic Covid-19 casesTaiwan reported 167 new domestic Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, up from the previous day's figure of 132.Chhatrasal Stadium case: Delhi Police arrest judo coach SubhashDelhi Police arrest judo coach Subhash in connection with the killing of 23-year-old Sagar Rana at Chhatrasal Stadium. Wrestler Sushil Kumar is already in judicial custody after a Delhi court extended his remand till June 25.Probe over Mumbai's Hiranandani Estate Society vaccination matter is onProbe over Mumbai's Hiranandani Estate Society vaccination matter is on, but initial findings suggest that beneficiaries of the vaccination received their certificates with different date and location: Mumbai Police Sources, reports ANI.New York lifts Covid-19 restrictions, planning celebrationsNew York State Governor Andrew Cuomo Tuesday announced the immediate lifting of major Covid-19 restrictions across the state as 70% of adults in the state have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine.China ramps up vaccinations, but uneven rollout leaves borders closedChina has tripled its daily Covid-19 vaccine rollout in June, inoculating 44% of its population with at least one dose, but its health experts warn against a quick border reopening, citing an uneven rollout and the low rate of full vaccinations.Rupee rises 4 paise to 73.27Rupee rises 4 paise to 73.27 against US dollar in early trade.Heavy rainfall in Mumbai causes traffic snarlsHeavy rainfall in Mumbai causes traffic snarls in different parts of the city.China set to send first crew to new space station ThursdayChina is set to send the first three crew members to its new space station Thursday morning and envisions growing international cooperation on the ambitious project, a space agency official said Wednesday.China environment ministry says no leak at Taishan nuclear power stationChina's environment ministry said on Wednesday that there was no leak at the Taishan nuclear power station, responding to a CNN report earlier this week.Sensex slumps 70 points to open at 52,703, Nifty begins at 15,846Sensex on Wednesday slumped 70 points to open at 52,703, while Nifty began at 15,846.India records 62,224 new Covid-19 cases, 2542 deaths; tally at 29.6 millionIndia on Wednesday recorded 62,224 new Covid-19 cases and 2542 deaths; tally at 29.6 million, according to Union health ministry's data.Twitter only social media platform that has not adhered to new IT rules, to lose status as intermediary platform, reports ANITwitter no longer an intermediary platform in India as it didn’t comply with new IT rules, reports ANI quoting government sourcesStudy finds more reliable rapid tests for Covid-19During a recent study, researchers at the University of Maryland School of Medicine (UMSOM) developed two rapid diagnostic tests for Covid-19 that are nearly as accurate as the gold-standard test currently used in laboratories.Kim Jong Un says North Korea’s food situation ‘getting tense’North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said the country’s food situation is “getting tense” due to typhoons last year that wiped out crops, comments that underscored farm-sector shortfalls made worse by his decision to close borders to prevent Covid.'Very interested' in strong energy partnership with India, says US energy secretaryThe Biden administration is "very interested" in continuing to ensure that the US has a strong energy partnership with India, Energy Secretary Jennifer M Granholm has said.Rajnath Singh participates in ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting PlusDefence Minister Rajnath Singh participates in the ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting Plus (ADMM-Plus) via video conferencing this morning.China set to send first crew to new space station ThursdayChina is set to send the first three crew members to its new space station Thursday morning, China's space agency said.1 unidentified terrorist killed in encounter in Naugam area of Srinagar1 unidentified terrorist killed in encounter in Naugam area of Srinagar, search operations going on, say Kashmir Zone Police.One dead, dozens feared missing as flood wreaks havoc in Central NepalWe suspect the flood originated from the main source of Melamchi and Indrawati River. As of now we only have confirmed report of one dead: Arun Pokhrel, Chief District Officer of Sindhupalchowk told ANI.Israel launches air strikes on Gaza Strip, first time after declaration of ceasefire last monthThe Israeli Air Force launched airstrikes in the Gaza Strip on Wednesday after Palestinians in the besieged enclave sent incendiary balloons into southern Israel, as per Israel's military and witnesses in Gaza.China reports 21 new Covid-19 cases on June 15 vs 20 a day earlierChina reported 21 new Covid-19 cases in the mainland for June 15, up from 20 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Wednesday.4 dead, 4 hurt in shooting on Chicago's South Side: PoliceAn argument in a house on Chicago's South Side erupted into gunfire early Tuesday, leaving four people dead and four more injured, police said.Australia to decide ‘very shortly’ on WTO action against ChinaAustralian Trade Minister Dan Tehan said his government is bolstering its legal arguments before potentially asking the World Trade Organization to resolve its wine-tariff trade dispute with China.Car bomb explosion at Colombia military base injures 36A car bomb explosion at a military base in the Colombian border city of Cucuta injured 36 people on Tuesday, the defense minister said, casting blame for the attack on leftist rebels.Bus accident in northern Mexico leaves 12 deadA bus carrying patients for treatment of chronic illnesses flipped in northern Mexico near the US border Tuesday, killing 12 people and leaving 10 others injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-16-2021-101623799885068.html
16-06-2021||India||SC rejects Devas plea to restrain liquidator||The Supreme Court on Tuesday turned down a plea by Devas Multimedia Pvt. Ltd to restrain the liquidator from taking any step in relation to the arbitration pending before the Delhi high court between Devas and Central government-owned Antrix Corporation Ltd.Devas has filed proceedings before the Delhi high court for enforcement of an international tribunal award for $562.5 million plus interest in its favour.The bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian declined to issue any interim order and asked Devas to go back to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) where its appeal is pending.On May 25, the Bengaluru branch of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had ordered liquidation of Devas on grounds that the company was incorporated in a fraudulent manner to siphon funds to dubious foreign accounts.The NCLT order had come on a winding up petition by Antrix Corporation, a commercial arm of the ISRO.It further directed the official liquidator to take expeditious steps to liquidate the company in order to prevent it from perpetuating its fraudulent activities and abusing the process of law in enforcing the award passed in 2015 by the arbitration tribunal of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), and submit the report by July 7. Devas challenged this order before the NCLAT, which issued notices to Antrix and others on June 7 and fixed the matter for hearing next on July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-devas-plea-to-restrain-liquidator-101623796118210.html
16-06-2021||India||Ajit Singh: Face of Jat politics in UP and champion of farmers’ rights||Ajit Singh, the son of a former prime minister, a former Union minister who served under four prime ministers, and a seven-term member of Parliament, died of Covid last month.But his political legacy was more happenstance than choice. Son of north India’s tallest farm leader Charan Singh, Singh was pushed into abruptly swapping a 15-year-long career as a computer scientist in Silicon Valley to the dusty fields of Western Uttar Pradesh in 1987.“Dadaji [grandfather] was sick and there was a lot of pressure on him because there was a vacuum. There were a lot of tall leaders who were a part of getting him into politics and I don’t think he strategically thought about it,’’ said Jayant Chaudhary, who has now stepped into his father’s role as the president of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).Singh never talked about his sudden political plunge, but Jayant gauged his reluctance when it was the younger man’s turn. “Unlike other politician fathers, he actually discouraged me,” said Chaudhary.Also Read | The hidden legacy of Ajit SinghDespite his reluctance, Singh quickly overcame his initial unfamiliarity with the caste and faith-based politics of western UP and cultivated his father’s close associations with farmer groups.From 1987 to 2014, Singh forged key alliances with both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), getting the commerce and industry portfolio in VP Singh’s government in 1989 and then going on to serve in the PV Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh cabinets, delivering the crucial farmers’ vote from the Jat-Muslim belt to his ally.His run ended when Narendra Modi swept to power in 2014, raiding the RLD’s turf. Singh lost his traditional Baghpat seat to former police commissioner Satyapal Singh in an election that happened months after the 2013 Jat-Muslim Muzaffarnagar riots that killed 70 people and displaced 100,000.“It’s not that he didn’t lose an election before. It’s just that this time he knew that something had changed for good. And he saw it again in 2019,’’ said Jayant, referring to Singh’s narrow loss in Muzaffarnagar to the BJP’s Sanjeev Balyan.Since 2014, the RLD has been reduced from being a kingmaker in UP to a marginal player – going from a strike rate of winning five out of seven seats in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections to zero seat out of eight in 2014 and zero out of three in 2019. In the 2017 assembly elections, it won a single seat out of the 277 contested.Shortly after his first electoral loss in three decades, Singh got embroiled in a bitter standoff with the central government over his Tughlaq Road residence. Singh refused to vacate the bungalow, saying he wanted to convert it into a memorial for Charan Singh while the government said such conversions of Lutyens bungalows were banned under a 2000 law and that Singh was illegally overstaying. The authorities shut off water and electricity and Singh finally left for his Vasant Kunj farmhouse after 118 days. The faceoff left a bitter aftertaste. “He felt wronged. He felt many former PMs had their homes turned into memorials so why couldn’t he?’’ said former Haryana chief minister and close friend, Bhupinder Hooda. Their friendship was another thing Singh inherited: Charan Singh was close to Hooda’s father, former minister Ranbir Singh Hooda.The one thing Hooda remembers most about his “brother’’ is his laughter. “Once we were together and this person, who I can’t name, was with us and he’d just left one party. So Ajit Singh asked him -- what happened? That person said he kicked the party. I will never forget that he started laughing while saying: “Kick them! Kick them faster and harder!’’A seasoned politician, Singh knew that despite the poll reverses, the possibility of a comeback was always round the corner. The farmer protests, which broke out last year over three controversial agriculture bills, appeared to be an opportunity for just that.As the agitation intensified at Delhi’s borders, Singh toured western UP, hosting mahapanchayats and renewing contact with farm leaders. On January 28, when forces closed in on the Ghazipur protest site and power supplies were cut, farm leader Rakesh Tikait received a call from Singh. “He told me not to worry and he said that we should carry on our protest, he would support us. That meant a lot to us,’’ said Tikait. Hours later, he issued an emotional appeal that galvanised farmers in western UP, and RLD called for joint mahapanchayats with farm leaders across the region“From the beginning, he stayed true to farmers. Unlike other politicians, he didn’t go back and forth and will remain a lasting leader of the community,’’ said Tikait.Between then and April, when he contracted Covid, Singh remained politically active, addressing large rallies. Right before he died after two weeks in hospital on May 6, he believed that his voters were ready to welcome the RLD and his ideas, that the pain of Muslim-Jat violence was trumped by a common farmer identity. His son Jayant now hopes to carry on that vision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-singh-face-of-jat-politics-in-up-and-champion-of-farmers-rights-101623792915099.html
16-06-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, B.1.617.2 is likely to become the dominant strain in the US, experts fear, much like it already has in the UK. Indeed, both the UK and Russia are among countries that are seeing a resurgence in cases on account of this variant which was first sequenced in India. After bottoming out at a little over 2,000 in the first week of May (the lowest since last September), the seven-day average of daily new cases in the UK, according to the NYT database, rose to 7,278 on June 14. In Russia, according to worldometers.info, the seven-day average of daily new cases was 12,363 on June 14, after bottoming out in the low 8,000s in early May, during a long plateau that followed the second wave of the pandemic in that country. Some experts are also of the opinion that it could become the dominant strain in most parts of the world, replacing Alpha, which was first sequenced in the UK. The numbers shouldn’t surprise anyone. Research by Public Health England has shown that Delta is 64% more infectious than the original strain of the virus that first emerged in Wuhan, China, in late 2019. But while it is more infectious, research released earlier this week (again, by Public Health England) showed that two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine prevent hospitalisation in 96% of cases, and two doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford one in 92% of the cases. The vaccines, according to earlier research by PHE, were found to be 88% and 60% effective in preventing infection after two doses (and 33% effective in preventing it after one).On Monday, the UK also announced that it was reducing the gap between the two doses of vaccine for those over the age of 40 years from 12 weeks to eight weeks, a move aimed at countering the Delta variant (the country also delayed opening up further till July 19 on account of this strain). As I’ve said before in this column, India should now consider doing the same. The Delta variant is likely the dominant one in this country too (we can’t know for sure till we sequence enough viral genomes, which we aren’t doing). Still, the revelation that vaccines are highly effective in preventing hospitalisation, even in case of an infection caused by the Delta variant, is good news.On the subject of the Delta variant, there’s been a lot of buzz around a so-called Delta-plus variant, one that displays one mutation that was seen in Beta (B.1.351), which was first sequenced in South Africa, and which seems to have some ability to evade antibodies (the Gamma variant or P1 or B.1.1.248, first sequenced in Brazil also has a mutation that allows it to do this), but there hasn’t been much research around it yet.But there was more good news on Monday as well: research by scientists from Rockefeller University and Weill Cornell Medicine suggested that immunity against the Sars-CoV-2 virus was strong even a year after infection, and that infected people who received at one dose of the vaccine developed strong immunity even against the variants of concern. HT reported this study on June 15.This, the duration for which a prior infection or a vaccine (or both) offers protection against Covid-19 has been one of the fundamental questions of science related to the pandemic. Over the past few months, our ability to answer that question has improved. In May, Nature published a paper by scientists at the Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis that showed that people infected with Sars-CoV-2 do, over time, develop memory plasma cells (resident in their bone marrow). Such cells typically offer long-lasting immunity against pathogens. For instance, in an instalment of this column last July, I wrote of a 2020 study by scientists at Duke-National University of Singapore Medical School and Singapore’s National Centre for Infectious Diseases that people infected in 2003 by Sars-CoV-1, which caused Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars), still possessed cells that remembered that virus and could protect them against it if required.It’s reasonable to assume that some of these immunological benefits are only available to those who have suffered a symptomatic infection (in keeping with the old adage, no pain, no gain), but this too is a question that science should be able to answer soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101623786602407.html
16-06-2021||India||NIA arrests two more in Mansukh Hiran case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on June 11 arrested two more persons in connection with the Antilia explosives scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran.The accused have been identified as Santosh Atmaram Shelar and Anand Pandurang Jadhav, both residents of Kurar village in Malad (East), said an NIA officer. The duo is said to be close aides of a former Mumbai Police encounter specialist, but the NIA officer quoted above has refused to divulge the alleged roles played by the two in the Antilia and murder cases.Several cases of assault and rioting are registered against Shelar at Kurar and other police stations in north Mumbai. An officer said that the agency was on the lookout for him for more than a month. He was nabbed from Latur, while Jadhav was arrested from Mumbai.Shelar and Jadhav have been remanded in NIA custody till June 21 by the special NIA court in Mumbai.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia – the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani – with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the Ambanis.A case was registered with Gamdevi police station in connection with the incident. On March 5, Hiran – the owner of the SUV – was found dead in a creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf. A separate case was then registered with Mumbra police in connection with the murder of the trader. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. NIA subsequently took over both the cases and clubbed them for investigation purposes. The federal agency had previously arrested three Mumbai Police officers – Sachin Vaze, his colleague at the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the crime branch Riyazuddin Kazi and inspector Sunil Mane. NIA also arrested former police constable Vinayak More – a life convict in the fake encounter killing of Lakhan Bhaiya – and cricket bookie Naresh Gor, both of whom allegedly helped Vaze to execute the suspected murder.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the Antilia case, but removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who had reported the SUV stolen on February 17. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the SUV in November and returned to Hiran in early February.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred the then police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours, and when no action was forthcoming, he approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, the central agency registered an offence against Deshmukh and some others on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-two-more-in-mansukh-hiran-case-101623784626847.html
16-06-2021||India||Shah holds meet to review flood preparedness for monsoon||New Delhi: Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday held a high-level meeting to review the preparedness to deal with flood situations in the country during the monsoon. He also reviewed long-term measures for the formulation of a comprehensive and overarching policy to mitigate the perennial flood problems in the country, people aware of the matter said.During the meeting, Shah directed officials to strengthen coordination between central and state agencies to have a permanent system for forecasting floods and the rise in water levels in major catchment zones/areas, the people added.The Union minister also advised the Jal Shakti ministry to work out a mechanism for desilting of large dams, which will help in increasing dam storage capacity and flood control.The meeting comes a day after the ministry of earth science issued a statement predicting rainfall with isolated thunderstorms and lightning over most parts of east, central and northeast India over the next four to five days.According to a statement issued by the home ministry, Shah told the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the Central Water Commission to use state-of-the-art technology and satellite data for more accurate weather and flood predictions. “He directed to give maximum publicity to various mobile apps related to weather forecasting like ‘Umang’, ‘Rain Alarm’ and ‘Damini’, developed by the IMD, so that their benefits reach the targeted population,” the statement added. The Union minister also directed the National Disaster Response Force to immediately hold meetings with the heads of the SDRF of flood-prone states.A large area in India is prone to flood in which the Ganga and the Brahmaputra are main flood basins and Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal are most flood-prone states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-holds-meet-to-review-flood-preparedness-for-monsoon-101623784266754.html
16-06-2021||India||Centre’s order on giving citizenship to refugees separate from CAA, SC told||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that its May 28 order delegating collectors of select districts to grant citizenship to non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh is distinct from the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) of 2019. While the former is merely a delegation by the Centre to consider applications of foreigners staying legally in India, the latter applies to illegal migrants, the government told the court.The government was responding to an intervention application filed in the apex court earlier this month by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a political outfit that had earlier challenged the CAA. The application, drawn by advocate Haris Beeran, dubbed the May 28 order an “indirect” attempt to secure the purpose sought to be achieved under CAA, and sought a stay on it as it felt the government was trying to “circumvent” the apex court that had refused to stay the 2019 legislation on the Centre’s assurance that its rules were yet to be framed.The affidavit filed by the ministry of home affairs on Monday said, “The delegation of power vide notification dated May 28, 2021, is in respect of those foreign applicants who fulfil the eligibility criteria and who are in possession of valid documents like passports and Indian visa. It is submitted that the same would not be relatable to the legislative steps taken through the CAA which provide for a classification with a rational nexus and intelligible differentia.”The government further explained that the notification does not violate the right to equality of any citizen under Article 14, as a foreigner of any faith having a valid residential permit to stay in India is free to apply for citizenship.“The existing law and procedure for acquiring citizenship of India is in no way sought to be amended through the impugned notification. It is submitted that any foreigner of any faith can apply for citizenship of India at any time. The central government shall decide that application as per law and rules,” the affidavit stated.On Tuesday, a vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian adjourned the hearing in the matter by two weeks after senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for IUML sought time to file a response to the Centre’s affidavit. Attorney general K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, agreed to the deferment.The Centre informed the court that the May 2021 notification does not add or modify the eligibility criteria applicable to foreigners and such notifications delegating power to the district collectors have been issued from time to time by the central government in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2016 and 2018.The government claimed that the order has been issued under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act which allows the government to delegate its powers to grant citizenship by registration or naturalisation to district collectors. It also gave examples of past instances when this was done.In 2004, an amendment to the Citizenship Rules delegated the power to grant Indian citizenship by registration to Pakistani nationals of Hindu community displaced due to the 1965 and 1971 wars. In 2016, using its power under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act, the Centre delegated district collectors of 16 districts and home secretaries of seven states to process citizenship applications of legal migrants belonging to six specified minority communities of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh — Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians — for a period of two years. Later in 2018, this delegation of powers was extended till further orders.The Centre recently received requests from other states and districts having a sizeable number of such legal migrants staying within their territories. So, it decided to further delegate its power to grant citizenship to eligible categories of foreigners to collectors of 13 districts — four in Gujarat (Morbi, Rajkot, Patan, Vadodara), five in Rajasthan (Jalore, Udaipur, Pali, Barmer, Sirohi), two in Chhattisgarh (Durg, Balodabazar), Faridabad in Haryana, and Jalandhar in Punjab. Additionally, home secretaries of Haryana and Punjab were also given this power.At present, district collectors of 29 districts can exercise powers of the central government to grant citizenship to six categories of religious groups from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who are eligible under the Citizenship Act and Rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-order-on-giving-citizenship-to-refugees-separate-from-caa-sctold-101623784086752.html
16-06-2021||India||Army eyes faster mobility via dedicated rail corridors||The Indian Army said in a statement that it carried out its first trial run to move military hardware, including tanks, by rail along a dedicated freight corridor (DFC) in the country’s north, an approach that could, if expanded and implemented, allow the armed forces to swiftly transport equipment to shore up operational readiness, .The drill saw a military train transport vehicles and equipment from New Rewari in Haryana to New Phulera in Rajasthan on Monday.Such dedicated corridors will allow the armed forces to increase the pace of deployment of military hardware to areas where they are needed for operational reasons as freight trains will be able to clock average speeds of 75 kmph instead of the current 35-40 kmph, people familiar with the development said on the condition of anonymity.In some cases, freight travel time will be reduced by several days once the DFC ‘quadrilateral’ connecting Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata is ready, they added.The army carried out the drill in coordination with the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd (DFCCIL) and Indian Railways.“Interactions by the Indian Army with all stakeholders including DFCCIL and Indian Railways will now assist in leveraging the DFC and allied infrastructure into the mobilisation matrix of the armed forces,” the statement said. Development of infrastructure at certain locations to support mobilisation and trials to validate the movement of defence-owned rolling stock cargo (wheeled or tracked vehicles) is being formalised, the people cited above said.“These trials were part of the ‘whole-of-the-nation approach’ for optimising national resources and achieving seamless synergy among various ministries and departments. This initiative would set in place processes to ensure that military requirements are dovetailed in the national infrastructure development at the planning stage itself,” the statement added.Experts said faster movement of military hardware would help.“In futuristic scenarios, there will be short-duration intense wars wherein speedy mobilisation will be an important element for build-up/switching of forces. It’s a very positive move,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).Movement of military hardware on regular freight routes is a cumbersome and time-consuming process, said one of the officials cited above.“Military movement on regular freight routes takes place at a snail’s pace…in some cases taking as many as seven to 10 days. With these successful trials, we are sure military equipment can be moved from Kolkata to Ludhiana in just 24 hours which, in rail terms, is rocket speed,” he said.A dedicated corridor speeds up transportation time as it does not involve halts. “Earlier, these trains usually had to take halts every 150 km. A huge amount of time will be saved as the DFC routes will not require stoppages,” said a second official.In May, freight trains on the DFC clocked a record average speed of 99.38 kmph, faster than the average speed of 80 kmph of the Rajdhani trains. Three trains ran at an average speed of more than 99 kmph, the fastest being on the 331-km New Khurja-New Bhaupur section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC), which was opened for operations by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 29, 2020.DFCCIL has been tasked with developing Indian Railways’ quadrilateral linking the four metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata, commonly known as the Golden Quadrilateral. The overall project cost is pegged at ₹81,459 crore.In the first phase, the organisation is constructing the Western DFC (1,504 route km) and the EDFC (1,856 route km) spanning a total length of 3,360 route km. Route km refers to the distance between two points on the railway network, irrespective of the number of connecting lines.These corridors are targeted to be completed in phases by December 2021.EDFC will start from Sahnewal in Punjab and end at at Dankuni in West Bengal, passing through Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. WDFC, connecting Dadri in Uttar Pradesh to Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai will pass through Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Haryana....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-eyes-faster-mobility-via-dedicated-rail-corridors-101623784026730.html
16-06-2021||India||₹150 per Covaxin dose will not be sustainable in long run, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech has not sought indemnity from the central government against any adverse event caused by its coronavirus vaccine Covaxin, the company said in a statement on Tuesday. It also defended its differential pricing and said the “non-competitive rate” at which it provides the vaccine to the governments is unsustainable in the long run and the manufacturing cost has to be offset by pricing the vaccine higher in the private market. A whole virion inactivated vaccine, Covaxin is one of the three Covid-19 vaccines being used in the national Covid-19 immunisation programme. The company also said that the central government has directed it to keep supplies to the private sector under 10%.“As directed by the government of India, less than 10% of our total production of Covaxin to date has been supplied to private hospitals, while most of the remaining quantity was supplied to state and central governments,” the company said in a statement. In such a scenario, the weighted average price of Covaxin for all supplies is less than ₹ 250 per dose, the company said, adding that in the future, approximately 75% of the vaccine output will be supplied to the central and state governments while the remaining 25% will be supplied to private hospitals. The company has claimed that at least 40 million doses of Covaxin have been supplied to date, and newer versions targeting newer variants of the virus are also being developed. Explaining the new pricing policy, the company said the existing price of ₹150 per dose at which the vaccine is sold to the central government is non-competitive and unsustainable in the long run. So, a higher price in the private markets is required to offset part of the manufacturing cost. Currently, Covaxin is being sold to state governments at ₹400 per dose and at ₹1,200 per dose to private hospitals and institutions, which is significantly higher. Beginning June 21, doses will only be acquired by the Union government and private hospitals, and the Centre is expected to renegotiate prices.“This is purely due to fundamental business reasons, ranging from low procurement volumes, high distribution costs and retail margins among few others…,” the company said, urging the government to allow them to maintain differential pricing for the public and private sectors. The company has so far invested at least ₹ 500 crore at its own risk for product development, clinical trials and to set up manufacturing facilities for the vaccine. The support from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), its co-developer, was with respect to providing the Sars-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19), animal studies, virus characterisation, test kits and partial funding for clinical trial sites. In return for this support, Bharat Biotech will pay royalties to ICMR and the National Institute of Virology, based on product sales. According to people familiar with the matter, it is about 5% of the product sales.HT reached out to the health ministry but didn’t receive a response till the time of press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150-per-covaxin-dose-will-not-be-sustainable-in-long-run-says-bharat-biotech-101623783186656.html
16-06-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: Victims file affidavit, say still facing ‘hostility’||West Bengal post-poll violence victims, who are seeking compensation from the Supreme Court, have filed an affidavit denying a statement by the state government that law and order was restored soon after the Mamata Banerjee-led government took control on May 3, adding that they were still facing “hostile attitude”.The violence, alleged to be orchestrated by people belonging to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), erupted soon after the announcement of assembly poll results on May 2. Several political workers belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were killed, their houses looted, with allegations of rape and torture also being levelled.Filing a response on Monday to the state’s affidavit, the petitioners, led by social activist Arun Mukherjee, attached affidavits of victims and copies of their complaints to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC).The West Bengal government’s affidavit previously said that all displaced people referred in the public interest litigation being heard by the apex court were brought back safely to their respective homes with the help of state authorities. It termed the allegations made by the petitioners as “misleading” and “politically motivated”. It also mentioned a three-member committee formed by the high court to look into the issues faced by displaced people.In response, the affidavit filed by the petitioners said: “The claims made by the respondents (West Bengal government and police) with regard to status of internally displaced persons (IDP) is misleading… Though, after the request of the Governor, West Bengal and relying upon the order of the Calcutta High Court, they (IDPs) went back to their homes but they are facing the vindictive and hostile attitude of the local police, administration and Trinamool Congress (TMC) goons.”The victims said that “pavements to their homes are blocked, houses are being vandalized, ration and other essential items are denied to them by local shopkeepers and marketplaces due to the threat by TMC goons.” They also complained of inability to access health facilities, medicines due to “forced social ostracization” by hooligans in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-post-poll-violence-victims-file-affidavit-say-still-facing-hostile-attitude-101623783127354.html
16-06-2021||India||Sukhbir among 3 detained over protests against Punjab govt||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was on Tuesday detained while leading a protest outside Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s farmhouse at Siswan on the outskirts of Chandigarh.Leading hundreds of party workers, Badal, the former deputy chief minister of Punjab, demanded the dismissal of state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into alleged irregularities in the sale of vaccines and procurement of medical kits for Covid-19 patients.The opposition party also demanded that land acquisition for national highways be done at market rates and displacement compensation be offered to the affected landowners, and the pending dues under the post-matric scholarship scheme for scheduled caste (SC) students be released at the earliest.“If a storm rises, Captain (Amarinder Singh) will be unable to stop it. There is a scam in vaccination drive; there is a scam in the disbursal of Fateh Kits; there is a scam in scholarship for the SC community; and the land of farmers is also being acquired,” Badal said before being detained.The chief minister rejected the opposition’s allegations on supply of vaccines as “politically motivated”and said there was no question of the state government making profits amid the pandemic, which it was battling hard to save lives.“The state government has not indulged in any wrongdoing. Quick and unusual decisions have to be taken in an emergency war-like situation. All protocols were strictly followed and emergency rules were invoked to meet the crisis,” Singh said in a statement.Punjab Police also detained former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) state president Jasvir Singh Garhi near Siswan T-point, where barricades were put up. The Akali Dal workers were joined by BSP activists as the two parties have forged an alliance in the run up to the 2022 assembly elections.Clashes broke out, and police resorted to the use of water cannons to disperse the protesters. The three leaders were booked under bailable provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Majithia said that an Akali worker also suffered injuries during the police action.The SAD has alleged that the price of Fateh Kits — medical kits containing medicines, consumables and oximeters that are given to Covid-19 patients — was jacked up repeatedly from ₹800 to ₹1,400 as the state government invited one tender after another even though the first was valid for six months.The opposition party also claimed that the government was involved in a vaccination scandal in which it sold vaccines to private hospitals at huge profit margins while allowing the latter to charge patients high rates.Addressing the protesters, Badal said that all Congress ministers involved in corruption will be booked if the SAD-BSP alliance is voted to power in 2022. “Balbir Sidhu was responsible for the drug de-addiction tablet scam, PPE kit scam, vaccine scam and Fateh Kit scam; Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was responsible for SC scholarship scam; and Sukhjinder Randhawa had indulged in the seed scam.”Badal also alleged that the chief minister had extended patronage to the sand and liquor mafia that caused a loss in excise revenue worth ₹6,500 crore apart from illegally mining sand worth hundreds of crores of rupees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sukhbir-among-3-detained-over-protests-against-punjab-govt-101623783006697.html
16-06-2021||India||SC closes proceedings in 2012 case against Italian marines||After nine years of twists and turns, the Supreme Court on Tuesday put an end to all legal proceedings in India against the Italian marines who killed two Indian fishermen off the coast of Kerala in 2012.The bench of justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah gave quietus to civil and criminal proceedings pending against the two marines after noting that compensation of ₹10 crore for the families of the victims “can be said to be a reasonable amount of compensation” and “in the interest of heirs of the deceased”.“We are of the view that this is a fit case to close all the proceedings in India including criminal proceedings in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India,” the bench recorded in its 11-page order while ending proceedings against the two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone.The top court said that the compensation money shall be transferred to the Kerala high court, which will monitor its disbursement to the victim families. The families of the two deceased fishermen have agreed to a compensation of ₹4 crore each in addition to the ₹2 crore already paid by the Italian government. The injured owner of the boat also consented to receiving damages of ₹2 crore.Citing the May 2020 order of the international arbitral tribunal that both India and Italy accepted, the court added that the Republic of Italy shall resume its criminal investigation into the fishermen’s shooting incident of 2012. “It is further directed that the Union of India, Republic of Italy and the State of Kerala shall cooperate with each other in pursuit of that investigation,” said the bench.After Tuesday’s order, civil proceedings pending before the Supreme Court and the Kerala high court as well as a criminal murder case pending before a special court in Delhi shall come to an end.The peaceful burial has followed an intense legal and diplomatic row that began on February 15, 2012 when the marines aboard Italian Vessel MV Enrica Lexie shot dead Valantine, 44, and Ajeesh Pink, 20, who were fishing off the coast of Kerala. The Kollam police registered a murder case against the marines and arrested the duo on February 19.While the marines and the Italy challenged the jurisdiction of the Kerala police by filing a writ petition before the high court in February, the families of the slain fishermen and the injured boat owner filed admiralty suit before the high court demanding compensation. A separate petition was also filed by Enrica Lexie before the high court seeking permission to continue the voyage with other crew members.In April 2012, the Italian government paid a compensation of ₹1 crore each for the deceased fishermen and ₹17 lakh for the boat owner in an out-of-court settlement. But the petition by Lexie was dismissed by a division bench of the high court compelling the shipping company to move the Supreme Court. On May 2, the Supreme Court allowed the vessel to sail away with all 24 crew members, subject to certain terms and conditions.To be sure, the criminal case continued against the marines and, on May 18, 2012, the Kollam police filed a charge sheet against the two, charging them with murder and attempt to murder. The writ petition filed by the marines along with their government failed before the high court which on May 29, 2012, affirmed the jurisdiction by the Kerala and the concerned circle inspector of police at Kollam.The marines and the Italian government then rushed to the Supreme Court, seeking protection under the United Nationals Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The Italian government asserted that India and Italy, having signed and ratified the 1982 treaty, must settle the dispute concerning the incident in question, in terms of the binding dispute resolution mechanism provided under the UNCLOS.The Italian government also claimed sovereign immunity for its marines but, by a judgment in January 2013, the Supreme Court dismissed this contention and upheld India’s criminal jurisdiction over the Marines. At the same time, the court clarified that Kerala had no jurisdiction to investigate into the incident since the incident had taken place over the Contiguous Zone that was in exclusive jurisdiction of the Union government.While the proceedings were then shifted to a special court in Delhi and the probe was handed over to the National Investigation Agency, the top court gave liberty to the Italian government to raise issues of UNCLOS at appropriate forum.Then came a phase of diplomatic tension when the marines, who were allowed by the top court in February 2013 to go to Italy for a brief period to vote in the general elections, did not come back, and Italy went back on its undertaking. As the court fumed over breach of undertaking by Italian ambassador Daniele Mincini, the Indian government restrained Mincini from leaving the country. Following diplomatic pressures, Italy returned the marines to India.In September 2014, Latorre sought permission to go back to Italy for medical treatment, and the court allowed it on the humanitarian ground. The initial period of four months was later extended from time to time.In July 2015, Italy took the case to International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, an independent judicial body under the UNCLOS, which asked both India and Italy to suspend all court proceedings and referred the matter to the Permanent Court of Arbitration, an intergovernmental organisation based in The Hague in Netherlands.On a joint request by both the governments, the Supreme Court suspended all proceedings against the marines by an order in August 2015.In May 2016, the apex court allowed the second marine, Girone, to leave for Italy. In September that year, the Centre told the Supreme Court it had no objection if the marines were allowed to remain in Italy until the arbitration proceedings before the tribunal were over, following which the court permitted their stay at home.In May 2020, the tribunal ruled that the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials when the incident occurred. It, therefore, ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them. At the same time, the tribunal held that Italy violated India’s right to navigation by firing at the fishing boat and said that the country would have to compensate India for loss of life and damage to property.On July 3, 2020, the Centre moved the top court, saying it had accepted the PCA’s ruling and wanted the proceedings to be closed. When the plea was taken up by the court in August 2020, it clarified that the proceedings could be closed only after the families of the victims were heard and given “adequate” compensation.Again, in April this year, the Supreme Court reiterated that the compensation money must be deposited in the registry of the court and the victims should agree to it before the proceedings could be ended. Last week, the court was informed that compensation of ₹10 crore for the families of the victims has been deposited. It had then reserved the order that was delivered on Tuesday, ending all proceedings in India against the marines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-closes-proceedings-in-2012-case-against-italian-marines-101623782947179.html
16-06-2021||India||Anti-defection law under spotlight amid Bengal political tussle||The demand for removal of an MLA and two MPs, all from West Bengal , from their respective legislative bodies has triggered the latest round of the political battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamool Congress, bringing the focus back on the country’s anti-defection laws.BJP MLA Mukul Roy returned to the Trinamool Congress (which he left in 2017) on June 11, and the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, the BJP’s Suvendhu Adhikari, himself a TMC man till December, has vowed to take the legal route if Roy doesn’t resign. Meanwhile, two sitting Trinamool MPs, Sisir Adhikari (Suvendu’s father) and Sunil Mandal joined the BJP from the TMC just ahead of the assembly election but are yet to resign as lawmakers.The rules for the disqualification of defectors is laid down in the Tenth Schedule of the Indian Constitution. It says, a lawmaker shall be disqualified, “if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such a political party” or “if he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs”.The BJP and Trinamool’s arguments, demanding the resignation of Ray, Mandal and Adhikari from their respective legislatures, lies primarily under the clause 2(a) of the tenth schedule-- “if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such a political party”.But the issue isn’t simply a matter of a person who leaves a party resigning.Abhishek Singhvi, the Congress’ top legal expert, said, “There is certainly going to be a legal battle ahead. Knee-jerk verdicts should not be attempted by the BJP or anyone else. The Tenth Schedule has to lead to detailed adjudication if and after a complaint is filed and the Speaker hears all sides.”The decision to expel a lawmaker under the defection laws is within the powers of the Speaker of the legislative body -- in this case the Speaker of the West Bengal Assembly, Biman Bandopadhyayand the Speaker of the Lok Sabha, Om Birla. The laws give power to the Speaker to decide whether someone falls under the anti-defection laws or not.The speaker’s role in defection cases has become crucial as well as controversial. On several occasions, the Supreme Court has pulled up the Speaker for partisan behaviour. In 2019, the Supreme Court said there is a growing trend of Speakers of legislative bodies “acting against the constitutional duty of being neutral”; this was in a case where it upheld the disqualification of 17 rebel Karnataka MLAs who pulled down the JDS-Congress government.In recent years, there has been a growing demand from the Speakers themselves to redefine and perhaps limit their powers under the anti-defection laws should be curtailed. In two meetings of all Indian presiding officers, Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi and some others put forth the view that political parties should decide who will be disqualified as Speakers come under intense pressure on defection issues, and often get criticised by the courts too.According to a member of the TMC, Roy is unlikely to resign, and wants to fight it out with the BJP over the defection laws even if it wants to ensure that Adhikari and Mandal are expelled from the Lok Sabha.Trinamool Congress functionaries said that its Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay spoke to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to appeal for the disqualification of Adhikari and Mandal. “Birla told us that he will soon form a committee to decide the issue,” the TMC leader said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antidefection-law-under-spotlight-amid-bengal-political-tussle-101623782946646.html
16-06-2021||India||Ram temple trust denies graft charge, gives detail of land deal||The trust overseeing the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya said on Tuesday that all land purchase deals were done transparently and dismissed allegations of corruption levelled by Opposition parties.The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust tweeted details of all agreements of the 1.2080-hectare land in Ayodhya’s Bag Bijaisi since 2011. The body said that the land was in a “prime location” near the railway station and adjacent to a road that is likely to be widened and serve as the main approach road to the Ram temple.The trust said that nine individuals were involved in three separate deals over the last decade and added that the trust finally bought the land on March 18 at ₹1,423 per sq ft, lower the market rate.“All individuals were contacted and negotiated with. On receiving their consent, they all came and sat together to decide on their previous agreements,” said the trust.“As and when the previous agreements were finalised, the trust made the agreement with final owners of the land with immediate effect without losing any time. It was done quickly but in a transparent manner,” it added.The controversy broke out on Sunday after former Samajwadi Party MLA from Ayodhya, Tej Pratap Pandey, and AAP Rajya Sabha MP, Sanjay Singh, accused the trust of purchasing land worth ₹2 crore for ₹18.5 crore.In separate press conferences, the two leaders showed documents to allege that on March 18 this year, Kusum Pathak sold her land for ₹2 crore to Sultan Ansari and Ravi Mohan Tiwari, who then sold the land to the trust for ₹18.5 crore 10 minutes later.They also said that the circle rate (price per unit of land fixed by government ) of the plot was ₹5.79 crore. To be sure, land agreements are often struck at prices far above the circle rate. Since then, Opposition parties have demanded a judicial probe and the trust has dismissed the charges, saying the price of the land was decided between Pathak and Ansari-Tiwari in 2019 but the land was registered on March 18.In its response on Tuesday, the Trust said nine individuals were involved in the plot’s purchase deals over the last 10 years.On March 4, 2011, four men -- Mehfooz Alam, Javed Alam, Noor Alam and Firoz Alam --- signed an agreement with Kusum Pathak, her husband Harish Pathak and Mohd Irfan to sell the land for R1 crore, said the trust. The deal was valid for three years and lapsed on March 4, 2014.Then, on November 20, 2017, the same four people registered a sale deed to Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak for ₹2 crore. The next day, Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak entered into an agreement to sell the land to lchchha Ram Singh, Jitendra Kumar Singh and Rakesh Kumar Singh for R 2.16 crore, said the trust.This agreement was cancelled on September 17, 2019.The same day, Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak signed another agreement to sell the same plot to Ichchha Ram Singh, Vishwa Pratap Upadhyay, Manish Kumar, Subedar, Balram Yadav, Ravindra Kumar Dubey, Sultan Ansari and Rashid Hussain for ₹2 crore. The validity of the agreement was three years.This agreement was registered to be cancelled March 18, 2021, said the Trust.“On 18.03.2021, Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak sold land... by sale deed to Tiwari and Ansari...The consideration amount was Rs. 2 crore,” said the trust.The same day, Tiwari and Ansari entered into an agreement to sell this land to the trust for ₹18.50 crore. Payment of ₹17 crore was made as advance by online transaction, the trust added.“Nyas (Trust) was interested in purchasing this land but first wanted to finalise all the previous agreements so that ownership of the land may be cleared,” said the trust.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said all members of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust must resign till the issue related to the Ayodhya land deal and transactions are cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-trust-denies-graft-charge-gives-detail-of-land-deal-101623782888391.html
16-06-2021||India||The growing urban bias of India’s vaccination drive||India’s massive vaccination drive is becoming skewed towards cities and towns, with the rural parts of the country being increasingly left behind , shows district-based vaccination data analysed by HT.A person living in urban India is at least 1.8 times more likely to receive a shot of the Covid-19 vaccine than their counterpart living in the rural hinterland — a matter of concern because around 65% of the country’s population currently resides in rural districts. The even more worrying trend is that the gap between the coverage of population between the two groups is currently the highest ever recorded, and continues to rise.Experts said that if this rural-urban gap continues to widen, then it risks hampering India’s goal of vaccinating 60-70% of the country’s population by the end of year, as a large majority of the population lives in villages.For the purpose of this analysis and to identify vaccination coverage in urban and rural pockets in the country, India’s 700-plus districts have been classified into three categories on the basis of population living in rural areas: urban (under 40% population living in rural areas), mixed (40%-60% rural population), and rural (over 60% rural population).According to the 2011 census estimates, the population share of entirely urban, mixed, and rural districts was 13.6%, 13.6%, and 72.8% respectively. Since there are no estimates available for the demographic distribution across districts by age to estimate their adult population (only those above 18 years of age are eligible for shots currently), the analysis has relied on overall projections of population by the Census of India. For the district-wise administration of jabs, the data has been sourced from Union health ministry’s Co-Win dashboard till June 14.When India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive is seen across these three groups of districts, the urban ones, expectedly, have had the largest proportion of people receiving jabs. Even though urban districts account for only 13.6% of India’s population, 27.2% of the residents of these districts have received at least one shot of the vaccine till Monday night. To be sure, it is entirely possible that some people from the villages, who are currently working in cities, are getting their shots there. In contrast, in rural districts, where 72.8% of India’s population live, only 14.7% of residents have been inoculated with one shot.Worse still, the contrast is becoming starker as the drive gathers momentum and expands.With 27.2% of urban residents having received a shot of the vaccine to 14.7% of those living in rural areas having received theirs, the comparison translates into an urban-rural vaccine coverage ratio of 1.8:1. In simpler terms, as things stood on June 8, a resident of urban India was 1.8 times more likely to receive a shot of the vaccine than someone living in rural parts of the country – the biggest gap in coverage since the start of India’s vaccination drive.On May 1, 14.9% of residents of urban districts had received jabs, while 9.4% of the rural population had been covered by at least one shot , an urban-rural coverage ratio of 1.6:1. On April 1, coverage of population in urban and rural areas was 5.3% and 4.1% respectively, translating to a coverage ratio of 1.3:1.Of the 29.6 million confirmed infections across India till Tuesday night, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard, 35% have been reported in urban districts, while 47% were in the country’s rural areas, and the remaining 18% were in mixed districts. To be sure, the proportion of reported cases in rural areas is likely skewed due to the lack of adequate testing facilities in the country’s hinterlands.“The majority of India still lives in rural parts of the country. And if rural areas are lagging behind in inoculation, and if this gap continues to grow, then it is a worrying trend because it can create a situation where our goal of vaccinating 60-70% of our population to achieve herd immunity by the end of the year will be hurt,” said virologist Dr Shahid Jameel, director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University.“And to address this gap, we have to understand the reason that such a gap is emerging. Is the reason that there are fewer vaccination centres or doses available in rural areas, or is that there more vaccine hesitancy there? I suspect the real cause may be a bit of both of these factors. Once the reason is clear, the government will be able to take remedial measures to fix this gap,” Dr Jameel said.Also Read | Sputnik covid vaccine more efficient against Delta variant: Study“While it is extremely unfortunate, but it isn’t surprising that urban India has greater access to vaccines. I have a suspicion that there a secondary contribution of the fact that vaccination-related information and messaging campaign are much more prominent in urban India as well. The third issue may be that such a large proportion of rural India is dependent on daily wages that it may not be easy for them to travel to primary health centres to get shots,” said Dr Satyajit Rath, immunologist and adjunct faculty of Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune.He added that when sets of communities with different proportions of immunised people live in close proximity, it increases the risk of more variants of the virus propping up. “If urban areas achieve say 75% vaccinations are rural India is left with 40% receiving shots, then what we’re doing is creating islands of highly immunised communities living in close proximity of large swathes of lower immunised communities where the virus is simmering in a slower rate of transmission. And when there are no travel restrictions between them, then the tide of infections will keep lapping against the urban islands of highly immunised people. And that would mean that the virus would get a prolonged exposure to vaccinated communities, which is basically increasing the likelihood of the arrival of relatively vaccine-resistant strains.”Abhishek Jha contributed to this report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-growing-urban-bias-of-india-s-vaccination-drive-101623782827156.html
16-06-2021||India||Waited for one year but no clarity yet on Galwan clashes: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday attacked the Narendra Modi government for not providing any clarity about the Galwan Valley clash between Indian and Chinese troops that took place on June 15 last year, leaving 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead.The Congress president said that her party has repeatedly sought information about the episode and details on what progress has been made by the government to return to the status quo ante before April 2020 along the friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“Having patiently waited for the government to come clean and inform the nation about the circumstances in which the unprecedented incident happened and reassure the people that the sacrifice of our brave jawans was not in vain, the Congress reiterates its concern that no clarity is yet available and the Prime Minister’s last word on the subject a year ago was that no transgression had occurred,” Gandhi said in a statement on the deadliest face-off between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army in more than five decades.Gandhi also contended that the disengagement agreement with China has only worked entirely to India’s disadvantage. She urged the government “to take the nation into confidence and ensure that their performance is worthy of the commitment of our soldiers who are standing bravely and resolutely at the borders”.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also paid tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in action. “I join a grateful nation in remembering the 20 brave jawans of the Bihar Regiment, including their commanding officer who tragically lost their lives in a confrontation with PLA troops in Galwan on the night of 15-16 June, 2020,” he said in an Instagram post.He also posted a video montage of his press conference from last year in which he had claimed that the Prime Minister did not fulfil his responsibility of protecting the sovereignty of India. “There are many questions that remain unanswered of that incident and many explanations this government owes to our people,” Rahul Gandhi said in the post.The BJP did not react to Gandhi’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waited-for-one-year-but-no-clarity-yet-on-galwan-clashes-sonia-101623782707285.html
16-06-2021||India||LJP family feud: Both factions claim party||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) appeared headed for split on Tuesday after a faction headed by Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras removed his estranged nephew Chirag Paswan as party chief, prompting Paswan’s loyalists to respond by stripping five rebel parliamentarians of the party’s primary membership.The party, which has six MPs but no MLAs, plunged into a crisis late Sunday night after five lawmakers rebelled against Paswan’s leadership and chose Paras as the new leader of the parliamentary party. The MPs met Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Monday, and the Lok Sabha secretariat recognised Paras as the parliamentary party chief hours later.On Tuesday, the Paras faction held an emergency meeting of the party national working committee at his residence. The leaders removed Paswan, who held the post since November 2019, as national president, and elevated senior vice-president Suraj Singh as working president. The meeting also decided to allow Singh to convene the party’s national council within five days to a new president. Party leaders said Paras was likely to be named the new LJP chief.“Chirag lacks experience so we supported Paras. Chirag was unable to catch the pulse of Bihar’s politics and made a big mistake, for which he and the entire party had to bear the brunt. Our best wishes are with Chirag Paswan… there is no rift in LJP,” said Khagaria MP Mehboob Ali Kaiser, one of the rebel lawmakers. He was referring to Paswan’s decision during the Bihar polls last year to fight alone and target the Janata Dal (United) despite being together in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Almost immediately, Paswan’s camp struck back. At a hurriedly called executive committee meeting held at Paswan’s house, all five rebel MPs were removed from the party.A letter issued on the letterhead of Paswan and party general secretary Abdul Khaliq, and signed by Khaliq, said the five lawmakers – Paras, Kaiser, Samastipur MP Prince Raj, Vaishali MP Veena Devi, and Nawada MP Chandan Singh -- were stripped of the party’s primary membership with immediate effect.“A national executive meeting was held in which leaders participated physically and through virtual mode and it was decided to remove all the five MPs from the party. There is a process of doing things in a party. This will be called a betrayal,” said LJP Bihar unit working chief Raju Tiwari.“Those who are protesting against Pashupati Kumar Paras are bad elements who entered the party after Ram Vilas Paswan’s death. They will be removed soon. I am not calling Chirag Paswan a bad element,” LJP leader Shravan Kumar told news agency ANI.Paras’ meeting was attended by more than a dozen LJP leaders, including all five MPs, besides national vice-president Suraj Singh.Paswan’s meeting, on the other hand, was attended by half a dozen leaders, including party general secretary, while some joined through virtual mode, according to Raju Tiwari, a party leader belonging to Paswan’s camp.Earlier in the day, Paswan, who represents Jamui in the Lok Sabha, tweeted an old letter written to Paras dated March 29, in which he urged his uncle to take the responsibility of keeping the party united.“I attempted to keep together my family and this party founded by my father but I was unsuccessful. The party is like our mother and shouldn’t be betrayed,” tweeted Paswan, 38, in Hindi. His late father, former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, founded the party in 2000.The family feud sparked dramatic scenes in the Capital on Monday after Paswan, who is recuperating from Covid, drove to Paras’s house but was made to wait outside the gate for about 15 minutes. After failing to meet his uncle, Paswan left a letter that offered a compromise formula of making his mother Reena Paswan the party president.The fight for control of the party – which commands significant loyalty among Dalits in Bihar – is likely to move to the Election Commission, which will decide which faction is the genuine party and can be awarded the LJP’s bungalow poll symbol. Supporters of Paswan and Paras clashed at the party office in Patna with supporters of Jamui MP smearing black ink on posters of five rebel MPs.Paswan assumed charge of the LJP after his father died weeks before the Bihar elections last year. But relations between Paras and Paswan nosedived when the LJP decided to contest against the BJP-JD(U) alliance and Paswan accused Kumar of misgovernance and corruption. During the campaign, Paras praised Kumar but was forced to retract his comment, an incident that led to a bitter face-off between the two.The LJP took in many JD(U) rebels and damaged Kumar’s party in at least 30 seats, almost costing the NDA a victory, and resulting in the JD(U) posting its worst result in 15 years and emerging as a junior partner to the BJP. The LJP also performed poorly, winning just one seat. In April, the lone party MLA, Raj Kumar Singh, joined the JD(U).Paras’s effusive praise of Kumar has triggered speculation that the JD(U) was backing the rebels. Before the rebellion on Sunday night, Paras met JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh, a close associate of Kumar. Singh, assembly deputy speaker Maheswar Hazari and member of legislative council Sanjay Singh met the five LJP MPs on Monday. In Delhi, speculation swirled of a possible Union cabinet berth to one of the LJP rebels.Party leaders said that the LJP was headed for a split. “Now, it will break. LJP is going to witness a repeat of UP saga of Mulayam Singh Yadav-Akhilesh Yadav and Shivpal Yadav,” said DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, referring to a family feud in the Samajwadi Party ahead of the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljpfamily-feud-both-factions-claim-party-101623782646686.html
16-06-2021||India||Right to protest is not a terror act: Delhi high court||The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted bail to three student activists arrested for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots, terming the charges against them “stretched”, “verbiage”, and “hyperbole” and saying that the state may have, by going after the protestors, blurred the line between the “right to protest” and “terrorist activity”.Delhi Police is likely to challenge the order in the Supreme Court.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani held that the foundations of this nation stood on surer footing than those likely to be shaken by a protest, however vicious, organised by college students who operated from the confines of a university.In three separate but similarly worded orders, the court granted bail to Jawarharlal Nehru University (JNU) students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, noting that the allegations against them do not show that they committed any crime under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).“We are constrained to say, that it appears, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the State has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and ‘terrorist activity’. If such blurring gains traction, democracy will be in peril,” said the bench in the judgment granting bail to Kalita.The bench commented that “ the right to protest is not outlawed and cannot be termed as a ‘terrorist act’ within the meaning of the UAPA”.The three are set to walk out of the prison after more than a year’s incarceration in connection to the riots case. Both Narwal and Kalita, members of NGO Pinjra Tod, were booked in three cases and were arrested May 29 last year for allegedly hatching a conspiracy along with the other co-accused to orchestrate the riots.Communal riots broke out in north east Delhi in February, 2020, leaving 53 people dead and over 400 injured. Over 750 FIRs were filed in connection to the riots and several people were arrested. In September 2020, the police filed its first charge sheet running into 17,500 pages charging 15 accused of allegedly hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate riots. The charge sheet was filed under various sections including rioting, unlawful assembly, conspiracy, sedition, promoting disharmony between religions and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act.The specific charges against the three in this case were that they orchestrated the blocking of roads in the area. Narwal and Kalita have already been granted bail in the two other cases, which accuse them of unlawful assembly and inciting the riots. Tanha, has already received bail in the other case where he is an accused; that alleges that he was part of a “premeditated conspiracy” to orchestrate the riots.However, they were not released on Tuesday for want of verification of sureties by the trial court judge. “They are not coming out today as judge wants to verify sureties for their bail. We have been asked to come again tomorrow,” a statement from activist group Pinjra Tod, of which Narwal and Kalita are members said on Tuesday evening.The Delhi Police have decided to challenge the high court order. “We are not satisfied with the interpretation of the provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act by the Hon’ble High Court in a matter concerned with grant of Bail. We are proceeding with filing of a Special Leave Petition before the Honble Supreme Court of India said DCP Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson, Delhi Police.The high court, in its orders, has criticised the invocation of the anti-terror law against the student activists by the Delhi Police. “We are afraid, that in our opinion, shorn of the superfluous verbiage, hyperbole and the stretched inferences drawn from them by the prosecuting agency, the factual allegations made against the appellant do not prima facie disclose the commission of any offence under sections 15, 17 and/or 18 of the UAPA,” read one of the orders. The sections relate to involvement in activities with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security or ­sovereignty of India or with intent to strike terror.Citing the Supreme Court’s take on protests in 2018, in the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan vs Union of India and Anrcase, the court said that uprisings against governmental and parliamentary actions are legitimate; and though such protests are expected to be peaceful and non-violent, it is not uncommon for protesters to push the limits permissible in law“Even if we assume for the sake of argument, without expressing any view thereon, that in the present case inflammatory speeches, chakkajams (blockades), instigation of women protesters and other actions…crossed the line of peaceful protests permissible under our Constitutional guarantee, that however would yet not amount to commission of a ‘terrorist act’ or a ‘conspiracy’ or an ‘act preparatory’ to the commission of a terrorist act as understood under the UAPA,” the bench added.The bench was emphatic that there was “absolutely nothing” showing the possible commission of a terrorist act; or an act of raising funds to commit a terrorist act; or an act of conspiracy to commit a terrorist act.“Allegations relating to inflammatory speeches, organising of chakka jaam, instigating women to protest and to stock-pile various articles and other similar allegations, in our view, at worst, are evidence that the appellant participated in organising protests, but we can discern no specific or particularised allegation, much less any material to bear out the allegation, that the appellant incited violence, what to talk of committing a terrorist act or a conspiracy or act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act as understood in the UAPA,” it said.Cautioning against the frivolously invocation of the “extremely grave and serious penal provisions” under UAPA, the court added that such an approach “would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our Nation”.“Wanton use of serious penal provisions would only trivialise them... Where the court finds that an act or omission is adequately addressed and dealt with by the ordinary penal law of the land, the court must not countenance a state agency crying wolf,” the bench added.The court also said that it would be “a stretch” to “say that the protest affected the community at large for it to qualify as an act of terror.”Citing the delay in trial caused by the coronavirus outbreak, the court pointed out that it was hardly likely that the trial will proceed, much less conclude anytime soon, particularly when there were as many as 740 prosecution witnesses.“Should this court then wait until the appellant has languished in prison for a long enough time to be able to see that it will be impossible to complete the deposition of 740 prosecution witnesses in any foreseeable future, especially in view of the prevailing pandemic when all proceedings in the trial are effectively stalled? Should this court wait till the appellant’s right to a speedy trial guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution is fully and completely negated, before it steps in and wakes up to such violation? We hardly think that would be the desirable course of action,” it noted while granting bail to the trio.Considering the educational background, profile and their positions in life, the court said, there is no reason to suspect or apprehend that the accused were either a flight risk or that they will tamper with the evidence, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-protest-is-not-a-terror-act-hc-101623782346615.html
16-06-2021||India||Don’t be suspicious, China tells India on Galwan anniversary||India needs to stop being suspicious of China and work with Beijing to strengthen ties instead of working towards building obstacles, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Tuesday, a year after deadly clashes in the Galwan Valley and months after New Delhi said bilateral ties were “very significantly damaged” by Beijing’s violation of border agreements.The two countries can gradually improve bilateral ties and promote pragmatic cooperation by managing the border issue and preventing differences from escalating into disputes, the Chinese ministry said in a statement exclusively shared with Hindustan Times in context of the deadly June 15 clash, which left soldiers on both sides’ dead.New Delhi has repeatedly dismissed Beijing’s attempts to blame India for the ongoing border tension in eastern Ladakh, saying China’s People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) troops illegally trespassed across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last year in May.India’s external affairs ministry has also spelt out the Indian government’s position on the disengagement process, saying the LAC “must be strictly respected and observed as this is the basis for peace and tranquility in the border areas”.China, the statement said, urges India to cherish the hard-won situation of easing in the border areas and abide by the relevant agreements and preliminary meetings between the two countries and the armed forces; India should work with China and take practical actions to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas, it added.The rare acknowledgment that there’s a need to “improve ties” by the Chinese foreign ministry is an indication of the state of the relationship, which is at its worst in decades.“Hereby, I would like to stress that the two sides should stick to the strategic consensus reached by the leaders of both countries, unswervingly follow the right track of mutual trust and cooperation between neighbouring countries without following the wrong track of suspicion and the negative and (taking) retrogressive steps,” the statement from the foreign ministry spokesperson’s office said.As two major emerging economies, India and China should work towards joint development, move forward side by side instead of containing each other, and develop through cooperation instead of building obstacles against each other.At present, the statement said, the India-China border situation is generally stable, and the two sides have maintained communication through diplomatic and military means to solve the remaining issues concerning the western part of the border.A year later, the disengagement of troops is still not complete despite 11 rounds of military and seven rounds of diplomatic talks – under the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination on India-China Border Affairs – having taken place.The ministry said India and China should not make the differences on the boundary dictate overall bilateral ties. “The boundary dispute between China and India is an objective reality, but the boundary issue is not the whole story of China-India relations. It should be placed in the proper place of bilateral relations and managed effectively so as to prevent differences from escalating into disputes,” the statement said.New Delhi has told Beijing that given the seriousness of the Galwan Valley incident, it cannot be business as usual – and the border dispute cannot be swept under the carpet.Commenting on the state of bilateral ties, a Shanghai-based expert on India said both countries need to take a long-term look at the relationship. “Cooperation among our two civilised countries is neither a one-time deal, nor a short-term activity. For this reason, we should take a long-term view and conduct sustainable cooperation. No matter what difficulties and setbacks we may encounter, we should constantly promote mutually beneficial cooperation,” Wang Dehua, a South Asia expert at Shanghai Municipal Centre for International Studies, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-be-suspicious-china-tells-india-on-galwan-anniversary-101623782166566.html
16-06-2021||India||Jagan govt makes English medium compulsory at undergraduate level||The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday announced the compulsory introduction of the English medium at all the undergraduate colleges in the state, doing away with Telugu as the medium of instruction with effect from the academic year 2021-22, as per an official state release.“It is essential that these students pursue their undergraduate courses in English medium. The transition from Telugu medium to English Medium would be easier at the graduation level,” the official release said, adding that it would also introduce spoken English courses at various levels in the undergraduate courses.In the release, the department of higher education said the decision to make English medium mandatory at all the government, private and government-aided degree colleges was taken at a recent meeting held by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.A notification issued by the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) said all private unaided and aided degrees colleges offering Telugu medium courses should submit proposals for conversion of all Telugu-medium courses into English medium between June 18 and 28.However, the colleges can continue to have Telugu as a language course in the curriculum, the notification said.It may be mentioned that the Jagan government planned to make English medium compulsory in all the government schools from the primary school level in the 2020-21 academic year itself, but the decision was struck down by the state high court in April 2020. The issue is now pending in the Supreme Court.According to the official release, the government strongly feels that the introduction of the English mode of teaching at the undergraduate level would enhance the career prospects of graduates.Out of over 2.62 lakh students who have taken admissions into degree colleges across the state, only 65,981 students are admitted into Telugu medium courses during 2020-21. Of them, 24,007 students opted for BA, 16,925 for B Com and 24,960 for B Sc courses.“Now, these students have to convert themselves into English medium, as it would benefit them immensely,” the department said.It said a majority of B Sc students would be looking for job opportunities in various parts of the country and also abroad. Similarly, a large number of BA and B Com graduates prefer getting into sales and marketing, apart from journalism and research.Commenting on the state government’s decision, Professor S Prasanna Sree, chairperson of the board of studies at Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, said it was a bold decision to make English medium compulsory at the undergraduate level.“It is essential to have higher education in English medium because it makes the students globally competitive. At the same time, the government should not ignore the native language of the students and promote it as one of the subjects,” she observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-makes-english-medium-compulsory-at-undergraduate-level-101623768126169.html
16-06-2021||India||When IT city was hub of arms innovation||While Bengaluru is known as the tech city today, not many know that Karnataka’s capital also has strong links to an engineering marvel that changed modern warfare forever – the rocket.According to historians, rockets find their origin on the road alongside Jumma Masjid and Taramandalpet in Bengaluru – the hub of the rocket project of 18th century ruler of Mysore Tipu Sultan. Military inventions such as Tipu Sultan’s rockets and Bangalore Torpedoes by the Madras Sappers, an engineer group of the Corps of Engineers of the Indian Army, speak volumes of Bengaluru’s history in military inventions.Even though the use of rockets in combat was perfected in Tipu’s labs in Bengaluru, this history was long forgotten. One of the first to rediscover it was India’s former president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, who himself was hailed as ‘Missile man of India’. During a trip to the States of America in the 1960s, a painting in the lobby of NASA’s sounding rocket facility caught Kalam’s attention. The painting depicted one of the earliest usages of rocket on a battlefield.Later, in his book ‘The Wings of Fire’, Kalam wrote in detail about what he saw. “The painting caught my eye because the soldiers on the side launching the rockets were not white but dark-skinned, with racial features found in South Asia. It turned out to be Tipu Sultan’s army fighting the British. The painting depicted a fact forgotten in Tipu’s own country but commemorated here on the other side of the planet,” he wrote.The army of Tipu Sultan was the first to weaponise rockets. The ruler had created a designated force of nearly 5,000-strong men to operate rockets. Even though the Chinese and Europeans tried to make rockets soon after the invention of gunpowder, but according to historians, since they used bamboo to make rockets, the prototypes were not effective, and they were soon replaced by canons.However, in the late 1700s when Tipu and his father Hyder Ali began experimenting with rockets, they made a major change by using iron tubes instead of bamboo. Over the years, the rocket-making unit in Taramandalpet experimented with several models, before they were deemed battle-ready.Many historians believe that Tipu’s rockets could cover a range of up to 2 km, mainly because of the introduction of high-quality iron. The metal tubes filled with gunpowder were closed on one end, and on the other end a nozzle was provided to propel the rocket using the gases it emitted – a concept used even today.Tipu Sultan’s forces used rockets with great effect in the four Anglo-Mysore Wars. One of the first mentions of the effective use of metal rockets was in the battle of Pollilur during the first Anglo-Mysore war in 1780. The advancing British East India Company forces were repelled by the Mysore army using several rounds of rocket fire. Several officers of the British army were taken prisoners following this defeat.More than the number of casualties, the rockets were instrumental in creating panic among the enemies. One of the enemy commanders who faced the wrath of the rocket barrage was Arthur Wellesley, the first Duke of Wellington who later became the hero of Waterloo. During the fourth Anglo-Mysore war, while Wellesley was on a reconnaissance mission near a grove in Sultanpet in Srirangapatn, Tipu’s forces launched about a dozen missiles at a time at his troops, using wheeled carts with three or more rocket ramps.The designs at the time were such that swords were also incorporated in the rockets, which served a dual purpose. “The swords acted as a guidance mechanism, providing the rocket with stability during the flight, and towards the end of the flight, the swords became a weapon. The rockets used to tumble after losing thrust as it came down towards its target, killing or severely injuring the soldiers who came under it,” says Col Rajeev R, a retired engineering officer with the Indian army and military history enthusiast.The British, who suffered heavy losses because of these rockets, were quick to learn and adopt them into their arsenal. These were used in the battle of Waterloo and in the Anglo-American war, eventually finding a mention in the Star-Spangled Banner.Another invention that put the city’s name on the world map was the Bangalore torpedo, whose design, historians believe, was so perfect that even more than 100 years after its development, armies across the world continue to use this weapon. “The Bangalore attack” was a strategy used extensively during the World War II, especially during the D-Day landings.Bangalore Torpedo is a weapon system developed by engineers of the Madras Sappers (now called Madras Engineering Group) located next to Bengaluru’s Ulsoor in the late1910s. The weapon is a series of metal tubes with explosives that are around five feet long and are connected together, meant to clear obstacles on a battlefield.During the World War II, allied soldiers faced with a wall of fire during beach landings were unable to move ahead because of the barbed wires installed across along the beach. It was here, they used Bangalore Torpedoes.The original design of the weapon was put together by an army officer from the Madras Sappers, RL McClintock, who was then a major. The records of the first development of the weapon are present in a modest museum in today’s Madras Engineering Group (MEG) next to Ulsoor Lake in Bengaluru. ‘Annual record of 2nd Queen Victoria’s Own Sappers and Miners for 1912-1913’, talks about the trials of a weapon that was supposed to aid in trench warfare.The development of the weapon began when the British army felt the need for a weapon that can help soldiers fighting in World War I to clear barbwires near enemy trenches. Major McClintock, who was superintendent of instruction at Madras Sappers here in Bengaluru, was given the task to come up with a solution. The designs were tested and perfected over a period of five years.As per the records, still preserved by MEG, the material cost of the first design was 9 rupees, 10 paise and 5 annas.According to Mondial Defence Systems Limited, which supplies modern-age Bangalore Torpedoes to the US army, the design of the ‘Bangalore’ has changed little since its inception. It still remains a steel pipe filled with available explosive (compound B, TNT, RDX/Wax and the likes). “The action of clamping the pipes together in this fashion ensures end-to-end carryover of the explosive train. Modern safety considerations have pushed suppliers of the Bangalore to incorporate ‘insensitive munition’ to ensure better safety,” read a statement from the firm.In the years that followed World War I, the Americans were impressed by the success of the Bangalore Torpedoes and adopted them. Even though the design is more than 100 years old, The Bangalore Torpedo still remains in service with the British, US, Indian, Chinese, Canadian and Pakistani armed forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-it-city-was-hub-of-arms-innovation-101623523291610.html
