17-06-2021||India||Madras HC allows Rajiv case convicts to make video calls to kin||The Madras high court on Thursday allowed a plea to allow life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, Nalini Sriharan and her husband Murugan to make video calls to their relatives in Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom.A two-judge division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and V M Velumani passed the order. The plea was filed by Sriharan’s mother, S Padma, to allow the couple to make video calls to speak to their kin after Murugan had lost his father in April 2020. They had sought permission to make video calls to his mother and sister in Sri Lanka and London for at least 10 mins daily.During previous hearings in the case last year, the state and the union government had taken a stance that they should not be permitted to make video calls to a foreign country. The state had opposed it, submitting that it was under the domain of the ministry of external affairs, and there were no provisions in the Tamil Nadu prisons rules for them to make decisions involving foreign countries. Hence the court had asked the Union external ministry to respond to the issue. The then assistant solicitor general of India G Karthikeyan had argued that the life convicts should not be permitted to make live calls to Sri Lanka as it would hamper the investigations, led by multi-disciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA), into the larger conspiracy of the assassination. The court had refused to accept the submission setting that they were going to make a condolence call.Former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi got assassinated in Sriperumbudur in May 1991, and seven convicts have been serving imprisonment for more than three decades. Chief minister M K Stalin has written to President Ramnath Kovind to remit their sentence and release them, which is a call supported by all regional political parties in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-allows-rajiv-case-convicts-to-make-video-calls-to-kin-101623954079156.html
17-06-2021||India||2 TDP men hacked to death in Ahdra||Two brothers, both members of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), were on Thursday killed in a long-running feud with another family from their village, Pesaravai, in Gadivemula block, around 300km from Vijayawada. It wasn’t immediately known whether there was an additional political angle to the killing. The two were hacked to death after being knocked down by a vehicle. The deceased, former sarpanch Vaddu Nageshwar Reddy (45) and his brother Vaddu Pratap Reddy (43), former president of the local primary agriculture cooperative society, are followers and close aides of former MLA and TDP leader Gouru Charita Reddy. “Three of their relatives were also injured in the attack. They were immediately shifted to the Nandyal hospital, where they were declared out of danger,” Gadivemula sub-inspector of police Sridhar said. According to the preliminary information gathered by the police, Nageshwar Reddy and Pratap Reddy, along with three other relatives, were on their way to the local crematorium to collect the ashes of their cousin, who died three days ago, when a group of five to six people in an SUV waylaid them. The assailants first knocked the brothers down and then attacked them with sharp weapons, including sickles. “Both the brothers died on the spot, while the three relatives sustained injuries,” Sridhar added.He attributed the killings to a feud dating back decades, although it has not resulted in any deaths in the past 25 years. “We have booked a case of murder and attempt to murder. After committing the offence, the assailants fled the village. We have launched a manhunt for them,” Sridhar said. Former MLA Charitha Reddy visited the village and called on the bereaved families of the victims. She demanded that stringent punishment be given to the accused. TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu expressed shock over the killings and blamed the ruling YSR Congress party. “The law-and-order situation in the state has completely deteriorated. There is no protection to the lives of the TDP leaders and activists (who are) killed in broad daylight. So far, at least 30 TDP leaders have been killed in the last two years. I wonder what the police are doing in the state,” he lamented, and added that the TDP will stand by the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-tdp-men-hacked-to-death-in-ahdra-101623954021851.html
17-06-2021||India||HC grants interim bail to UT filmmaker||The Kerala high court on Thursday granted interim anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep-based filmmaker and model Aisha Sultana in connection with a sedition case filed over her remark on the Union territory’s administrator. The court has reserved the final order on her anticipatory bail application for next weekA single judge bench of Justice Ashok Menon directed her to appear before the police for questioning on June 20 in the case. OnJune 11, the Kavaratti police registered a case against Sultana under sections 124 (A) (sedition) and 153 (B) (acts against national interests) of the Indian penal code. The FIR was based on the complaint of Lakshadweep BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji. In the complaint, Haji cited a debate on a Malayalam news channels, in which Sultana called the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel a bio-weapon. Haji said her words were in bad taste and intended to create hatred and aversion in the minds of people. Later, Sultana expressed regrets over her words.Patel has become a controversial figure in the UT for his whimsical orders, some of which threaten the way of life of the residents or threaten the islands’ fragile environment. But her comment did not go down well with the Lakshadweep administration and the union government, both of which opposed her bail plea saying her words are being quoted by many, including foreign media, to portray the country in bad light. Opposing Sultana’s plea, standing counsel for the UT, S Manu said, “She made a powerful and noxious assertion against the government of India. She has practically sowed seeds of separatism in the minds of people.”The counsel for the central government, Krishna Raj added “her [Sultana’s]remarks have international ramifications.” However, filmmaker’s counsel P Vijaybhanu argued that bio-weapon remark was used to criticise new regulations brought in the island. He also cited the June 3Supreme Court judgement in journalist Vinod Dua’s case that mere strong words do not count as an act of sedition. The court had quashed the FIR lodged against Dua in Himachal Pradesh in May last year, in connection with uploading a video in Youtube for allegedly spreading rumours and ‘instigating’ people during the communal violence the broke out in Delhi in February 2020.“A citizen has a right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries, so long as he does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder,” said the top court in its order. For over a month now, residents of the archipelago have been protesting against the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) that proposes to develop the islands as a major tourist destination, a proposed Goonda Act and plan to ban cow slaughter, saying that the changes “will affect the unique culture and tradition” of the island. They allege it will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belong to the protected scheduled tribe category. Many parliamentarians, former bureaucrats, and artists have described the draft regulations as “arbitrary” and aimed against the majority community of the islands. On May 31, the Kerala assembly passed a unanimous resolution seeking the recall of the administrator and later, 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticising the “partisan attitude” of the new administrator and called for the protection of the unique culture and tradition of the islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-interim-bail-to-ut-filmmaker-101623954020648.html
17-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi still in Dominica hospital; status changes from police custody to jail||New Delhi: The magistrate’s court in Dominica’s Roseau on Thursday changed Mehul Choksi’s custody from police custody to prison even as the businessman continues to be under treatment at the Dominica-China Friendship Hospital where his health has deteriorated, people familiar with the developments said. As soon as he gets better, he will be sent to the state prison in the illegal entry case filed by the Dominica police, they said. Choksi is produced in the magistrate court, either virtually or physically, every two-three days on orders of the judge. The court has already rejected his plea for bail, underlining that he is a flight risk and has no ties to the country. The next hearing in the magistrate’s court in the illegal entry case is scheduled on June 25. The Eastern Caribbean High Court has adjourned his habeas corpus plea and may take it up on July 1. Choksi, 62, who went missing from Antigua on May 23, has alleged that he was abducted by police officials from India and Antigua and brought to Dominica in a vessel, a charge rejected by both Antiguan and Indian officials. New Delhi has sought his deportation on the ground that he was the key accused in the Punjab National Bank fraud worth ₹950 million. India has countered assertions that he had given up his Indian citizenship, pointing out that his declaration to renounce his citizenship was never accepted by the ministry of home affairs and this decision was conveyed to him as well. Choksi fled India on January 4, 2018. Dominica too, while referring to him as an “Indian” citizen, has said he entered the country illegally.In its complaint filed in the illegal entry case, Dominica police has claimed “Mehul Choksi entered the state of Commonwealth of Dominica at a place - Toucari Bay - not approved as a port of entry, contrary to the provisions of Immigration and Passport Act”.On June 10, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also filed a fresh chargesheet against Choksi providing additional evidence to an Indian court to allege that he knew about investigations against him much before fleeing and started destroying evidence with the help of his associates. His lawyer Vijay Aggarwal rejected India’s argument that Choksi continued to be a citizen of India, calling India’s reliance on various rules “fractured understanding of law.”Antigua’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne has already said the island nation will not take the fugitive back.The ministry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on Thursday said “the criminal charges that Mehul Choksi faces in India and the facts relating to his continued Indian citizenship have been suitably brought to the attention of the authorities in the Commonwealth of Dominica,” he said.“Choksi continues to be in the custody of authorities in the Commonwealth of Dominica and legal proceedings are underway. The Government of India is actively engaged with the Dominican government to seek the early deportation or handing over to India of Mehul Choksi to face justice in our country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-still-in-dominica-hospital-status-changes-from-police-custody-to-jail-101623953664774.html
17-06-2021||India||Madras HC allows convicts Nalini, husband to video call kin in Sri Lanka, UK||The Madras high court on Thursday allowed a plea to permit life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, Nalini Sriharan and her husband Murugan, to make video calls to their relatives in Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom.A two-judge division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and V M Velumani passed the order. The plea was filed by Sriharan’s mother, S Padma to allow the couple to make video calls to speak to their kin after Murugan lost his father in April 2020. They had sought permission to make video calls to his mother and sister in Sri Lanka and London for at least 10 minutes daily.During the previous hearings in the case last year, the state and the Union government had taken the stance that they should not be permitted to make video calls to a foreign country. The Tamil Nadu government had opposed it submitting that it was in the domain of the ministry of external affairs and there were no provisions in the Tamil Nadu prison rules for them to take decisions involving foreign countries. So the court had asked the external affairs ministry to respond to the issue. The then Assistant Solicitor General of India G Karthikeyan had argued that life convicts should not be permitted to make live calls to Sri Lanka as it would hamper the multi-disciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA) led investigations into the larger conspiracy of the assassination. The court had refused to accept the submission setting that they were going to make a condolence call.Former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in Sriperumbudur in May 1991 and seven convicts have been serving jail terms for more than three decades. Chief minister M K Stalin has written to President Ram Nath Kovind to remit their sentence and release them, which is a call supported by all regional political parties in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-allows-convicts-nalini-husband-to-video-call-kin-in-sri-lanka-uk-101623953419563.html
17-06-2021||India||I am LJP president, have approached Election Commission, says Chirag Paswan||As Lok Janshakti Party MP Pashipati Kumar, the uncle of Chirag Paswan, was formally elected as the new national president of the party on Thursday, Chirag said he is prepared for a long battle and is also ready to approach the Supreme Court if needed. Dismissing the election of his uncle to the post of president, Chirag said only 9 members were present at the national executive meeting, which is illegal. "I have written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla Ji to reconsider his decision to accept him (Pashupati Kumar Paras) as leader of the parliamentary party. Our party constitution says leader of the party in Parliament or Assembly will be elected by Central parliamentary board," Chirag said, adding that the Speaker might not be aware of the party's constitution. He said he has also written to the Election Commission, urging it to stop the Paras-headed faction from using its symbol and flag in its meeting.LJP's general secretary Abdul Khaliq said a physical meeting of its national executive will be held in the national capital on Sunday to reiterate Paswan's earlier election as its national president amid the split in the organisation after Paras and four other party MPs staged a coup against him, PTI reported."The faction headed by my uncle can be an independent group but cannot represent LJP," Chirag said.The LJP has six MPs, including Paswan, in Lok Sabha and none in Rajya Sabha. Five of its MPs recently elected Paras as their president in place of Paswan. Lok Sabha secretariat then notified his election after all five of them met the Speaker with their representation.Paras, on the other hand, said the rift between the two camps will be addressed and sorted out. "I have just been appointed as the national president of the party. I can not change things in a minute. Give us time, we will sort out every fissure in the party by sitting together and further strengthen the party," Paras said.On Sunday, Pashupati Kumar Paras, the younger brother of LJP founder Ram Vilas E along with five other MPs met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and handed over a letter to him seeking removal of Chirag Paswan as party chief and as the Lok Sabha Parliamentary party leader.Om Birla accepted Paras as the floor leader of the LJP in the lower house. In a revised list of floor leaders of parties on Monday Paras was listed as the Lok Sabha LJP leader. LJP was formed by former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000. Paswan, a heavyweight leader in Bihar politics, passed away in October 2020.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-ljp-president-have-approached-election-commission-says-chirag-paswan-101623950267651.html
17-06-2021||India||Defence minister Rajnath says Yogi Adityanath’s commitment can't be questioned||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s integrity cannot be questioned as he worked for the state even when he was infected by Covid-19, according to LiveHindustan. Rajnath's response came after the Union defence minister was asked regarding the chief ministerial candidate ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Uttar Pradesh goes into elections next year.The defence minister also quashed the criticism levelled at the BJP government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis and said that they have always questioned the government’s work. Rajnath Singh on Thursday also in a veiled message to China said that India is peace-loving but it can reply to aggression when required. “We seek world peace (but) if someone shows us an aggressive attitude, we will respond. Last year in Galwan Valley, our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in line of duty. I salute all brave soldiers who laid down their lives fighting for the nation,” Rajnath Singh said while dedicating 12 strategic roads constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to the nation in Arunachal’s Kimin.Rajnath Singh also said that the government is committed to the growth of the northeastern region. “The development of the region remained stagnant after independence. However, after the NDA came to power in 2014, the region witnessed accelerated development. There are many challenges due to its close proximity with foreign countries,” he further added.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister earlier this month met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and president Ram Nath Kovind after reports of friction in the party but the discussions were mostly concentrated on the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-says-yogi-adityanath-s-commitment-can-t-be-questioned-101623951343136.html
17-06-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee challenges Suvendu Adhikari’s Nandigram win in Calcutta High Court||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday moved the Calcutta High Court, challenging Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s win from the assembly constituency of Nandigram in the West Bengal assembly elections, according to news agency ANI.The court will take up the matter on Friday, it said.Also Read: Once Mamata Banerjee’s victory ground against Left Front, Nandigram welcomes BJPThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief was defeated by Adhikari, her former aide, after a close fight. On May 2, when counting of votes for 292 of West Bengal’s 294 assembly constituencies took place, Banerjee was initially announced as the winner, by a margin of more than 1200 votes. However, later, Adhikari was declared to have won Nandigram by more than 1900 votes.Also Read: Don't worry about Nandigram, says Mamata amid result flip-flopAddressing her supporters as the TMC moved towards a comprehensive win, Banerjee said she would “move court” against Adhikari’s win. Later that day, the Election Commission (ECI) rejected TMC’s request seeking recounting of votes in Nandigram.Also Read: As Suvendu Adhikari 'wins' Nandigram, TMC calls for 'immediate' recountingThe TMC supremo contested from Nandigram despite being the incumbent MLA from Bhabanipur. In the run-up to the elections, Adhikari “vowed” he would defeat her by 50,000 votes, and is now the leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly.Voting for assembly polls in the eastern state took place across an unprecedented eight phases, between March 27 and April 29. The TMC, under Banerjee, won a third consecutive term in office, winning 213 seats, while the BJP registered its best-ever performance with 77 seats. However, since then, the BJP has seen a series of defections back to the TMC, the most high-profile of which was the return of Mukul Roy to the Banerjee-headed party. Roy joined the BJP in 2017 and was a vice president when he made his return to the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-challenges-suvendu-adhikari-s-nandigram-win-in-calcutta-hc-101623948924307.html
17-06-2021||India||Sputnik V to offer booster shot against Delta Covid-19 variant: RDIF||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Thursday Sputnik V, the Russian-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will soon offer a booster shot or second dose to other vaccine manufacturers. This booster shot, the RDIF said, has been adjusted to work against the Delta Covid-19 variant, which was first detected in India.Also Read: Sputnik vaccine in final leg of pilot testing, commercial launch soon: Dr Reddy’s“Sputnik V will soon offer a booster shot, adjusted to work against the Delta variant of coronavirus, first detected in India, to other vaccine manufacturers,” the makers of Sputnik V said in a tweet.BREAKING: #SputnikV will soon offer a booster shot, adjusted to work against the Delta variant of coronavirus, first detected in India, to other vaccine manufacturers. Below are the highlights of Sputnik V’s pioneering role in developing vaccine cocktails.“Sputnik V is more efficient against the Delta variant of coronavirus first detected in India, than any other vaccine that published results on this strain so far – the Gamaleya Centre study submitted for publication in an international peer-reviewed journal,” the makers said further.The Delta variant or the B1.617.2 strain is believed to be responsible for India’s devastating second Covid-19 wave, which was at its peak in April-May, and saw the country reporting record daily Covid-19 cases and deaths due to the viral disease. The World Health Organization (WHO) has listed the Delta variant as the fourth variant of concern (VoC).Also Read: How Delta variant of Covid-19 is now wreaking havoc across the worldB1.617.1 strain or the Kappa variant, too, was first detected in India.Sputnik V, which is world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19, received emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India in April. In January, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s shot, which is being manufactured in the country as Covishield by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), were granted EUA by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Covaxin and Covishield have been used since the beginning of the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16.A total of 67 countries, including India, have authorised the shot.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which, like Bharat Biotech, is based in Hyderabad, is Sputnik V’s distributor in India. Earlier on Thursday, it was announced that the vaccine will be available in nine more cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-to-offer-booster-shot-against-delta-covid-19-variant-rdif-101623945788012.html
17-06-2021||India||Domestic passenger traffic dipped by 60% in May compared to April: DGCA||Nearly 2.1 million domestic passengers travelled by air in May, over 63% lower when compared to April when 5.7 million passengers had travelled, according to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data released on Thursday.The dip in passenger traffic came at a time when the country was battling a massive surge in Covid-19 cases due to the second wave of infections.Domestic flights were suspended last year in March and resumed with limited capacity on May 25, 2020 after a gap of two months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, Indian airlines are allowed to operate a maximum of 50 per cent of their pre-pandemic domestic flights.The civil aviation ministry last month also said it will cut down seating capacity from 80% to 50% of pre-Covid-19 domestic flights from June 1. “This decision has been taken in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and passenger load factor (occupancy rate),” the ministry’s order stated.According to the DGCA data, among private carriers IndiGo catered to 1.6 million passengers in May, a 55.3% share of the domestic market, SpiceJet flew 0.199 million passengers, accounting for a 9.4% share of the market.The occupancy rate or load factor of the six major Indian airlines was between 39.3 % and 64% in May, it stated. The occupancy rate at SpiceJet was 64% in May, the DGCA indicated. The occupancy rates for IndiGo, Vistara, GO FIRST (previously known as Go Air), Air India and AirAsia India were 51.2%, 40.9%, 63.3%, 39.3% and 44.4% respectively, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-passenger-traffic-dipped-by-60-in-may-compared-to-april-dgca-101623944899059.html
17-06-2021||India||Delta Plus might be the reason: What Maharashtra experts say about this variant||The new variant of Delta Covid-19 virus, which is being termed as Delta Plus, is not yet a variant of concern in India, but experts in Maharashtra have warned that this variant may be the reason behind a third wave of the pandemic, which could take active Covid-19 patients up to eight lakh and 10 per cent of them could be children.The Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra, the state which bears the maximum brunt of any wave of the pandemic, made a presentation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, where they voiced their concern.“The Delta plus variant could stoke the third wave in Maharashtra. It could spread at double the rate," said an official during the presentation.In the first wave, the number of Covid-19 patients was highest at 3,01,752 on September 13, 2020, and in the second wave, the highest was on April 22, when the number reached 6,99,858.If a third wave caused by Delta Plus hits, the number will be the highest, according to the projection. The projection is worrisome as many people will be completely vaccinated by that time.1st Delta Plus reported in Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh has reported the first case of Delta plus in Bhopal, state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang has confirmed. The patient is a 65-year-old woman and her condition is stable. Reports said she has received vaccines.What is Delta Plus?A variant of interest, Delta Plus is a mutation of the Delta virus, which was first reported in India. As on June 7, this variant was present in six genomes in India. This variant is believed to be more virulent. It has been claimed that this variant nullified the use of the monoclonal antibody. This variant has been seen in Europe since March and was brought into the public domain on June 13.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-might-be-the-reason-what-maharashtra-experts-say-about-this-variant-101623943584151.html
17-06-2021||India||'Our hearts go out...': Google CEO Sundar Pichai announces ₹113 crore Covid grant for India||Google’s philanthropic arm will provide an additional ₹113 crore in grants to build oxygen generation plants and train healthcare workers in rural India, the company’s chief executive Sundar Pichai announced on Thursday. Google’s fresh grants totalling ₹113 crore is on top of the ₹135 Crore announced in April aimed at expanding the reach of public health information campaigns and supporting emergency relief work. The second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic overwhelmed India’s health infrastructure that witnessed massive oxygen shortage.“Our hearts go out to those in India impacted by the ongoing C[ovid]-19 crisis, and we continue to look for ways to help,” tweeted Pichai.Google will support procurement and installation of approximately 80 oxygen generation plants in healthcare facilities in high-need and rural locations with new grants to two non-profits - GiveIndia and PATH. In a blog post, Sanjay Gupta, country head and vice president for Google India, said that the tech giant is turning its focus to help strengthen India’s healthcare infrastructure and workforce, especially in rural areas.“The two organizations will work together to oversee the oxygen program, providing project management support,” Gupta wrote.Also Read | Sundar Pichai surprises winner of Doodle for Google contest with a video callIndia has been witnessing a decline in daily Covid-19 cases after various state governments imposed lockdown-like restrictions to contain the spread. It remains the second worst-hit country in terms of overall Covid cases to date, and the third worst-hit in terms of related deaths. Experts have warned that the next Covid wave could devastate India’s rural areas owing to comparatively fewer vaccinations than urban areas.“Today, as India slowly emerges from the crisis of the past few months, we are turning our focus to helping strengthen India’s healthcare infrastructure and workforce — especially in rural areas,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-ceo-sundar-pichai-announces-113-crore-covid-grant-for-india-101623943650770.html
17-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata says she sought Dhankhar's removal thrice and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Wrote thrice to PM seeking Governor's withdrawal’: Mamata on Jagdeep DhankharBanerjee said that the state government was not consulted during the appointment of Dhankhar in 2019. Read more here. Central team meets Tripura MLAs amid talks of dissenters joining TrinamoolBJP state president Manik Saha accepted that there are differences among the MLAs but said the issues have been sorted out. Read more here. Priyanka Chopra joins Victoria's Secret as lingerie brand ditches Angels for women empowermentActor Priyanka Chopra is among seven women who have joined lingerie brand Victoria's Secret as it attempts an image makeover. Read more here.India announce playing XI for WTC final, Ashwin & Jadeja both includedWTC Final: Mohammed Shami, Jasprit Bumrah and Ishant Sharma are the three pacers included in the playing XI to take on New Zealand. Read more here. What Apple CEO Tim Cook has just said about Android will surprise youApple CEO Tim Cook has said that iOS has less malware than Android because it has been designed in a way that there’s one app store and that ‘all of the apps are reviewed’ before they are made available in the App Store. Read more here.Amrita Rao reacts to ‘Cristiano Ronaldo made Jal lijiye meme international’ post Amrita Rao's punistic reaction on ‘Cristiano Ronaldo made Jal lijiye meme international’ post has left people chuckling. Read more here. Watch: Akshay Kumar dances with BSF troops in Kashmir, pays tribute to soldiers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-says-she-sought-dhankhar-s-removal-thrice-and-all-101623942599035.html
17-06-2021||India||Central team meets Tripura MLAs amid talks of dissenters joining Trinamool||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Tripura unit met with the central BJP team on Thursday to resolve issues within the state unit which has been witnessing a factional feud since last year.The BJP's organisational secretary for Assam and Tripura Phanindranath Sharma, Northeast general secretary (organisation) Ajay Jamwal and state observer Vinod Sonkar led by national general secretary BL Santosh arrived in Delhi on Wednesday on a two-day trip to hold organisational meetings with the party leaders in the state amid reports of dissident MLAs leaving the party to join Trinamool Congress (TMC).BJP state president Manik Saha accepted that there are differences among the MLAs but said the issues have been sorted out. “We are a family. In family, sometimes it happens. I can say it has been sorted out yesterday,” Saha was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He said he was not aware of any developments where dissident MLAs said that they would join the TMC.BL Santhosh and Phanindranath Sharma met MPs Rebati Tripura and Pratima Debnath. They also met all the cabinet ministers including chief minister Biplab Deb and deputy chief minister Jishnu Debbarma. Earlier in the day the BJP core committee also met the central leadership.The panel led by Santhosh also met dissident MLAs including former health minister Sudip Roy Barman, Asish Das, Asish Saha, DC Hrangkhawl, Burba Mohan Tripura and Ramprashad Paul. People familiar with the developments told news agency ANI that a cabinet expansion could be on the cards.“All of us who met Santhosh ji have asked to give us a state President that can keep the organisation strong. Present chief Manik Saha is a nice man but we need a strong chief,” the person cited above told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-meets-tripura-mlas-amid-talks-of-dissenters-joining-trinamool-101623942912632.html
17-06-2021||India||'Stuggle will continue': Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha released from jail||Student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested in May last year walked out of Tihar jail on Thursday, hours after a Delhi court ordered immediate release in the north-east Delhi riots "conspiracy" case.The three student activists were granted bail by the Delhi High Court on June 15. They were arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).Also read| Delhi riots: Court grants release to three students, two days after bail orderAfter release from jail on bail, Kalita lashed out at the government and said it's trying to suppress dissent, the voice of people, reported news agency PTI."We have received tremendous support inside jail; will continue our struggle," PTI quoted Narwal as saying.Tanha also echoed Narwal's words as he said the fight against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) will continue. "Kept hope that I will be released one day; fight against CAA, NRC, NPR will continue," PTI quoted him as saying.The release of the three activists was delayed over the verification of their addresses and sureties. The Delhi court in its order to immediately release the activists said that the verification process by the police could not be a plausible reason for the accused to be kept imprisoned, reported PTI.After bail from the high court, the student activists have moved to the trial court seeking immediate release from the prison. However, it deferred the order on their plea for Thursday, leading them to move to the Delhi High Court. The high court then ordered the lower court to proceed with the issue with "promptitude and expedition".The Delhi HC while granting the activists bail on June 15 said, "in an anxiety to suppress dissent, the state has blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity" and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy".The student activists were accused of being the "masterminds" of the February Delhi riots in 2020. The riots caused 53 deaths and injured 200 .Narwal, whose father recently died of Covid when she was in jail, is a JNU student as is Kalita. Both of them are associated with Pinjra Tod, a collective of women students of and alumni from colleges and universities across Delhi fighting for women's rights.Tanha is a student of Jamia Millia Islamia.While the students have been granted bail, the Delhi Police has moved the Supreme Court against the high court's judgment.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/natasha-narwal-devangana-kalita-asif-iqbal-tanha-released-from-jail-on-bail-101623938749542.html
17-06-2021||India||India capable of giving befitting reply to aggression: Rajnath Singh||In an indirect swipe at China, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday that while India was a ‘priest of peace’, the country was also capable of giving a befitting response to aggression by other nations. The defence minister made the remark while inaugurating 12 roads built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) --10 in Arunachal Pradesh and one each in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir. Singh mentioned the “bravery, valour and sacrifice” by Indian soldiers during last year’s Galwan Valley clash to protect the country’s boundaries and paid tribute to the soldiers who had lost their lives. “India is a priest of world peace. We have never indulged in aggression with any country in the world including our neighbours, but we are capable of giving a befitting reply to those who show aggression towards us,” said Singh at an event held at Lakhimpur in Assam close to the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border. “The new roads will not only help civilian population of the region in allowing them easier communication and availability of goods but also help secure our international borders and aid movement of defence forces,” Singh said. He mentioned that the northeast region was of strategic importance as it is surrounded by five countries, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal and China. “Due to its proximity to international boundaries, the region has several challenges. Smuggling used to be a big menace earlier, especially of fake Indian currency notes (FICN). But it has come down in recent years,” said Singh. The minister mentioned that the road projects are part of the Centre’s Act East policy of opening up the northeast for economic, strategic and cultural relations between states of the region to countries in South East Asia. The event was attended by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju and Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-capable-of-giving-befitting-reply-to-aggression-rajnath-singh-101623942078829.html
17-06-2021||India||India seeks solution for problems faced by US-bound students||India on Thursday called for a “constructive solution” to problems faced by students whose plans to travel to the US to join classes in the autumn have been hit by the absence of uniform vaccination requirements. The US embassy began scheduling visa interviews for Indian students this week and American officials have said applicants won’t require proof of Covid-19 vaccination to enter the US. Students will only require a negative Covid-19 test conducted three days prior to their departure. While thousands of students have secured visa appointments for July and August, some American educational institutions are calling for applicants who got the Covaxin or Sputnik V shots to be re-vaccinated as these jabs are not recognised by US authorities. Asked about these issues at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “There is no uniformity in the requirements. The US government has clarified that vaccination is not a mandatory requirement for our students to travel.” He said “multiple conversations” were on between India students and the US universities. “We would obviously support out students. I think everyone concerned is interested in ensuring that the students are able to reach the universities and undertake regular classes and we hope that a constructive solution is found,” he added. Covaxin and Covishield are the two main jabs being used in India’s vaccination programme. Covishield, which is the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, has been granted an emergency use listing by the World Health Organization (WHO), and is accepted under the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) guidelines for entry of foreign travellers. While ruling out the possibility of India issuing any “vaccine passport” at the present time, Bagchi said global discussions on this issue should be conducted in the context of vaccines being more widely available around the world. “There is an ongoing global debate on this issue of so-called vaccine passports. We feel this has to be linked to the larger issue of vaccine equity, given that many developing countries have not yet been able to vaccinate a large percentage of their population,” he said. “We would favour discussions on the subject of vaccine passports with greater focus on vaccine equity. I don’t have any information about India issuing any vaccine passport,” he said. In response to another question on the sharing of the US administration’s plans to share 80 million surplus doses of vaccines with countries around the world, Bagchi said India is still awaiting details regarding the timeline and quantity of shots that will be shared with various countries. Bagchi also said India is hopeful the process of the WHO granting emergency use authorisation for the Covaxin shot developed by Bharat Biotech will be expeditiously completed. “We are keeping a close watch on this issue. Our expectation would be that this process would be completed speedily,” he said. Bharat Biotech submitted an expression of interest for emergency use authorisation to WHO on April 19. The UN’s health agency sought more information from Bharat Biotech following the submission. WHO’s latest update on emergency use listing of Covid-19 vaccines, issued on June 16, shows that a pre-submission meeting is planned for June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-solution-for-problems-faced-by-us-bound-students-101623940999204.html
17-06-2021||India||Possible 3rd wave of Covid unlikely to affect children, reveals WHO-AIIMS survey||A possible third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India is unlikely to disproportionately affect children than adults, a seroprevalence study conducted by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has revealed, reported news agency ANI.The SARS-CoV-2 seropositivity rate among children was high in comparison to the adult population in the survey that was conducted in five selected states with a total sample size of 10,000 by WHO-AIIMS, the ANI report said.Also read| India may have 4 Covid-19 vaccines for children soon: All you need to knowData of 4,500 participants were taken for the results of the time of midterm analysis from four states. More results are likely to come in the next two or three months.During the survey, it was found that resettlement colonies in South Delhi's urban areas that have a very congested population had the highest seroprevalence of 74.7 per cent, ANI quoted Dr Puneet Misra, Professor of Community Medicine at AIIMS, New Delhi as saying. Dr Misra led the survey."In congested Urban areas of Delhi, since children already have high seroprevalence, opening schools may not be a very risky proposition. During the second wave, the NCR region of Faridabad (rural area) has a seroprevalence of 59.3 per cent (almost equal in both age groups), could be considered high compared to previous national surveys," ANI cited the survey.Dr Misra said these areas in Delhi and NCR (Faridabad) may have higher seroprevalence after the severe second wave of coronavirus. Probably, these levels of seroprevalence may be protective against the third wave, reported the news agency.Also read: AIIMS resumes routine inpatient admissions and elective surgeriesThe survey said Gorakhpur is the most affected in rural areas, which means the chances of herd immunity are higher. Gorakhpur Rural has a very high seroprevalence of 87.9 per cent (2-18 years) with 80.6 per cent and above 18 years with 90.3 per cent, ANI reported.The least seroprevalence (51.9 per cent) was found in Agartala rural, which is claimed to be likely because it also included some tribal populations that usually have lower mobility leading to lower vulnerability to infection.More than half the rural population (62.3 per cent) surveyed showed evidence of past infection, ANI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possible-3rd-wave-of-covid-unlikely-to-affect-children-reveals-who-aiims-survey-101623935359820.html
17-06-2021||India||India may have 4 Covid-19 vaccines for children soon: All you need to know||The prospect of getting four vaccines ready for children seems plausible with the Serum Institute of India planning to start the trials of Covavax on children in July. Bharat Biotech has two vaccines which are being tried on children while the trial for Zydus Cadilla's vaccine against Covid-19 included children from the very beginning. So if everything goes according to the plans of the vaccine makers, India will have four vaccines for children.CovaxinBharat Biotech's Covaxin in an Indian vaccine developed by the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker and the Indian Council of Medical Research. While the vaccine is being administered to adults and has around 78 per cent efficay. Now the vaccine is in the trial phase on children between 2 to 18 years old.Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine (BBV154)Bharat Biotech's one-shot nasal vaccine, which is believed to emerge as a game-changer, is already under trial. And since it's a nasal vaccine, making it very convenient for children's vaccination, the trial included children.Zydus Cadila's ZyCov-DZydus Cadila's ZyCov-D is another vaccine which is being tested on children belonging to the age group of 12 to 18, apart from adults. This vaccine will soon apply for licensure and when it gets cleared, the vaccine can be administered to children.Novavax/CovavaxNovavax or Covavax will be the fourth vaccine to begin clinical trials for children in India. The vaccine has been developed by Novavax which has a tie-up with Pune's Serum Institute of India. The vaccine has overall efficacy of 90.4 per cent.Are children at greater risk?No, despite assumptions and projections that the possible third wave of the pandemic in India will affect children, there is no scientific evidence regarding it, experts have reiterated. Children are not at a greater risk of contracting the virus; the risk is not less either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-have-4-covid-19-vaccines-for-children-soon-all-you-need-to-know-101623938012356.html
17-06-2021||India||‘Incorrect’: Bharat Biotech dismisses reports it submitted phase 3 trial data to WHO||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed India’s only home-made shot against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), on Thursday denied reports it has submitted phase 3 trial data of the vaccine to the World Health Organization (WHO) for its approval, news agency ANI reported.Also Read: Bharat Biotech to hold Covaxin pre-submission meeting with WHO next Wednesday“News reports on Bharat Biotech submitting phase 3 data to WHO is incorrect and lacks any evidence,” ANI quoted the vaccine manufacturer as saying. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine, Covaxin, is among three shots currently being used in India. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s shot locally as Covishield, while Russia’s Sputnik V received emergency use authorisation (EUA) in April.Both Covaxin and Covishield were granted EUA by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in January for the nationwide vaccination drive which began on the 16th of that month.Earlier, there were reports that Bharat Biotech submitted Covaxin’s phase 3 trial data to WHO on Wednesday, with the global health body set to review its application for approval on June 23. The firm, however, has been facing questions over its phase 3 trial data; it first said it will make the results of the trial public in June, only to announce later that it will, in fact, do so in July.Also Read: Covaxin phase 3 trial results to be out in July, says Bharat BiotechAn interim analysis of the trials found Covaxin found it to be 78% effective against symptomatic disease, and 100% against serious illness, according to Bharat Biotech.Recently, the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) turned down Bharat Biotech’s application seeking EUA for Covaxin in the US, citing “the lack of data on clinical trials.” Following the FDA’s decision, Bharat Biotech’s partner in the US, Ocugen Inc, announced they would now seek a full-use approval for the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incorrect-bharat-biotech-dismisses-reports-it-submitted-phase-3-trial-data-to-who-101623938860722.html
17-06-2021||India||Army top brass reviews situation along borders with China, Pakistan||The army’s top brass on Thursday kicked off a two-day conference to discuss important organisational and operational matters including the situation along the country’s borders with China and Pakistan, officials familiar with the development said. The biennial Army Commanders’ Conference is chaired by the army chief. “The operational situation on the northern and western borders was reviewed on the opening day of the conference, chaired by army chief General MM Naravane,” said one of the officials cited above. The review is significant against the backdrop of the ongoing negotiations for disengagement of Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, and the ceasefire between Indian and Pakistani armies holding at the Line of Control (LoC), the official added. The conference is taking place at a time when India and China have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of their soldiers deployed at friction points on the LAC. The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6, 2020, to reduce tensions along the disputed border. The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry in the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. Talks have not made any headway in resolving the problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Things have, however, been quiet on the LoC after the Indian and Pakistani militaries announced on February 25 that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the LoC from midnight of February 24. India and Pakistan had agreed to a ceasefire on the LoC in November 2003, but it was frequently violated. Last month, the army chief said that the restoration of ceasefire between the two armies was holding, had led to a significant drop in infiltration by terrorists from Pakistan and contributed to the overall sense of peace and well-being in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-top-brass-reviews-situation-along-borders-with-china-pakistan-101623937938307.html
17-06-2021||India||CJI bats for International Arbitration Center in Hyderabad||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Thursday said he spoke to the Chief Justice of Singapore for establishing an International Arbitration Centre in Hyderabad as the city is geographically well connected with the world, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The Chief Justice who is currently staying at Telangana Raj Bhavan suggested that Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao provide support in terms of necessary infrastructure for the proposed facility in its initial stages during an informal conversation.“I spoke to the Chief Justice of Singapore. He wants some assistance from India about matters related to artificial intelligence and how the Supreme Court is using it. I requested him to help us establish the International Arbitration Centre because the world's best arbitration centre is in Singapore to which he agreed,” the CJI said.The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has shown a proven track record in providing neutral arbitration services to the global business community. The SIAC arbitration awards have been enforced by the courts of Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Thailand, UK, US and Vietnam.CJI Ramana said during the next arbitration conference in August he will personally speak to the Singapore CJI on the issue. He also pointed out that most companies go to either London or Singapore to settle their disputes while Hyderabad is centrally located and well connected to the Gulf, European and Asian countries.“Sometime in August there is a conference on arbitration. I don't know the location. It is subject to the pandemic conditions whether it is physical or virtual. We both are participating. If we physically meet we can explain better, otherwise I can interact with him. He promised that he would extend all his support,” CJI further explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-bats-for-international-arbitration-center-in-hyderabad-101623936279206.html
17-06-2021||India||IMA to hold nationwide protest on June 18, over 350,000 doctors to join||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) will hold a nationwide protest on Friday in demand of a central law to protect doctors against violence. Over 350,000 doctors of IMA will participate in the protest, national president of the organisation Dr JA Jayalal told news agency ANI"IMA is conducting a nationwide protest tomorrow in demand for a central law to protect doctors against violence. 3.5 lakh doctors of IMA will take part in the protest," ANI quoted the IMA president as saying.Also read: HC refuses to stay order restraining IMA chief from using his post to ‘propagate any religion’The IMA informed organisations like the Association of Physicians of India, the Association of Surgeons of India, the Medical Students Network, Junior Doctor Network (JDN) will take part in the protest, beginning from 9am on Friday. The JDN and Resident Doctors Association (RDA) organised protests will take place in front of AIIMS and Delhi Medical Association at three places.In Bihar and the central part of Kerala, doctors will close their clinics in the morning. Memorandums will be given to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior ministers including home minister Amit Shah. All 1,700 branches are organizing events to mark the day of protest, the medical organization said."We demand government shall enhance security features in every hospital and declare hospitals as a protected zone," IMA said in a statement.Pressing for the central act against violence on doctors with CrPC and IPC, the IMA said the proposed Health Services Personnel and Clinical Establishment (Prohibition of Violence and Damage to Property) Bill 2019, which seeks to punish people who assault doctors on duty and other healthcare professionals by imposing jail from upto 10 years, was at that time dismissed to home ministry stated special law cannot be created, as health is a state subject."Currently 21 states have their local laws, but what we need is a strong central law to protect doctors from violence - In one instance, 11 years have passed and a doctor in Nashik has died of head injury, but the person is still not caught, there was a change introduced in Epidemics Act due to Covid-19, but even then about 300 small instances of violence were reported in 2020 alone- Doctors are laying their lives on the line — 750 had died in 2020 and about 700 more have died during the second wave," IMA said in the statement.Also read: Ramdev booked in Chhattisgarh for comments against Covid-19 medicinesFurther, the association condemned the brutal attack on young doctor in Assam and assault on lady doctors, horrifying incidents in Hooghly in West Bengal and Karnataka.Calling the Ramdev row unfortunate, IMA said many other branches have filed police complaints against him for malafide statements on vaccinations and allopathic modern medicines of coronavirus."We have urged the Honourable Prime Minister to take appropriate action against him. We respect Ayurveda as part of our culture and ancient science, but we never go out and criticize it. What happened was unfortunate. We have evidence that medicines such as Coronil doesn’t work," the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-to-hold-nationwide-protest-on-june-18-over-350-000-doctors-to-join-101623933380788.html
17-06-2021||India||Theaterisation plans being refined through wider talks before seeking nod from CCS||The defence ministry and the armed forces are refining the military’s theaterisation plans through internal consultations and detailed discussions with other ministries involved before seeking the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to implement the long-awaited military reform to optimally use the resources of the armed forces, senior officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. Different aspects related to theaterisation were discussed and examined in detail by top government officials who reviewed a draft cabinet note on new joint structures at a meeting held in South Block earlier this month, said one of the officials cited above. The key points discussed included the executing authority for theatre commands, the geographies they will control, command and control structures, budgeting, extending the service of senior three-star officers who will take over as theatre commanders and placing some paramilitary forces under the commands, said a second official. Some of these issues involve the finance and home ministries. Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them. HT reported in February that India was set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command likely to be launched by May. Deliberations on the proposal are likely to take more time as all stakeholders have to be brought on board and the previous timelines may have to be revised. “Processes have to be followed before the proposal is sent to the CCS for approval. We have to have more discussions to iron out the details of the theaterisation plan. All stakeholders have to be in agreement on what is the best way to address the country’s security requirements. But there will be no inordinate delay,” said the first official. Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources. “Some paramilitary forces, which come under the home ministry, may be subsumed into the theatre commands. The coast guard will also come under the Maritime Theatre Command. These issues are being discussed,” said the second official. Experts said building consensus among stakeholders was crucial to take the theaterisation plan forward. It is crucial to address the concerns of all stakeholders, including the services and other ministries involved, before the cabinet note is sent for the approval of the CCS, said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd). “A final decision will be taken after due deliberations to streamline all aspects related to theatre commands. I hope theaterisation is accorded top priority and the necessary approvals come as early as possible so that the armed forces are future-ready and capable of meeting emerging challenges,” Bhatia added. The government expects General Bipin Rawat, who took charge as India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands. The operational control of all the theatre commands will eventually come under CDS, with the service chiefs being responsible for raising, training and sustaining their forces, as previously reported by HT. Rawat wears three hats — he is the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), heads the department of military affairs (DMA), and is the single-point military adviser to the defence minister. CDS will have operational control over all the integrated commands when they are fully functional --- this will be in his role as CDS, and not as permanent chairman, COSC. This will require some restructuring in DMA. The restructuring could involve the chief of integrated defence staff to COSC, or CISC, being appointed as the secretary of DMA in due course to allow CDS to focus on the theatre commands, senior officials earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theaterisation-plans-being-refined-through-wider-talks-before-seeking-nod-from-ccs-101623936017906.html
17-06-2021||India||Google Maps show new ‘underwater’ structure in Arabian Sea near Kerala’s Kochi, experts to probe formation||A new bean-shaped ‘island’-like structure could be seen off the coast of Kerala’s Kochi in the Arabian Sea in satellite imagery from Google Maps. It has sparked the interest of many, including experts, who consider it to be an underwater structure as nothing similar to it has been observed in the sea, according to a report by The News Minute.Officials from the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) are planning to investigate the matter after an organisation, Chellanam Karshika Tourism Development Society, wrote a letter to authorities, the report said. The representative from the organisation said that they observed the formation for the past four years and had not seen it expanding in size, the report also showed.KX Julappan, president of the organisation, in a Facebook post earlier on June 5, 2021, shared a screenshot of the Google Map imagery and highlighted that the structure is located at 7km west of the port gate and also further claimed that it could be about 8km in length and 3.5km in width, based on the image from Google Maps.“There should be studies to find the reasons for this formation, what role this has to play in water currents and coastal erosion and whether this sand dune can be used for artificial shore conservation in Chellanam. The KUFOS technical committee which is working on finding a solution to the coastal erosion of Chellanam should study about this,” The News Minute cited a part of the letter which the organisation wrote to KUFOS officials.Meanwhile, vice chancellor of KUFOS K Riji John, while speaking to The News Minute, said that more could be learned about the formation only after an investigation. “Looking at Google Maps, this looks like any other underwater island that we see across the globe. There have been similar observations, and there is a specific shape also for this. But we don’t know what it is made of — whether it is sand or clay and whether it's distributed regularly. We can only find that out through an investigation. Only after that, we can say anything concrete about this,” News Minute quoted K Riji John as saying. He also said that KUFOS will consult with experts regarding the possibilities of conducting a study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-maps-show-new-underwater-structure-in-arabian-sea-near-kerala-s-kochi-experts-to-probe-formation-101623934600266.html
17-06-2021||India||‘Cause for worry’: Expert weighs in on immune escape potential of Delta plus Covid variant||After the emergence of the ‘Delta plus’ variant of coronavirus, experts have raised concern about its ability to evade pre-existing immunity. Earlier this week, scientists said that the highly transmissible Delta variant, first identified in India, has further mutated to form the Delta plus, however, added that there was no immediate cause of concern due to low incidence in the country.The latest research shows that the Delta plus variant characterised by B.1.617.2 variant acquiring another mutation, K417N, also found in the B.1.351 or Beta variant of concern. The mutation is in the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2, which helps the virus enter and infect the human cells. The earliest sequence of this genome was found in Europe in late March this year.Experts stressed the need for more studies on the 'Delta plus’ variant before reaching any conclusion on its transmissibility and ability to evade pre-existing immunity, built up either by vaccination or infection with the original Sars-CoV-2 strain."The B.1.617.2 or Delta variant of concern has acquired another mutation - K417N - within the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein. This new variant is called Delta or AY.1. This change is of note since this mutation is also found in the B.1.351 or Beta variant of concern," leading virologist Dr Shahid Jameel told news agency ANI."So, in a sense, this is the coming together of changes earlier found in two different variants of concern, which are so far the best adapted to immune escape. Whether this new variant will evade pre-existing immunity better than either Delta or Beta remains to be seen. Therefore, it is a cause for worry but not panic. More studies are needed," he added.Also Read | Delta Plus: All you need to know about new, deadly variant of coronavirusSo far, 202 sequences corresponding to the Delta plus variant have been found in 11 countries, with the highest numbers of cases being reported from the United States. India has reported eight cases of Delta plus variant, with three cases from Tamil Nadu and one each from Odisha, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, and Maharashtra.But Dr Jameel cautioned about the low incidence, reminding that the B.1.617 variant, the precursor of the Delta variant, was also seen in very low numbers in India in December 2020 and surged within the next eight to 12 weeks."The Indian vaccines have shown three to eightfold reduced efficacy against the Delta and Beta VOCs. Whether this coming together of key mutations would be neutral, additive or more than the sum of both remains to be seen," said Dr Jameel.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/expert-weighs-in-on-immune-escape-potential-of-delta-plus-covid-variant-101623932075798.html
17-06-2021||India||Kerala HC grants protection from arrest to Lakshadweep filmmaker||The Kerala high court on Thursday directed filmmaker Aisha Sultana to appear before the Lakshadweep police on Sunday for questioning but ordered she be granted bail immediately in case of her arrest in the sedition case filed against her for alleged remarks against the Union Territory’s administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The order came even as the Lakshadweep administration and the Centre opposed her bail plea saying many foreign journals and others used her words to portray the country in a bad light.“She made a powerful and noxious assertion against the government of India. She has practically sowed seeds of separatism in the minds of people,” said S Manu, who appeared for Lakshadweep. Krishna Raj, appearing for the Centre, said “her remarks have international ramifications.”Also Read | BJP leaders in Lakshadweep resign to protest sedition case against filmmakerSultana moved the court, which has jurisdiction over Lakshadweep, for anticipatory bail last week after she was called for questioning. She was booked for her alleged remarks calling Patel “a bio-weapon launched by the Centre”.The case was filed against Sultana on Lakshadweep Bharatiya Janata Party chief C Abdul Khadar Haji’s complaint. In the complaint, Haji cited a debate on a Malayalam news channel in which Sultana purportedly made the remarks. He said her words were in “bad taste and intended to create hatred and aversion in the minds of people”.In a Facebook post later, Sultana said she regretted the use of the phrase and that she did not intend to hurt the country or its interests.Sultana’s lawyer, P Vijaybhanu, argued his client’s criticism was related to the new regulations introduced in Lakshadweep, which have triggered protests there. He cited the Supreme Court order in journalist Vinod Dua’s case that mere strong words do not amount to sedition.A single-judge bench reserved the final order on Sultana’s bail application until next week.The Supreme Court on May 31 expressed concern over the misuse of India’s sedition law and said it will define the contours of the colonial era penal provision to indicate what does and does not constitute sedition.The slapping of sedition charges against Sultana provoked outrage. The case was filed amid protests in Lakshadweep against the regulations Patel has introduced. The opponents of the norms say they will affect the region’s unique culture and traditions and threaten the livelihoods of islanders. The regulations propose to develop the islands as a major tourist destination and a ban on cow slaughter. The opponents allege the norms will destroy the region’s character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the protected Scheduled Tribe category.Lawmakers, former bureaucrats and artists have criticised the regulations as “arbitrary” saying they are aimed against the majority community of the islands. The Kerala assembly has passed a unanimous resolution seeking the recall of Patel. As many as 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticising the “partisan attitude” of Patel and urged him to protect the unique culture and traditions of the islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-lakshadweep-filmmaker-101623932117679.html
17-06-2021||India||MP para shooter wins gold at Peru event; creates world record||Madhya Pradesh shooter Rubina Francis has set a world record and won herself the gold in the 10-metre air pistol para women event at World shooting Para Sport Cup in Peru on Wednesday. Rubina, 21, scored 238.1 points and beat the world record of Aysegul Pehlivanlar of Turkey, also securing the Paralympic quota for India at the Tokyo games this year.Also Read | MP CM Chouhan announces new plan to promote Covid-19 vaccinationRubina started the learning basics of shooting in 2006 in a camp organised by an academy in Jabalpur where she practised for 10 years before moving to Bhopal. In 2017, she started practising at MP Shooting Academy. Her father Simon Francis said, “She is a special child who turned her weakness into her strength [Rubina has a disability in her leg] and fought hard.” “Initially, we faced hardships as I didn’t have money to even afford petrol to take her to the academy in Jabalpur. I used to wait for hours during her practice session as I couldn’t afford to commute twice to the academy. Later, her mother started working at a private hospital to fulfil basic needs,” said Francis, a mechanic by profession.Rubina has won more than 15 medals in national and international events. Her achievement was lauded by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mppara-shooter-wins-gold-at-peru-event-creates-world-record-101623931577528.html
17-06-2021||India||Three killed, two injured as car falls into river in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||Three people were killed and two others injured when a car in which they were travelling fell into the Baya river in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district on Wednesday night. According to the police, the accident occurred when the driver of the car, carrying five people, lost control over the vehicle and it fell into the river which was in full spate near Jaitpur Road of the district at about 11.45 pm on Wednesday. “Three people died on the spot, while two others sustained injuries. The bodies have been sent to Muzaffarpur for post-mortem,” said RB Yadav, station house officer (SHO), Saraiya police station. The deceased have been identified as Jeetan Kumar, a resident of Dharfri village and Nikki Sharma and Rajan Kumar – both residents of Madhopur village in Muzaffarpur district. The kin of the deceased told the police that they had come to Mungrauli village under Saraiya police station area to attend a wedding. A case is yet to be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-killed-two-injured-as-car-falls-into-river-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101623931517518.html
17-06-2021||India||Could Twitter, WhatsApp face ban in India? Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad replies||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said the government is not in favour of banning any social media platform. If half of the government is on Twitter, including Prime Minister and President, it shows how fair the government is, but social media intermediaries, a status that Twitter has recently lost, have to follow local rules, the minister said to news agency ANI. On WhatsApp, he said all ordinary users can continue to use it. "It is my word," the minister said. The minister's remarks come amid the ongoing face-off between the government and Twitter which escalated as the government withdrew the legal protection — that all social media intermediaries in the country enjoy — from Twitter.On the issue of WhatsApp, which has taken a legal path against the new I-T rules, the minister said the government does not want all WhatsApp messages to be decrypted. "If any content goes viral, causing mob lynching, riots, killing, showing women in nudity, sexual exploitation of children, only in these limited categories, you will be asked to declare who started the mischief," the minister said.Twitter India head quizzed by Delhi Police on May 31 over 'Congress toolkit': ReportIn case if an inciting message originated outside the country, then the government wants to know who started it in India, the minister added."When Capitol Hill in Washington was raided, you block Twitter accounts of all including then President. During farmers' strike, Red Fort is raided by terrorist supporters showing naked swords, injuring policemen and pushing them in a ditch, then it's freedom of expression. If Capitol Hill is US' pride, Red Fort is India's where PM hoists Tricolour. You show parts of Ladakh as China's part. It takes a fortnight for us to pursue you to remove it. This isn't fair. As a democracy, India is equally entitled to safeguard its digital sovereignty," the minister told the news agency, reiterating the flashpoints between the government and the Twitter in the past.Twitter loses intermediary status: What does it mean for Twitter and its users?Why Twitter and WhatsApp are up in arms against the new IT rulesAccording to the new IT rules which became effective from May 26, the social media platforms have to disclose the origin of any message if the authorities consider the message to be harmful. WhatsApp moved the Delhi high court challenging the new IT rules and said that if the platform reveals the origin of chats, then its end-to-end encryption policy will be violated.After being denied legal cover in India, Twitter said it is working with the government. On Thursday, it came to light that cops from Delhi Police's special cell went to Bengaluru on May 31 to question Twitter's India MD Manish Maheshwari over Twitter's "manipulated media" tag. What the government did to Twitter is nowhere close to banning Twitter. If a social media intermediary loses legal protection, it becomes liable for what someone posts on it. Ministers, government departments continue their activities on Twitter, as Ravi Shankar Prasad claimed. However, many ministers have opened accounts on Koo, an India-based platform like Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-twitter-whatsapp-face-ban-in-india-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-replies-101623929459591.html
17-06-2021||India||Kerala police issue guidelines for travel as Covid-19 curbs eased in state. Check here||The Kerala police on Thursday issued guidelines for commuters allowing unrestricted travelling in areas where the Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) is less than 8 per cent. These were issued on a day when the easing of restrictions in Kerala’s Covid-19 induced lockdown came into effect, as announced by the state government on June 7, when it extended the restrictions till June 16.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown restrictions in Kerala to be eased from todayAccording to the guidelines issued by Kerala’s director general of police (DGP) Loknath Behera, as reported by news agency ANI, no police pass is required to travel to and from the locations where restrictions are relaxed (areas where TPR is less than 8 per cent) and where a partial lockdown is in effect. Instead, passengers are required to carry a filled self-affidavit.Also Read: Kerala to ease Covid-19 lockdown from June 17. Check what’s allowedA police pass will be required for travelling to and from these places:1. For those travelling from any area which falls under the aforementioned two categories to an area where a complete lockdown is in effect, in connection with activities like medical needs, weddings, funerals, construction and industrial needs.2. For those travelling from an area that is under complete lockdown to a location where a partial lockdown is in effect or where the curbs have been lifted.3. The pass can be obtained from the concerned police station by preparing an application on white paper, along with some documents. The application should have the following details: name and ward of the destination, reason for travel, name and address of the person travelling, mobile number and vehicle number.4. For regions under a triple lockdown (TPR more than 30 per cent), police have asked commuters to carry an identification card, hall ticket (for those appearing in an exam) and medical records. Entry and exit in such locations is allowed only for medical purposes, exams and funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-police-issue-guidelines-for-travel-as-covid-19-curbs-eased-in-state-check-here-101623929336285.html
17-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chhattisgarh Police book Ramdev for comments against Covid-19 medicines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ramdev booked in Chhattisgarh for comments against Covid-19 medicinesThe Chhattisgarh Police have registered a case against Yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly spreading false information about medicines used to treat Covid-19, Raipur police superintendent Ajay Yadav said. Read moreCoast Guard rescues 16 crew members from sinking ship near Maharashtra’s RevdandaThe Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Thursday rescued all 16 crew members of a merchant vessel that went aground near Revdanda in Maharashtra’s Raigarh district, in a well-coordinated air-sea operation. Read moreOdisha district makes vaccination compulsory for tradersSundargarh, an Odisha district, which reported about 40,000 cases of Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic in April and May this year, has announced that owners of businesses and shops of the town who have not been vaccinated may not be allowed to reopen their establishments now. Read moreDiamond believed to be world's third-largest unearthed in BotswanaA diamond believed to be the third-largest ever to be mined has been unearthed in Botswana, as per a joint venture between Anglo American's De Beers and the government. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for WTC final vs NZ: Toss up between Ravindra Jadeja, 4th seamer biggest headache for Kohli, ShastriAfter two years of rigorous Test cricket around the world, we have come to this – the final of the inaugural World Test Championship at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton – which will feature India and New Zealand, with the winner determining the World Champions of Test cricket. Read moreKareena Kapoor shares closer look at her home in new video, don't miss the grand poster bedKareena Kapoor shared a new video on Instagram on Thursday. While her video is an ad for an oral hygiene brand, Kareena shot for it at her home in Mumbai, giving fans a look inside the new place. Read moreCoronavirus pandemic turned you into a couch potato? Try these tricks to get fitWorking out can be one of the most excruciating things to get started on especially since the coronavirus pandemic took over the world last year and turned the majority of us into homebodies. Read moreMercedes-Benz S-Class 2021 Launch Edition unveiled in India at ₹2.17 croreMercedes-Benz on Thursday drove in the fully-loaded S-Class 2021 Launch Edition - based on the AMG Line trim - in India at ₹2.17 crore for the diesel and ₹2.19 crore for the petrol model (ex showroom prices). Read moreWatch: South Korea building Ayodhya park with UP govt to honour ancient princess||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ramdev-booked-in-chhattisgarh-for-comments-against-covid-19-medicines-and-all-the-latest-news-101623928587152.html
17-06-2021||India||Goa not opening for tourism until 100% coverage of 1st dose of Covid vaccine: CM||Goa will not open for tourism until the state had administered at least the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to its population, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday. The government has set the deadline of July 31 for the same. Speaking at a public function, the chief minister said, “Over the last three days, we have done the third edition of the Tika Utsav and more than 50,000 people have taken the vaccine. We are targeting a 100% completion of the first dose by July 31. All those above 18 years of age should walk in for vaccine.”He said the state cannot be opened for tourism yet as “we still need to take precautions. The positivity rate has to come down to below 5%...and the vaccination rate needs to go up.” Also Read | Goa Congress chief says central leadership to decide on pre-poll alliancesThe CM, who also met industry stakeholders earlier this week, said that any decision regarding opening up for tourism would be taken after July 31. This puts to rest speculations within the state on the best way to open up for tourism amid the pandemic. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), an industry body, suggested in its memorandum to Sawant, “Entry into Goa (at least) till October, 2021 should be done based on a compulsory RT-PCR test or antibody test or full vaccination certification or be made to undergo rapid testing on payment at the border check post or railway or bus station. There should be no entry without the above measures.” Deputy chief minister and tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar had said that only those who have been vaccinated be allowed to travel to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-not-opening-for-tourism-until-100-coverage-of-1st-dose-of-covid-vaccine-cm-101623929357533.html
17-06-2021||India||Sputnik V: List of cities where the Russian-made vaccine will be available||Sputnik V, the Russian vaccine soft-launched in Hyderabad, will now be available in several other Indian cities, including Mumbai, Bangalore and New Delhi etc., the company said in a press release.The company also said that registration on CoWIN is yet to be made available to the public once the commercial launch commences. The soft launch was done in Hyderabad on May 14 and has been scaled up to include 9 other cities.Dr Reddy partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) earlier this year to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Sputnik V in India. It has also received at least 3 million doses of Sputnik V.The pilot allows the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company to test the cold storage arrangements of -18°C temperature in the cities, CoWIN integration, track and trace and other logistical arrangements before the vaccine is launched commercially.Sputnik V has been accepted by several countries with Argentina claiming that the vaccine has helped save millions of lives. The World Health Organization (WHO) has not yet approved the vaccine for emergency use but Hungary and Slovakia were the latest to give emergency use approval to the vaccine. More than 60 nations have given the vaccine emergency use approval. The makers of the vaccine, the Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology, said the vaccine is one of three vaccines in the world with over 90% efficacy.Here are the cities which are part of Sputnik V’s pilot launch:Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Baddi, Chennai, Miryalaguda and Kolhapur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-list-of-cities-where-the-russian-made-vaccine-will-be-available-101623928634121.html
17-06-2021||India||Coast Guard rescues 16 crew members from sinking ship near Maharashtra’s Revdanda||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Thursday rescued all 16 crew members of a merchant vessel that went aground near Revdanda in Maharashtra’s Raigarh district, in a well-coordinated air-sea operation.ICG used one of its ships and two Chetak helicopters to rescue the crew members of MV Mangalam amidst inclement weather and very rough waters. An ICG official said the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC) received a call on Thursday morning from the second officer of MV Mangalam, informing the centre that the vessel was partially sinking with 16 crew members onboard, around three kilometres from Revdanda Jetty in Raigarh district. The officer also informed MRCC that the crew members were frightened as the water had started entering the vessel. During the conversation, the MRCC team pacified the caller and crew members requesting them not to panic and remain onboard as a Coast Guard ship was being deployed for their help, said the ICG official. Or getting the information, ICG ship Subhadra Kumari Chauhan sailed from Dighi harbour and proceeded towards the sinking vessel. Two Chetak helicopters were also launched from the ICG Air Station at Daman for evacuation of the crew from MV Mangalam.The ICG ship reached the vessel at about 10:15 am and after assessing the situation lowered boats to rescue the crew amid very challenging weather, an ICG release read.ICG helicopters reached the location at about the same time and began winching of the crew. The ICG search and rescue units (SRUs) rescued all the 16 crew members from the merchant vessel.The crew members were later taken to Revdanda Port and provided medical aid, ICG commandant (JG) and spokesperson Avinandan Mitra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coast-guard-rescues-16-crew-members-from-sinking-ship-near-maharashtra-s-revdanda-101623928457746.html
17-06-2021||India||SII plans to start clinical trials of Novavax for children in July: Report||The Serum Institute of India (SII) plans to start clinical trials of the Novavax vaccine against Covid-19 for children in July, news agency ANI reported on Thursday citing people familiar with the matter. SII also hopes to introduce Covavax, which is a version of US firm Novavax's Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in the country by September, ANI also said.Novavax Inc, which has a vaccine manufacturing agreement with SII, said on Monday its Covid-19 vaccine candidate was highly effective with 90.4 per cent efficacy overall and also showed high efficacy against predominantly circulating variants. The vaccine demonstrated 93 per cent efficacy against predominantly circulating variants of concern and variants of interest, Novavax said.Novavax said in a statement that the vaccine candidate, 'NVX-CoV2373', demonstrated 100 per cent protection against moderate and severe disease, 90.4 per cent efficacy overall and met the primary endpoint in its PREVENT-19 pivotal Phase 3 trial.The study enrolled 29,960 participants across 119 sites in the US and Mexico to evaluate efficacy, safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine, it added.On Tuesday, the government said the efficacy data of Novavax vaccine against Covid-19 is promising and encouraging and its clinical trials are in an advanced stage of completion in India. NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul said the data available in the public domain also indicates the vaccine is safe and highly effective."What we are learning from the available data is that this vaccine is very safe and it is highly effective but what makes this vaccine relevant for today is the fact that this vaccine will be produced in India by Serum Institute," he said during a press conference.Paul said there is preparatory work already accomplished by the Serum Institute of India and that they are also conducting a bridging trial which is in advanced stages of completion."I am also hoping that they will also start trials on children which is of special interest to all of us. The pace of vaccination should see a renewed energy from next week onwards when we will realign our efforts, state efforts and effective scale-up at ground level are expected," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-plans-to-start-clinical-trials-of-novavax-for-children-in-july-report-101623926697826.html
17-06-2021||India||Pollution certificates to become uniform for all vehicles across nation||Pollution certificates of all vehicles will be of a common format from now on, the ministry of road transport and highways has said. The common format for all the pollution under control (PUC) certificates has also been notified by the ministry.The PUC form will also have the QR code printed on it, which will have complete details of the PUC centre, vehicle owner name, the status of emission etc.Also read: Delhi govt may move SC or NGT to seek changes in norms for old vehicles"Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has issued a notification dated 14th June, 2021 for a common format of the PUC (Pollution Under Control) Certificate to be issued across the country, under Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989," a statement by the ministry read on Thursday.The new PUC certificate will have the vehicle owner's name, mobile number, address, engine number and chassis number, however, only the last four digits will be visible and other digits will be masked."The owner’s mobile number has been made mandatory, on which an SMS alert will be sent for validation and fee," according to the statement.For the first time, a rejection slip is also being introduced. A common format of rejection slip will be provided to vehicle owners if the test result value is more than the maximum permissible value, as mandated in the emission norms, the ministry said.The slip can be used to get the vehicle serviced if the PUCC centre device is not working when tested at another centre.If the enforcement officer has reason to believe that a vehicle is not complying with the provisions of Emission standards, the officer may communicate in writing or via electronic mode to direct the drive or any person in charge of the vehicle to submit the automobile for test in any authorized Pollution Under Control (PUC) testing stations, the statement read.Also read: Soon, get your driving license from RTO without giving test"If the driver or person in charge of the vehicle fails to submit the vehicle for compliance or the vehicle fails to comply, the owner of the vehicle shall be liable for payment of penalty," the ministry said.In case the owner fails to comply with this, the registering authority will, for reasons to be recorded in writing, suspend any permit granted and the certificate of registration of the vehicle, until the time a valid PUC certificate is generated.Emphasizing on compliance, the ministry said, the enforcement would be IT-enabled and would help in better control over polluting vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-certificates-to-become-uniform-for-all-vehicles-across-nation-101623921045090.html
17-06-2021||India||Ramdev booked in Chhattisgarh for comments against Covid-19 medicines||The Chhattisgarh Police have registered a case against Yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly spreading false information about medicines used to treat Covid-19, Raipur police superintendent Ajay Yadav said.Yadav said a First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged in this regard on the complaint of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Hospital Board (Chhattisgarh) chairman Rakesh Gupta, IMA’s Raipur president Vikas Agrawal, and other doctors. He added it was lodged on Wednesday night under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and under the Disaster Management Act. “Further investigation and legal procedure in the case will follow,” said Yadav.In his complaint, Gupta has accused Ramdev of allegedly propagating false information about the medicines, misleading people about established and approved treatment methods when doctors and other paramedical workers are fighting Covid.Also Read | Ramdev now says he will take Covid-19 vaccine; ‘good doctors God’s messengers’“The Chhattisgarh Police has taken the right step by registering a case against Ramdev, who is flouting all norms and international guidelines by misleading people of this country. Strict action should be taken against Ramdev for this act,” said Gupta.Police officers aware of the matter cited their probe into the complaint and said Ramdev’s statements also amounted to a violation of a Chhattisgarh government notification issued in March last year. “The notification states that no person/institution/organisation will use any print or electronic media for information regarding Covid-19 without prior permission of the state’s Health Department. This is to avoid the spread of any rumour or unauthenticated information regarding Covid-19,” an officer said, requesting anonymity.Ramdev has been in the news for his comments against allopathic medicines and doctors. He later said he was “withdrawing” the controversial remarks hours after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to rescind them. In a letter addressed to Ramdev, Vardhan said the people were extremely hurt by the former’s comments against allopathic medicines and doctors. Ramdev has drawn flak for his statement that about 10,000 doctors died despite vaccination. At least 646 doctors have died of Covid-19 during the second wave of infections and 753 during the first wave, according to IMA. IMA has pointed out no vaccines were available during the first wave and most of those who died during the second wave had not been able to take their shots.Several medical associations joined the black ribbon protest on June 1 against the statements of Ramdev.In his response to a legal notice from the Federation of All India Medical Associations over his comments, Ramdev this month said his comments were taken out of context and blown out of proportion. He maintained he was merely questioning the excessive use of experimental therapy. He added several medical experts have also expressed concerns about the overuse of experimental therapies. Ramdev said many of them were later removed from the treatment protocol. Ramdev said he holds no ill will against any discipline of medicine.HT has contacted Ramdev for his response. The story will be updated when he does.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-booked-in-chhattisgarh-for-comments-against-covid-19-medicines-101623926117208.html
17-06-2021||India||Odisha district makes vaccination compulsory for traders||Sundargarh, an Odisha district, which reported about 40,000 cases of Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic in April and May this year, has announced that owners of businesses and shops of the town who have not been vaccinated may not be allowed to reopen their establishments now.Sundargarh sub-collector Abhimanyu Behera said as per the order issued by Sundargarh district collector and administrator of Sundargarh municipality Nikhil Pawan Kalyan, owners of businesses and shops of the town who have not been vaccinated may not be allowed to open their establishments now.“The first norm of the Covid-19 management protocols is that it is executed for the welfare of the public, so people need to be aware and cooperate with the authorities, be it for enforcement of guidelines or vaccination. The initiative is aimed at motivating people to align with the norms of the government, especially some sections of people who are hesitant about the inoculation drive,” Behera said.Also Read | Odisha’s partial lockdown relaxation to begin from today: Check new guidelines“Shopkeepers who have not received jabs and also not ensured vaccination to their sales executives will not be allowed to open their businesses,” he added.Odisha government on Wednesday announced relaxations in lockdown restrictions in 17 of the 30 districts, including Sundargarh, by allowing traders to open their shops between 6am and 5pm as the positivity rate (ratio of total number of cases for the day to number of samples tested) and Covid-19 caseload had come down in those places.Sundargarh, which in April and May saw a positivity rate of over 40% with an active caseload of 10,000 in May has now reported a positivity rate of 4.5% and 1,682 active cases.Officials said the decision to enforce vaccination was meant to motivate more people to take part in the vaccination drive to defeat Covid-19. Last week, some shopkeepers in Hinjili area of Ganjam district offered a discount of at least 5% to fully vaccinated people upon purchase of groceries. “The district administration suggested we do something for those taking jabs. So we decided to offer a discount,” said Duryodhan Sahu, a trader.The decision on vaccination comes amid vaccine hesitancy prevalent in several districts, including tribal-dominated Rayagada and Nabarangpur. Last week, around 500-odd Kondh tribals of Champakana village in Rayagada’s Kolnara block fled their homes hours before the vaccination team from the Kolnara community health centre arrived there. When the medical team with 100 doses of Covishield arrived at the village in the morning, the villagers fled to the nearby forest after a video claiming that those vaccinated would die within 2-3 years went viral.“There seems to be some vaccine hesitancy among people in the district. We are trying to remove vaccine hesitancy through awareness meetings,” said Rayagada district collector Saroj Mishra.“It’s proving a difficult task to convince the tribals to get the jab before the onset of another wave. But we hope to persuade them,” said Dr Sovarani Mishra, CDMO, Nabarangpur.Gouranga Mohapatra, state convenor of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, an NGO working on rural health, said folk art can be used to convince people in rural areas. “Vaccine hesitancy has always been an issue in villages even before Covid-19 started. Mediums like folk song can be used to dispel fear of vaccine,” said Mohapatra. Nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination in Odisha Bijay Panigrahi said so far 7.45 million people in the state have been given at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine while around 1.8 million have got both doses of vaccine. There are 30.9 million people in Odisha above the age of 18 years who are eligible for vaccination. “The state government plans to raise the daily vaccination to 300,000 so that the entire state can be vaccinated before the onset of a possible third wave. Everything however depends upon vaccine availability,” said Dr Panigrahi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-district-makes-vaccination-compulsory-for-traders-101623925757266.html
17-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir’s Back to Village scheme to fund 50,000 youths this year: L-G||Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has set a target to turn 50,000 youngsters in the union territory into entrepreneurs this year by providing them financial assistance under the Back to Village program. The administration claims to have loaned ₹340 crores to as many as 19,600 youth from across the UT under the first two phases of the programme till now.“Jammu and Kashmir Bank advanced more than ₹340 crores to as many as 19,600 youth from across the UT, against the target of about 8800 youth. These youth were granted financial assistance, making them not only financially independent but also a source of livelihood to other families,” said an official spokesman of the J&K administration.The L-G announced during a high-level meeting of district development committee (DDC) chairpersons, administrative secretaries, and district development commissioners on Wednesday that the idea was to turn unemployed youth into job providers instead of job seekers.“Last year, our target was to pick up two unemployed boys and girls from each panchayat to make them entrepreneurs. The youth of Jammu & Kashmir have immense talent and till date, we have provided this opportunity to more than 19,000 boys and girls. This year our aim should be to reach out to 50,000 youths so that they can become entrepreneurs,” he told the participants.He added that 18,000 posts have been advertised by the Service Selection Board for recruitment in various departments in line with his administration’s promise to provide 25,000 jobs in the public sector.Chairman DDC Srinagar, Aftab Malik said he “hoped” that the promise of empowering 50,000 youngsters through the scheme will be fulfilled.Block development council (BDC) chairman of Narvaw block in Baramulla, Mir Iqbal said that some government programmes started for the youth in rural areas had run into obstacles. “Recently, the government announced to provide D class cards to jobless youths in every block, unfortunately the scheme requires the card holder to have property in his/her name, the project has therefore hit a roadblock.” He claimed that several government schemes were included in the Back to Village program and said it would be better if there was a “separate” scheme for the youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-s-back-to-village-scheme-to-fund-50-000-youths-this-year-lg-101623925157331.html
17-06-2021||India||Kerala High Court grants protection from arrest to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in sedition case||The Kerala High Court on Thursday granted interim protection from arrest for a week to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in the sedition case registered against her over her "bioweapon" remark during a television debate earlier this month.A single-judge bench of Justice Ashok Menon also directed Sultana to cooperate with the investigation and appear before the police in Lakshadweep for interrogation as required under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The court also reserved its judgment in the plea by Aisha Sultana seeking anticipatory bail.The Lakshadweep administration has opposed Aisha Sultana's anticipatory bail application. Aisha Sultana’s bail application is not maintainable as the Lakshadweep-based filmmaker has not given any precise reason for any genuine and bonafide "reason to believe" that she will be arrested, the administration said in a statement filed in the Kerala High Court.Aisha Sultana has defended herself and said she did not attack the country or the Union government. "I was referring to some of the decisions of Patel which infuriated local people. Despite popular sentiment, he continues to antagonise people. As a local resident, I have every right to criticise him,” she said in a Facebook post.Aisha Sultana was seeking pre-arrest bail in the first information report (FIR) registered by Kavaratti Police under Section 124A(sedition) and 153B (acts against national integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the basis of a petition lodged by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Lakshadweep unit president C Abdul Khadar Haji.BJP leader C Abdul Khadar Haji’s police complaint came after Aisha Sultana called the Union territory’s administrator Praful Khoda Patel “a bioweapon deployed by the Centre” against the people of Lakshadweep as she criticised his decisions. She made the comments during a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7.The set of orders passed by Praful Khoda Patel have triggered a controversy and a political storm. The Kerala assembly has passed a resolution seeking the recall of the administrator and over a dozen leaders from Lakshadweep quit the BJP last week protesting against the sedition charges slapped Aisha Sultana.Local residents have been protesting against some of the decisions of the administrator for more than a month now, saying they will destroy the islands’ character and identity. These are three draft regulations that propose to develop the island as a major tourist destination, goonda act and a plan to restrict the slaughtering of cattle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-lakshadweep-s-aisha-sultana-101623924363435.html
17-06-2021||India||Kerala woman stabbed to death by stalker, sister injured||A 21-year-old woman was stabbed to death by a stalker in Kerala’s Malappuram district on Thursday and her younger sister, who was also stabbed, was hospitalised, police said.In what appeared to be a planned assault, 23-year old assailant K Vineesh first distracted the victim’s father by setting his shop on fire in Perinthalmanna before entering her house and attacking the woman, when she was left alone with her 13-years old sister, police said, and added that he also stabbed the younger sister when she tried to rescue the victim.Malappuram police superintendent Sujith Das said quoting local residents that the accused was the victim’s senior in school and used to stalk her. Last year, her father filed a police complaint and he was let off with a warning by the police. Vineesh was also questioned once for alleged use of drugs when in school and the victim’s relatives therefore opposed his acquaintance with her, the police officer said. He is believed to have attacked her since she was spurning his romantic advances.After the incident, the accused boarded an auto-rickshaw but the driver got suspicious after noticing his blood stained dress and took him to the nearest police station instead. Das said Vineesh is in police custody and further investigation in the case is on.The younger sister of the victim is now reported to be out of danger, the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-stabbed-to-death-by-stalker-sister-injured-101623923896773.html
17-06-2021||India||Now, PETA urges govt to not use calf serum in Covaxin production||A day after the government clarified that Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin does not contain calf serum, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India on Thursday wrote to the Drugs Controller General of India urging him to replace newborn calf serum with an animal-free chemical solution, reports said. The government on Wednesday explained that Covaxin does not contain calf serum, but calf serum is used at the very first step of the production.In its letter, PETA said the calves required for this purpose are taken away from their mother shortly after birth which traumatises both the mother and the calf. It also said that there are animal-free alternatives already available.What is the controversy all about?Congress's Gaurav Pandhi has recently shared an RTI reply document on social media which says that newborn calf serum is used for the growth of Vero cells.The government said that claiming that vaccine contains calf serum is twisting and misrepresenting the fact as the final product does not contain any aminal part. It explained that to ensure the growth of Vero cells, calf serum is used as the serum has some properties which boost the growth of Vero cells. These Vero cells, after growth, are washed with water many times to make them free from the calf serum, which is only used as a growth agent.Why calf serum is used in vaccine productionCalf serum's biological properties make it crucial for rapid cell growth as newborn calf have fewer antibody properties.On the allegation of animal crueltyIn his tweet, Gaurav Pandhi claimed newborn calves are slaughtered for obtaining serum, which many on social media contested and said there are many ways to get the serum. Importing is also one of them. Bharat Biotech has not specified how they procure calf serum for their vaccine production, but it has clarified that the use of newborn calf serum is not a secret. The company has been in the vaccine-making business for decades and this is the standard process of producing vaccines.If calves are not killed, why PETA is opposingPETA said the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001, prohibits the slaughter of pregnant animals and animals under three months of age. "Therefore, the use of serum obtained by slaughtering a calf younger than 20 days of age for vaccine production should also not be allowed," it said. But even if they are not killed, they are traumatised for being snatched from their mothers just after their birth, PETA said.It also raised the issue of the risk of contamination in the vaccine, which Bharat Biotech has already addressed and said that Covaxin is pure and there is no trace of calf serum in the finished product.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-peta-urges-govt-to-not-use-calf-serum-in-covaxin-production-101623923373000.html
17-06-2021||India||C’garh to hold public hearings on mining in coal block with 98% forest cover||The Chhattisgarh government will hold public hearings in July in villages around the Kente Extension coal block as part of the process to grant environmental clearance to mining in the forested and biodiversity-rich Hasdeo Arand region, people aware of the matter said. The Centre granted terms of reference (TOR) to the project in January 2020 as one of the first steps for the clearance.Public hearings offer an opportunity to the people to raise objections and make suggestions regarding large infrastructure projects in their areas. They are the third of the four stages in the environmental clearance processes. The other three are screening, scoping, and appraisal. Following the public hearings, the project will be appraised based on its environmental impacts. Later the decision of the Union environment ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee will be communicated to project developers.Opening the block for mining has been contentious because of the large forest land involved. There has also been a state government proposal to convert a part of the area into an elephant reserve. Hasdeo Arand is one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forest in central India spanning 170,000 hectares. It has 22 coal blocks. In 2009, the ministry categorised Hasdeo Arand as a “No-Go” zone for mining because of its rich forest cover. But it was later opened again to mining as the policy was not finalised.Also Read | Chhattisgarh to process, sell millets procured from tribalsThe coal block abuts the Atem river, which merges into the Hasdeo river. Several seasonal streams also flow through the region that includes several protected forest blocks.RP Tiwari, member secretary, Chhattisgarh Environment Conservation Board, said they were only following the directions of the Central government which has asked the state to initiate the process of the public hearing of the mining block. “We are following the TOR of the concerned ministry, and we are bound to do it.”On the state mining department’s letter urging the Central government to exclude the Kente mining block for the proposed Lemru Elephant Reserve, Tiwari said he does not have anything in writing and will not comment.Mohammad Akbar, the Chhattisgarh forest minister, echoed Tiwari. “The directions of public hearing of any coal block comes from central government and we have to follow the instructions.” He said the Environment Conservation Board will conduct the public hearings properly and legally.Last year, Akbar urged Union environment and coal ministers Prakash Javadekar and Pralhad Joshi against auctioning coal blocks in the ecologically sensitive region. Following Akbar’s plea, five blocks from the Hasdeo region were not auctioned. The five are located between Hasdeo Arand and Mand rivers. But some coal blocks in the region were allocated earlier and include Kente Extension.An environment ministry official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The public hearing is part of the environmental clearance process. Its impact on forests will be assessed by the Forest Advisory Committee of the ministry and a view will be taken accordingly.”Alok Shukla, convenor, Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, said Kente Extension is an integral part of the Hasdeo Arand. “It has 98% dense forest cover. The state government should not have opened up this land. Till a few months back there were talks of declaring this area an elephant sanctuary.”Manju Menon, a senior fellow at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said there has been a contest between the Centre and state government over who gets to control the mining in Hasdeo Arand. “Either way, the profits from mining are mostly captured by one or two actors who will be contracted to do the mining on behalf of leaseholders,” Menon said. Menon added new coal mines should not be opened up during this time of serious economic crisis and complete breakdown of governance. “If it is allowed, these mines will have more negative development consequences than we have seen before. And it will only result in the wastage of precious public resources at great environmental and health costs to the people in Hasdeo. Kente is in the core area of Hasdeo forests. This project will be an environmental hate crime.”The mine is owned by Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited while coal mine developer-cum-operator operations have been awarded to Adani Enterprises through competitive bidding.Adani Enterprises did not respond to HT’s queries sent on June 14.The environmental impact is required to be assessed for a project and is based on the scope and details disclosed by the applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-to-hold-public-hearings-on-mining-in-coal-block-with-98-forest-cover-101623919036096.html
17-06-2021||India||Centre launches initiatives aimed at tribal welfare, new headquarters for TRIFED||The ‘Sankalp Se Siddhi’ initiative, also known as 'Mission Van Dhan', was introduced by the central government on Tuesday, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's aim to establish a sustainable livelihood for India's tribal population. The initiative was launched in New Delhi by the Union minister for tribal affairs Arjun Munda. The launch event also witnessed the inauguration of several other programmes, including the new premises of the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Limited (TRIFED) headquarters. Speaking on the occasion, Munda remarked, “I am delighted to inaugurate the new premises of TRIFED and unveil some noteworthy initiatives that TRIFED has been working towards, such as Sankalp Se Siddhi – Mission Van Dhan." The Union minister said that the implementation of this crucial mission will definitely result in the transformation of the tribal ecosystem in the country. "Today is definitely a momentous day for tribal people, as today sees the culmination of such valuable efforts the TRIFED team has put in consistently over the past years. It is commendable that the ministry of tribal affairs and the TRIFED team has achieved this, despite the difficult circumstances of the past two years,” he added.Union minister of state for tribal affairs Renuka Singh, who was also present at the event, said, “It is noteworthy that the new initiatives being unveiled today take care of all aspects of tribal empowerment, be it spreading awareness about the richness of tribal lifestyle and natural produce with the Immunity Boost product hampers and the attractively designed H&G products which are not only sustainable; or preserving the culture through the vivid colourful Coffee Table book.”Bhaskar Khulbe, the advisor to the Prime Minister, also complimented the TRIFED team for their new premises and said, “I am happy that a slew of initiatives, all benefitting the tribal population are being launched today.”The new TRIFED office premises at NSIC Complex in New Delhi's Okhla is around 30,000 square feet in area and has state-of-the-art infrastructure, equipped with two conference rooms for video-conferencing and other latest amenities. It houses office space for the Union minister for tribal affairs, the managing director, senior officials, and all the staff.“Sankalp Se Siddhi – Mission Van Dhan”TRIFED has been implementing several noteworthy programmes for the empowerment of the tribals, according to an official release. Over the past two years, the ‘Mechanism for Marketing of Minor Forest Produce (MFP) through Minimum Support Price (MSP) & Development of Value Chain for MFP’ has impacted the tribal ecosystem in a major way, the release stated. TRIFED has also injected ₹3000 crores into the tribal economy, even during such difficult times, aided by government push. The Van Dhan tribal start-ups, a component of the same scheme, have emerged as a source of employment generation for tribal gatherers and forest dwellers and the home-bound tribal artisans.In less than two years, 37,362 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras (VDVKs), subsumed into 2,240 Van Dhan Vikas Kendra Clusters (VDVKCs) of 300 forest dwellers each, have been sanctioned by TRIFED out of which 1,200 VDVK clusters are operational. Under retail marketing, a total of 134 Tribes India outlets have been opened to date, which has made a total sale of ₹53.66 crore. Besides, two TRIFOOD Projects at Jagdalpur and Raigarh (Maharashtra) are being shortly commissioned for undertaking value-addition of various forest products being procured by beneficiaries of Van Dhan Kendras. As a result of the above, an estimated amount of Rs. 3800 Cr. has so far been injected in the tribal economy and has impacted the lives of 50 lakh tribal population, the release stated. TRIFED now plans to expand its operations through the convergence of various schemes of different ministries and launch various tribal development programs in Mission Mode under “Sankalp Se Siddhi – Mission Van Dhan”. Through this mission, the establishment of 50,000 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras, 3,000 Haat Bazaars, 600 Godowns, 200 Mini TRIFOOD Units, 100 Common Facility Centres, 100 TRIFOOD parks, 100 SFURTI clusters, 200 Tribes India retail stores, e-commerce platforms for TRIFOOD and Tribes India brands is being targeted.The other initiatives launched on Tuesday include the Van Dhan Software Application. Designed to receive and process the Van Dhan proposals online, the software application has GIS integration, can monitor Van Dhan Project implementation activities, and can generate related reports. A Digital Connect programme under which a two-way communication process is proposed to be established was also launched.'Tribes India' outletsUnion minister Munda also inaugurated 7 more Tribes of India outlets, two in Jagdalpur, three in Ranchi, one in Jamshedpur, and one at Sarnath. Showcasing tribal products from all over the country, the outlets will have specific GI and Vandhan corners and will display a large variety of GI-tagged and natural products from different parts of the country. The Sarnath outlet is the first successful collaboration with the Ministry of Culture at an ASI heritage site. With these outlets, the total number of Tribes India outlets has gone up to 141.A Tribes India Coffee Table Book which showcases the rich cultural tribal heritage and highlights the journey of various tribal artisans practicing different arts and crafts and how TRIFED has impacted their livelihoods was also unveiled. With the mission to make Tribes India the ultimate gifting destination, TRIFED has compiled a hamper of Unique handicrafts, GI products, and immunity boosters from different parts of the country.During the pandemic, efforts were made for the skill development of the tribal artisans, and 17 training Programs were approved for benefitting 340 tribal artisans and developing 170 new designed products. Twenty-five newly designed products from the recently completed Design workshop training programs for the Boksa tribal artisans at Rishikesh and Meena tribal artisans at Jaipur were also launched.Pravir Krishna, Managing Director, TRIFED said speaking on the occasion, said, “TRIFED is working consistently on its mission towards making the tribals Atmanirbhar and self-reliant. These are just a glimpse of the activities it has undertaken in this regard. The team is striving in this direction and will continue to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-initiatives-aimed-at-tribal-welfare-new-headquarters-for-trifed-101623914105656.html
17-06-2021||India||Miyazaki: All you need to know about the world's most expensive mango variety||A couple in Madhya Pradesh has deployed security guards and guard dogs to protect a very rare crop in India - the Miyazaki mango grown primarily in Japan. The couple says that they were given the sapling of the plant by a man on a train.The mango is popular for its different appearance and colour than the usual mango varieties which are popular in India and Southeast Asia. The couple in Madhya Pradesh said that the fruit was ruby-coloured. These mangoes are also known as "Egg of the Sun" (Taiyo-no-Tamago in Japanese).These mangoes are grown in Miyazaki city (hence the name) in Japan's Kyushu prefecture. These mangoes are over 350g in weight and have 15% or higher sugar content.Here is everything you need to know about the exquisite variety of mangoes from Japan:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/miyazaki-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-world-s-most-expensive-mango-variety-101623916243616.html
17-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: No penalty for driving with expired licences till Sept 30 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No penalty for driving with expired licences, other documents until Sept 30The Centre has extended until September 30 the validity of driving licenses, vehicle registration certificates, fitness certificates, and all kinds of permits, which expired after February 2020 and could not be renewed because of the restrictions imposed to check the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more'The day I play that knock, everyone will go silent': Nitish Rana recalls Rishabh Pant's words to him during low phaseThe comparison between Rishabh Pant and MS Dhoni has always been a hot topic of discussion. There are some who can't help but draw parallels between Pant and Dhoni due to their similar attacking style of batting. Read moreChunky Panday recalls when he 'badly' burnt Neelam Kothari's leg: 'Whole calf peeled off. It was horrible'Chunky Panday has recalled an incident when he burnt his co-actor Neelam Kothari Soni's leg while shooting for their first film together. Read moreBattlegrounds Mobile India is available for download for pre-registered beta testersThe wait is (almost) over! Battlegrounds Mobile India, or as many like to call it, PUBG Mobile India, is available for downloads for pre-registered beta testers. These lucky pre-registered beta testers can head over to the Google Play Store right now and download the game. Read more2021 Yamaha FZ-X to launch in India on Friday: Price expectationYamaha Motor India will be launching the new FZ-X motorcycle in the market on Friday (June 18). With the launch of this bike, Yamaha will have yet another product in its popular FZ series of bikes. Read moreFather’s Day recipe: Feed dad’s heart and soul with almond pesto paneer tikkaThe third June of every year is marked as Father’s Day to honour all the ways that our fathers go above and beyond with their sacrifices to fulfill our needs and wishes without any complaint. Read moreTwitter’s ‘What more hints do you want’ trend is hilariously relatable“You find yourself thinking about them every now and then, you blush every time they talk to you, you have fantasized about your future together numerous times” – Do you think these situations sound familiar? Read moreWatch: Newborn girl found floating in wooden box in Ganga, police begin probeA newborn girl was found in a wooden box floating in river at Dadrihhat in UP's Ghazipur. The baby was wrapped in a piece of cloth with a chit declaring her as 'daughter of Ganga’. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-no-penalty-for-driving-with-expired-licences-till-sept-30-and-all-the-latest-news-101623914357300.html
17-06-2021||India||States to receive over 5.6 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in next 3 days: Govt||The central government will provide more than 56 lakh vaccine doses to States and Union Territories in the next three days, informed the Health Ministry on Thursday."More than 56,70,350 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next 3 days," the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said.According to MoHFW, as many as 2,18,28,483 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered."More than 27.28 crores (27,28,31,900) vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through Government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category," the ministry said in an official statement."Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 25,10,03,417 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," it said."More than 2.18 crore (2,18,28,483) Covid vaccine doses are still available with the States and UTs to be administered," it added.The Union Health Ministry further informed that 26,55,19,251 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.India started the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16 this year in a phased manner with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1. Phase 3 of the vaccination drive was started on May 1 for the beneficiaries belonging to the age group 18-44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-receive-over-5-6-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-next-3-days-govt-101623912905287.html
17-06-2021||India||Delhi court passes release order for Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Asif Iqbal Tanha||A Delhi court on Thursday finally passed the release orders for Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha after the three students moved the court seeking forthwith release from jail, two days after the trio was granted bail by the Delhi high court in connection with the northeast Delhi riots case. The students urged in their pleas for immediate release from prison, pointing out that more than 36 hours have passed since they were granted bail by the court.A Delhi high court bench comprising Justices Siddharth Mridul and AJ Bhambhani commenced hearing on the pleas on this day and issued directions for the trial court on the release of the three students -- Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, and Asif Iqbal Tanha. Additional Sessions Judge Ravindra Bedi said that she has passed the release order at 11 am as scheduled even when the counsels of all the parties said that they were not aware of the order. A detailed reasoned order is awaited.In its bail order two days ago, the Delhi high court had noted that the allegations raised against the students do not prima facie disclose the commission of any offense under sections of the UAPA. Thereby, additional restrictions on the grant of bail do not apply, the court ruled. The Delhi high court also noted that the line between terrorist activity and the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest is getting "somewhat blurred" in the mind of the State, "in its anxiety to suppress dissent".All three students were arrested in May last year under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the case related to a large conspiracy in the northeast Delhi riots which broke out in February last year.Narwal, who is a student pursuing an MPhil-PhD programme in the Centre of Women's Historical Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, and Devangana Kalita, who is pursuing an MPhil-PhD programme in the Department of Women's Studies at JNU, were taken into police custody on May 29, 2020. Iqbal Tanha, a 25-year-old student, pursuing his final year of BA (Hons) Persian programme at the Jamia Milia Islamia University was arrested in the same UAPA case on May 19 last year which was being probed by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-natasha-narwal-devangana-kalita-asif-iqbal-tanha-move-high-court-seeking-immediate-release-from-jail-101623910805785.html
17-06-2021||India||CBSE presents evaluation criteria for Class 12 before Supreme Court, says results to be out by July 31||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday submitted before the Supreme Court its evaluation criteria for awarding grades or marks for Class 12 examinations. The court had on June 3 given two weeks time to the CBSE to place on record an evaluation formula for Class 12 students.The board told the apex court that results of Class 12 will be decided on the basis of performance in Class 10, Class 11 as well as Class 12, news agency ANI reported. While 30 per cent weightage will be given to students' performance in Class 10 and 11, their class 12 performance will carry a weightage of 40 per cent.For Class 12, marks obtained in unit, term and practical examinations will be taken into account, it further reported.Attorney General KK Venugopal told the court that there may be a moderation committee to look into the difference in marking mechanism adopted by various schools to put all students as far as the awarding of final marks for Class 12 is concerned on a par, ANI reported.He also said that the results will be declared by July 31.The CBSE also said that for Classes 10 and 11, marks in best of 3 from 5 papers in term exams will be considered.The Supreme Court gave prima facie approval to the assessment scheme, but asked the board to incorporate a dispute resolution mechanism for students aggrieved by it. The court will pass final orders on Monday.The Class 12 exams were cancelled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 1 after a high-level meeting. The examinations had to be cancelled due to the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country.The CBSE had on June 4 framed a high-powered committee for setting up well-defined objective criteria for CBSE Class 12 Result 2021. The 13-member panel, set up by the board for the purpose, was supposed to submit its report within 10 days, but asked for an extension of few days.It was also decided in the meeting chaired by the Prime Minister that in case some students desire to take the exams, such an option would be provided to them by the CBSE as and when the situation becomes conducive.The Class 12 exams were scheduled to be conducted in May-June and were postponed in view of the second wave of the pandemic. The CBSE had already cancelled class 10 board exams and announced an alternative marking policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-presents-evaluation-plan-for-class-12-before-sc-says-results-by-july-31-101623910139416.html
17-06-2021||India||Localised Covid-19 curbs dealt ‘body blow to most of country’s workforce’||Localised restrictions due to the second Covid-19 wave and a lack of government response have dealt a body blow to a majority of the country’s workforce, Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), a voluntary group, has said in a report. It said the workers have been left in a lurch with almost no savings.SWAN cited distress calls from over 8,000 people from April 21 to May 31 and said 57% of the callers were left with less than two days of rations. “There was a severe decline in earnings for most workers and a resultant increase in poverty… The proportion of those who are employed… has also dipped,” the report titled “No Country for Workers” said.The report noted the Centre underplayed the worker crisis saying that inter-state travel has not been restricted and also the key industries were open. “…But (the) entire country was practically under lockdown by May 8, 2021, and economic activity had come to a standstill. The only relief measure announced so far is the allocation of 5kg of free grains per individual... Migrant workers have once again been overlooked.”The report said the Centre at least issued guidelines for employers to pay their employees during the lockdown last year. “However, the absence of any mechanisms for enforcement, monitoring or oversight meant that there was hardly any compliance with the order.”SWAN said 66% of the workers its representatives spoke to reported that they did not receive their full wages for the previous month. “Only 8% had received any money from their employer since the work had stopped.”The Centre has said it has set up over 20 migrant helpline numbers across India to address wage, ration and rent-related issues of migrant workers.SWAN said many jobless workers have been left indebted and also face “a hunger crisis”. It cited the Centre’s promise that One Nation, One Ration Card “would enable migrant workers and their family members to access PDS (Public Distribution System) benefits from Fair Price Shops across the country”. SWAN added more than a year since this announcement, it found that 93% of these migrant workers had ration cards but they were not functional in the places where they were stranded.“More than half the workers (who called SWAN) did not have access to ration cards in either their home states or in their current locations. Even if these workers and their families possess a ration card, these are linked to their home addresses. Unless the entire family migrates, the ration card is left at home with family members,” the report said.The report said many migrant workers were reluctant to return home because of a lack of employment opportunities. It added fewer workers have been vaccinated amid the scarcity of vaccines.HT reached out to the chief labour commissioner and the labour secretary for their comments but did not get their responses immediately. The copy will be updated when they respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/localised-covid-19-curbs-dealt-body-blow-to-most-of-country-s-workforce-101623910455295.html
17-06-2021||India||Twitter India head quizzed by Delhi Police on May 31 over 'Congress toolkit': Report||Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari was questioned by the Delhi Police on May 31 in connection with an alleged "Congress toolkit" against the central government, news agency ANI reported on Thursday, citing people familiar with the matter. Although no details of the interrogation were provided, the development comes as the latest in a series of charges that the central government has raised against Twitter India over compliance with information technology laws in the country.Also Read: Twitter loses legal protection, fails to comply with new IT rules: OfficialTwitter had earlier tagged some posts on an alleged Congress "toolkit" against the central government as "manipulated media", to which the Union ministry of electronics and information technology objected. The Delhi Police had earlier sent a notice to Twitter India, seeking an explanation from the microblogging platform to explain the rationale and share all the information on how it described the toolkit as manipulated media. The cops also visited Twitter India offices in Lado Sarai, Delhi, and Gurgaon on May 24 with the notice.The central government has reasoned that since the case is still pending investigation before a law enforcement agency, Twitter has to remove the "manipulated media" tag.Also Read: Twitter loses intermediary status: What does it mean for Twitter and its users?Meanwhile, Twitter has lost its 'intermediary' status in India, meaning the platform can be directly held accountable under Indian law for posts published on the social media network. Since the central government has taken away its 'intermediary' status, Twitter is no more considered just a platform hosting content from various users but will now be held directly responsible as a publisher for the posts on its platform and will be liable for punishment over "unlawful content" under any law, including IT Act, as also the penal laws of the country. It will no longer be protected from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third-party content.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-head-quizzed-by-delhi-police-on-may-31-over-congress-toolkit-report-101623906568546.html
17-06-2021||India||Micro containment zones to be back in Bengal to check Covid-19 spread||West Bengal will again have micro containment zones to keep the spread of Covid-19 in the state under check, said a government official .“The state government has asked the districts, including Kolkata, to prepare a list of containment zones. The focus would be on urban areas from where most cases have been reported,” said the official cited above. Restrictions on public transport, markets and shops have been extended till June 30. Offices are also operating with 25% work force. The official said the containment zones will be announced as soon as the respective districts have identified them.While 18 containment zones have already been marked in Howrah, officials in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas are preparing lists based on active cases over the past few days. There could be around 15 such zones in North 24 Parganas, said an official. Also Read | Charged with defection, turncoat Trinamool lawmaker speaks out against BJP“The Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health officers at the borough level have been asked to prepare a report based on the daily count and the active cases in the city which will decide the containment zones,” said an official of the city’s civic body. “Even though there are restrictions, people still step out, even those who have someone in the family infected with the virus. Such movement could be checked if containment zones are declared,” said a senior official. Officials said that during the first wave, initially an entire area, which had more than five active cases, was declared a containment zone. Later, even individual houses were declared as containment zones. While in May 2020, the city had more than 300 containment zones, the number shot up to more than 1,000 in June 2020. The daily count of cases during the first wave peaked at 4,157 on October 22 in 2020. In the second wave, it peaked at 20,846 on May 14 this year.However, the data shared by the state health department shows that cases have steadily been coming down. The daily count has dropped to 3,187 on Wednesday. Of this, Kolkata and North 24 Parganas reported 377 and 435 fresh cases respectively. East Midnapore district reported 432 cases, while Howrah and South 24 Parganas reported 202 and 192 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/micro-containment-zones-to-be-back-in-bengal-to-check-covid-19-spread-101623907214541.html
17-06-2021||India||'Green fungus' explained. Causes, symptoms, prevention||"Green fungus" infection was reported in a Covid-19 survivor in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, in what doctors have said is possibly the first such reported case in the country. The 34-year-old, who recovered from Covid-19, was shifted to Mumbai's Hinduja Hospital by air ambulance for treatment, reports said on Tuesday.The man was being treated in Indore's Aurobindo Hospital for the last one-and-a-half-month. "He had 90 per cent lung infection. During diagnosis, green fungus was detected in his lungs which is different from Mucormycosis or Black Fungus. This possibly is the first green fungus case in the country," Apoorva Tiwari, district data manager with the health department in Indore, was quoted as saying by ANI."Green fungus" caseDr Ravi Dosi, head of the department of chest diseases at Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS), told PTI that the man underwent a test on suspicion that he had contracted black fungus or mucormycosis. But he was instead found to have "green fungus" or aspergillosis infection in his sinuses, lungs and blood. "The patient recovered. But then he started having nose bleeds and a high fever. He had also become very weak due to weight loss," Dr Dosi said.Dr Dosi also cautioned that more research was needed on whether the nature of "green fungus" infection in people who have recovered from Covid-19 is different from other patients. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria has said people must not categorise fungal infections based on their colour and that should use the medical names of the diseases instead.What causes "green fungus"?Aspergillosis is an infection caused by a common mold, Aspergillus, which lives indoors as well as outdoors. People can get aspergillosis by breathing in microscopic Aspergillus spores from the environment. Most of us breathe in Apergillus spores every day without getting sick but those with weakened immune systems or lung diseases are at a higher risk of developing health issues.According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), allergic reactions, lung infections and infections in other organs are among the types of health problems caused by Apergillus. However, Aspergillosis is not contagious and can’t spread between people or between people and animals from the lungs.Who can get "green fungus" infection?The US health body says different types of aspergillosis affect different groups of people.Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) most often occurs in people who have cystic fibrosis or asthma. Aspergillomas usually affect people who have other lung diseases like tuberculosis. Also called a “fungus ball.” Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis typically occurs in people who have other lung diseases, including tuberculosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or sarcoidosis.Invasive aspergillosis affects people who have weakened immune systems, such as people who have had a stem cell transplant or organ transplant, are getting chemotherapy for cancer, or are taking high doses of corticosteroids. Invasive aspergillosis has been described among hospitalised patients with severe influenza.What are the symptoms of "green fungus"?Different types of aspergillosis can cause different symptoms, says CDC. The symptoms of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) are similar to asthma symptoms, including wheezing, shortness of breath, cough and fever (in rare cases).Among the symptoms of allergic Aspergillus sinusitis are stuffiness, runny nose, headache and reduced ability to smell. Symptoms of an aspergilloma or “fungus ball” include cough, coughing up blood and shortness of breath. Weight loss, cough, coughing up blood, fatigue and shortness of breath are reported in those who get chronic pulmonary aspergillosis.Fever is a common symptom of invasive aspergillosis, which usually occurs in people who are already sick from other medical conditions. It can be difficult to know which symptoms are related to an Apergillus infection. However, the symptoms of invasive aspergillosis in the lungs fever, chest pain, cough, coughing up blood and shortness of breath. CDC says other symptoms can develop if the infection spreads from the lungs to other parts of the body.How can we prevent getting "green fungus" infection?Doctors say rare fungal infections can be prevented by maintaining good hygiene and oral and physical cleanliness. People should try to avoid areas with a lot of dust and stored contaminated water. They should wear an N95 respirator for prevention if they cannot help going to there areas. Avoid activities that involve close contact to soil or dust can also help. People should keep washing their face and hands with soap and water, especially if they have been exposed to soil or dust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-fungus-explained-causes-symptoms-prevention-101623904560013.html
17-06-2021||India||India has administered over 265 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 265 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, June 16. The Centre defended its decision to keep a long gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccine despite new evidence that shows that the second shot needs to be given sooner for better protection from the prevalent Delta variant.Health minister Harsh Vardhan said the decision was taken in a transparent manner based on scientific data.Meanwhile, by Wednesday 7pm, 265,317,472 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 10,087,937 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 7,017,515 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 16,955,109 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,936,126 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Why the second wave may not hurt Narendra Modi politicallyIn the 45-60-year age group, 77,884,703 people have got their first dose and another 12,292,589 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 63,522,368 people have been administered their first dose while 20,446,074 have had their second dose as well.In the 18-45 year age group, 2,067,085 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine and 67,447 got their second dose on Tuesday and cumulatively, 47,206,953 of this age group have had their first dose while 968,098 have got their second dose as well across the country.As many as 3,262,233 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 2,905,658 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 356,575 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.On Thursday, India saw 67,208 fresh cases and 2,330 deaths, according to the health ministry update. With this, the country’s tally stands at 29,700,313, and the death toll was at 381,903.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-265-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101623904274857.html
17-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to hold Covaxin pre-submission meeting with WHO next Wednesday||Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech will hold its pre-submission meeting with the World Health Organization (WHO) next Wednesday, i.e. on June 23 regarding the approval of Covaxin, its India-made Covid-19 vaccine, reported news agency ANI after reviewing a WHO document. The pharmaceutical company has been facing hurdles in getting Covaxin approved in some foreign countries since it lacks Phase-3 trial data, which is essential for a WHO nod to export the vaccine and make it a part of the much-coveted coronavirus "vaccine passport".Also Read: Not sought indemnity from Centre for any Covaxin adverse events: Bharat BiotechBharat Biotech had earlier told ANI that it will make Covaxin's Phase-3 trial data public during July, following which the company will be applying for full licensure of the Covid-19 vaccine in India. It added that Phase-4 trials are also being done to check the "real-world effectiveness" of the vaccines" and to meet scientifically approved standards for safety and efficacy. Currently, the vaccine has been granted authorisation for emergency use by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), India's foremost drug regulator.The United States' top health regulator -- the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) - recently rejected Covaxin's application for emergency use authorisation, citing the lack of data on clinical trials, putting more hurdles on Covaxin's path to gaining foreign approvals at a time when vaccine access continues to be scrutinized in strictly regulated markets. t a time when authorisation from top health regulators at the US, the European Union, or the WHO is needed for a vaccine to cross borders, the India-made Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin remains unrecognised, as some foreign countries are even considering Indian students vaccinated with Covaxin as "unvaccinated".Also Read: Why was Bharat Biotech's Covaxin not approved in US? All you need to knowThe company has so far invested at least ₹500 crore at risk from its own resources for product development, clinical trials, and setting up manufacturing facilities for Covaxin. At least 40 million doses of Covaxin have been supplied in India to date, as per the company, and product development activities towards the development of vaccines against newer variants are also underway at their facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-to-hold-covaxin-pre-submission-meeting-with-who-next-wednesday-101623901277892.html
17-06-2021||India||Choksi managers hid fraud-related papers in houses rented in names of staff: CBI||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi’s managers rented apartments in Mumbai in the names of some of their employees to hide the original documents related to the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, according to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)’s supplementary charge sheet against 22 accused in the case.Choksi, 62, faces charges of getting 165 Letters of Undertaking (LOUs) and 58 FLCs (Foreign Letters of Credit) fraudulently issued in 2017 in connivance with officials of the state-run bank. The fraud led to a loss of ₹6,097 crore ($952 million) to the state-run bank, the CBI said.A special court on Tuesday took cognisance of the charge sheet and issued a fresh non-bailable warrant against Choksi. In the fresh charge sheet, the CBI said the documents were shifted from time to time from rented places on the instructions of Vipul Chitalia, the then vice-president of Choksi’s Gitanjali Group.“Gokulnath Raghu Shetty, Dy. Manager, PNB, had after issuance of above 165 fraudulent LOUs (letters of undertaking issued by Brady House branch of PNB in favour of Gitanjali group companies) in March /Apri| 2017, and fraudulent amendments made in 58 FLCs (foreign letters of credit) of 2017, returned all the original applications along with other accompanying documents submitted by M/s.Gitanjali Gems Ltd, M/s.Gili lndia Ltd and M/s. Nakshatra Brands Ltd back to them, which should have been in the custody of the bank,” said the charge-sheet.It added later the documents were again shifted on February 5, 2018 to a shop in Bhimrao Wadi, which was also rented at the instance of Chitalia “with the intention to cause the disappearance of evidence.” The CBI recovered the documents during the searches it conducted during the investigation into the case.The CBI said Chitalia maintained records of fraudulent LOUs and FLCs in Google Drive at Choksi’s behest. The drive was recovered when Chitalia was in its custody.The charge sheet said Choksi knew about the impending criminal proceedings and hence fled the country on January 4, 2018, with a “dishonest intent, to evade the process of law”. It added that a month before he fled the country in January 2018, Choksi instructed all the directors of the group’s Hong Kong firms to shift to Thailand.The charge sheet said in February 2018, after the fraud came to light, Choksi got all the dummy directors, partners, and authorised signatories shifted to Bangkok.Choksi acquired citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda after fleeing India in January 2018. He has challenged in court the island nation’s move to revoke his citizenship. He went missing from Antigua on May 23 and was later found in Dominica where he faces charges of illegal entry. His family and lawyers have alleged he was abducted and are trying to prevent his deportation to India to stand trial.India has told a Dominican court that Choksi was still an Indian citizen since his request to renounce his Indian citizenship was not accepted.Choksi’s lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, has said this supplementary charge sheet shows it is only an attempt to cover up anomalies that the defence pointed out in the first charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-managers-hid-fraud-related-papers-in-houses-rented-in-names-of-staff-cbi-101623903734436.html
17-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin to meet PM Modi in Delhi today, discussions likely on NEET, Covid vaccines||Tamil Nadu chief minister and DMK president MK Stalin will be in Delhi today on a two-day visit. He will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his stay in the national capital.This is Stalin's first visit to New Delhi after taking oath as Tamil Nadu chief minister last month.Though the chief minister's office has not released any official agenda of Stalin's visit, the discussions are likely to take place on the issues raised by Stalin in his communications to the Prime Minister in the last few weeks.In a letter to PM Modi on Monday, the DMK president sought immediate directions to the ministry of petroleum and natural gas to cancel the bid process for extraction of hydrocarbon in Vadatheru Block of the Cauvery Basin in Pudukkottai district.In the letter, the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister urged the Prime Minister to instruct the Ministry to consult the State government "ab initio" before bringing any area in Tamil Nadu for any auctions in the future for hydrocarbon exploration and extraction.Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian had said on Sunday that the chief minister will request the Centre for more Covid vaccines for the state. "Death numbers are expected to decrease in coming days. Vaccination is the only solution to get rid of corona infection so people should come forward to get Vaccination," the minister had said.Earlier this month, Stalin tweeted to say that he has written to PM Modi urging him to cancel the conduct of NEET and all other national level entrance exams, keeping in mind the safety of the students during Covid-19. Sharing his letter on Twitter, Stalin said the reasons for cancelling the Class 12 board exams are equally applicable to entrance exams as well.I've written to @PMOIndia urging him to cancel the conduct of NEET and all other national level entrance exams, keeping in mind the safety of the students, as the reasons for cancelling the class XII board exams are equally applicable to entrance exams as well. pic.twitter.com/It2ngW55r2Stalin also sent letter to PM Modi on GST dues for Tamil Nadu and allocation for various development schemes for the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-to-meet-pm-modi-today-discussions-likely-on-neet-covid-vaccines-101623903251808.html
17-06-2021||India||Aisha Sultana case: Lakshadweep administration against anticipatory bail||The Lakshadweep administration has opposed the anticipatory bail application filed by Aisha Sultana in the Kerala High Court in connection with the first information report or FIR against her in a case of sedition. The administration said Aisha Sultana’s bail application is not maintainable as the Lakshadweep based filmmaker has not pointed out any precise reason for any genuine and bonafide "reason to believe" that she will be arrested. The Kerala High Court will on Thursday hear the anticipatory bail plea filed by Aisha Sultana.Aisha Sultana is seeking pre-arrest bail in the FIR registered by Kavaratti Police under Section 124A(sedition) and 153B (acts against national integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the basis of a petition lodged by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Lakshadweep unit president C Abdul Khadar Haji.She has been asked to appear before the police on June 20. Sultana has said in her plea that there is a possibility of her arrest, if she reaches Kavaratti. C Abdul Khadar Haji’s police complaint came after Aisha Sultana called the Union territory’s administrator Praful Khoda Patel “a bioweapon deployed by the Centre” against the people of Lakshadweep as she criticised his decisions. She made the comments during a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7.Aisha Sultana later issued a statement on Facebook, defending herself. “I had used the word bio-weapon in one of the TV debates. I did not attack the country or the Union government. I was referring to some of the decisions of Patel which infuriated local people. Despite popular sentiment, he continues to antagonise people. As a local resident, I have every right to criticise him,” she said.Also read | The frayed federal compactIn its statement, the Lakshadweep administration said the police examined the statements made by her during the debate available on YouTube and found that the offences under section 124 A and 153 B of the IPC are prima facie attracted. The statement was filed following the court’s directive. "She clarified, despite being cautioned by the anchor, that she stands by what she asserted and also stated that she is ready to face any actions for making such a statement," it said, according to news agency ANI. Also read | Lakshadweep cannot be Maldives. Respect its uniqueness"It is most humbly submitted that the baseless assertion by the petitioner (Sulthana) in this regard is sufficient to arouse hatred or contempt among the people of Lakshadweep towards the Government of India," it all said. The administration said Sultana’s statement has a tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resorting to violence and noted that it can be prima facie considered as an attempt to excite disaffection among the people towards the Centre. “It also prima facie amounts to an assertion prejudicial to national integration," it said. The set of orders passed by Praful Khoda Patel, which locals and critics have said will destroy the unique culture and tradition of the 36-island archipelago, have triggered a controversy and a political storm. Over a dozen leaders from Lakshadweep quit the BJP last week protesting against the sedition charges slapped Aisha Sultana. The Kerala assembly has passed a resolution seeking the recall of the administrator.Lakshadweep residents have been protesting against some of the decisions of the administrator for more than a month now. They are up in arms against three draft regulations that propose to develop the island as a major tourist destination, goonda act and a plan to restrict the slaughtering of cattle. They also allege these regulations will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by forests and 95% of its Muslim population belong to the protected scheduled tribe category.As Praful Khoda Patel arrived in the archipelago on Monday, residents of Lakshadweep observed a black day to protest against his week-long visit. On his part, Patel said that the troubles in the island were incited by a section of people from Kerala, who have vested interests and that the island had failed to develop in the last seven decades unlike the rest of the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aisha-sultana-case-lakshadweep-administration-against-anticipatory-bail-101623899481279.html
17-06-2021||India||Conditions unfavourable for monsoon’s progress to parts of N-W India||Large-scale atmospheric conditions are not favourable for monsoon to advance further into Rajasthan, remaining parts of Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi for now, India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday.However, monsoon could slowly progress into some more parts of Uttar Pradesh during the next five days in association with an existing cyclonic circulation over east Uttar Pradesh.The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar now.Also Read | Mumbai likely to see isolated heavy showers from June 17 to 19: IMDA western disturbance is affecting the western Himalayan region, which has weakened the monsoon’s progress over northwest India. There are cyclonic circulations, over east Uttar Pradesh; over Punjab and adjoining areas of northwest Rajasthan and Haryana, over south Assam and Gangetic West Bengal, adjoining Bangladesh. The trough (area of low pressure) at mean sea level is running from south Punjab to south Assam across south Haryana, north Uttar Pradesh, central Bihar and north Gangetic West Bengal.Under the influence of these systems, widespread rain with thunderstorm and lightning is likely over most parts of east, central and northeast India during the next 4-5 days. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning over most parts of northwest India during the next two days and decrease in rainfall activity thereafter except over east Uttar Pradesh where fairly widespread rainfall is likely to continue during next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over East Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning and strong gusty winds are very likely over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand till June 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-unfavourable-for-monsoon-s-progress-to-parts-of-n-w-india-101623901154288.html
17-06-2021||India||India reports 67,208 new Covid-19 cases, 2,330 deaths||India registered 67,208 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, along with 2330 Covid-19 related deaths, according to Union health ministry update on Thursday. With this, the nationwide tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 29,700,313, and the death toll reached 381,903.This is the tenth consecutive day that the daily cases remained below the 100,000-mark. On Wednesday, 62,224 people had tested positive for the viral disease.As many as 103,570 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours which took the total recoveries in the country to 28,491,670, the health ministry update at 8am showed. The active cases, meanwhile, declined to 826,740 and now constitute 2.92% of the caseload.A total of 38,52,38,220 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease till now of which 19,31,249 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday.As the number of daily infections has declined over the last few days, state governments have announced more relaxations in lockdown or lockdown-like restrictions which were imposed to control the spread of the coronavirus disease.Due to this declining trend in Covid-19 cases, several states including Delhi, have begun their unlocking process with a view to revive their economies. However, experts have warned that resuming business activities in a hurry would compromise vaccination efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-67-208-new-covid-19-cases-2-330-deaths-101623893329567.html
17-06-2021||India||News updates from HT at 9am: Nagaland hit by drought-like situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nagaland hit by drought-like situation, govt worriedNagaland is witnessing a drought-like situation due to delayed monsoon affecting nearly 70% of population in rural areas that are dependent on agriculture and allied activities, said the government. Read moreKerala HC to hear plea of filmmaker Aisha Sultana facing sedition chargeThe Kerala high court will on Thursday hear an anticipatory bail plea filed by filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who has been booked for sedition for her comments against the Praful Khoda Patel, the administrator of union territory of Lakshdweep. Read more'Jadeja shouldn't be left out at any cost': Gaekwad calls star all-rounder a 'triple-plus' for India at WTC finalA little less than three years ago, Ravindra Jadeja experienced a career renaissance. In-and-out of the team, the all-rounder was mostly picked in India's Test XI for matches played at home and would be left out whenever the team would play overseas. This continued for about a year and a half, that is, before Jadeja 2.0 emerged to the fore. Read moreWATCH: Kareena Kapoor gets Times Square Billboard, Priyanka Chopra is awestruckKareena Kapoor Khan is like an unstoppable force, the stunning mother of two may be in the midst of a storm on Twitter, but the Veere Di Wedding actor seemed to have no cares to give to such negative news. Read moreWelcome to Mystic Mountains: Nasa’s Hubble Telescope explores nebula located 7,500 light years away. WatchIf you love seeing the posts exploring and showcasing various celestial objects, this post by Nasa will speak to your soul. Shared on Twitter, the post containing a video features the Carina Nebula captured by the Hubble Telescope. Read more‘Consequences would be devastating’: Joe Biden warns Vladimir Putin on NavalnyUnited States President Joe Biden said that there is no agenda against Russia but for the people of America shortly after he wrapped up the key summit with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in Geneva. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-at-9am-nagaland-hit-by-drought-like-situation-and-all-the-latest-news-101623894623477.html
17-06-2021||India||Nagaland hit by drought-like situation, govt worried||Nagaland is witnessing a drought-like situation due to delayed monsoon affecting nearly 70% of population in rural areas that are dependent on agriculture and allied activities, said the government.State agriculture minister G Kaito Aye said the state was facing a “peculiar” year as farmers could be facing a drought if the situation created by climate change and delayed monsoon persisted. Approximately 915 villages are affected by deficient rains and around 68,662 hectares of jhum fields in the identified villages along with 525 hectares of horticultural crops were affected as per official data.“Terraced rice cultivation (upland) and wet terraced rice cultivation have also been affected due to deficient monsoon rains in all the districts causing delay in land preparation and sowing. If the same trend continues till July, then the farmers may fail to undertake cultivation activities,” agriculture production commissioner Y Kikheto Sema said. The commissioner highlighted that rice production in the state, which was 551,000 metric tonnes for the year 2020-21 is now anticipated to reduce by 70% to 166,000 metric tonnes in the current year, if the present dry spell continues. He said shortage of rainfall had also affected commercial crops like large cardamom, fruits and vegetables and livestock such as fisheries, piggery etc. The situation was further aggravated due to infestation by fall army worm (FAW) in March last, affecting 3048.45 hectares of maize crop covering 334 villages.“Despite intervention by the departments, the FAW infestation could not be completely neutralized,” he added.The administration distributed seeds and planting materials for re-sowing in the affected jhum fields, however, it failed to achieve the desired result due to deficient rain. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio convened a meeting of agriculture and horticulture departments to take stock of the situation on June 15. As per officials, the state would require assistance from the Centre to mitigate the effects of deficient rains in the state.Meanwhile, the government is trying to ensure that crop loss is minimised and is pushing for climate resilient agriculture. They will be distributing seeds such as potato, oilseeds, vegetables for early rabi season from September to compensate the farmers for the anticipated loss. A board headed by the Agriculture Production Commissioner (APC) has been formed to monitor and review the ground situation as per the reports received from the field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-hit-by-drought-like-situation-govt-worried-101623896833872.html
17-06-2021||India||As battle for LJP control rages, Chirag Paswan appoints new Bihar unit chief||In a fresh twist in the ongoing feud between the two factions of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), sidelined leader Chirag Paswan appointed Raju Tiwari as the party's Bihar unit president. Tiwari is considered close to Paswan and will replace Prince Raj, one of the five LJP MPs who rebelled against Paswan.Prince Raj was appointed as the LJP chief in Bihar in October 2019 in place of senior party leader and Paswan's uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras.Watch: 'Only death or resignation...', says Chirag Paswan on LJP splitThe crisis began late on Sunday, when the five LJP Lok Sabha members rebelled and chose Paras as their new leader. The lawmakers met Speaker Om Birla on Sunday night and again on Monday, when the Lok Sabha secretariat issued a notification recognising Paras as the parliamentary party chief.On Wednesday, Paswan hit back. In his first remarks since the crisis began, Paswan accused Janata Dal (United) of breaking his party while adding that he is the "son of a lion" and will continue to fight.The 38-year-old leader said that he had looked up to his uncle after the passing away of his father Ram Vilas Paswan. "Today I have become an orphan after my uncle left me, not when my father passed away," Chirag Paswan said.Earlier on Wednesday, Paswan wrote to the Lok Sabha Speaker stating that the decision of announcing Paras as leader of LJP in the Lower House was contrary to the provisions of the party's constitution.He also requested Birla to issue a new circular in his favour as leader of LJP in the House.Paswan targeted Paras for non-cooperation and said he was ready for a legal fight to establish control over the party.Meanwhile, Paras took a dig at his nephew, saying he did not agree to contest last year's Bihar assembly polls as part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and it was a reason for the party's present problems.Paras also accused Paswan of violating the party’s constitution by holding three posts - that of national president, chairman of parliamentary board and parliamentary party chief.LJP was formed by former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000. Paswan, a heavyweight leader in Bihar politics, passed away in October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-feud-latest-updates-chirag-paswan-appoints-new-chief-for-bihar-unit-101623894982681.html
17-06-2021||India||SUV gets stuck in gushing stream as Bihar faces flood-like situation||A video of a driver escaping from a Mahindra Bolero - an SUV - to save his life when the vehicle got stuck in a gushing stream in Bihar is going viral on the social media. The video shows the car fully submerged in the Gandak river; the water level of the rive has risen suddenly due to unprecedented rainfall in the catchment area of neighbouring Nepal.According to local reports, the villagers had asked the driver not to cross the river at a time when water level was high, but he did not listen to them. As the flow of water carries away the vehicle, the driver cries for help, according to the video. The locals then pull him out with the help of a rope.Though the unprecedented rain has not led to any casualty or displacement of people on a big scale, West Champaran district, situated at the state's north-western tip, was the worst hit. The Collectorate building in Bettiah town and a camp of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) elsewhere in the district were inundated."Many parts of north Bihar and, more importantly, catchment areas of Nepal have received up to 250 mm of rainfall in the last 48 hours. This is unprecedented for this part of the year", Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said, according to news agency PTI."We fear heavy rainfall in catchment areas of Nepal more than downpour in the state. The reason being heavy rainfall there causes discharge of massive quantity of water from the barrage. We take relief in weather reports that rainfall in Nepal is showing a receding trend", the minister added.He, however, asserted that preparedness had been reviewed by chief minister Nitish Kumar himself and "all our embankments are secure".The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts that most parts of Bihar would receive medium to heavy rainfall over the next 24 hours. It also sounded an alert over the "vulnerability to lightning strikes" at ponds, orchards and water-logged areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suv-gets-stuck-in-gushing-stream-as-bihar-faces-flood-like-situation-101623891080798.html
17-06-2021||India||PM Modi praises woman for isolating 6-yr-old child to protect him from Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has hailed a mother of a six-year-old boy for her courage and positive thinking as she isolated herself from her son after contracting Covid-19.Pooja Verma, who lives in Sector-6 of Ghaziabad, tested positive for the coronavirus along with her husband, Gagan Kaushik. Verma, her husband and their six-year-old son live in a three-bedroom apartment and after contracting Covid-19 in April, the couple made a tough decision and decided that all three would be isolated in separate rooms.This was not easy for the six-year old who longed for his parent’s love while unable to understand what the coronavirus was or what Covid-related norms meant and what was the need for this isolation, Verma said.He kept on wondering what wrong had he done that he had to stay in a room separate from his parents, she said.In a letter to the prime minister, she narrated her ordeal as a mother who had to stay away from her child, through a poem she had penned.The prime minister wrote back to her and while asking about the wellbeing of her family, said, “I am happy that even in difficult circumstances, you and your family have fought this disease by adopting Covid-compliant behaviour with courage.”He said the ‘shastras’ have also taught us not to lose patience and to maintain courage in times of adversity.Lauding the woman’s poem, the prime minister said it expressed the worry and anxiety of a mother when she is away from her child.Prime Minister Modi expressed confidence that with her courage and positive thinking, Verma will continue to move forward and successfully face any challenge that comes in life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-praises-woman-for-isolating-6-yr-old-child-to-protect-him-from-covid19-101623890564621.html
17-06-2021||India||Kerala HC to hear plea of filmmaker Aisha Sultana facing sedition charge||The Kerala high court will on Thursday hear an anticipatory bail plea filed by filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who has been booked for sedition for her comments against the Praful Khoda Patel, the administrator of union territory of Lakshdweep. Appearing in a television debate, Sultana allegedly called Patel a “bio-weapon” launched by the Centre.The case was registered against her on June 10 based on a complaint by BJP's Lakshadweep unit president C Abdul Khader Haji. She was booked under Sections 121 A (sedition) and 153 (B) (assertions against national integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and she was asked to appear before the police on June 20. Sultana is currently settled in Kochi."I made the 'bio-weapon' remark in the context of criticizing the administration relaxing the Covid-19 protocol, which led to a sharp increase of pandemic cases in the island, where there had been not even a single Covid case till January 2021. Lakshadweep is seeing an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases due to the relaxations in the quarantine protocol, and it is in this context that the alleged remarks were made," Sultana has said in her petition.The plea further said that the criticism on political issues does not constitute the offence of sedition under Section 124A Indian Penal Code (IPC)."The applicant had only intended to say that it was due to the apathetic approach and reforms of the new administrator that serious threat is being caused to the lives of the people of the island and had absolutely no intention of exciting disaffection towards the government," according to her plea.Haji, meanwhile, said in complaint that Sultana generated hatred and opposition to the Union government by falsely and with ulterior motives.Many local BJP leaders protested against the slapping of sedition charge against Sultana. Over a dozen of them quit the party in protest.However, the BJP downplayed the resignations, claiming that the party is intact in the island.Over the last few days, there has been an uproar against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel over the new reforms introduced by him, which many allege are against the interest of the islanders.People are protesting against the draft legislations like Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-to-hear-plea-of-filmmaker-aisha-sultana-facing-sedition-charge-101623888799231.html
17-06-2021||India||DRDO's anti-Covid drug 2-DG effective against all Covid-19 strains, reduces cell death: Study||A new study has claimed that 2-DG, the drug against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), is effective against all variants of Covid-19 and even reduces the multiplicity of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The preliminary study also showed that DRDO's anti-Covid drug alleviates cells from infection-induced cytopathic effect (CPE) and cell death, according to its abstract reviewed by news agency ANI.Also Read: Govt rolls out DRDO-formed Covid drug, experts call for more researchDRDO's Covid-19 drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), was released amid much tucket by Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Dr. Harsh Vardhan on May 17. While releasing the first batch of DRDO's anti-Covid drug, the central government claimed that the drug has the potential to reduce a patient's average recovery time by two and a half days and oxygen demand by up to 40%. It was provided authorisation for emergency use by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on June 1 as an adjunct therapy for moderate to severe coronavirus patients.The new study assessing the viability of DRDO's anti-Covid drug was conducted by Abhishek Kumar, Dhiviya Vedagiri, Annat Narayan Bhatt, Yogesh Rai, and others. It has not been peer-reviewed yet, ANI noted.Also Read: DRDO issues directions for use of 2-DG, its drug for Covid-19 patientsDRDO's anti-Covid drug 2-DG was used in the study to aim and inhibit the "metabolic reprogramming" induced by Covid-19 infection in patients suffering from the disease. The results showed that the Covid-19 infection causes a high influx of glucose in the body and glycolysis in the cells, resulting in selective high accumulation of the fluorescent glucose/2-DG analogue and 2-NBDG. The anti-Covid drug from DRDO, 2-DG, subsequently reduces the virus multiplication and alleviates the cells from infection-induced cytopathic effect and cell death, the study found.Government officials have said that DRDO's anti-Covid drug will be priced at ₹900 per sachet in the market, sold by the Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy's Laboratories (DRL), although it will provide the drug at discounted prices to the central and state governments.Medical practitioners, however, suggest exercising some caution regarding the use of DRDO's anti-Covid drug 2-DG. The effect of the anti-viral drug on patients with comorbidities such as uncontrolled diabetes, severe cardiac problems, and even renal impairment, ARDS, etc. has not been studied yet. Moreover, the DRDO advises that the 2-DG be prescribed as early into the treatment cycle of moderate to severe Covid-19 patients as possible, for a maximum duration of up to 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdos-anti-covid-drug-2-dg-effective-against-all-covid-19-strains-reduces-cell-death-study-101623886946415.html
17-06-2021||India||Ajanta and Ellora Caves to reopen for tourists from today||With the improvement in the Covid-19 situation, world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora caves along with three other historical monuments in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district will reopen for tourists from Thursday after remaining shut for more than three months. The order to open these historic places was issued by Aurangabad district Disaster and Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday. They were shut more than three months ago due to surge in Covid-19 cases.However, the district administration has capped the number of tourists visiting each of these five monuments, including Bibi-Ka-Maqbara, Aurangabad Caves and Daulatabad Fort, to 2,000 in two sessions per day in the morning and afternoon.Booking of tickets is allowed through online more only and tourists are expected to follow the Covid-19 pandemic guidelines.Given a steady decline in the number of coronavirus positive cases, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had announced the reopening of all centrally protected monuments, sites and museums from Wednesday."Following the orders of the ASI, Aurangabad district Disaster and Management Authority (DDMA) chief and district collector Sunil Chavan has given a green signal to reopen the tourist spots in Aurangabad from June 17 as the cases dipped," news agency PTI quoted an official as saying.However, temples and other religious places under the jurisdiction of the ASI will continue to remain shut in the district. The official said that the Covid-19 case positivity rate in Aurangabad city has come down to 0.45%, whereas the same is 4.27% in rural areas of the district."We reviewed the tourist footfall at the above five monuments and also the case positivity rate. These monuments will reopen for tourists from June 17. Booking of the ticket shall remain online. Guides and others working near these monuments will have to undergo RT-PCR tests in the coming days. However, this test is not mandatory for those who are fully vaccinated," the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajanta-and-ellora-caves-to-reopen-for-tourists-from-today-101623887911059.html
17-06-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown restrictions in Kerala to be eased from today||The people in Kerala will get to see more relaxations from Thursday in the curbs placed across the state to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to state government, the uniform Covid-19 lockdown strategy in Kerala will be replaced with region-specific restrictions from today. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that strict restrictions will continue in the state during the weekend.Vijayan also said that the relaxations will be allowed on the basis of the test positivity rate under local self-government bodies."Relaxation in lockdown will be allowed on basis of test positivity rate under local self-government bodies. Local bodies with below 8% test positivity rate (TPR) to function normally with restrictions, the opening of shops will also be allowed," he added.The chief minister further said that local bodies with 8-20% TPR will be under a partial lockdown and those with 20-30% TPR will be under a full lockdown. A triple lockdown will be imposed in areas which have a TPR higher than 30%.Kerala on Wednesday reported 13,270 new Covid-19 cases and 147 related deaths, taking the total infected so far to 27,61,474 and the fatalities to 11,655 respectively.Check out the latest guidelines here:1. All essential shops will be allowed to operate daily from 7am to 7pm. All shops with 50% staff, can operate from 7am to 7pm in areas with TPR of up to 8%.2. Central and state government offices, Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), government companies, corporations, commissions and autonomous institutions can function with 25% staff on a rotational basis. The secretariat can function with 50% staff on a rotational basis, whereas private companies can operate with 50% employees.3. Akshaya Kendras are allowed to open from Monday to Friday. Banks can only operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.5. Public transport will be allowed on a limited basis.6. The number of people attending marriages and funerals will continue to be limited to 20.7. All kinds of social gatherings, public events are banned.8. Restaurants are only allowed to do home deliveries and takeaways.9. Tourism, recreation and indoor activities in crowded areas, including malls are not allowed.10. Activities in the industrial and agricultural sector will be allowed in all local bodies and transportation will be provided to workers in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-restrictions-in-kerala-to-be-eased-from-today-101623887546008.html
17-06-2021||India||Odisha’s partial lockdown relaxation to begin from today: Check new guidelines||Odisha will begin relaxing its Covid-19 lockdown restrictions partially from Thursday. The government has divided the state into two categories depending on the Covid-19 positivity rate for the unlocking.State chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra on Wednesday said that from June 17 morning, 17 districts in western and southern Odisha where total positivity rate and active caseload is low, the lockdown-like restrictions would be relaxed between 6am and 5pm. In rest of the 13 districts including capital city of Bhubaneswar, the relaxation would be between 6am and 1pm."The Covid-19 infection rate has drastically declined and the test positivity rate (TPR) has come down to 6% this week. I thank the people of Odisha for abiding by the lockdown measures strictly. The peak period in the state is already over and I hope if people continue to coordinate with the government, the situation can be completely brought under control in few days," said Mohapatra.The 17 districts where Covid-19 lockdown would be lifted between 6am and 5pm are Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh, Deogarh, Bolangir, Sonepur, Rayagada and Boudh.The rest 13 districts where lockdown would be lifted between 6am and 1pm are Khurda, Cuttack, Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Puri, Dhenkanal, Angul, Keonjhar and Nayagarh.The Covid-19 lockdown was initially imposed in the state from May 5 to May 17. It was first extended to June 1 and subsequently to June 17 following the rise in the infection in the state. However, curbs like night curfew will continue in the entire state till July 1, as announced by Mohapatra on Wednesday.Odisha on Wednesday reported 3,535 new Covid-19 cases and test positivity rate of just over 6%, a sharp decline of 24% test positivity rate in mid-May.Check the latest guidelines here:1. The Odisha government has decided to open sweet shops in the partial unlock period keeping in view the livelihood of milk producers.2. Cycle (sale) and automobile repair shops will be allowed to open. All essential shops including sweet shops and roadside eateries would be allowed to open between 6am and 5pm. However, these eateries can only sell through parcel.3. Morning walk, cycling and jogging activities are allowed till 9am but parks and gyms will remain closed.4. All the restrictions regarding marriage, cremation, meetings, social gatherings, opening of temples will continue as before, as per the partial unlocking measures.5. All essential services, transport of goods, industrial activities and construction activities will be allowed but public bus services have been restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-partial-lockdown-relaxation-to-begin-from-today-check-new-guidelines-101623887272706.html
17-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: PM Modi condoles demise of former president of Zambia Kenneth David Kaunda||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Mehul Choksi remanded to prison in Dominica, but to remain in hospital, says his lawyerA magistrate court in Dominica on Thursday sent fugitive Mehul Choksi to a state prison, said his lawyer in India, adding that he would continue to remain in hospital as his health condition "deteriorated".PM condoles demise of former president of Zambia Kenneth David KaundaSaddened to hear of the demise of Dr. Kenneth David Kaunda, a respected world leader and statesman. My deepest condolences to his family and the people of Zambia.Karnataka govt postpones local body elections amid Covid-19Karnataka government on Thursday announced postponement of local body elections in view of Covid-19.Tamil Nadu CM to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi tomorrowTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin will be meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Friday, reported ANI.Mamata Banerjee moves Calcutta HC challenging Suvendu Adhikari’s win from Nandigram, matter to be heard tomorrowWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has moved Calcutta High Court, challenging Assembly election result in Nandigram where BJP's Suvendu Adhikari emerged victorious. The matter is scheduled to be heard tomorrow, reported ANI.SC to hear Asaram Bapu case for temporary suspension of sentence tomorrowSupreme Court will hear the petition filed by self-styled godman Asaram Bapu on Friday. The petition seeks temporary suspension of his sentence to pursue medical treatment at an Ayuveda centre in Uttarakhand.'Prepared for a long battle': Chirag Paswan says he will approach Supreme Court if neededLok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan said that he would approach the Supreme Court if needed, amidst the ongoing crisis in party. "The party was formed by my father and I can't see it breaking like this. I will approach Supreme Court, if needed. I am prepared for a long battle. I the son of a lion and I am not scared. I am the LJP president," ANI quoted Paswan as saying.Over 2.9 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on June 17: GovtMore than 268 million Covid-19 vaccine doses (268,665,914) have been administered in India so far, the Union health ministry said. Also, 2,964,596 doses were administered today.Bharat Biotech dismisses reports it has submitted Covaxin’s phase 3 trial data to WHO for its approval, reports ANIBharat Biotech said that news reports about the company submitting Phase-3 trial data of Covaxin to WHO is incorrect and "lacks any evidence," reports ANI.Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin meets PM Modi, submits memorandum of 25 demandsTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi. He also submitted a memorandum of 25 demands to the PM. Increase in Covid-19 vaccine supply, abolition of NEET exams and expediting construction of AIIMS in Madurai, among major demands.Pashupati Kumar Paras elected LJP's national president: MP Chandan SinghLok Janshakti Party MP Chandan Singh said that Pashupati Kumar Paras has been elected as the party's national president. "LJP MP Pashupati Kumar Paras has been elected as national president of the party today," ANI quoted Singh as saying.AIIMS resume routine inpatient admission including elective surgeriesThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi on Thursday said it has resumed routine inpatient admission including elective surgeries in general wards and private wards in AIIMS hospital and all centres.Delhi logs 158 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deathsDelhi on Thursday reported 158 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths in last 24 hours. As many as 343 recoveries were recorded in the Capital since the previous day, according to the health bulletin.Court sends former Mumbai cop Pradeep Sharma, 2 others to NIA custody till June 28 in Antillia bomb scare caseCentre gave no money to state after cyclone Yaas: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said no money has been given to the state government by the Centre after cyclone Yaas. "Unfortunately, they (the Centre) can't control Twitter that's why they want to bulldoze them. Similarly, they can't control me that is why they are trying to bulldoze my government. They should stop this," ANI quoted Banerjee as saying.Kerala HC grants protection from arrest to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in sedition caseLakshadweep activist and film maker Aisha Sultana gets protection from the Kerala High Court. The court directed her to appear before island police and also said that in the case of an arrest she should be freed on bail.Woman stabbed to death by stalker in KeralaA 21-year-old woman was stabbed to death in her house in Malappuram district on Thursday by a stalker for apparently rejecting his proposal for a romantic relationship and younger sister of the deceased also received stab wounds while trying to save her, police said.Twitter should obey India's constitution and rules: Ravi Shankar PrasadUnion minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that Twitter should obey India's constitution and rules if they should continue their business in the country. "When Indian companies do business or pharma companies go to manufacture in US, do they follow American laws or not? If you have to do business here, you're welcome to criticize PM, all of us.. but you've to obey India's constitution and rules," he said.NIA arrests former Mumbai police officer Pradeep Sharma in Antilia bomb scare caseThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested former Mumbai police officer Pradeep Sharma in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case. The agency raided and investigated Sharma before he was arrested.Haryana government planning to form Drone Corporation to conduct aerial surveysHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that his government is planning to form the Drone Corporation of Haryana to conduct aerial surveys in various departments like agriculture, forest, mines, etc. He also said that 200 drones would be procured to conduct the surveys, reports ANI.Delhi court passes release order for Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Asif Iqbal TanhaA Delhi court has passed a release order for Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha. Additional Sessions Judge Ravindra Bedi said that she has passed the release order at 11am as scheduled even when the counsels of all the parties said that they were not aware of the order. A detailed reasoned order is awaited.Centre to provide over 56 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to states, UTs in next 3 daysThe central government will provide more than 56 lakh vaccine doses to states and Union territories in the next three days, informed the Health Ministry on Thursday.Blast in firecracker factory in Maharashtra's DahanuBlast in firecracker factory in Maharashtra's Dahanu. Blast heard 5 km vicinity of spot.N Korea gives $300,000 for Myanmar in first financial aid since 2005North Korea has provided $300,000 to a UN-led humanitarian aid initiative for Myanmar, marking its first donation to other countries since 2005, UN data showed on Thursday.CBSE to declare Class 12 results by July 31CBSE will declare Class 12 results by July 31.Asif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal move Delhi HCAsif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal move Delhi HC seeking forthwith release from jail after being granted bail.Philips said that doctors and patients using life-sustaining ventilators should first consider whether the potential danger from the foam outweighs other risks.Security of TMC leader Mukul Roy has been withdrawn by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), order has been issued: Govt Sources, reports ANI.HK tycoon Jimmy Lai's Apple Daily newsroom raidedFive hundred Hong Kong police officers sifted through reporters' computers and notebooks at pro-democracy tabloid Apple Daily on Thursday, the first case in which authorities have cited media articles as potentially violating the national security law.Four arrested for sexual abuse of minor girls at Jharkhand shelter homeFour persons including the manager, his wife, and the warden of a shelter home in Jharkhand's Jamshedpur were arrested in connection with physical exploitation and sexual molestation of minor girls from the Singrauli district of Madhya Pradesh, informed the police on Wednesday.250 fresh cases take Arunachal's Covid-19 tally to 32,188At least 250 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, pushing the tally in the northeastern state to 32,188, a senior health department official said on Thursday.Heavy rain in parts of DelhiHeavy rain, coupled with strong winds, lashes parts of Delhi.Rupee slumps 33 paise to 73.65 against US dollarRupee slumps 33 paise to 73.65 against US dollar in early trade.US CDC classifies Delta variant as 'variant of concern'The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has classified the Delta, a highly transmissible Covid-19 variant first identified in India, as a "variant of concern."26 new cases push Covid-19 tally of Andamans to 7,306The Covid-19 caseload in Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 7,306 as 26 more people tested positive for the disease in the Union Territory, a health department official said on Thursday.Two TDP leaders killed in Andhra Pradesh's KurnoolTwo TDP leaders were killed on Thursday morning while going to farm fields Pesaravai village of Gadivemula mandal of Andhra Pradesh's Kurnool district, informed the police.West Bengal Governor to meet President Kovind todayWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will meet President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhawan today at 11:30am.Japan to issue vaccine passport for travel abroadJapan said on Thursday it will make a vaccine passport available from next month for Japanese travellers, as governments around the world experiment with ways to relaunch tourism and business trips.NIA conducts raid at residence of Shiv Sena leader Pradeep SharmaNIA conducts raid at the residence of Shiv Sena leader and former 'encounter specialist' of Mumbai Police, Pradeep Sharma, reports news agency ANI.Brazil detects 53 with Covid in relation to Copa AmericaBrazil's health ministry raised the number of Covid-19 cases related to the Copa America to 53, one more than the previous day, after a total of 5,082 tests.MK Stalin to meet PM Modi later todayTamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi later today.Sensex down 300 point, Nifty at 15,661Markets open on weak note: Sensex down 300 point, Nifty at 15,661India reports 67,208 new Covid-19 cases, 2,330 deathsIndia registered 67,208 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, along with 2330 Covid-19 related deaths, according to Union health ministry update on Thursday.19,31,249 samples for Covid-19 were tested in the last 24 hours: ICMRA total of 38,52,38,220 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease till now of which 19,31,249 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday.Gold stages slight rebound on bargain huntingGold prices rose on Thursday as investors took advantage of a sharp fall in the previous session to buy the metal after the US Federal Reserve signalled it might raise interest rates sooner than expected.HK$18m in Apple Daily assets frozen under security law: Hong Kong policeHong Kong police say HK$18m (US$2.3m) in Apple Daily assets frozen under security law.Bharat Biotech and World Health Organisation's (WHO) pre-submission meeting on June 23Bharat Biotech and World Health Organisation's (WHO) pre-submission meeting on June 23rd, says a WHO document, reports ANI.Twitter India chief was questioned by Delhi police in toolkit matterA senior-level team of Delhi Police's Special Cell had gone to Bengaluru, Karnataka on May 31 to interrogate Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari regarding 'Congress toolkit case': Sources, reports ANI.Kerala unlocks in graded manner from today after decline in daily-reported casesKerala unlocks in graded manner from today after decline in daily-reported cases, however, complete lockdown will continue on weekendsPublic transport to operate partially, shops selling essential goods to remain open from 7am-7pm from today.China disease expert says Covid-19 origins probe should shift to US: ReportA senior Chinese expert said the United States should be the priority in the next phase of investigations into the origin of Covid-19 after a study showed the disease could have been circulating there as early as December 2019, state media said on Thursday.Power outage hits 190K in Puerto Rico amid growing outrageA sudden power failure left some 190,000 clients in the dark across Puerto Rico late Wednesday, enraging many who were recovering from a massive outage that hit the US territory just days ago.China reports 19 new Covid-19 cases on June 16 vs 21 a day earlierChina reported 19 new Covid-19 cases in the mainland for June 16, down from 21 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Thursday.FIR against 7 Shiv Sena members after clash with BJYM workers in MumbaiMumbai Police filed an FIR against seven Shiv Sena leaders and workers in connection with the scuffle that broke out between Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) and Sena workers outside the latter's headquarters in Dadar on Wednesday.Varanasi receives rainfall this morningAs per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Varanasi will experience 'Generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers' today.Illegal liquor manufacturing factory unearthed in Haryana's GurugramAn illegal liquor manufacturing factory was unearthed in Haryana's Gurugram. Bottles making machines, packaging and labeling materials and a vehicle have been recovered: Kalanidhi Naithani, SSP.China's rocket, carrying first crew to new space station, blasts offChina's spaceship, carrying first crew to new space station, blasts off.China to send first crew to new space station todayChina is set to launch three astronauts as its first crew to its new Tiangong space station today, the country's first manned spaceflight in nearly five years.Biden tells Putin certain cyberattacks should be 'off-limits'US President Joe Biden told Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday that certain critical infrastructure should be "off-limits" to cyberattacks, but analysts said his efforts were unlikely to be more successful than previous attempts to carve out safe zones online.1 killed, 5 wounded in Baltimore shooting: PoliceOne person was killed and five others were wounded when gunmen walked up a street and opened fire on a Baltimore block from an intersection, the city's police commissioner said.Two die, two critical after consuming surgical spirit in Kerala's KollamTwo persons died and two others were hospitalised in critical condition after they allegedly consumed surgical spirit at Pathanapuram in Kollam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-17-2021-101623886710207.html
17-06-2021||India||Pregnant schoolteacher who aspired to be self-dependent||On April 13, two days before she was to appear for duty in the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections, Kalyani Agrahari had a fierce altercation with her husband Deepak Chand. Agrahari, 26, was in the third trimester of her pregnancy and Chand wanted her to skip election duty. At the time, Covid was ravaging the countryside and deaths were surging across the state.But Agrahari was worried that her government teaching position would be jeopardised if she didn’t show up for duty. She was one of 69,000 assistant teachers who were recruited four months ago. “It was her dream to be a teacher and she was afraid that skipping the election duty may affect her job. I was more concerned about her health considering her pregnancy and wanted her to skip the poll duty,” recalled Chand.When Agrahari got the order to report as election officer at Pratappur polling station, the couple wrote to officials concerned, pleading exemption from duty on grounds of her pregnancy, but in vain. To save her job and fearing backlash from seniors, Agrahari sat behind her husband on his bike as he drove her to the polling station at Karanjakalan block, 35 kilometres away from their house in Patiala village in Kuthan block.During the hour-long journey, they talked about their struggle and hopes of a better future.Agrahari was the first born of four children in a farming family in Azamgarh district. Her father worked in the fields while her mother tended to household chores. Watching her parents struggle to make ends meet, Agrahari decided to get a job and dedicated herself to studies.But after completing her college education, she quickly realised that jobs were hard to come by in the town. In 2018, when she told her parents that she wanted to pursue studies to become a teacher, the family wed her to Chand, an engineering graduate. Agrahari was only 23.“My sister was not happy to get married so early. She wanted to become self depended and continued her efforts even after the marriage,” said Rani, her younger sister.The couple moved to Delhi where Deepak worked in a private firm. After a few months, Agrahari persuaded Chand to send her to Prayagraj to continue her studies to become a teacher (D.El.Ed). “She lived alone studied hard and cleared the teachers exam in the first attempt,” said Chand.When he was sent on extended leave during the lockdown last year, she asked him to return home in Jaunpur and start a business.In September, Agrahari found she was pregnant. “We were so happy to get the news, her face beamed and I have never seen her smile as widely,” Chand said.On their way to the polling station, the couple discussed possible names for their child — Divansh, if it was a boy; Khyati, if a girl. Agrahari was determined to ensure that her child get a better education than her and smiled as she thought of the future. Chand dropped her outside the polling station and left.That was the last time he saw her smiling. By the time she returned home on April 15, she was very ill. “She fell ill just after returning from her poll duty. I took her to see nearby doctors, took some medication but her health continued to deteriorate,” said Chand.In a few days, the colour had drained from her face. Relatives tried to admit her in a hospital in Jaunpur, 50 kilometres away from Varanasi . “We took her to every hospital in Jaunpur district hoping to get a bed for her but none of the hospitals had a vacant bed to admit her,” said Chand.On April 24, they finally managed to secure a bed with oxygen support at L2 Covid Hospital, Jaunpur. But by then, Agrahari and her unborn child were both dead. A day later, on their third marriage anniversary, Chand lit Agrahari’s pyre.The family remembers Agrahari as a determined woman who sacrificed her joys to study and advance in life. They rue that her life ended before she could enjoy the perks of job – she didn’t even get to see her first salary because of payout delays by the education department.The state teachers’ union says Agrahari was one of 700-odd teachers who succumbed to Covid-19 after conducting the panchayat polls, a figure disputed by the state government. Nevertheless, the administration has assured Chand of compensation and a job. On May 24, a local education officer went to Chand’s home and told him that Agrahari’s pending salary of ₹196,527 had been deposited in her account. She was dead for two weeks||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-schoolteacher-who-aspired-to-be-selfdependent-101623876440225.html
17-06-2021||India||Covaxin does not contain newborn calf serum: Centre||Bharat Biotech’s vaccine against Covid-19, Covaxin, does not contain newborn calf serum, the Union health ministry clarified in a statement on Wednesday, responding to some posts on social media, moving quickly to address an issue that could have potentially led to vaccine hesitancy among some.“There have been some social media posts regarding composition of the Covaxin vaccine where it has been suggested that Covaxin vaccine contains newborn calf serum. Facts have been twisted and misrepresented in these posts… the final vaccine does not contain newborn calf serum at all and the calf serum is not an ingredient of the final vaccine product,” read the health ministry statement.According to the ministry, newborn calf serum is used only for preparation and growth of vero cells (lineage of cells used for pathogen culture). Different kinds of bovine and other animal serum are standard enrichment ingredients used globally for vero cell growth. Vero cells are used to establish cell lines which help in production of vaccines..., the ministry explained. Dr Gagandeep Kang, physician-scientist, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, said “the explanation holds”. Bharat Biotech also put out a separate statement explaining the process:“New born calf serum is used in the manufacturing of viral vaccines. It is used for the growth of cells, but neither used in growth of SARS CoV2 virus nor in the final formulation...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-does-not-contain-newborn-calf-serum-centre-101623881960966.html
17-06-2021||India||BJP leader’s fear of data theft exposed fake testing racket||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Faridkot unit leader’s fear of personal data theft after receiving a Covid-19 negative report without giving a swab sample took the lid off a racket involving fake Covid reports generated during the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand.Vipin Mittal, a former vice president of Faridkot (Punjab) unit of BJP, had contested the Faridkot municipal council election unsuccessfully this year. On April 22, he had received a text message on his mobile phone with a link to his Covid-19 test report, stating that he had tested negative. “I was surprised to see the Covid report because I never gave my swab sample for testing. I was worried that someone might have stolen my personal data and misused it,” Mittal said.He said he informed the district health department regarding this, but no one inquired about it. However, Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Kapoor said that he didn’t receive any written complaint in this regard.“I downloaded a copy of that report from the portal and complained to the Indian Council of Medical Research... I got a reply from them that they would investigate it, but I didn’t hear from them further. So, I filed an RTI..,” Mittal said. In the reply to his RTI, Mittal received a copy of the Uttarakhand health department’s probe and an action-taken report that said he had received a “fake” report. “I am shocked to see this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-s-fear-of-data-theft-exposed-fake-testing-racket-101623879649331.html
17-06-2021||India||Twitter may have lost protection, but not tag||There appears to be a degree of misperception that the government has, on political whim, removed the tag of “intermediary” for Twitter — or more accurately, taken away the protections enjoyed by Twitter under Section 79 of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000 (as amended) for non-compliance with the Intermediary Guidelines of 2021. This has sparked concerns of “executive overreach”.The basis of these concerns is incorrect. First, intermediaries are those covered under S.2(1)(w) of the IT Act. Twitter was and continues to be covered under this definition. While intermediary has a broad definition, some under this category enjoy comprehensive protection from any form of liability under S.79 of the IT Act. This protection ensures that they will not be held liable for third-party information, data, or communication link shared on their platforms, which they have no personal knowledge of or control over. This protection is what Twitter has lost due to non-compliance with the 2021 guidelines. Not its tag as an intermediary.A Parliament-enacted law i.e., the IT Act mandates that the protection from liability given to intermediaries applies, provided they comply with conditions laid down therein. When an intermediary fails to comply, it automatically loses the protection or “safe harbour”.Herein lies the basis for Twitter losing its protective shield: When the 2021 guidelines were notified, Twitter was aware it had to comply with them. It was open to Twitter to raise its contentions before a court of law, if it believed any of the provisions to violate its rights or entitlements. This was not done. Hence as of May 25, Twitter lost its protective shield (not its tag as an intermediary), when it failed to comply with the 2021 guidelines.Not just Twitter, any social media platform which does not comply would stand on the same footing. This occurred with no further action from the government or executive branch. Any statements by the government are at best rhetorical that reiterates the automatic outcomes that law dictates. No more. No less.A standoff between the Union government and Twitter is not new. Nor is it only under the new 2021 guidelines. Every non-compliance of a takedown notice resulted in the loss of protection to Twitter under S.79 of the IT Act. It then had to face investigations or inquiries to prove its non-complicity. The difference is that when Twitter refused takedowns, it lost the immunity with respect to the specific post. Due to its wilful failure to comply with the 2021 guidelines, it has lost the protection under S.79 of the IT Act in its entirety, and opened itself out for probable prosecution for all posts on its platform.Therefore, losing safe harbour status was not due to an act of executive whim, but under parliamentary law and rules drafted within this framework.Externalising the problem and holding a government liable for the company’s inaction, for no less than three months, is untenable. The company ought to have complied with the extant laws or contested the same in court. It cannot take advantage of its own wrongs.That, however, does not mean that it could be culpable for each post. Each case will have to be evaluated on the basis of the facts of the case, including with respect to whether the company and/or persons in charge thereof are liable. Again, given the scale of posts and data on its platform, the real concern for Twitter or any other social media platform in this situation would be the unenviable task of having to meet the due process for litigation that may arise.This was a risk that all were aware of well before the deadline. Given the risks involved, it was incumbent on all social media platforms to either comply or contest within timeframes given. Blatant refusal to comply with rule of law is not tenable.NS Nappinai is an Advocate, Supreme Court of India & Founder – Cyber Saathi.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-may-have-lost-protection-but-not-tag-101623873825053.html
17-06-2021||India||Karnataka must vaccinate at least 2.5 lakh per day to blunt third wave impact||Bengaluru: Between April 1 and May 27 this year, Karnataka recorded 14,167 Covid-19 deaths, becoming one of the worst-hit states during the second wave of the pandemic. In comparison, the state recorded 6,551 deaths during the two months of the first wave last year. According to state health department’s data, nearly nine out of 100 patients died outside a hospital during the deadlier second wave, with experts and analysts saying the healthcare system was not prepared for the spike.With experts predicting a possible third wave of the coronavirus in October and November, the most important question is: how deadly could this wave be? According to experts, it depends on how people are vaccinated in the coming four months.“There is no doubt that if we don’t vaccinate enough population, the third wave will be as bad, or even worse, than the second,” said CN Manjunath, Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force member and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. “Only if are able to build enough herd immunity can we blunt the impact of the third wave. But it is going to be a challenge,” he said.On the minimum target for vaccination to avoid a severe third wave, experts said anywhere between 60 and 75% of the population should get at least the first dose of the vaccine before the third wave hits. To break down the numbers, the population of Karnataka, according to the government projections, is approximately 65 million. According to the Karnataka election commission, around 51 million people in the state are eligible voters, which is roughly the estimated number of those eligible for the vaccination.According to Dr Vishal Rao, a member of the expert committee on Karnataka’s Covid task force, the state should vaccinate at least 60% of the population to control the third wave. “Quick vaccination is crucial. So far, we have been vaccinating those above 45 years of age. But in the state, the majority of the population falls in the 18-44 age category. With multiple variants that are being reported, this age group is one of the most vulnerable sections,” said Dr Rao.The second wave has shown an increase in the number of deaths in the 30-45 age group. A comparison of the numbers of the first and second wave shows that in the first wave, around 11 out of 100 deaths were reported in the 30-45 age group, while in the second wave, 16 out of 100 deaths were reported in this category. For the under-30 age category, in the first wave, 2.2% of deaths belonged to those under 30, while in the second wave, it increased to 2.9%, according to state data.Dr Manjunath said the state should vaccinate at least 70% population in the next four months. Dr Ravi V, virologist and a member of the Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee, also said 70-75% population should get at least the first dose of vaccination before the onset of the third wave.If going by an average of the experts’ opinion, at least 45 million people in the state should get the first dose of vaccination before November. So far, approximately 17 million people have got at least the first dose in the state. Thus, to meet the requirement of the experts, the state government will have to vaccinate at least 250,000 people every day.According to a senior health department official, the state is administering around 150,000 jabs per day on an average. He added that the vaccination depends on the availability of the vaccine doses, which currently is in short supply.Dr Manjunath said the state has a good infrastructure in place to quickly vaccinate the population if vaccines are available. “With more vaccines coming to the market, we hope that the availability will increase by August. The government should be prepared to distribute it effectively when they are available in large numbers. Restrictions on vaccine distribution should be removed and it should be made even without the Cowin app. One good that came out of the second wave is that the reluctance against the vaccine has reduced, which will be helpful,” he added.On whether vaccinating around 70% of the population could in reality make the third wave less deadly, Dr Ravi cited example of England, saying the country was not affected badly by the third wave because it was able to vaccinate more than 60% of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-scaling-up-vaccination-key-to-curbing-third-wave-impact-101623871331678.html
17-06-2021||India||Dhankhar meets NHRC chairman, Union ministers in Delhi; TMC, CPM cry foul||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar met Arun Kumar Mishra, chairman of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) during his trip to Delhi on Wednesday, triggering a political row in Kolkata where the Trinamool Congress (TMC) demanded his immediate removal and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), alleged that Dhankhar is acting like a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member. “Governor West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar had a courtesy meeting in New Delhi with former Supreme Court Judge, Justice Arun Kumar Mishra, Chairperson National Human Rights Commission @India_NHRC,” Dhankhar tweeted at 6 pm after meeting Mishra. This immediately triggered a controversy in Bengal as Dhankhar, before his departure for Delhi, wrote a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday, alleging that the state is witnessing post-poll violence and violation of human rights and never witnessed since Independence. He accused the government of inaction. “Never before has a governor met an NHRC chairman. He is partisan, uncivilized and should be removed immediately. Dhankhar is acting beyond his Constitutional limits,” said TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. TMC supporters started a hashtag campaign, #DhankharAbBandhkar (Dhankhar stop it now). The posts turned viral. Veteran CPI(M) leader and Bengal Left Front chairman Biman Bose said, “We saw Dhankhar visiting violence affected areas with BJP leaders. As governor he is free to go anywhere but why is he accompanied by BJP leaders all the time? His actions are akin to that of a BJP member. He is not following the Constitution of India.” This was the first time that the Left has spoken out so sharply against Dhankhar. Going a step forward, the national executive committee of the Communist Party of India (CPI) has accused Dhankhar of attempting to create unrest in Bengal. The CPI said that the President must recall Dhankar immediately. “After taking over as the governor he started behaving like a BJP representative, ignoring all moral and government protocols supposed to be followed by a constitutional authority. His role before the election, during the election and after the election remains the same. He is disrespecting the poll verdict and is aiming at creating instability and unrest in West Bengal. Such behaviour from a constitutional head of a state is unacceptable,” the committee said in a statement. Defending the governor, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samiik Bhattacharya said, “We have lost 28 supporters in post-poll violence. The governor has repeatedly sought action. If his actions are being described as unprecedented then the violence, too, is unprecedented.” After writing to the chief minister on Tuesday, Dhankhar attached a copy of the letter to his tweet that said, “Constrained to convey @MamataOfficial that continued silence & inaction over post-poll violence, violation of human rights & dignity of women, destruction of property, and perpetuation of miseries on political opponents- worst since independence, ill augurs for democracy.” “Urged @MamataOfficial to break silence on post-poll retributive violence, restore law and order, provide succour to the suffering people. Called upon her to have an interaction on these issues at the earliest,” he wrote in a second tweet. The state government reacted sharply to his tweets. “Government of West Bengal has observed with dismay and distress that the Hon’ble Governor of West Bengal has suddenly made public, a letter of his to the Hon’ble Chief Minister of West Bengal, with contents that are not consistent with real facts. The communication format is violative of all established norms. The letter has been written to Hon’ble Chief Minister and released to public media through tweets simultaneously, which disrupts sanctity of such communications,” tweeted the state home department. “The unusual step of going public in this manner abruptly and unilaterally has shocked the Government of West Bengal all the more because the contents are fabricated. While the post-poll violence in the state was somewhat unabated when the Election Commission of India was in charge of the law and order machinery, after the swearing in, the State Cabinet has reigned in the situation, restored normalcy and established full command over anti-law elements. State police has been firmly directed to bring to book all anti-socials and the government remains committed to maintain the basic fabric of society and to uphold law and order,” the home department said in subsequent tweets. On Wednesday, Dhankhar also met Union minister for culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel and minister of coal, mines and parliamentary affairs Prahlad Joshi. Both the ministers campaigned in Bengal during the recent polls in which the BJP lost to the TMC. “Had useful deliberations with Union Minister for Culture, Tourism @prahladspatel Prahlad Singh Patel @MinOfCultureGoI on issues pertaining Victoria Memorial @victoriamemkol, Indian Museum @IndianMuseumKol;@ezcckolkata @asiatic_society aimed at enhancing impact of these bodies,” tweeted Dhankhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhankhar-meets-nhrc-chairman-union-ministers-in-delhi-tmc-cpm-cry-foul-101623870792266.html
17-06-2021||India||Ghaziabad assault: FIR names Twitter but police, victim’s family differ over incident||Uttar Pradesh Police booked microblogging platform Twitter, news portal The Wire.in, several journalists and Congress leaders for “promoting enmity between religions” by posting and promoting an allegedly manipulated video of an elderly Muslim man’s assault amid conflicting narratives of the attack.Police officers familiar with the matter said Twitter has been named in the first information report filed in Loni, Ghaziabad, because it didn’t prevent the video from going viral and even helped in its promotion and circulation. The video purportedly showed the elderly man, later identified as Sufi Abdul Samad, being beaten up and his attackers cutting off his beard.Samad’s family and friends later claimed that he was forced to chant “Vande Mataram” and “Jai Shri Ram” by his attackers. Police, however, ruled out any communal angle to the incident and said the group of six men who attacked Samad included both Hindus and Muslims who were unhappy about some amulets (taveez) he had allegedly sold them, and which they believed didn’t work.“On June 15, Ghaziabad police had clarified that the incident took place due to a personal dispute. Both parties involved were Hindu and Muslim. Despite this, social media influencers didn’t delete their tweets, which led to communal disharmony in the state,” said UP’s additional director general of police (law and order), Prashant Kumar.The UP Police FIR says the men who attacked Samad were known to him and three of them have been arrested for voluntarily causing hurt and wrongful confinement. It added the muted video was allegedly circulated with the objective of disrupting communal harmony and causing a riot. HT has seen a copy of the FIR, which also names journalists Rana Ayyub and Saba Naqvi; co-founder of fact-checking website AltNews, Mohammed Zubair; and Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani and Dr Shama Mohammad.But confusion continued about the June 5 attack. Samad mentioned the alleged religious slogans in a Facebook Live session he did on June 7 with a local Samajwadi Party leader, identified as Ummed Pehalwan Idrisi.On Wednesday, Idrisi conducted another Facebook Live session with Samad and the family and alleged that police deliberately left out the alleged communal slogan chanting from the FIR.“The complaint was concealed by the police, and they filed it on their own. I demand that CCTV of the police station should be checked,” Idrisi said. The victim’ s son, Babbu (who only goes by one name) said on Tuesday night that the police was attempting to divert the case.Loni police refused to comment on the allegations, saying that they were unsubstantiated.Police also filed a separate FIR against Idrisi for allegedly promoting religious enmity between different groups, outraging religious feelings and breaching of peace.“The FIR is filed against Pehalwan as he was the one who took up Facebook live session along with the victim and concealed facts that the suspects were known to the victim and also issued statements which amounted to spreading hatred among communities,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle officer of Loni.The Wire released a statement in which it condemned the criminal case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-assault-fir-names-twitter-but-police-victim-s-family-differ-over-incident-101623869892922.html
17-06-2021||India||Charged with defection, turncoat Trinamool lawmaker speaks out against BJP||Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha MP, Sunil Mondal, against whom Bengal’s ruling party has brought charges of defection for joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has accused the saffron camp of ignoring newcomers like him.The Burdwan East MP also accused Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the West Bengal legislative assembly, of not keeping a single promise made to him.“Adhikari did not keep a single promise he made. He does not even receive my calls. The BJP does not let newcomers work,” said Mondal. Amid speculations that he might try to return to the TMC like Mukul Roy, TMC supporters put up posters in the Burdwan East constituency, saying he should not be allowed to make a comeback.Mondal spoke out a day after Sudip Bandopadhyay, leader of the TMC in the Lok Sabha, called up Speaker Om Birla and urged him to take action on the petitions he had earlier filed seeking disqualification of Mondal and Sishir Adhikari who joined the BJP prior to the recent Bengal assembly polls. The Speaker told Bandopadhyay that a committee would be set up to review the petitions.Bandopadhyay had called up the Speaker on the same issue on June 3. The second call was made on a day when 50 BJP legislators in Bengal met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and demanded that any MLA who joins the TMC should face action under the anti-defection law passed by the Parliament. The team was led by Suvendu Adhikari who is Sishir Adhikari’s son.Mondal joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in December last year.Sishir Adhikari did not formally pick up the BJP flag but shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the election campaign. He is the MP from Contai in East Midnapore district. His second son, Dibyendu, is the Lok Sabha member from the district’s Tamluk seat.Reacting to Mondal’s statement, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “Many people joined the BJP thinking that the party will come to power. Now they are making excuses. The BJP welcomed all of them and showed them respect.”The TMC has 22 Lok Sabha MPs since the BJP won 18 seats in 2019. Bengal has 42 seats. Till 2019, the TMC had 34 MPs in the Lower House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charged-with-defection-bengal-s-turncoat-trinamool-lawmaker-speaks-out-against-bjp-101623869532156.html
17-06-2021||India||Six Maoists shot dead in Andhra encounter||Hyderabad Six members of the banned-Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in an exchange of fire with the Greyhound forces of Andhra Pradesh police in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Wednesday, police said. The encounter took place at Theegalametta forest area of Koyyru block under Mampa police station limits at around 10 am, when the Greyhound police forces, specially trained for the anti-Maoist operations, were conducting combing operations following a tip-off about Maoist movement. Visakhapatnam (Rural) Superintendent of Police B V Krishna Rao said six Maoists, including three women, were killed in the exchange of fire. Five of the slain Maoists were identified as: Ranadev alias Arjun and Sande Gangiah alias Ashok, both divisional committee members (DCM), Santu Nachika, an area committee member (ACM), Lalitha and Paike, both primary members. “The body of the remaining female Maoist is yet to identified,” the SP said, adding the police had seized an AK-47 rifle, a self-loading rifle (SLR), a carbine, three .303 rifles and a country-made weapon along with extremist literature, kit bags and explosive material from the site. He said a few more Maoists were believed to have sustained injuries in the incident and escaped from the area. “We appeal to the escaped Maoists to surrender and assure them of best possible treatment,” Rao said. Unconfirmed reports said some top Maoist leaders, who were present at the spot, managed to escape during the exchange of fire. The police forces are trying to track their movements using helicopters, the reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-maoists-shot-dead-in-andhra-encounter-101623869411492.html
17-06-2021||India||BJP team rushes to Tripura to quell rumblings||Trouble is brewing afresh for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Tripura as a section of party leaders, who had jumped ship from the Trinamool Congress (TMC), are learnt to have started negotiations for a possible return, said a party functionary on the condition of anonymity.The functionary added that friction between chief minister Biplab Deb and dissenting MLAs led by Sudip Roy Barman has exacerbated ever since Mukul Roy, former national vice-president of the BJP, snapped ties with the party to return to the TMC.“It was Roy who was instrumental in making Roy Burman and six others switch sides from the TMC to the BJP in 2017. Now to prove his allegiance to the TMC, he may try to destabilise the BJP government in Tripura. There is a buzz that he has initiated talks with the dissenters,” said the party functionary.Barman, who was a Congressman before joining the TMC in 2016, has made his chief ministerial ambitions public. He has been urging the BJP central leadership to change the CM, citing administrative problems.Anticipating defection to the TMC, the BJP central leadership has taken note of developments. A team of senior leaders, including party general secretary organisation BL Santhosh and Northeast zonal secretary Ajay Jamwal, are in Tripura, where the BJP came to power in 2018 after defeating the Manik Sarkar-led Communist Party of India (Marxist) government. Sarkar was the CM of the state for 20 years.An official from the state government said the team from Delhi is on a visit for “organisational purposes”. “There is no threat to the government from either the rebels or the TMC,” the official said.However, this is not the first time that the central leadership has had to intervene. Friction between the chief minister and rebels made headlines in October last year as well, when Burman, who was dropped from the state cabinet, flanked by leaders including Sushant Chaudhary, Atul Dev Burman, Diba Chandra, Parimal Dev Burman and Ashish Saha among others, flew to Delhi to apprise party president JP Nadda and Santhosh of the problems within the state unit.“These leaders have been complaining that the chief minister leaves them out of decision making, acts in an arbitrary manner and has failed to deliver development works that were promised by the BJP,” the functionary quoted above said.In December, the rebels again raised the demand for replacing the chief minister. They pointed out that the CM’s working style could have an adverse impact on the party’s performance in the 2023 assembly elections.In December when Vinod Sonkar reached Tripura on his maiden visit as the party’s state in-charge, he was greeted with slogans against the chief minister. At that time, the CM had blamed the Left cadre for engineering the protest and went on to declare that he would seek people’s mandate on continuing in his position. “He (CM) had declared that he would go to the Vivekananda Maidan and seek people’s support. That statement had not gone down well with the central leadership. However, a decision was taken not to change the leadership mid-term,” the functionary said.While on earlier occasions, the central leadership was confident of getting a hold of the situation, the involvement of Roy has sounded alarm.“Since the party unit is already in disarray, it will not be very difficult for the opposition to weaken the party structure. But we are hopeful of a resolution,” said a party leader in Delhi, who did not wish to be named.The BJP, which had bagged 43% votes in the 2018 state elections, has 36 MLAs while its ally Indigenous Peoples’ Front of Tripura (IPFT) has eight MLAs in the 60-member assembly. Burman’s claims of having the support of 18-20 legislators could put the party in a bind. The CPI(M), which ruled the state for over two decades, has 16 members. The TMC and the Congress drew a blank in the 2018 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-team-rushes-to-tripura-to-quell-rumblings-101623869412043.html
17-06-2021||India||Cabinet gives approval to Ordnance Factory Board corporatisation||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday cleared the corporatisation of India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector, top officials familiar with the developments said.The OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories, will be split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, opto-electronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products, said one of the officials cited above, speaking on the condition of anonymity.Ordnance factories are currently engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine-protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers.“The restructuring will transform the ordnance factories into productive and profitable assets, deepen product specialisation, boost performance and improve quality, cost efficiency and accountability,” said a second official. He said it was a big step towards achieving self-reliance in defence manufacturing.The government expects the seven new professionally-managed entities, likely to come up by the year-end, to increase their share in the domestic market through better capacity utilisation and also tap new export opportunities.“The new structure will help overcome various shortcomings in the existing OFB set-up by eliminating inefficient supply chains and provide these companies incentive to become competitive. It will boost their autonomy too,” said the first official.During the last two decades, various high-level committees have underlined the need to improve the functioning of the OFB and turn its factories into vehicles of self-reliance for the country’s defence preparedness.Defence minister Rajnath Singh described the decision to corporatise the OFB as a “historic one.”“It is also a big decision from the point of view of national security,” Singh said.The factories controlled by the board employ at least 70,000 people who have been against the move to corporatise it. Three federations of defence civilian employees of the OFB gave a joint strike notice last August against the government’s plans to corporatise the board.The workers’ federations called off their proposed countrywide strike last year after a reconciliation meeting.Singh said there would be no change in the service conditions of the OFB employees and the government was committed to safeguarding their interests.All OFB employees (Group A, B and C) from different production units will be transferred to the corporate entities on deemed deputation for an initial period of two years without changing their service conditions as government employees, Hindustan Times has learnt.“The pension liabilities of the retirees and existing employees will continue to be borne by the government,” said the second official cited above.An empowered group of ministers (EGoM), constituted last year under the defence minister, will oversee the board’s corporatisation and also take decisions on other related matters, the official added.An internal army assessment last year flagged concerns about faulty ammunition and armament supplied by the OFB causing army casualties and bleeding the exchequer. It said 403 accidents over the previous six years resulted in the deaths of 27 soldiers and a loss of ₹960 crore.“Lack of accountability and poor quality of production result in frequent accidents. This results in injuries and death of soldiers. On an average, one accident takes place per week,” the internal assessment said.The OFB reacted to the army’s assessment as factually incorrect.In 2017, the government took action against 13 defence ministry bureaucrats from the Indian Ordnance Factories Service for the repeated failures of ordnance factories to meet the shortfall in ammunition and poor quality of products.The Comptroller and Auditor General has also raised questions about the quality of products supplied by the OFB and its overall performance in its reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-gives-approval-to-ordnance-factory-board-corporatisation-101623869352100.html
17-06-2021||India||Training medics to improving infra: TN gears up for third wave||Chennai: As the second wave recedes, Tamil Nadu has begun preparing for a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections. The state relies on experts, data and seroprevalence, adding more oxygen supported beds and oxygen storage capacity. Though the state agrees with experts who have said that there is no evidence to back the claim that a third wave may affect children more, the health department wants to improve infrastructure for paediatric care to be cautious.The government is preparing in three avenues- increasing infrastructure, training healthcare professionals and stocking medicines. “We are seeing to it that temporary infrastructure created for the second wave is not dismantled, and we are focussing on improving permanent infrastructure,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “But, more importantly, we have to continue mass messaging to the public that they need to understand that the real prevention against a third wave or any other increase depends on behavioural change and following SOPs on permitted activities as we open up. Irrespective of the variant, for the next few months, common practices of mask compliance, hand hygiene and social distancing have to be followed.”A 14-member task force, headed by former health secretary R Poornalingam, was set up a few days ago to advise the government on Covid-19 management. “We have told the government to prepare for a scenario where there are 50,000 new cases per day,” said a member of the committee not wishing to be named. “In the first wave, we had 7,000 cases per day, and in the second wave, the peak reached 35,000 cases per day. So, if we were to add children, we estimate that the number would be 50,000 cases in the third wave. Both government and private hospitals have to increase their oxygen supported beds.” There isn’t a consensus on the projection for a third wave.The government has begun strengthening the paediatric facilities with oxygen support. “75% of the beds are free now across Tamil Nadu, so in view reports of a possible third, which says more of the paediatric age group will be affected,” said the director of medical education, Dr R Narayana Babu. “We are making efforts to keep our paediatricians ready, including physicians, anaesthetics and nurses. We have inspected all hospitals for a minimum of at least 100 beds in the paediatric ward to be readily supported by oxygen and ventilators. We already have 40,000 oxygenated beds in medical colleges and 60,000 regular beds.” Babu adds that he is a paediatrician. “We are doing this as a precaution. In my opinion, they (children) already have good antibody levels, and they have been less affected in the first two waves, so it may or may not affect children.”On Wednesday, the health department opened a 40-bed paediatric ward with six ICUs in the Mayiladuthurai district. “Though certain specialists have said that there is no basis to claim that it will have more impact on children, we have been working on this area,” said Radhakrishnan.Tamil Nadu’s oxygen needs went up to 600 MT per day while its production capacity is only 500 MT daily. Former director of public health, Dr K Kolandasamy, who is also part of the newly formed task force, said that his personal opinion is that the state should double its production capacity, and not rely on other states for allocated supply. “Capacity to store oxygen of 5KL to 10KL should be created in districts so that they can be sufficient even if there is no supply for a week,” the member quoted above said. Tamil Nadu has already invited tenders for manufacturers to locally produce oxygen, cylinders and vaccines, and has announced a capital subsidy of 30%. “Tamil Nadu has to become a medical manufacturing hub,” said Kolandasamy. “Whatever infrastructure we build now given Covid-19 will continue to be helpful for other health issues in future after we bring the virus under control.”Agreeing with him is Dr Jacob John, former director of ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology, whom the state government had consulted earlier this month, along with several other experts. “The government has to make use of the fear factor of a potential third wave to build capacity in each district,” says John. “Each district is unique, so it will have to be strengthened, accordingly, which will also be useful during a non-Covid-19 period.”Vaccination is a potent tool to protect against the virus, but Tamil Nadu has been facing a vaccine shortage, having come close to halting it twice in June. “Now, vaccine hesitancy seems to be a thing of the past. So our focus is also on rapid administration of vaccines, we are utilising whatever we receive as quickly as possible, and we keep seeking additional vaccines,” said Radhakrishnan. Around 15 million vaccines have been utilised out of the 11 million that the state has received until Monday night.Eom||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/training-medics-to-improving-infra-tn-gears-up-for-third-wave-101623869351516.html
17-06-2021||India||Fresh case against Kerala BJP chief for bribing tribal leader||Thiruvananthapuram: In fresh trouble for Kerala Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief K Surendran, a Wayanad court on Wednesday directed Kerala Police to register a case against him for allegedly bribing tribal leader C K Janu to remain in the National Democratic Alliance and contest from Sultan Bathery constituency in the April 6 assembly elections. Last week, police had registered a separate case against Surendran, following the directive of a Kasargod court, for allegedly bribing independent candidate, K Sundara, and convincing him to withdraw his candidature from Mancheswaram (north Kerala) in the polls. The judicial magistrate court in Sultan Bathery on Wednesday issued the order based on a petition filed by Muslim Students Federation (MSF) leader P K Nawas. In his plea, Nawas accused the BJP leader of adopting fraudulent means to win the elections.The court directed the police to register the case against the BJP leader under sections 171 E (bribery) and 171 F (exerting undue influence at an election) of the Indian Penal Code. Two weeks ago, a leader of Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP), an ally of the BJP, had alleged that Surendran had given ₹10 lakh to Janu to return to the NDA fold before the polls. Janu, a tribal leader from Wayanad, had earlier severed links with the BJP but later contested on the NDA ticket and lost the polls from Sultan Bathery in Wayanad district. JRP leader Praseetha Azeekode said though Janu had sought a bigger amount, Surendran gave her only ₹10 lakh. After her disclosure, an audio tape surfaced in which Surendran was purportedly heard talking to Janu, promising her ₹10 lakh. HT could not verify the authenticity of the tape. Janu, however, claimed that the money was part of the poll campaign expenses and no payment was involved for her return. Surendran also denied his involvement and blamed the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) “for raking up unnecessary controversies to put the party in bad light”. Last week, he was summoned to Delhi by the central leadership in the wake of the controversies. The CPI (M) and Congress hailed the court decision’s to register a fresh case against the state BJP chief. CPI(M) state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the party (BJP) had spent enough money in the recent elections and will face more such cases in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-case-against-kerala-bjp-chief-for-bribing-tribal-leader-101623869292161.html
17-06-2021||India||Union or central? How DMK refers to Modi govt fans debate||Chennai: The new DMK government in Tamil Nadu has been punctilious in its reference to the Union Government as Ondriya Arasu (which literally means Union government) instead of the usual Madhiya Arasu meaning Central Government leading to both a semantic and a Constitutional debate. The Constitution of India is clear. In ‘The Union and Its Territory’, Part I, Article 1, it states, “India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States.” Recently a parliamentary committee also suggested using the term Union Government of India instead of Central Government and union government officials instead of central government officials.Since May 2, when the DMK returned to power in Tamil Nadu after 10 years, chief minister M K Stalin has used the term which has now become the norm with his cabinet ministers and even regional media. This has made the BJP uncomfortable. Its ally and the principal opposition party, the AIADMK, has insisted that Central and regional governments is the correct term.“It is the central government only,’’ said former chief minister and leader of opposition Edappadi Palaniswami when reporters asked him about DMK’s new terminology.“The nomenclature is just shadow boxing. It’s a symbolic fight,” says retired justice of Madras high court, R Chandru. “The larger issue is the state’s argument that it should have more powers and more say in the running of the state.If you look at the Constitution, it doesn’t give you any different opinion other than saying we are a unitary and not a federal state though we may use the word quasi federal.”The constitution contains a Union List of 97 items, State List of 66 items and Concurrent List of 47 items. Chandru cites the example of how the 97th item in the union list gives it power over items that aren’t mentioned in the other 96. “In this exercise of constitutional power of lawmaking, slowly, the parliament started accessing more power that what it was originally intended to have,” says Chandru. Then, there are laws related to items in the concurrent list that the Union government passes. “ For example, now the centre is going to codife labour law, which was in concurrent list, into four labour codes. Once that is made into a law, it will eclipse all the state’s own amendments,” adds Chandru. Madras high court lawyer and DMK spokesperson, S Manuraj says that though it is alright to use either of the terms colloquially, the party’s use is as laid down by the Constitution and statutory bodies. “Terminologies and nomenclature have often changed and improved with time,” says Manuraj. “In the past we used to say physically challenged, today we say differently-abled. With the passage of time, we change to reflect our modern sensitivities but also to bring in proper terms. There is no question that we have used ‘Centre’ before,” he said. But now, the party prefers Union. Manuraj points to the Rajamannar Committee set up by the DMK In 1969 which looked into the relationship between the Union government and the states. “It laid out a platform for federalism and discussed these issues in depth”. The state’s BJP unit suspects secessionist motives. “We want a clear explanation from the chief minister as to why he was saying Centre before May 2 and after that he is saying Union,” says K T Raghavan, advocate and general secretary of BJP in Tamil Nadu. “I agree with the translation in Tamil. But why is this narrative being set now? I see something fishy here. There are a lot of fringe elements working in Tamil Nadu who feel they are compelled to live in India and have begun raising their heads since DMK came to power.”Manuraj responds that while DMK was in the opposition and the party critiqued New Delhi’s policies, it used the term ‘Modi arasu’ meaning Modi’s government but that now its language has to reflect the fact that it is in power in the state.“I think there is more expectation from the DMK to uphold federalist interests. It’s fair,” adds Manuraj. “ DMK has long shouldered the responsibilities to advance the cause of a more federalist country. This usage is also in continuation of those principles which have been upheld by the Constitution and by the Supreme Court in the SR Bommai versus Union of India case in 1994.”Chandru says that the questions and discussion that went into the constituency assembly were-- what is the power of the union of India? Is it a federating structure or a union structure? “It t isn’t intended to be a federal structure like the United States of America. Then they brought in a via media calling it a quasi federal structure,” he says. But states “cannot do whatever hey want to.” Political analysts see the DMK’s language as something aimed at keeping its cadre happy as well as reinforcing the state’s autonomy, if only in form. “The DMK is clearly implying that the state is not subordinate,” says political commentator Maalan Narayanan. Even former CM and DMK chief , the late M Karunanidhi, a Tamil scholar didn’t use terms such as Ondriya, he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-or-central-how-dmk-refers-to-modi-govt-fans-debate-101623869232088.html
17-06-2021||India||Another Asiatic lion dies of Covid in TN zoo||Chennai: A 12-year-old Asiatic lion, Pathmanathan, died from Covid-19 in Arignar Anna Zoological Park, popularly known as Vandalur Zoo, outside Chennai on Wednesday morning, a statement from the zoo authority said. This is the second coronavirus-related death reported from the zoo after nine-year-old lioness Neela, who succumbed to the infection on June 3. “Samples of the said lion tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on June 3, as per the report of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NISHAD) in Bhopal. The lion has been under intensive treatment since then,” the statement said, adding that the animal was housed in the lion safari area of the zoo. On June 3, lioness Neela died in the same zoo after a Covid-19 outbreak among Asiatic lions was reported. Nine lions tested positive for the virus in the zoo at that time. As a precautionary measure, samples of 28 elephants from the Theppakadu camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve were also collected and sent for Covid-19 tests last week. All samples have tested negative for Covid-19 in IVRI lab in UP, said KK Kaushal, field director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. According to the state forest department, senior vets from the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) are supervising the treatment of the animals. For preventive measures and appropriate treatment, the Vandalur zoo is taking the help of Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which is an approved animal SARS-CoV-2 virus sequencing centre for better understanding of zoonotic transmission. All zoos in the state have been closed since April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-asiatic-lion-dies-of-covid-in-tn-zoo-101623869171443.html
17-06-2021||India||Facebook expands fact-checking arm in India on Covid, health misinformation||With an aim to combat Covid-19 and all other health-related misinformation, social media giant Facebook is expanding its third-party fact-checking programme in India.According to Facebook, the company has partnered with The Healthy Indian Project (THIP) to enhance its capabilities to understand and curb health-related misinformation on the platform. THIP is Facebook's first health-specialist partner in India.THIP works with verified medical professionals to fact check misleading news and claims about health, medicines, diet and treatment in English, Hindi, Bengali, Punjabi, and Gujarati.During the pandemic, Facebook has removed more than 18 million pieces of harmful misinformation across Facebook and Instagram and labelled over 167 million fake news posts on Covid-19 with the help of third-party fact-checkers.Globally, Facebook works with 80 fact-checking partners that help in content monitoring in more than 60 languages.According to Facebook, its fact-checking partners have been certified through the independent, non-partisan International Fact-Checking Network.In India, Facebook has 10 fact-checking partners, making it one of the largest after the US. The partners fact-check in 11 Indian languages and English. Indian languages include Hindi, Bengali, Telugu, Malayalam, Tamil, Marathi, Punjabi, Urdu, Gujarati, Assamese, Kannada.Third-party fact-checkers evaluate stories, check if the stories are factual, and rate their accuracy. When a fact-checker rates a story as false, Facebook shows it lower in News Feed, significantly reducing its dissemination and reducing the number of people who view it.Pages and domains that repeatedly share false news will also see their distribution reduced and their ability to monetize and advertise temporarily removed. Community members are presented with a pop-up notice if someone tries to share a fact-checked post so people can decide for themselves what to read, trust, and share.People who shared a story that's later debunked are notified so they know there is additional reporting on that piece of content.Facebook said it has also launched a fellowship with 10 fact-checking organizations and will provide virtual training sessions by third-party experts to help the participating fact-checkers to enhance their capabilities to combat Covid-19 misinformation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-expands-fact-checking-arm-in-india-on-covid-health-misinformation-101623860321492.html
17-06-2021||India||House panel members differ on vaccine drive||The Public Accounts Committee of Indian Parliament could not arrive at a decision on whether to examine the production, purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines after members failed to reach unanimity on the subject.According to two members present of PAC, chairman Adhir Chowdhury (of the Congress) started reading out a note on why the subject needs to be added to the agenda of the panel for FY 21-22, when some members from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) objected to its inclusion on the grounds that it was not listed in the draft agenda that was placed before the panel for deliberation.India’s vaccine policy has become a polarising political issue. Against the larger backdrop of a supply constraint, a debate has raged over the approval, purchase, prioritisation, pricing, and administration of vaccines.Chowdhury, according to the two members, who asked not to be named was not the first to demand inclusion of the subject. DMK leader TR Balu suggested the same, they said. After Chowdhury’s speech met with objections, a few other members such as Congress leader Shakti Sinh Gohil came out in his support and said he should be allowed to complete his speech. The objections, however, continued, with BJP members saying the speech was political in nature, one of the two cited in the first instance said.“At one point, a senior leader even proposed voting to decide if the subject should be in the agenda,” said the second leader.The non-inclusion of the subject is in keeping with protocol, a lawmaker explained.PAC member and BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab said: “All agenda that has to be listed for deliberation requires unanimity. If a single member opposes it, the proposed subject can’t be taken up for deliberation. The onus is on the chairman to take other members along with him.”2021 is the centenary year of the Public Accounts Committee that was established during the British Raj in 1921.The entire debate took place in front of Comptoller and Auditor General GC Murmu and other officials of India’s audit watchdog. The proposed list of subjects in the draft agenda contained only the recent CAG reports, said the first MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-members-differ-on-vaccine-drive-101623868991486.html
17-06-2021||India||CBI charges Mehul Choksi with ‘destruction of evidence’||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a fresh charge sheet against diamantaire Mehul Choksi and 21 others in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case on June 10, adding “destruction of evidence” to the list of offences that he has been accused of. The supplementary charge sheet, like the first one filed on May 17, 2018, also accuses Choksi of cheating, forgery, falsifying accounts, criminal conspiracy and bribery under the Prevention of Corruption Act.Choksi, 62, faces charges of getting 165 Letters of Undertaking (LOUs) and 58 FLCs (Foreign Letters of Credit) fraudulently issued in 2017 in connivance with officials of the state-run bank. The fraud led to a loss of ₹6,097 crore ($952 million) to the state-run bank, the CBI said.HT has accessed a copy of the charge sheet. The charge sheet also alleged that the businessman figured that he would be a target of criminal investigations well before the first case was registered against him on January 29, 2018, and travelled to Hong Kong in December 2017 to get his associates to shift operations to Thailand.“In December 2017, Mehul Choksi visited Hong Kong and met dummy directors of Hong Kong based supplier entities (controlled by him) and told them that problems are going on in India related to his company – Gitanjali Group and that they might have to face Enforcement Directorate (ED) enquiries,” the CBI charge sheet said.“This shows that Mehul Choksi had prior knowledge about the impending criminal proceedings. Hence, he fled the country on January 4, 2018, with dishonest intent, to evade the process of law.”Officials familiar with matter said the supplementary charge sheet will be shared with authorities and the high court of justice in Dominica to back up its plea to get Choksi deported to India.Choksi acquired citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda and was living there after fleeing India in January 2018. He is fighting in court, an effort by the island nation to revoke his citizenship. He went missing from Antigua on May 23 and turned up in Dominica where he faces charges of illegal entry. His family and lawyers have alleged he was abducted and are battling efforts to have him deported to India to stand trial.As reported by HT, India has told the court that Choksi was still an Indian citizen since his request to renounce his Indian citizenship wasn’t accepted.Choksi’s lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, said CBI’s new accusation that he destroyed evidence was an effort to cover up gaps.“This supplementary charge sheet... shows that it is only an attempt to cover up anomalies that defence has pointed out in the first charge sheet. Moreover, addition of section 201 of IPC (destruction of evidence) is not legally tenable as a document becomes evidence only after filing of the court, and the allegations are of a period much prior to even FIR,” Aggarwal said.In its new charge sheet, CBI said the agency was also investigating the “bogus LOUs and FLCs” issued in favour of Choksi’s companies in 2014, 2015 and 2016. CBI suspects a total 347 bogus FLCs were issued between 2014 and 2016.During raids in 2018, CBI said it recovered records of fraudulent LOUs and FLCs transactions maintained in the Google drive by former Vice President of Choksi’s Gitanjali Group , Vipul Chitalia at Choksi’s behest.CBI said it is also probing alleged diversion of another ₹942 crore by Choksi’s companies including Asmi Jewellery India Ltd as well as role of Chief Internal Auditor of PNB, Brady House branch , Bishnubrata Mishra.Apart from Choksi, 21 individuals and companies are named in the charge sheet including retired deputy manager of PNB , Gokulnath Shetty, single window operator Hanumant Karat, former Managing Director of Allahabad Bank , Usha Ananthasubramaniam, former executive directors of PNB, K V Brahmaji Rao and Sanjiv Sharan, former general manager of the bank , Nehal Ahad, and former Vice President of Choksi’s Gitanjali Group, Vipul Chitalia .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-charges-choksi-with-destruction-of-evidence-101623868932740.html
17-06-2021||India||Second wave of Covid-19 took heavier toll on pregnant women: Study||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India killed more pregnant women and new mothers as compared to the first, a new study by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found, underlining the need to vaccinate women in these categories.The study is due for publication in a medical journal, officials said. It analysed the case fatality rate (CFR) in pregnant and postpartum women and found that it was 5.7% in the second wave as opposed to 0.75 in the first wave. CFR is the proportion of people who die of a disease among the total number of patients diagnosed with the disease.Symptomatic cases were also significantly higher at 28.7% in the second wave as compared to the first when the proportion was 14.2%, says the study based on data from the Covid-19 registry on pregnant and postpartum women.“The data shows that the severity of disease among this category of patients was higher in the second wave. Data was collated from Nair Hospital in Mumbai for this particular study otherwise there are in all 11 publications based on the registry on pregnant and postpartum women with Covid-19 around 19 study sites,” said Dr Geetanjali Sachdeva, director, ICMR’s National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health.The analysis of data on nearly 4,000 Covid-positive women for the study was done in the Mumbai-based institute, and it is in the process of being published in the Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics.The reason for the drastic increase in deaths and cases is not clear. “Increased severity could be different variants in circulation, but nothing can be said for sure because the whole genome sequencing of positive samples was not done,” Dr Sachdeva added.The data from the first wave was collated between April 1, 2020, and January 31, 2021; and for the second wave, data was taken from February 1, 2021, till May 14, 2021.Doctors treating women with Covid-19 also agree that the second wave had a severe impact on pregnant women than what was seen earlier.Dr Anuradha Kapur, senior director and head of unit, department of gynaecology and obstetrics at Max Hospital in Saket, said a large number of such women caught the infection and became seriously ill.“When Covid-19 started last year, the (American) CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) issued guidelines that it won’t impact pregnant women much. But this year, it was totally the opposite, and the guidelines had to be changed. In most of the cases, lungs of the patients got compromised, making it difficult to treat them,” Kapur said.ICMR released a snapshot of the findings on Wednesday and said 2% of the total number of deaths ever since the pandemic began last year was of pregnant women or new mothers. Most of the deaths were due to Covid-19 related pneumonia and respiratory failure.“The study underlines the importance of vaccination of pregnant and lactating women against Covid-19,” said ICMR in a brief statement.The Centre’s expert panel — the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 —recently shared a fresh recommendation that allowed vaccination in lactating women.As far as vaccinating pregnant women is concerned, the health ministry last month said that the matter was “under discussion and further deliberation by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-wave-of-covid-19-took-heavier-toll-on-pregnant-women-study-101623868871601.html
17-06-2021||India||Mayawati attacks SP after Akhilesh meets rebel MLAs||LUCKNOW A day after six rebel Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs met Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, party chief Mayawati on Wednesday lashed out at the SP, alleging that it was trying to project the meeting as a split.Mayawati accused the SP of “specialising in the narrow politics of hate, manipulation, malice and casteism”.“The Samajwadi Party, which is an expert in narrow politics of despicable manipulations, malice and casteism, is publicising through the media that some BSP MLAs are breaking away to join the SP. This is a serious illusion,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister tweeted in Hindi. On Tuesday, six rebel BSP MLAs — Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel and Hargovind Bhargava — met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in the party office. After the meeting, the group’s leader Aslam Raini announced that 11 rebel BSP MLAs would launch a new political party.The BSP chief said the MLAs who met Akhilesh were suspended from the party long back for colluding with the SP and an industrialist during the Rajya Sabha elections for defeating a Dalit candidate. “Had the SP been even a little bit honest towards these suspended MLAs, it would not have kept them in the lurch. The SP knows that if these MLAs join their party, then there will be a rebellion and disunity in SP, whose leaders are eager to cross over to the BSP,” she tweeted. Mayawati said people were aware of the fact that the working style, character and face of the SP were anti-Dalit. The SP leaders were not ready to change their attitude, she alleged.After coming to power in 2012, the SP government stopped all schemes launched by the previous BSP government for the welfare of the weaker sections, she said.“The SP has always been anti-Dalit and they do not want to improve. This is why the SP government stopped the welfare work undertaken by the BSP. Bhadohi was not made a new district as Sant Ravidas Nagar,” she said.The “new drama” enacted by the SP in meeting the suspended BSP MLAs and getting it publicised was more of a manoeuvre being done for the coming zila panchayat chairpersons’ and block pramukhs’ elections, she said.Responding to Mayawati’s remarks, SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “Mayawati ji’s allegations are baseless. MLAs are deserting her. She must ponder over why they are not ready to contest elections on a BSP ticket. They know BSP is a spent force and it never raises the issues of Dalits and oppressed people. Dalits and other weaker sections are now reposing faith in the leadership of Akhilesh Yadav ji and therefore Behan ji’s recent statement shows her desperation to keep intact her vote share.”“She rarely speaks against BJP governments at the Centre and the state and attacks opposition parties only. We hope the people of Uttar Pradesh will reject her politics,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-attacks-sp-after-akhilesh-meets-rebel-mlas-101623868812187.html
17-06-2021||India||Twitter chose not to comply, says Centre||New Delhi: Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday said Twitter has deliberately chosen to not comply with the country’s new social media and intermediary guidelines, even as officials in his ministry said that this could make the social media company lose the protection it enjoys as an intermediary, although experts said whether or not the company is an intermediary will be decided by the courts, not the ministry. The guidelines came into effect on May 26. The rules are in place, and whether they have been violated or not, the experts added, is also something the courts have to decide.A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said that the company is “making every effort” to comply with the guidelines, and has appointed a compliance officer as required, but the IT ministry did not shed light on this.The company did not make any further statements on Wednesday. A Twitter spokesperson declined to respond to requests for comment. Prasad himself did not directly comment on the intermediary protection issue, but lashed out at the social media company for not following rules. “There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision,” Prasad wrote on Twitter and on Koo, a microblogging service like Twitter that has the government’s blessings. “However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May. Further, it was given multiple opportunities to comply with the same, however, it has deliberately chosen the path of non-compliance,” he said. Prasad added the guidelines were brought in to counter the menace of fake news. “The culture of India varies like its large geography. In certain scenarios, with the amplification of social media, even a small spark can cause a fire, especially with the menace of fake news. This was one of the objectives of bringing the Intermediary Guidelines,” he said. “It is astounding that Twitter which portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the intermediary guidelines.”The Union minister also hit out at the social media firm for arbitrarily deciding which posts to mark as “manipulated media”, seemingly referring to controversy wherein Twitter had decided to flag posts by several senior BJP leaders that alleged Congress prepared a toolkit to defame India’s Covid efforts and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “What happened in UP was illustrative of Twitter’s arbitrariness in fighting fake news. While Twitter has been over enthusiastic about its fact checking mechanism, it’s failure to act in multiple cases like UP is perplexing as well as points towards its inconsistency in fighting misinformation,” Prasad said, adding: “If any foreign entity believes that they can portray itself as the flag bearer of free speech in India to excuse itself from complying with the law of the land, such attempts are misplaced.”His reference is to a video that went viral on Twitter that seemed to show a hate crime targeting a Muslim man in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, and was amplified as such, but which the state’s police has subsequently claimed was not a communal incident. HT on Wednesday reported that if Twitter does not follow the new Information Technology (IT) rules , it may no longer be entitled to seek protection from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third-party content.Twitter late on Tuesday said it was in touch with the ministry of electronics and information technology, and has appointed an interim compliance officer. “We are keeping the MeitY apprised of the progress at every step of the process,” a Twitter spokesperson said, adding: “An interim Chief Compliance Officer has been retained and details will be shared with the Ministry directly soon. Twitter continues to make every effort to comply with the new Guidelines.” The chief compliance officer will be liable for penal action under the new guidelines in case of violation or failure to follow the rules.Digital advocacy rights group Internet Freedom Foundation asserted that the “intermediary status” is a technical qualification as per “criteria under the Section 2(1)(ua)(w) of the IT Act”. “As per Section 79, intermediaries are immune from liability/penalty if they comply with legal takedown requests of user posts from courts & public authorities. As we explain, this is threatened by the IT Rules, 2021,” IFF tweeted. “Even if we presume that the IT Rules are legal and constitutional, where alleged non-compliance is for appointment of officers, etc., when companies like Twitter are prosecuted, courts will decide if it is an intermediary and not the government,” it said.The reference to constitutionality comes from a school of thought that says that because the new guidelines are a subordinate legislation (to the IT Act itself), a case can be made that they are arbitrary and go beyond the scope of the law. IFF added that the there is no power or process for the grant or revocation of an intermediary status. “There is no immediate penalty which flows from non-compliance beyond loss of immunity determined by Courts on evidence and legal submissions,” said IFF. “It’s not that their intermediary status is revoked but they lose protection under Section 79 of the IT Act. The courts can find them guilty of non-compliance,” a senior ministry official said on the condition of anonymity. HT on June 7 reported that the microblogging services conveyed to the government that it was “committed to complying with the new rules”, even as it raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and intimidation by the police. The social media company sought a week from the ministry to comply with the key clauses of the new guidelines after the ministry issued it an ultimatum earlier this month. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, were notified in February, with all clauses coming into force on May 25. These guidelines require digital companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. WhatsApp has challenged only the traceability aspect of the law in the Delhi high court. There are at least 7 other petitions against the guidelines, including by digital news websites. One of these is also by popular Carnatic vocalist and social justice activist TM Krishna, who said the rules are unconstitutional for how they impact the freedom of expression and the right to privacy. Krishna has challenged the entirety of the rules on five grounds, including violations of fundamental rights to free speech, to freedom to practice any profession and to that of privacy.Twitter becomes the latest social media firm to fall in line with requirements, with Google, Whatsapp and Facebook already sharing the details of the officers with the government. Raman Chima, Asia Pacific policy director at Access Now said that the Union Government does not have the sole authority to device how internet intermediaries are able to make use of the legal protection granted to them by Parliament. “Whether the government’s rules are constitutional, and whether partial or incomplete compliance impacts this legal immunity provided in law, will ultimately be decided by judges, and not just by the executive branch,” he said. Kazim Rizvi, founding director at the think tank The Dialogue, said the government has always had the option to initiate legal proceedings against any intermediary. “Twitter will obviously invoke its safe harbour immunity to shield itself from actions of third parties on its platform. However, it is the court which will decide the extent of liability (if any) on the basis of the established jurisprudence in the Shreya Singhal and the Nakul Bajaj cases among many others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-chose-not-to-comply-says-centre-101623868574054.html
17-06-2021||India||Denial of bail hearing is a breach of rights, says Supreme Court||Asserting that denial of a bail hearing is a breach of an accused person’s rights, the Supreme Court has said at least half the number of judges should sit in high courts on alternate days during the pandemic and attend to matters of urgency and individual liberty.A bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian lamented that cases relating to life and liberty of the accused were not being listed for hearing in some of the high courts due to non-availability of judges.“Under the prevailing pandemic, at least half of the judges should sit on alternative days so that hearing is accorded to the person in distress. Non-listing of application for regular bail, irrespective of seriousness or lack thereof, of the offences attributed to the accused, impinges upon the liberty of the person in custody,” said the bench in its order on Tuesday.The court was hearing a petition by Goraya-based industrialist Chuni Lal Gaba, who has been named in a money laundering case linked with the ₹6,000 crore synthetic drug racket masterminded by former deputy superintendent of police Jagdish Bhola in Punjab.Senior advocate Vikram Chaudhri, representing Gaba, submitted before the bench that his client’s bail application has been pending before the Punjab and Haryana high court since February 28, 2020. The petition in the apex court was against an order of the high court on April 29 turning down a request for expeditious hearing of Gaba’s bail plea .Chaudhry added that although his client was 73 and suffered from several ailments, the high court showed no urgency in considering the bail plea and after almost 20 adjournments since February 2020, the matter has now been listed for August 21.At this, the bench said it was “shocked” to come across the facts of the case. “Normally, we do not interfere with an interim order passed by the high court but we are constrained to pass the present order as we are shocked to see that the bail application under Section 439 CrPC (Criminal Procedure Code) is not being listed for hearing for more than one year. The accused has a right to hearing of his application for bail. In fact, the denial of hearing is an infringement of right and liberty assured to an accused,” the order stated.It underlined that “even during the pandemic, when all courts are making attempts to hear and decide all matters, non-listing of such an application for bail defeats the administration of justice” and impinged upon the liberty of the person in custody.The bench then added that at least half the number of judges should sit on alternate days during the week to make certain that people had access to the justice delivery system in urgent matters.It said that the registrar general of the Punjab and Haryana high court will bring the Supreme Court’s order to the notice of the competent authority to take remedial steps at the earliest.On Gaba’s plea, the court said: “We hope that the high court will be able to take up the application for bail at an early date so that the right of the accused of hearing of application for bail is not taken away by not entertaining such application on the mentioning memo.”As Chaudhry thanked the bench for addressing the situation, justice Gupta retorted: “Since I belong to the same high court (Punjab and Haryana), I know the problems there.”The vacation benches in the Supreme Court sit two days a week during the court holidays. Additionally, special bench matters are taken up occasionally||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denial-of-bail-hearing-is-a-breach-of-rights-says-supreme-court-101623868573505.html
17-06-2021||India||Despite bail, students in prison as cops ‘verifying address’||Three student activists arrested in connection with the 2020 Delhi riots spent Wednesday night in jail despite securing bail from the Delhi high court 30 hours earlier, because Delhi Police asked for more time to verify the permanent addresses of the three people.In a Delhi trial court, police sought six days to complete the verification of the “outstation permanent address” of all three accused people -- Jawaharlal Nehru University students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha -- and said the process could not be completed earlier due to paucity of time.Narwal’s permanent address is in Haryana, Kalita’s is in Assam, and Tanha’s is in Jharkhand. The three have been in jail for more than a year.The trial court will pronounce its order on Thursday morning.On Tuesday, the high court granted bail to the three people, terming the charges against them “stretched”, “verbiage” and “hyperbole”.“In so far as verification of “outstation permanent addresses” of accused persons is concerned, since Asif lqbal Tanha and Devangana Kalita are permanent residents of Jharkhand and Assam respectively, the investigating agency requires time till June 21 to verify the said address,” said an application filed by Alok Kumar, additional deputy commission of police (special cell)“Similarly, accused Natasha Narwal is a permanent resident of Rohtak, therefore, the investigating agency requires time till June 18 and would file report on June 19,” the application added.Police also said that for each of the accused, one out of two sureties was pending verification.Advocate Adit Pujari, representing Narwal and Kalita, opposed this petition and said there was no justification for delay in verification of surety. He said that the sureties were already visited by police.Tanha’s counsel Sowjhanya Shankaran argued that the high court said that he should be released within 24 hours but her client is yet to be released.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa said, “The police seeking six days to verify the addresses, which are already known to them and mentioned in the charge sheet, is completely unwarranted. The continued detention of the accused persons post the order of the high court is violative of Article 21 of the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-bail-delhi-riots-accused-stay-in-jail-police-say-they-re-verifying-addresses-101623868572926.html
17-06-2021||India||Early rain showers risk washing away bodies into Ganga||Earlier-than-expected rain in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district and rising river levels are fast eroding chunks of the Ganga bank and threatening to sweep into the river hundreds of bodies buried in the sand, local officials said on Wednesday.The Prayagraj administration decided to cremate the bodies to prevent them from floating downstream. Till now, officials cremated at least 24 bodies, including three on Wednesday, in just one ghat, Phaphamau, in Prayagraj. Bodies were buried near four other ghats in the city, including Jhunsi and Daraganj.Another 60 to 70 bodies are on the verge of getting washed away, said residents. Zonal officer Neeraj Singh said he was cremating bodies getting exposed everyday by the erosion. “I don’t know any of the deceased. But it is my responsibility to follow the rituals of last rites. I light the pyre... considering ‘them’ as my own family members,” said Singh.During the 24 hours between Sunday and Monday evening, the city received 69.6mm of rainfall. On Monday, the city received 37mm of rainfall. “For the past around two decades, the monsoon was arriving by late June or first week of July. But here we are witnessing an early arrival of the monsoon”, said former head of the department of Geography at Allahabad University, Savindra Singh.The Ganga water level also started rising around two weeks ago due to weather pattern changes caused by cyclones Tauktae and Yaas. “The erosion of the riverbanks is mainly due to the Ganga water’s changing course and current,” said executive engineer of the flood control unit, Brijesh Kumar Verma.Hundreds of bodies were found buried in shallow graves on the banks of Ganga in Prayagraj last month, sparking concern. Many bodies were too decomposed to test for Covid but residents said the number of people burying bodies was many times higher than previous years.The discovery of the bodies coincided with the devastating second wave of Covid-19. Roughly 100 bodies were discovered floating in the river downstream in Ballia and Ghazipur in UP and Buxar in Bihar.Fearing infection, the government discouraged such burials and started disbursing money for funerals. “We have been keeping a close watch on the ghats because of which no one is burying the dead,” said PK Mishra, public relations officer of PMC.Senior Allahabad high court lawyer Arun Kumar Gupta said the administration needed to expand its vigil. “With the monsoon season on, the coming days would require 24x7 vigil on the riverbanks,” warned Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-rain-showers-risk-washing-away-bodies-into-ganga-101623868571473.html
17-06-2021||India||Centre defends vaccine gap amid political row||The Union government on Wednesday defended its decision to keep a long gap between two doses of Covishield despite new evidence from other regions that shows second shots need to be given sooner for adequate protection from the prevalent Delta variant, although it admitted that since mid-May it has been discussing, based on the evidence, whether it needs to revert to the originally recommended 4-8 weeks gap.India’s health authorities have been under increasing pressure from experts since last month, when they expanded the gap to 12-16 weeks while the UK, whose data it cited, itself reversed the delay. The government has been studying the suggestions and new reports suggested a group of experts did not recommend an extension beyond 12 weeks, a fact picked up by opposition leaders such as the Congress’s Rahul Gandhi.“Decision to increase the gap between administering 2 doses of Covishield has been taken in a transparent manner based on scientific data. India has a robust mechanism to evaluate data. It’s unfortunate that such an important issue is being politicised!” said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in a tweet, before subsequent posts in which he accused Gandhi of “mythical claims without checking any facts”.Gandhi, while sharing a portion of a Reuters story, earlier said: “India needs quick & complete vaccination -- not BJP’s usual brand of lies & rhyming slogans to cover-up vaccine shortage caused by Modi Govt’s inaction. GOI’s constant attempts to save PM’s fake image are facilitating the virus & costing people’s lives”.The Reuters report quoted three members of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) as saying that the recommendation was to extend the gap between Covishield doses to 8-12 weeks, not beyond. The Union government on May 13 set a minimum of 12 weeks and a maximum of 16 to delay the second doses, altering its earlier schedule of 6-8 weeks.At the time, it seemed like a good idea given constraints in the supply of vaccines.That was before the emergence of new data on the Delta variant, and the high likelihood of it being the dominant strain in the country (and responsible for the second wave) .On May 15, the UK announced the Delta variant (B.1.617.2, seen first in India) may be more resistant to vaccines and went on to cut the delay from 12 weeks to 8 weeks for everyone above 50 the same day, and on June 15, extended this shorter dose interval to anyone over 40.A week later, Public Health England released data of its tests on two vaccines, Pfizer/BioNTech and AstraZeneca/Oxford, that showed that one dose of the vaccine offered just a 33% protection against infection, and that two doses of the vaccine offered 88% protection in the case of the Pfizer jab and 60%, in the case of the AstraZeneca one.Subsequent research, released earlier this week, showed that the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine was 71% effective in preventing hospitalisation after one dose, and 92% after both.The AstraZeneca/Oxford shot, made in India as Covishield, accounts for nearly 90% of the 260 million vaccine doses administered in the country, where some states have curtailed vaccination programmes over supply constraints.The head of NTAGI claimed that the decision to increase the gap was unanimous.The move to the gap was to give flexibility to the community, since everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks or so, the chairman of NTAGI in a statement on Wednesday, clarifying it was a scientific decision with no dissenting voices in the expert group.“In the last week of April, 2021, the data released by Public Health England, United Kingdom’s executive agency of the Department of Health, showed that vaccine efficacy varied between 65% - 88% when interval is 12 weeks. This was the basis on which they overcame their epidemic outbreak due to the Alpha variant. The UK was able to come out of it because the interval they kept was 12 weeks. We also thought that this is a good idea, since there are fundamental scientific reasons to show that when interval is increased, adenovector vaccines give better response,” said Dr NK Arora.Indeed, research on both the Wuhan strain and the Alpha variant seemed to suggest enhanced efficiency when the gap was extended to 12 weeks.“Hence the decision was taken on May 13, to increase the interval to 12 - 16 weeks. This also gives flexibility to the community, since everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks or so… We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on scientific basis. The COVID Working Group took that decision, with no dissenting voice. This issue was then discussed threadbare at an NTAGI meeting, again with no dissenting notes,” he added.It isn’t clear why NTAGI decided to extend the gap to 16 weeks; Spain extended the gap to 16 weeks in April, but prompted by a decision to conduct tests on mixing vaccines. Canada, too, has a 16-week gap, although several states have started reducing this based on supplies (which prompted the decision in the first place).According to the statement, the earlier (first) decision of (a) four weeks (gap) was based upon the bridging trial data available at the time, Arora added, referring to the trials carried out by Serum Institute of India, which makes Covishield.“Later we came across additional scientific and laboratory data, based on which after six weeks or so, we felt we should increase the interval from four weeks to eight weeks, since studies showed that vaccine efficacy is about 57% when it is four weeks and about 60% when it is eight weeks,” Arora said. That change was made on March 22.The government statement said “Canada, Sri Lanka and few other countries are also using 12-16 weeks interval for the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine”.“2-3 days after we took the decision to increase the dosage interval, there were reports from UK that single dose of AstraZeneca vaccine gives only 33% protection and two doses give about 60% protection; discussion has been going on since mid-May whether India should revert to four or eight weeks,” Arora added, according to the statement.“Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5% - 10%, the committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom. On the other hand, if it turns out that the current decision is fine, we will continue with it,”Explaining why NTAGI did not increase the gap to 12 weeks sooner, he said, “We decided we should wait for ground-level data from the UK (the other biggest user of AstraZeneca vaccine).”There was no mention of vaccine supply difficulties during the month of May, when many vaccination centres across the country were shut down, in the statement.“Part of the problem earlier was shortage of vaccine supply, but now as the supplies are improving and there is a pandemic to deal with, I would say, for Covishield, 4 weeks gap is good enough. If you are not in a hurry then you could wait for 12 weeks,” said Dr Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-defends-vaccine-gap-amid-political-row-101623868572126.html
17-06-2021||India||Bangladesh is now among India’s top 5 export destinations||Bangladesh has surpassed Hong Kong to become India’s fourth biggest export destination in the first three months of the current calendar year, and climbed four notches to fare in the country’s top five export destinations in 2020-21 because of New Delhi’s diplomatic efforts, logistical ease and a robust demand for Indian farm produce.India’s exports to Bangladesh rose 46% on an annualised basis at $3.16 billion in January-March, securing it the fourth position after the US ($15.41 billion), China ($5.92 billion) and UAE ($5.34 billion), according to the latest data from the commerce ministry. Indian merchandise exports to Bangladesh, which saw a 35.14% year-on-year growth to $0.95 billion in January and 17%to $0.94 billion in February , witnessed a 93.45% annualised jump in March to $1.26 billion.India, which follows the April-March financial year, saw Bangladesh at the fifth position in its list of top export destinations for FY-21, a jump from the ninth rank in 2019-20, with an annualised growth of 10.83% to $9.09 billion. The top four export destinations in 2020-21 are the US ($51.63 billion), China ($21.2 billion), UAE ($16.68 billion) and Hong Kong ($10.15 billion).Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) director general & CEO Ajay Sahai said one of the reasons for increased export to Bangladesh is relatively fewer disruptions in movement of goods to the country compared to other export destinations in the US and Europe due to Covid restrictions. “A combination of three factors helped in rising exports to Bangladesh – diplomatic efforts, logistics in terms of rail and waterways, and demand for agricultural items,” he said.Bangladesh is one of the largest markets for India’s agriculture products. India’s agri exports to Bangladesh recorded the second highest growth of 95.93% in 2020-21 after Indonesia (102.42%), a government official said on condition of anonymity.Major contributors to the increase in exports in 2020-21 are petroleum products and agricultural commodities such as rice (other than basmati), said India Exim Bank’s chief general manager - research & analysis, David Sinate. Exports also jumped due to a sharp reduction in import duty on rice (from 62.5% to 25%) by Bangladesh. The movement of goods by rail instead of road has also facilitated trade with reduced transportation costs, he added.People familiar with developments said trade with Bangladesh was helped by India’s focus on keeping key rail and river routes open amid disruptions in the neighbourhood caused by the pandemic. Land customs stations and other border facilities too have been upgraded and there is greater coordination between the two sides. “There has been a conscious effort to ensure the bilateral relationship has a solid underpinning from trade and economic ties. There has been greater focus on connectivity and easing of trade procedures at the border because of the confidence in the relationship over the past decade,” said one of the people cited above.“At the same time, there has been a realisation on the Bangladeshi side that certain goods can be acquired more cheaply from India and with the same quality,” the person said, adding Dhaka had also benefited from concessions under the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA).According to Sahai, consumption of food items has gone up globally in recent years. “Bangladesh is importing agricultural produce from India in large quantities because of better quality, reasonable rates and logistical advantages,” he added.“The prime reason for the surge in the exports to Bangladesh is huge surge in cereal exports,” Mohit Singla, founder chairman, the Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI) said, adding that freight cost is often a deciding factor for global imports. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), food import costs across the world will surge to record levels this year, he said. The world’s food import bill, including shipping costs, is projected to reach $1.715-trillion this year, he added.“Bangladesh is India’s most important trade partner in the South Asian region, and the governments of the two countries are taking diplomatic efforts to enhance trade and commerce for mutual benefits. This reflects in PM Modi’s first foreign visit to the country after the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic on March 26-27, 2021,” said another government official said who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-is-now-among-india-s-top-5-export-destinations-101623868511464.html
17-06-2021||India||Excess early rains boost sowing trend||A bountiful monsoon has bolstered sowing of a range of kharif or summer-sown crops, which is progressing at a quicker pace compared to previous two years and is likely to keep farm growth on track and help tame rising inflation, a major concern across economies, including India, experts have said. The government expects a third straight year of record harvests, an official said, requesting anonymity. Early monsoon rains have boosted sowing of crops such as rice, cotton, soybean, maize and pulses in southern, central and western states. In northern states, too, sowing has accelerated.Global inflation, especially of crude and edible oil, can still stoke prices in the country. However, bountiful farm output and a normal monsoon will keep a lid on prices of foods that don’t need to be imported, forecasters said. Poorer households tend to spend more on food as a proportion of their monthly budgets than on other items.The June-September monsoon covered two-thirds of the country a fortnight earlier than usual on June 13, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which said the rain-bearing system was well on course to advance into the northwestern states, albeit with a bit of a lull. The rains have been 33% excess so far. Good rainfall also tends to increase yields.Overall, planting of summer crops this year has been higher by nearly 38% than the previous year, according to weekly sowing data filed by states. Compared to 2019 levels during the corresponding period, sowing is higher by nearly 24%.Robust farm output is key to Indian economy because nearly half of all Indians depend on a farm-derived income. Over 50% of India’s net-sown area lacks access to irrigation. “One of the reasons for brisk sowing activity is that farmers in many states took to early sowing because of good pre-monsoon showers,” said Abhishek Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.Good harvests boost demand for manufactured goods and services. “The rise in inflation has been very broad based and that’s a worry. There are new drivers of inflation. Inflation in imported items, like crude oil and edible oil, is not in our control,” said DK Joshi, the chief economist of Crisil Ltd, a ratings firm. However, the “important part” is that overall food output is likely to be good and “so we are unlikely to see inflation in most food items rising in a substantial way”, Joshi added.GDP growth and prices continue to be two key concerns of the economy as it tries to claw out of the pandemic, said KS Mani, an economist. Retail inflation rose to 6.3% in May 2021 from a year ago, higher than the Reserve Bank’s acceptable upper limit of 6%. Inflation in food and beverages rose 5.24%, led by edible oils and pulses.Farm growth stood at 3.1% in fourth quarter compared to 4.5% in third quarter in FY 21. It grew a healthy 3.6% for the full year, cushioning the impact of Covid on the economy somewhat.The country’s foodgrain output is projected to rise 2.6% to stand at a record 305.43 million tonnes in 2020-21, according to estimates of the agriculture ministry released on May 26.In the states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, rice plantings are up by nearly 100% so far, data from the states show.“A key sowing trend this year is a sharp increase in the sowing of pulses,” the official cited in the first instance said. In the first week of May, a month ahead of the monsoon’s onset, the higher sowing trends had already become apparent.In the last week of April, for instance, the area sown under pulses had increased to 1.2 million hectare, which is a nearly 100% jump for that period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excess-early-rains-boost-sowing-trend-101623868512146.html
17-06-2021||India||PM Modi invites investment into India at world meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday invited investment into India, based on what he dubbed were the “five pillars of talent, market, capital, ecosystem and a culture of openness”.Delivering the keynote address at the fifth edition of ‘VivaTech Summit’, the PM said, “India’s strides in the world of tech and start-up are well-known. Our nation is home to one of the world’s largest start-up ecosystems. Several unicorns have come up in recent years. Indian tech-talent pool is famous across the world. Indian youth have given tech solutions to some of the world’s most pressing problems.”“I invite the world to invest in India based on the five pillars of talent, market, capital, ecosystem, and culture of openness,” the PM added.VivaTech is a digital and startup event that is held in Paris every year.Modi said the emphasis should be on sustainable lifestyles that stop ecological degradation and that the focus should be on “repair and prepare” as the nation emerges from the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. He added that there is a need to insulating the planet against the next pandemic. “We have to continue repairing health infrastructure and our economies,” he said.In India, which is under the grip of second wave of Covid-19, the infection has been spreading at a fast pace, making new records almost daily in terms of the number of people infected.The Prime Minister called upon the start-up community to take the lead in working with collective spirit and a human centric approach to overcome the health challenges. “The start-up space is dominated by youngsters. These are people free from the baggage of the past. They are best placed to power global transformation. Our start-ups must explore areas such as health care, eco-friendly technology, including waste recycling, agriculture, new age tools of learning,” he said.On the issue of digital partnership from start-ups to quantum computing that have emerged as a key priority, Modi said, “History has shown that leadership in new technology drives economic strength, jobs and prosperity. But, our partnerships must also serve a larger purpose, in service of humanity. This pandemic is not only a test of our resilience, but also of our imagination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invites-investment-into-india-at-world-meet-101623868032031.html
17-06-2021||India||Jharkhand home director, wife held for sexual abuse of minors||A special team of Jamshedpur police has arrested the absconding director of a government-approved shelter home, his wife, and two others, for alleged sexual abuse of the institute’s minor inmates, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.On June 5, two girl inmates aged 16 and 17 escaped from the children’s home run by an NGO called Mother Teresa Welfare Trust and were later rescued by the police. They had then levelled scharges of rampant sexual abuse at the shelter. “The four of the five named accused have been absconding since June 7 and the team led by ASP Kumar Gaurav tracked them down through their cellphone locations with the help of Singrauli police. They were brought here this morning on transit remand and sent to jail after Covid-19 test,” said Jamshedpur city superintendent of police Subhash Chandra Jat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkhand-home-director-wife-held-for-sexual-abuse-of-minors-101623867972116.html
17-06-2021||India||Rajnath stresses on open, inclusive Indo-Pacific region at ASEAN meet||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday called for “an open and inclusive order” in Indo-Pacific region, including the South China Sea, with respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries while reiterating New Delhi’s support to freedom of navigation, overflight and unimpeded commerce for all in international waters in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).Singh’s comments during a virtual address at the 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus came at a time when Beijing’s aggressive posturing in the resource-rich waters of South China Sea has attracted global attention to the region. China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Taiwan have competing claims to parts of the South China Sea - a crucial international trade route.The ADMM-Plus is an annual meeting of defence ministers of 10 ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries and eight dialogue partner countries, mainly Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand, Korea, Russia and the United States.During his address, Singh stressed on the need for peaceful resolution of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international rules. Singh’s Chinese counterpart also attended the virtual meeting. “India has strengthened its cooperative engagements in the Indo-Pacific based on converging visions and values for promotion of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. Premised upon the centrality of ASEAN, India supports utilisation of ASEAN-led mechanisms as important platforms for implementation of our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-stresses-on-open-inclusive-indo-pacific-region-at-asean-meet-101623867852750.html
17-06-2021||India||Another probe ordered into fake Covid testing during Mahakumbh||A top Kumbh Mela official on Wednesday ordered a probe into the Covid-19 tests carried out during the Mahakumbh in April after reports that private labs contracted by the Haridwar district administration generated fake reports to meet targets during the Mahakumbh.This is the second inquiry into the Covid-19 tests conducted in Haridwar during the Mahakumbh. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravi Shankar had earlier ordered an inquiry by a three-member panel led by the district’s chief development officer Saurabh Geharwar to probe the tests after a health department inquiry revealed that people who hadn’t given samples were sent the ‘test results’. Geharwar has to submit his report by July 26.Officials said the Kumbh Mela authorities, in addition to the tests conducted by firms contracted by the district administration, had also empanelled 11 labs from Haridwar, Dehradun, Roorkee and Haryana for conducting Covid-19 tests.Mahakumbh Mela (health) officer Dr Arjun Singh Sengar, who constituted the second probe team on Wednesday, said this committee would look into allegations of irregularities by private labs empanelled by them. “It has come to light that wrong data has been tabulated by some labs. We are probing this matter and due action will be taken accordingly as per the recommendations of the committee,” said Dr Sengar.Saurabh Geharwar, the official leading the first inquiry committee, declined to comment on the progress made by his team. “We are inquiring into the matter and will submit the report in due time... can’t divulge further on this matter until the probe gets completed and is submitted,” said Geharwar.A health official, on the condition of anonymity, said two private labs from Haryana that conducted over one lakh antigen tests in April and reported a disproportionately large number of negative results were under the scanner. The fake Covid-19 tests and other irregularities are believed to have contributed to Haridwar’s 4% 10-week average test positivity rate in April when the figure for the rest of Uttarakhand was 13.7%.The low positivity rate was often cited by officials and the Uttarakhand government to counter experts who advocated a more conservative approach in allowing people to congregate for the Mahakumbh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-probe-instituted-into-fake-covid-testing-during-mahakumbh-101623863471917.html
