18-06-2021||India||House panel grills Twitter over IT rules||The parliamentary panel on information technology headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor grilled officials from social media company Twitter for almost two hours over its “lack of compliance with the new intermediary guidelines”, and asked about the application of the “manipulated media” tag, with reference to its use on posts by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, people familiar with the matter said.Immediately after, officials from the ministry of electronics and information technology appeared before the panel and said that Twitter was not in compliance with the new rules, the people added on condition of anonymity. Twitter’s lack of compliance could potentially end the safe harbour provided to intermediaries in the Information Technology Act, although experts caveat that it will finally be up to the courts to decide whether or not the company is entitled to such protection. The panel’s meeting with Twitter came in the backdrop of the Uttar Pradesh Police summoning Twitter India’s managing director over the amplification of a video that the police claim was manipulated to portray the attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime. “TMC MP Mahua Moitra asked Twitter why it was not following the rules that have been laid down by the government,” one of the people cited in the first instance said. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey questioned Twitter India’s locus standi as a company. “Permission being sought from its US-headquarters cannot always be used as a defence,” the person quoted Dubey as saying. “It cannot be that every time compliance is sought from the company, it says that it will revert in 36 hours as it has to consult its offices in the US,” Dubey said.Questions were also put to the company on the use of the manipulated media tag, with MPs pointing out that this shows Twitter acting as an editor and not an intermediary. The BJP’s Rajyavardhan Rathore also sought Twitter’s stance on pornographic content on the platform and its removal, a second person cited in the first instance said. Dubey slammed Twitter for using “biased fact checkers”. “There cannot be different yard sticks for how Twitter acts in other countries and in India,” the second person quoted him as saying. A third person added that Twitter told the panel that it follows its own policies even as it observes the law of the land. Twitter said in a statement issued after the meeting that it is prepared to work with the panel on the important work of safeguarding citizens’ rights online in line with its own principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy. “We appreciate the opportunity to share our views before the Standing Committee on Information Technology,” a company spokesperson said. “We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation.”The parliamentary panel on information technology called officials from Twitter and the ministry of electronics and information technology on June 18 on “prevention of misuse of social media platforms”. The issue of the tag has been particularly contentious with Dubey hitting out at panel chairperson Tharoor for demanding an explanation from the ministry of electronics and information over the government’s decision to ask Twitter to remove the manipulated media tag from posts made by several BJP leaders. These posts shared what they claimed was a Congress toolkit (a playbook for a social media campaign) that was allegedly aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified party spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on the toolkit, the first one to be tagged as manipulated media. The action prompted the government to write to Twitter twice, on May 21 and 25, asking it to remove the tag as the matter was under investigation by law enforcement agencies. This was followed by a visit from and notice to the social media firm by the Delhi Police’s special cell, which sought information from Twitter -- although the police were yet to register a case at the time. There have been several instances of confrontation between the United States-based company and the Government of India, particularly around government’s content takedown orders and Twitter’s actions against people linked to the BJP for violation of its terms of use. Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the standoff last month, with Twitter first asking for three months to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the guidelines, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after the visit by the Delhi Police. The deadline for meeting the guidelines was May 25. On Tuesday, Twitter said it appointed an interim compliance officer. The new rules have been contested by WhatsApp as well as multiple digital news websites. WhatsApp has argued that the traceability provision mandated in the guidelines would violate end to end encryption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-grills-twitter-over-it-rules-101624040907261.html
18-06-2021||India||House panel grills Twitter on failure to comply with new rules, use of manipulated media tag||The parliamentary panel on information technology headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor grilled officials from social media company Twitter for almost two hours over its “lack of compliance with the new intermediary guidelines”, and asked about the application of the “manipulated media” tag, with reference to its use on posts by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, people familiar with the matter said.Immediately after, officials from the ministry of electronics and information technology appeared before the panel and said that Twitter was not in compliance with the new rules, the people added on condition of anonymity.Twitter’s lack of compliance could potentially end the safe harbour provided to intermediaries in the Information Technology Act, although experts caveat that it will finally be up to the courts to decide whether or not the company is entitled to such protection.The panel’s meeting with Twitter came in the backdrop of the Uttar Pradesh Police summoning Twitter India’s managing director over the amplification of a video that the police claim was manipulated to portray the attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime.“TMC MP Mahua Moitra asked Twitter why it was not following the rules that have been laid down by the government,” one of the people cited in the first instance said. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey questioned Twitter India’s locus standi as a company. “Permission being sought from its US-headquarters cannot always be used as a defence,” the person quoted Dubey as saying. “It cannot be that every time compliance is sought from the company, it says that it will revert in 36 hours as it has to consult its offices in the US,” Dubey said.Questions were also put to the company on the use of the manipulated media tag, with MPs pointing out that this shows Twitter acting as an editor and not an intermediary. The BJP’s Rajyavardhan Rathore also sought Twitter’s stance on pornographic content on the platform and its removal, a second person cited in the first instance said.Dubey slammed Twitter for using “biased fact checkers”. “There cannot be different yard sticks for how Twitter acts in other countries and in India,” the second person quoted him as saying.A third person added that Twitter told the panel that it follows its own policies even as it observes the law of the land. Twitter said in a statement issued after the meeting that it is prepared to work with the panel on the important work of safeguarding citizens’ rights online in line with its own principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy. “We appreciate the opportunity to share our views before the Standing Committee on Information Technology,” a company spokesperson said. “We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation.”The parliamentary panel on information technology called officials from Twitter and the ministry of electronics and information technology on June 18 on “prevention of misuse of social media platforms”.The issue of the tag has been particularly contentious with Dubey hitting out at panel chairperson Tharoor for demanding an explanation from the ministry of electronics and information over the government’s decision to ask Twitter to remove the manipulated media tag from posts made by several BJP leaders. These posts shared what they claimed was a Congress toolkit (a playbook for a social media campaign) that was allegedly aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified party spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on the toolkit, the first one to be tagged as manipulated media. The action prompted the government to write to Twitter twice, on May 21 and 25, asking it to remove the tag as the matter was under investigation by law enforcement agencies. This was followed by a visit from and notice to the social media firm by the Delhi Police’s special cell, which sought information from Twitter -- although the police were yet to register a case at the time.There have been several instances of confrontation between the United States-based company and the Government of India, particularly around government’s content takedown orders and Twitter’s actions against people linked to the BJP for violation of its terms of use.Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the standoff last month, with Twitter first asking for three months to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the guidelines, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after the visit by the Delhi Police. The deadline for meeting the guidelines was May 25.On Tuesday, Twitter said it appointed an interim compliance officer. The new rules have been contested by WhatsApp as well as multiple digital news websites. WhatsApp has argued that the traceability provision mandated in the guidelines would violate end to end encryption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-grills-twitter-on-failure-to-comply-with-new-rules-use-of-manipulated-media-tag-101624039824516.html
18-06-2021||India||'Big conspiracy': JP Nadda addresses BJP workers, refers to 'calf serum' issue||Addressing BJP MPS and workers on Friday, BJP chief JP Nadda said there is a 'big conspiracy against the vaccination drive which every BJP leader has to derail. Referring to the recent controversy over the use of calf serum in Bharat Biotech's Covaxin production, Nadda said, "A big conspiracy was hatched against vaccination drive and war over pandemic. The opposition played politics. Why lockdown? Why no lockdown? Now the issue of calf serum in vaccine and suspicion on the vaccine."Congress's Gaurav Panndhi has recently stirred a social media storm after he posted an RTI document which said calf serum is used in the production of Covaxin in the initial stage of the Vero cell growth. The government clarified that it is not present in the finished product as it undergoes several steps in between. Bharat Biotech too clarified that this is a standard procedure of vaccine production.In Friday's meeting, the BJP chief put the onus of vaccine wastage on states and said giving vaccines is the Centre's task whereas to waste vaccines was the state's task. "On vaccination, Mamata Banerjee and Arvind Kejriwal said they want to buy vaccines themselves. PM Modi decentralised it. However, it was centralised again after the failure of states. People need to be told that we were serving people whereas opposition was derailing the process," said Nadda."Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor promoted hesitancy and said we aren't rats and guinea pigs. Society was made to fear the vaccination process," he said accusing the Congress. "State governments were unsuccessful in following what was told to them and advisories sent to them, they were not alert enough," he further added.The BJP chief, who addressed party leaders virtually, urged the party MPs to go amongst people and tell them how opposition played politics to ensure that the Covidvaccination drive isn't successful and that attempts to provide relief to people are thwarted, ANI reported. "When state governments were callous in their approach in tackling coronavirus, 17 advisories from the Centre were sent to every State. On March 17, PM Modi, at CM's conference, addressed and told them that containment zones should be made and test and trace should be promoted," he said"Listen to the Netas and their statements they misled people, Shashi Tharoor or Gyani Netas like Manish Tewari. People won't forgive them. These people were issuing statements on Twitter. Apart from Covaxin and Covishield now we will have SputnikV as well. Bharat biotech was asked to increase its capacity," he added(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-conspiracy-jp-nadda-addresses-bjp-workers-refers-to-calf-serum-issue-101624037144270.html
18-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses 27 crore in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 27 crores, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) informed on Friday.On the 154th day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Centre informed that 27,20,72,645 doses have been administered so far as per a provisional report issued at 7 pm today.Out of these, 22,16,11,881 people have received their first dose and 5,04,60,764 have taken their second jab.On Friday, as many as 29,84,172 vaccine doses were given. From these, 26,24,028 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 3,60,144 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report.In the age group 18-44 years, 19,43,765 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 77,989 vaccine doses given as second dose on Friday.Cumulatively, 5,15,68,603 persons across 37 States/UTs have received their first dose and 11,40,679 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-coverage-crosses-27-crore-in-india-101624037528702.html
18-06-2021||India||Pashupati Paras responds to Chirag Paswan's claims of 'illegal' party election||Pashupati Kumar Paras, the newly elected national president of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), on Friday, hit out at nephew Chirag Paswan refuting his claims that Paras's election to the top post was "illegal" and was against the party's constitution. Speaking a day after the election, Paras underlined that Chirag is "neither LJP's national president nor the leader of the parliamentary party now" and said, "Yesterday's election was completely valid under the party's constitution, of which he is not aware," ANI reported.On Thursday, LJP elected Paras unopposed as the new party chief in an election. Chirag Paswan, son of Ram Vilas Paswan, founder of LJP and veteran politician, claimed the election was done by suspended members of the party. "LJP's national president is elected by the party's national executive which has around 75 members. Only 9 members were present at the national executive meeting. Suspended members have elected my uncle as the president, which is illegal," he said. Chirag also said that he believes Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla is not aware of the party's constitution; hence he declared Paras as the leader of the parliamentary party.Paras is the younger brother of Paswan who passed away in October last year due to a heat-related illness.On Sunday, Paras along with five other Members of Parliament met Birla and handed over a letter to him seeking removal of Chirag Paswan as party chief and as the Lok Sabha Parliamentary party leader.Om Birla accepted Paras as the floor leader of the LJP in the lower house.Later on Monday, Paras' name was added to the revised list of floor leaders of parties, as the Lok Sabha LJP leader.On Wednesday, Chirag also wrote to Birla stating that the decision of announcing Pashupati as leader of LJP in the Lower House was contrary to the provisions of the party's Constitution. Chirag also requested the Lok Sabha Speaker to issue a new circular in his favour as leader of LJP in the House.Earlier in the day, speaking on the feud, Birla said that the decision (of accepting Paras as the parliamentary party of LJP) was appropriate as there were signatures of five MPs and the letter of the chief whip," ANI reported."Choosing a parliamentary party leader is an internal matter of political parties. If a party follows the due procedure to choose the parliamentary party leader and the chief whip submits a letter informing the same, then the decision is to be recorded," he also said, as per the ANI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pashupati-paras-responds-to-chirag-paswan-s-claims-of-illegal-party-election-101624036728098.html
18-06-2021||India||North Karnataka at risk of floods due to last week’s rainfall in Maharashtra||Several districts in north Karnataka, including Bagalkot, have not faced rains in the current monsoon season. However, now, major parts of north Karnataka are under the threat of floods. Taluks like Mudhol, Banahatti are on the brink of experiencing floods emanating from the Ghataprabha river, which is a right bank tributary of the Krishna river, and whose basin stretches across Karnataka and Maharashtra.Last week’s large-scale rainfall in Maharashtra is what has led to this threat. According to Kannada daily Udayavani, due to the rains, the Hiranyakeshi river, which is a tributary of Ghataprabha, is dumping an average of 20,000 cusecs of water in its parent river at the Dakal reservoir. On Thursday, the reservoir received 17,114 cusecs of water from Hiranyakeshi while the corresponding figures for Tuesday and Wednesday were 23,000 and 21,000 cusecs respectively.The threat of floods has led to the Karnataka water resources department closely monitoring the situation at Dhoopadala and Dakal reservoirs, which are built across Hiranyakeshi and Ghataprabha respectively. In order to prevent possible flooding in low-lying areas, 1200 cusecs of water is being released into the Ghataprabha left bank canal (GLBC).Raitha Sangha (farmers’ association) has already started cultivating Kharif cultivation on both the banks of Ghataprabha. “Are hope is that the reservoirs will hold water till December,” Udayavani quoted Bharamappa Bilaga association secretary at Mudhol as saying.However, the district authorities have also sent the first warning to the villages on the southern bank of Ghataprabha. “We are intently observing the rains in Maharashtra, as well as those in Belagavi district in Karnataka. If the situation worsens, we will ask the villagers to vacate,” Sanjay Ingle, the Tahsildar of the Banahatti sub-division said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast “heavy to very heavy” rainfall in central Maharashtra in the next 72 hours. The alignment of the drainage system in central Maharashtra towards Hiranyakeshi, Ghataprabha and their tributaries is extremely worrisome for north Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-karnataka-at-risk-of-floods-due-to-last-week-s-rainfall-in-maharashtra-101624036338582.html
18-06-2021||India||Assam cancels Class 10, 12 boards; committees to be set up for evaluation||Ending weeks of confusion and speculation, the Assam government on Friday decided to cancel Class 10 and Class 12 board exams this year in view of the prevailing Covid-19 scenario in the state. Education minister Ranoj Pegu made the announcement after a meeting with various student organizations and stakeholders in Guwahati. Two committees have been formed to decide on the evaluation process to be followed for both classes. “Due to the present Covid-19 situation in the state and positivity rate still not being under control, we have after talks with stakeholders decided not to conduct the Class 10 and Class 12 board exams this year,” said Pegu while addressing a press conference after the meeting. “In order to decide on the norms to be followed to evaluate the students of both these classes, we will form two different committees on Saturday. They will have to submit a formula of evaluation within a week. Results of both the classes will be announced within July 31,” he added. Assam is one of the few states in the country that had not decided on whether to conduct the board exams even after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announcement on not holding the board exams this year. While the Class 10 board exams are conducted by the Board of Secondary Education, Assam (SEBA) Class 12 exams are conducted by the Assam State Higher Secondary Education Council (ASHEC). Earlier this month, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had announced that the board exams will be conducted in mid-July if the positivity rate of Covid-19 infections in the state dipped below 2% by July 1. On Wednesday, following the state health department’s advice that conducting exams at this stage might not be conducive, the state cabinet had recommended not to hold the exams this year. “We had been informed by the health department that in May and June around 14% of the total Covid-19 infections in Assam were of those in the below 18 years category,” said Pegu. “Though the overall Covid-19 scenario in the state has improved marginally and the positivity rate has come down to between 2% and 3%, there are still some districts where the situation is very worrying,” he added. Several students from the state had filed an intervention application in the Supreme Court this week seeking cancellation of the board exams. Nearly 700,000 students (of both classes) were to appear for their exams this year. On Thursday, Assam recorded 3,477 new Covid-19 cases and 41 deaths. The rate of positivity stood at 2.25%. At present there are around 38,000 active cases of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cancels-class-10-12-boards-committees-to-be-set-up-for-evaluation-101624036466123.html
18-06-2021||India||3-dose Zydus Cadila likely to seek emergency nod for ZyCoV-D in a week: Report||Zydus Cadila, the Ahmedabad-based vaccine maker, is likely to apply for emergency use authorisation to the Drug Controller General of India in a week, news agency ANI reported. In that case, it will be the second indigenous vaccine to apply for such authorisation and if it gets approval soon, then it will be the 4th vaccine after Covishiedl, Covaxin, Sputnik V to get approval in India. "Zydus Cadila has told the government that it could apply for emergency use authorisation for ZyCoV-D vaccine in the next seven-eight days," a government source said to ANI.Zydus Cadila has enrolled more than 28,000 volunteers for their phase three study and most part of their study has been complete.India may have 4 Covid-19 vaccines for children soon: All you need to knowThe zyCov-D vaccine will become a game-changer in many respects, it is believed. Here are the reasons:> ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA vaccine against coronavirus. The vaccine consists of some genetic material which will instruct human cells to make SARS-CoV2 antigen.> The trial included children as well. So if the vaccine gets DCGI approval, it could be India's first vaccine for the below 18 population.> This is also the first vaccine that will have three doses. The second and the third doses are to be administered on day 28 and day 56."We are hoping that they will apply in near future. Most of their study is complete. They have enrolled more than 28,000 volunteers in their phase 3 study. We expect they will submit the results very soon. We are hopeful of this vaccine because it would be the world's first DNA vaccine. We are very proud of their work," Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul has said to ANI.What do we know about its safety?In the adaptice phase I and II clinical trials, the vaccine was found to be safe. The phase 2 study was conducted over 1,000 adult volunteers as part of the adaptive Phase I/II dose-escalation, multi-centric, randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3dose-zydus-cadila-likely-to-seek-emergency-nod-for-zycov-d-in-a-week-report-101624031196784.html
18-06-2021||India||'Covid-19 vaccination reduces chances of hospitalisation by 75-80%': Dr VK Paul||The Union government said on Friday that studies among healthcare workers (HCWs) have shown that getting vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reduces the chances of hospitalisation by 75-80% even if one contracts Covid-19.Also Read | Third wave of Covid-19 in India: What these 3 studies have predicted so farAddressing a press conference, Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (health) said, "Vaccination saved lives of thousands of healthcare workers. Studies show that chances of hospitalisation reduce by 75-80% after vaccination if they contract Covid-19. The possibility of oxygen requirement is around 8%, while the risk of ICU admission is just 6%. The protection is 94%."These, Dr Paul said, are "reasonable" sample-sized studies, adding that these were conducted in age groups in which the risk of contracting Covid-19 is "maximum." Giving an example, he said that one particular study found one death out of 7000 cases and even then, the death took place as the deceased had comorbidities. Also Read | India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: Report"Similar studies in other countries have also shown the protection that the vaccines give. I urge people to please take the vaccine and not hesitate. They might get infected even after the vaccination but it will not turn severe, lives will not be lost and by vaccination thousands and thousands of lives can be saved," Dr Paul said.Healthcare workers and frontline workers were the first to receive Covid-19 vaccine shots as the nationwide vaccination drive against the viral disease commenced on January 16. A total of 268,960,399 vaccine doses have been administered across the country till now, including 3,259,003 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard on Friday morning.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-reduces-chances-of-hospitalisation-by-75-80-dr-vk-paul-101624029174336.html
18-06-2021||India||Baba ka Dhaba owner hospitalised, cops unsure on whether it was a suicide bid||Kanta Prasad, 81, the owner of Baba ka Dhaba, a nondescript roadside eatery in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, was admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital on Thursday after he consumed alcohol and anti-anxiety pills. According to the police, it is unclear if Prasad accidentally overdosed on the pills with alcohol or whether he tried to take his life. Prasad’s family said the octogenarian was in “depression” and “under pressure” because of some people and the recent turmoil in his life.Prasad was found unconscious at his dhaba by his family members, who rushed him to a nearby private hospital that referred him to Safdarjung Hospital, as his condition was serious. He is presently on ventilator support and his blood pressure as well as oxygen level is low, said Prasad’s son Karan.The story of Prasad, his wife Badami Devi and their dhaba had turned viral on social media in October last year after a city You Tuber, Gaurav Wasan, shared a video showing the octogenarian Prasad in tears, telling him how he struggled to make ends meet as business had dried up amid the pandemic. The viral video led to thousands of people making a beeline for the couple’s eatery for food, selfies and donating money. Prasad opened a new restaurant using the donation money in December. However, his new business venture failed within three months because after the initial frenzy, footfall at his new restaurant started dipping slowly and Prasad found that expenses outweighed his income. The octogenarian had also filed a case of cheating against Wasan after accusing him of allegedly siphoning off some donation money, a charge that Wasan refuted.Last week, the two had also posed for photographs at his dhaba and claimed that they were on good terms. Prasad’s son Karan alleged that his father was suffering from depression because some people, including a few You Tubers, had been “pressuring him to withdraw the cheating case and reach a compromise with Wasan”.“My father was being constantly asked to withdraw the case and patch up with Wasan. It was the main reason behind my father’s depression. He was not telling us anything about it, but we could see that he was under pressure,” said Karan, without taking names of the people who were harassing his father.Wasan refused to comment when he was contacted over the phone for his reaction to Karan’s allegation. “I don’t want to say anything,” said Wasan.According to Karan, his father had consumed alcohol with someone in the afternoon and later went to the toilet in a municipal office located adjacent to the dhaba. In the evening, Prasad fainted at the dhaba and was taken to a nearby hospital.“Doctors asked us to take my father to a bigger hospital as his condition was serious. We took him to Safdarjung Hospital. My father consumed alcohol and an overdose of Alprax tablets in an attempt to kill himself,” added Karan.Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that on Thursday around 11.15 pm, information was received from the Safdarjung Hospital that Prasad was admitted there. Police reached the hospital and collected the MLC (medico-legal case), which states the intake of alcohol and sleeping pills as the cause of unconsciousness, he said.“The statement of Prasad’s son Karan was recorded. He said his father consumed alcohol with sleeping pills. Further inquiry is underway,” added DCP Thakur.Speaking to the media, Prasad’s wife, Badaami Devi, said. “I am clueless about what happened to him. I was at the ‘dhaba’. He fainted and we took him to the hospital around 4 pm (on Thursday). No one has told us anything about his condition,” she said.An official from Safdarjung Hospital, who asked not to be named, said, “He is on ventilator after an overdose of sleeping pills and alcohol. He is critical but stable.” If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baba-ka-dhaba-owner-hospitalised-cops-unsure-on-whether-it-was-a-suicide-bid-101624030946139.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: AI flies India's 1st international flight with fully Covid vaccinated crew and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.This is India's 1st international flight with fully Covid vaccinated crewAir India Express, the budget wing of the Air India, on Friday operated the country's first international flight with the crew fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Read MoreAfghan situation fluid, uncertain amid Taliban’s ‘relentless pursuit of power’: ShringlaThe situation in Afghanistan is fluid and uncertain amid the drawdown of US forces and the Taliban’s “relentless pursuit of power through violence”, including targeted assassinations and capture of territory, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. Read MoreRule of land supreme, not your policy: Parliamentary panel to TwitterIndian representatives of microblogging platform Twitter appeared before the parliamentary panel chaired by Congress' Shashi Tharoor to discuss the issue of its guidelines and the misuse of its platform. Read MoreHere's how ICC will use reserve day in India vs New Zealand WTC final after rain washes out Day 1 in SouthamptonThe World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand hit a rain roadblock even before the toss could take place at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton on Friday. Read MoreNeena Gupta recalls choking with 'guilt and shame' after asking for work in Instagram postNeena Gupta in her recently released autobiography, Sach Kahun Toh, opened up about feeling 'shame' after she posted a message on Instagram, asking for work. Read MoreBattlegrounds Mobile India Royale Pass: How to claim free rewardsBattlegrounds Mobile India opened up for beta testers yesterday and if you managed to sign up for beta testing then you can head over to the Play Store and download it right away. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-india-express-operates-first-flight-with-fully-vaccinated-crew-and-all-the-latest-news-101624027963397.html
18-06-2021||India||Third wave of Covid-19 in India: What these 3 studies have predicted so far||With Covid-19 cases steadily declining and states embracing unlocking, a possible third wave has entered in scientific and public discourse. If a third wave of the pandemic hits India, its impact will largely depend on vaccination coverage, which scientists have emphasised in their finding. Several studies have come in the last few days.Here is a look at the recent projections of 3rd wave:1. Third wave may hit in OctoberReuters conducted an opinion survey of 40 healthcare specialists, doctors, scientists, virologists, epidemiologists and professors from around the world from which it gathered that the third wave may hit the country by October.Major takeaways of this study> The wave will be controlled better as many people will be vaccinated by then.> The number of cases will be much less than what India witnessed in the 2nd wave.2. Third wave may not affect children more than adultsA possible third wave may not affect children in any disproportionate way, the World Health Organization and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences have said. This finding has been based on a seroprevalence study done in five states on a sample size of 10,000. Covid-19 seroprevalence in the age group below 18 is 55.7 per cent and above 18 is 63.5 per cent.Major takeaways of this study> Children will not be disproportionately affected in the third wave, as it was projected, because they also have the same level of antibody.> Overall, a large number of people have developed resistance against Covid-19.3. Third wave may be more dangerous for MaharashtraMaharashtra government's task force has some different projections regarding the possible third wave, as it projects a more dangerous peak in the state. And the reason is the Delta Plus variant. The number of active Covid-19 cases could go up to 8 lakh in this peak, the projection said.Major takeaways of this study> 10 per cent of the active cases are likely to be children.> The timing can't be predicted as there is a gap of 100 to 120 days between two waves but some countries had a 14 to 15 weeks' gap.What the government saidThe issue of a possible third wave has been addressed by government experts who emphasised that the impact of it will depend on whether the virus and its variants are getting any scope to infect people. "There will be variants. But there is no new way to fight any new variant," Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said on Friday. The unlocking process should be measures, social distancing and other Covid appropriate behaviour should be followed, govt's experts have said adding that the timing of the possible third wave can't be predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-covid-19-in-india-what-these-3-studies-have-revealed-so-far-101624029095939.html
18-06-2021||India||Afghan situation fluid, uncertain amid Taliban’s ‘relentless pursuit of power’: Shringla||The situation in Afghanistan is fluid and uncertain amid the drawdown of US forces and the Taliban’s “relentless pursuit of power through violence”, including targeted assassinations and capture of territory, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. Shringla’s comments came against the backdrop of the US having completed the withdrawal of more than 50% of its troops from Afghanistan well ahead of a September deadline, and the Taliban launching a wave of attacks across the country and targeting Afghan officials, activists and journalists in many cities. The violence by the Taliban has increased despite talks with the group at different forums, whereas India has always backed calls for a ceasefire and talks involving various stakeholders and all neighbouring countries to find a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan, Shringla said during a virtual dialogue organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI). “Afghanistan today is in...a situation of uncertainty with the US withdrawal. On the one hand, [there is] the Taliban aggression, on the other, the Taliban has been steadily expanding its...operations in Afghanistan through targeted assassinations as well as territorial aggression,” he said. “I think the levels of violence and the fact that despite talks going on in Qatar and other places, their relentless pursuit of power through violence has made it an uncertain environment in any sense,” he added. Shringla further said: “Many of those talks are on but as I said the situation is fluid and uncertain and at this point of time, it’s very difficult to say how things would work out.” The foreign secretary was responding to questions on the withdrawal of US and foreign forces and the possibility of Indian firms investing in Afghanistan, especially in sectors such as mining. Though there have been some investments in Afghanistan’s mining sector, these have been affected by “uncertainties which are only increasing, not decreasing”, he said. “We hope the time will come when companies can go in and invest and realise their returns on investments appropriately and there is peace and stability in the country,” he added. India, Shringla said, has always stood for a peaceful solution in Afghanistan. “We have always called for a ceasefire, we have always advocated that there should be talks between the government and the Taliban and others that are involved in this process, involving all the neighbouring countries,” he said. As a friend of Afghanistan and its people, India continues to fervently hope there is peace and stability in the country, he said. “But as I said, the situation today is very fluid and obviously a large number of US and coalition forces that have maintained a certain amount of stability, when they pull out, it creates an environment of uncertainty and we have to watch and see,” Shringla added. India is currently the largest regional donor towards Afghanistan’s development and reconstruction, with pledges totalling $3 billion. In recent years, India has completed several major infrastructure projects such as the Salma Dam or the Friendship Dam and the new Parliament building. However, New Delhi has been keeping a wary eye on the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and its implications for the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-situation-fluid-uncertain-amid-taliban-s-relentless-pursuit-of-power-shringla-101624028845864.html
18-06-2021||India||Cops good at putting critics in their place, says Goa’s Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who has been the target of sharp attacks from the opposition in recent weeks, on Friday asked his political rivals to target him, but not the government, which he said, can hurt the state’s image. “It is easy to criticise. Hurl all the abuses you want at me, but not at the department,” he said at an event to open a new police station in Colvale, a north Goa village 25km from Panaji. He next turned to the police personnel among his audience at the event, asking them to put their critics in their place and adding that “the police are very good at this”.“I have seen that among political parties everyone is randomly waking up and talking against the police. In the child kidnapping case, they were talking against the police. What do they think of themselves? We need the police to show them what it is,” Sawant said, a reference to the kidnapping of a month-old baby from the Goa Medical College and Hospital on June 12. The infant was traced to a north Goa village the following day; her abductor wanted to raise the child as her own.Sawant appeared to be particularly sore at criticism of his government on social media platforms such as Twitter, which he underlined, “tarnishes the image of the state”.“Such politicians should be taught a lesson by the people. For their own personal gain, they are tainting the state’s image by slamming the police, tourism and education,” Sawant said.“Do not criticise the state on social media, Twitter. My advice to them (opponents) is that the state belongs to everyone… For the sake of politics, do not damage the name of the state. Let our image in the country not be tarnished,” Sawant said.This is the second time in two days that Sawant has accused his political opponents of ruining the state’s image when they criticise his government, his comeback to his political rivals who are stepping up pressure on the chief minister ahead of next year’s assembly elections. The attacks on the chief minister were particularly bitter last month when disruption of oxygen had led to scores of death at Goa’s state-run hospital. Since then, the opposition has also been throwing barbs at the ruling party over what they say is rising crime in the state, attacks on activists and the kidnapping of the infant from hospital.To be sure, Sawant emphasised that he did not mind people targeting him.“You can criticise politicians, I do not worry about it. As a CM, I am used to abuses I do not mind. Do not slander my department. That is their job, our task is to do our job. Appreciate the good work done by doctors. Appreciate the work by the police department,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-good-at-putting-critics-in-their-place-says-goa-s-pramod-sawant-101624027048204.html
18-06-2021||India||Tourism post-Covid-19: Ministry floats strategy to promote medical, wellness, rural, MICE tourism||In order to boost the tourism sector in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of Tourism on Friday released three draft strategies with roadmaps to promote India as a rural and medical tourism destination and to position it as a place for conferences, meetings and exhibitions.The Draft National Strategy and Roadmap for Development of Rural Tourism in India seeks to develop and promote local products through tourism to generate income and jobs in rural areas and empower local communities.“This will help in reducing the migration from rural areas, poverty alleviation and sustainable development,” the draft said.The second proposal – Draft National Strategy and Roadmap for Medical and Wellness Tourism – seeks to promote India as an accessible and affordable destination for medical treatments and wellness courses.“The key drivers for growth of medical tourism and wellness tourism are mainly affordability and accessibility of good healthcare services, facilitation around hospitality services, minimal waiting time, availability of latest medical technologies and accreditations.“The Ministry of Tourism has recognised the immense potential of MVT and has been actively working on promotion and development of medical tourism," the draft plan said.“The government of India recognises medical value travel and wellness tourism as one of the important sectors having the potential of accelerating the country's development and attaining the objective of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. In order to provide impetus to the growth of medical value travel and wellness tourism in India and maintain India’s competitive advantage, a comprehensive strategy and roadmap has been prepared,” it added.The national strategy aims at providing an institutional framework strengthening the ecosystem for medical and wellness tourism, developing a brand and ensuring quality assurance, the plan said.The ministry has also proposed a draft to position India as a MICE destination. MICE, an acronym for Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions has been recognised as a significant market segment and an important contributor to national economies.“It not only gives a boost to the economy in the form of income generation, but creates huge employment opportunities in related hospitality service providing sectors like accommodation, food and beverage, convention services, transportation, tourism and entertainment,” the Draft National Strategy and Roadmap for MICE Industry said.The ministry has invited feedback and comments from the public on these drafts on or before June 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-post-covid-19-ministry-floats-strategy-to-promote-medical-wellness-rural-mice-tourism-101624026590433.html
18-06-2021||India||‘Ensure safety of healthcare workers’: Health ministry to states, Union territories||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Friday wrote to states and Union territories, urging them to take necessary steps to ensure safety of healthcare workers. The letter, written by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, came on a day when Indian Medical Association (IMA) held nationwide protests against attacks on doctors in various parts of the country.“Healthcare workers are the most crucial resources who are undertaking the battle of Covid-19 management at all fronts. However, while the country at large has applauded the efforts of the health fraternity, they have also been stigmatised and even violence is resorted to against healthcare workers,” Agarwal wrote in his letter addressed to additional chief secretary/principal secretary/health secretary of all states and UTs.Highlighting various initiatives taken by the central government to ensure safety and protection of healthcare workers, Agarwal wrote that on April 22, 2020, the MoHFW issued an Ordinance duly amending the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, providing protection to healthcare personnel and their property against violence during epidemics. “The Ordinance was further notified as the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, on September 29,” he wrote.Agarwal also mentioned how the health ministry, on several occasions, highlighted the need to ensure safety and security of healthcare workers at their living, as well as working premises.“However, recently, there have been some reports of incidents of physical violence against doctors and other healthcare workers, particularly from Assam, West Bengal and Karnataka. Such incidents impact the morale of our healthcare workers who have shown exemplary commitment during Covid-19 management,” the letter stated further.Also Read: IMA president demands ‘stringent’ act after mob attack on doctor in AssamConsidering the importance of the issue, Agarwal wrote, all states may undertake a detailed review and ensure that prompt and necessary action is taken for the safety and wellbeing of healthcare workers. He also called for strict implementation of the amended Epidemic Diseases Act.Earlier this month, IMA wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, urging them to approve an effective law to end attacks on healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-safety-of-healthcare-workers-health-ministry-to-states-union-territories-101624026024795.html
18-06-2021||India||6th Pay Commission: Punjab govt employees to get increment from July 1||The Punjab government on Friday announced that it has decided to accept the majority of the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission and implement them from July 1, with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016.The move is expected to benefit over 540,000 serving and retired state government employees. The minimum pay for a government employee in the state will now increase from ₹6,950 per month to ₹18,000 per month and the minimum pension will go up from ₹3,500 per month to ₹9,000 per month. The minimum family pension will also rise to ₹9,000 per month under the new structure, an official spokesperson said after a Cabinet meeting that approved the 6th Punjab Pay Commission (PPC) recommendations.Also read: Punjab school teachers continue stir, meet education ministerThe implementation will revise the salaries up to 2.59 times and pensions over the previous pay commission recommendations, with an annual increment rate of 3 per cent, leading to pay scales of existing employees continuing to be greater than in the neighbouring state of Haryana.Further, the new structure will make divorced or widowed daughters eligible for family pensions. The eligibility criteria of income for family pension has also increased from ₹3,500 +DA to ₹9,000+DA per month."It has been decided that the date of implementation of the new allowances/revised allowances would be from 01.07.2021. Percentage based allowances, like House Rent Allowance, NPA etc. have been rationalised under the new structure, while design allowance, special allowance to chowkidars and special allowance to drivers, has been doubled," an official statement from the state government said.The expected net arrears from January 1, 2016, to June 30, 2021, is estimated to be ₹13,800 crore and the Punjab government employees already receive 5 per cent interim enhancement since 2017. The state government said that the net arrears amount of employees and pensioners for 2016, estimated at ₹2,572 crore, will be paid in two equal installments in October 2021 and January 2022.Additional bonanza decisions for the state government employees include enhancement of Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity (DCRG) from ₹1 million to ₹2 million, and the current rates of Ex-Gratia Grant have also been doubled. Both the DCRG and Ex Gratia have been extended to the employees covered under the National Pension Scheme. The state government also accepted the restoration of Commutation of Pension to 40 per cent, effective July 1.The implementation of these major recommendations will create an annual additional burden of ₹8,637 crore to the state exchequer, with a prospective additional net annual burden expected per annum to be Rs. 4,700 crore, an official spokesperson said.Also read: Punjab ministers Sarkaria, Randhawa threaten to boycott meeting, CM’s aide Suresh Kumar stays awayThe 6th PPC report submitted the first part of its report to the Punjab government on April 30 this year. The report broadly comprised the recommendations on revision of pay scales, allowances and pension and retirement benefits.In a new development, the state government is also introducing a new allowance, called the higher education allowance, in form of a lump sum incentive to all employees who attain higher educational qualification during the employment and in the field directly relevant to the employee's job.However, new employees will be paid as per the central government pay scales that now apply to all new recruits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6th-pay-commission-punjab-govt-employees-to-get-increment-from-july-1-101624022843597.html
18-06-2021||India||Two Jharkhand labourers die as railway tunnel collapses in Bengal’s Kalimpong||Two migrant labourers from Jharkhand died and five others were injured when part of a tunnel being built for the Sevoke-Rangpo railway track caved in on Thursday night in Kalimpong district. Officials of Indian Railway Construction Company (IRCON), which is laying the 44.98 km railway track between West Bengal and Sikkim, said incessant rainfall over the last five days triggered mudslide. The larger part of the railway track is being built in Bengal. The section in Sikkim will be only 3.44 km long. The project will add Sikkim to the nation’s railway map. The deceased have been identified as Saiku Murmu and Naresh Soren. They were declared dead on arrival at the Kalimpong district hospital. The accident occurred at Bhalu Khola in the Malli police station area of Kalimpong district. The 5.5 km long tunnel No 10, a part of which collapsed, is being built between Bhalu Khola and Tar Khola. It is the longest of the 14 proposed tunnels in the hilly region. The foundation stone of the railway track, connecting Sevoke in Darjeeling district of Bengal to Rangpo in Sikkim, was laid by Mamata Banerjee in 2009 when she was the Union railway minister. R Vimala, district magistrate of Kalimpong, said “The injured people have been admitted in hospital. Their condition is stable.” Tshering Thendup Bhutia, general manager of IRCON said, “The mudslide in the tunnel was triggered by incessant rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-jharkhand-labourers-die-as-railway-tunnel-collapses-in-bengal-s-kalimpong-101624025545385.html
18-06-2021||India||Traces of coronavirus found in Sabarmati river, two lakes: IIT Study||A recent study by researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Gandhinagar has established the presence of coronavirus in water samples from the Sabarmati river and two lakes in Ahmedabad city of Gujarat. While the study, funded by the UNICEF, did not reveal if the genes of coronavirus found in the water samples were dead or alive, Professor Manish Kumar, who led the research, has emphasised the need for further probe on the subject to avert any future tragedy. Following the revelation, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to send samples from these water bodies to the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC). "The GBRC is the authorised agency of the AMC for water analysis. We have been sending samples to them since the last one year and they submit their report to the state government. We have no idea about the IIT's research. However, we will now send samples of these water bodies to the GBRC for a similar analysis," said Harpalsinh Zala, the AMC's city engineer for Water Resources. The study was conducted between September and December 2020 and water samples were collected from the Sabarmati river, Chandola and Kankaria lakes of the city. "Our aim was to detect the presence of N, S and ORF lab genes of SARS-CoV-2, also called as coronavirus, through RNA isolation. We found N-gene copies in the waters of the Sabarmati river, Chandola and Kankaria lakes. The ORF lab-gene was not found in Chandola, while S-gene copies were present in all the three water bodies," said Kumar, who teaches in the IIT's Earth Sciences department. "Although genes of coronavirus were detected, our methodology does not tell us if they were alive or dead. However, we can't just presume that they all were dead. Although virus transmission through water is not proven yet, institutions need to come together and conduct further research on this. Monitoring is needed," the professor said. He further claimed that if coronavirus genes reached the surface water through urine or excreta of Covid-19 patients, then the genes would have been dead. However, the genes might have been alive if they came from the mouth of a Covid-19 patient, such as through gargled water, he said. "We do not know if genes found by us were alive or not. Further research is needed to understand the implications of our findings. Governments should also focus on better solid waste management," said Kumar, adding that the report has been submitted to UNICEF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traces-of-coronavirus-found-in-sabarmati-river-two-lakes-iit-study-101624023315684.html
18-06-2021||India||UP govt to set up country's first leather park in Kanpur under Mega Leather Cluster Project||The Uttar Pradesh government is seeking to restore the industrial charm of Kanpur, also known as Manchester of the East. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led state government is developing a Mega Leather Park, the first leather park in the country, as part of the Mega Leather Cluster Project in Kanpur spread over an area of 235 acres. The park project is aimed at reestablishing Kanpur as the textile hub and leather city.Kanpur was called 'Manchester of the East' because of its textile industry and was also referred to as 'Leather City' due to the presence of a large number of leather factories. However, the state government claimed that the rise in pollution, technological changes in the textile industry and neglect of the previous governments made the city lose its sheen, turning into one of the most polluted cities of the country.Also read | Around 10K textile units in Noida,Kanpur face financial crisis: SIDBI-CRIF reportThe mega leather park project, which will be built in Ramaipur village in Kanpur, will help improve Kanpur's position among the ten largest leather-producing states of the country. Under the Mega Leather Cluster Project, 50,000 people will get direct employment at the park while 150,000 people will get indirect employment, the state government said.More than 150 tanneries will be operational at the leather park that is aimed to facilitate the manufacturing of world-class leather shoes, purses and jackets and their export to other countries."The Mega Leather Park, will, nevertheless, prove to be a game changer for Kanpur. The 235 acres of land has already been acquired and the work is progressing rapidly on this project. The leather park will be built in Ramaipur village of Kanpur," the government said adding that the ministry of commerce has already approved the establishment of the park.On the ease of doing business in the state, the UP government said that as per the officials of the Industrial Development Department, the policy changes made by the government have encouraged many leading entrepreneurs to set up their firms in Kanpur, including in the textile sector.In three years, the Yogi government has received 23 proposals for establishing industries in Kanpur city and rural, of the 23, 11 have already been approved and the industrial units are in a position to begin production soon, the government claimed.Also read: UP govt sets 300-million sapling plantation targetAround 7,000 people will get employment once these projects worth about ₹4,000 crore are off the ground, the state government said."RP Polypacks and Kanpur Plastics Limited have set up textile factories in Kanpur city and Kanpur (Rural) at the cost of ₹150 crore ₹200 crore respectively and have already started production. Similarly, Sparsh India Private Limited has invested ₹600 crore for the construction of a plastic factory in Kanpur (Rural). Furthermore, Rimjhim Steel Company is building a steel rolling mill in Kanpur (Rural) at the cost of ₹550 crore," a statement detailed about the status of the projects in Kanpur adding that the government is also working to set up non-polluting industries in multi-storeyed buildings in Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-to-set-up-country-s-first-leather-park-in-kanpur-under-mega-leather-cluster-project-101624016679354.html
18-06-2021||India||Ready for discussion on provisions of farm laws, says agriculture minister Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the Centre is ready to resume talks with protesting farmer unions over provisions of the three contentious agricultural laws, though he ruled out a withdrawal of the reforms.Also Read : A year after being passed, farm laws continue to face protests“The Government of India is ready to have a discussion with any farmer union on provisions of the new agricultural laws. We welcome them for talks,” a rough translation of Tomar’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.“Except repeal, if any farmer union is ready to discuss provisions of the acts even at midnight, I would welcome them,” Tomar says in a video clip he attached with his tweet. In the clip, the minister is responding to a reporter’s question.भारत सरकार नए कृषि कानूनों से संबंधित प्रावधानों पर किसी भी किसान संगठन से और कभी भी बात करने को तैयार है...हम उनका स्वागत करते हैं... pic.twitter.com/gv1FF9zU8iTalks between the central government and farmer unions have stalled since they last met on January 22; the two sides have held 11 meetings thus far. In the January 22 meeting, the unions rejected the government’s proposal to put the laws on hold for up to 18 months, instead reiterating their demand for a complete rollback. The proposal to put the laws on hold was suggested in the tenth round of talks on January 20. The Centre has repeatedly stated it won’t take back the reforms.Earlier, on January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders.Farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the laws on the borders of Delhi since November last year. Besides a full withdrawal, the farmers also want a legal assurance on minimum support price (MSP).The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce Act, 2020; The Farmers’ Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities Act, 2020, were passed in September last year, triggering widespread protests. Farmers allege these will end the mandi and MSP procurement system, thus leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has called their apprehensions “misplaced.”On January 26, a tractor rally taken out by the farmers in Delhi on the occasion of Republic Day resulted in clashes between a section of protesters and the police.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-discussion-on-provisions-of-farm-laws-says-agriculture-minister-tomar-101624021025696.html
18-06-2021||India||Rule of land supreme, not your policy: Parliamentary panel to Twitter||Indian representatives of microblogging platform Twitter appeared before the parliamentary panel chaired by Congress' Shashi Tharoor to discuss the issue of its guidelines and the misuse of its platform. During the deposition, Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor represented Twitter before the panel.During the meeting, the panel asked the company, if it follows the law or the land, to which a representative responded saying, "We follow our own policies," news agency ANI reported.The members then told Twitter that law of the land is "supreme" and asked the company to abide by them. They also asked Twitter to explain why it should not be fined for 'violating' rule of land, reported news agency PTI.“We appreciate opportunity to share our views before Standing Committee on IT. Twitter stands prepared to work with the Committee on important work of safeguarding citizens' rights online in line with our principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy," Twitter spokesperson said after the meeting, as per ANI report."We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation," the spokesperson also said.The meeting comes as the Centre is at loggerheads with the microblogging site over the new Information and Technology (IT) rules. Last week, the Parliamentary standing committee on Information and Technology summoned Twitter India officials over issues related to misuse of the platform and protection of citizens' rights.On Wednesday, Twitter became the first US-based social media platform to lose legal protection in India, meaning that the company will now be held responsible for tweets, data hosted by it. It will not be considered as a platform hosting something that somebody has tweeted, but it will be editorially responsible for the posts.The Union government revoked the protection, saying that the social media giant failed to comply with the new IT guidelines despite being given multiple opportunities.Earlier this month, Twitter faced backlash by government officials after it briefly removed the 'blue tick' verification badge from the personal account of vice-president Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat.In May, a special cell of Delhi police sent a notice to Twitter, seeking an explanation of how it described an alleged "Congress toolkit" tweet against the Central government as "manipulated media".Delhi Police is investigating a case of an alleged toolkit created by Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The notice was sent after Twitter tagged Bharatiya Janata Party' national spokesperson Sambit Patra's tweet on the alleged toolkit as "manipulated media".The police reportedly had also questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on May 31 and visited the Twitter India offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on May 24 over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tussle-with-centre-twitter-officials-appear-before-shashi-tharoor-led-parliamentary-panel-101624019933056.html
18-06-2021||India||This is India's 1st international flight with fully Covid vaccinated crew||Air India Express, the budget wing of the Air India, on Friday operated the country's first international flight with the crew fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The flight, IX 191, operated from Delhi to Dubai. As the vaccination drive in the country is gathering pace and activities are resuming, more and more airlines are ensuring their crew are vaccinated. Vistara has recently operated a domestic flight between Delhi and Mumbai with a fully vaccinated cabin crew. But no other flight has operated internationally yet with a fully vaccinated crew. "Air India Express, India's leading budget carrier, operated the first international flight from the country with fully vaccinated crew on June 18 on Delhi- Dubai sector. The pilots and the cabin crew of IX 191, which took off from Delhi at 10:40 am, had received both doses of their Covid-19 vaccine," said an official release by the airline.#FlyWithIX : A big moment!IX 191-India's 1st International Flight with Fully-Vaccinated Crew Takes Off from Delhi. The pilots & cabin crew of IX 191/196 Delhi-Dubai-Jaipur-Delhi flight have received both doses of their COVID-19 vaccine.Ensuring all onboard a safe environment! pic.twitter.com/blLlQcWH1cCaptain DR Gupta and Captain Alok Kumar Nayak were the pilots of the flight, while the crew included Venkat Kella, Praveen Chandra, Pravin Chougle and Manisha Kamble. The same team operated the return flight as well. The airline said that they have vaccinated almost all eligible crew members and frontline staff.Normal flight operations came to a halt in March last year after a nationwide lockdown was imposed. Flight movements resumed in the form of rescue operation as the Centre started Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded in other countries. Air India Express has been a part of the mission and operated 7,005 flights carrying a total of 1.63 million passengers till last month."As we operate the country's first international flight with fully-vaccinated crew, it may be recalled that it was Air India Express that operated India's first-ever Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flight which touched down Indian soil on May 7 carrying passengers from Abu Dhabi. We are happy that now our teams are shielded with the protection of the vaccines" the airline said.While the Vande Bharat Mission is still going on, international flights were being operated in bubbles, though some countries suspended flights from India in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-india-s-1st-international-flight-with-fully-covid-vaccinated-crew-101624018644513.html
18-06-2021||India||BJP cites PM Modi’s Punjab outreach to laud spirit of ‘cooperative federalism’||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday held a press conference to showcase Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach to poll-bound Punjab “in the true spirit of cooperative federalism” and to farmers. He said Modi on Thursday sanctioned 41 oxygen plants for Punjab under the PM Cares Fund. He added the Centre earlier allocated 13 oxygen plants for the state and added some of them would be operational by the end of this month and the rest by August 15.Puri said PM Modi has done a lot for Punjab and Sikhs over the seven years he has been the Prime Minister. He cited exemption of community kitchens of gurdwaras from GST, the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor for visa-free travel to Guru Nanak’s final resting place as measures of goodwill towards Punjab and the Sikhs in particular.Also Watch | Amid 3rd wave worry, PM Modi launches ‘crash course’ for 100,000 Covid warriorsPuri hit out at critics who have accused the Centre of denying the state its fair share of Covid-19 drugs. He said Punjab received 632 remdesivir doses per 100,000 people while Uttar Pradesh, which has a much larger population, 364. “This might not be an indicator as many states also procure the drugs themselves. But for anyone to suggest that they have been short-changed or denied the legitimate share is a falsification.”He said Modi and the government have made it repeatedly clear that they were ready to sit and talk to the farmers, who have been protesting against three farm laws passed in September. “And I reiterate that. There are several commentators on this issue. I call them up individually and ask them to clear all residual doubts. We are open to all suggestions. But the template has to be to benefit farmers. The hard-working farmer is the primary beneficiary and has to be rewarded. Anything else can be discussed.”Puri underlined it has been a year since the farm laws, which first triggered protests in Punjab, were promulgated as ordinances and none of their expected repercussions has come true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-puri-highlights-pm-modi-s-outreach-to-punjab-101624019365236.html
18-06-2021||India||IMD predicts heavy to very heavy rainfall during next few days in these states. Check list here||The southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of states like Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.For most parts of northwest India, the Met department said there will be no significant change in temperatures during the next two days, but a gradual rise of 4-5 degrees can be seen thereafter.Also read: Monsoon progress likely to pick up between June 27 and June 30States that are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during next few days are:Under the influence of a low-pressure area over southwest Bihar and adjoining southeast Uttar Pradesh and a mid-level cyclonic circulation over South Bangladesh, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim, east Uttar Pradesh, northeast Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh during next three to four days, the IMD forecasted.The department also said isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely over east Uttar Pradesh on Friday and Saturday and over east Madhya Pradesh on Friday.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Konkan and Goa, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Maharashtra during the next 2-3 days. The IMD said an offshore trough runs from Maharashtra to the Kerala coast.Isolated extremely heavy rainfall has been projected over the Gujarat region and coastal Karanataka on Friday. Many districts of Karanataka have been issued red alerts, while some other districts have been given orange alert warnings.Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh might also see fairly widespread to widespread rainfall during the next 3-4 days owing to a western disturbance, which runs from north Jammu and Kashmir to the northeast Arabian Sea. Uttarakhand is forecasted to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls on Friday. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh are predicted for Friday and Saturday.Further, the department said moderate to severe thunderstorms with frequent cloud to ground lightning are very likely over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand from Friday to Saturday. The department wanted that this may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals outdoors.Delhi might have to wait for a bit more for the monsoon to arrive. The wind system is expected to reach the national capital around its usual at of June 27, ANI quoted an official as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-during-next-few-days-in-these-states-check-list-here-101624011891247.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre taking 'pro-active' steps to help woman for son’s medical treatment in Australia: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Friday noted that the Centre was taking pro-active steps in providing all possible help to a mother who has sought direction to provide medical assistance and supervise the treatment of her son suffering from a life threatening health condition in Australia.The court was informed by the Centre that visa and travel exemption approval form, required due to the COVID-19 global pandemic, has been granted by the Australian embassy to the mother.“In view of the above, I find the government is taking pro-active steps in the matter. The writ petition is disposed of with liberty to the petitioner to file a fresh petition in case the need arises,” Justice Navin Chawla said.Centre government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul informed the court that though visa and travel exemption has been granted to the woman, they have now received a fresh application from the family seeking to arrange for repatriation of the son to India.He said the government is looking into the issue and extending all possible help to the family.Advocate Gurinder Pal Singh, representing the woman, said repatriation of the son is an alternate prayer considering that there are no flights to Australia and even after visa clearance, the mother will be unable to go there.The Centre had earlier also told the court that the Indian Consulate was looking in the matter and three officers have been dedicated for it to provide best possible help and that an Indian origin’s doctor has also been asked to visit the patient in the hospital in Australia.The woman, a widow, has sought direction to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to provide all medical assistance and supervise the treatment of her son who is hospitalised in Melbourne with end-stage renal failure requiring dialysis and is in a critical situation.The woman, Inderjeet Kaur, said her son Arshdeep Singh had gone to Australia in 2018 to pursue higher studies on a student visa and on June 9, 2021, she came to know that he has been admitted to a hospital there.She submitted that she along with a relative has already applied for an urgent visa and sought direction to the MEA to extend help and facilitate them in getting tourist visa from the Australian High Commission, so that she can reach there as soon as possible to look after her son.The plea said they have also submitted their travel exemption approval form required due to the COVID-19 global pandemic.It said despite there being extreme urgency, the petitioners have not heard anything on their visa applications nor there has been any response either from the Australian High Commission in India or from the MEA. PTI SKV SKV RKS RKS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-taking-pro-active-steps-to-help-woman-for-son-s-medical-treatment-in-australia-delhi-high-court-101624016420482.html
18-06-2021||India||When should schools reopen in India? Govt answers||As national and state-level board exams are being cancelled amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre on Friday said it will think of reopening schools only when the majority of teachers are vaccinated and more scientific knowledge regarding the impact of the infection among children emerges. "The time should come soon. But we must also consider how schools were reopened in foreign countries and they had to close after the outbreak. We do not want to put our students and teachers in such a situation," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said during the official press meet of the Union health ministry."Unless we have the confidence that the pandemic can't harm us, we should not do this. It is a larger discourse," Dr Paul said.Dr Paul's remarks came in the context of the recent survey of the World Health Organization and AIIMS which revealed that children below the age of 18 years have also developed antibody against Covid-19 and so they may not be impacted by the third wave of the country if any such wave comes.But that does not mean that schools can open and children do not need to maintain social distancing, Dr Paul said adding that this finding regarding the seropositivity rate of children is just one component of the question — when should schools reopen?"There are many things which we still do not know. Reopening schools is a different topic altogether as it is not only about the students, but it involves teachers, non-teaching staff etc. Herd immunity is just a conjecture. There are many things to consider like if the virus changes its form, today it is mild among children, but what if it becomes severe tomorrow," Dr Paul said.According to the WHO-AIIMS survey, Covid-19 seroprevalence in the age group below 18 is 55.7 per cent and above 18 is 63.5 per cent. Based on the finding, it is now being estimated that a considerable percentage of children have already got infected without knowing and some got cured after treatment. It is unlikely that a large number of children will get infected or that they will become severely ill even if they contract the disease.Some states resumed physical classes after the first wave starting from September 21 last year. But in the wake of the second wave, classes switched to the online mode. Considering the pandemic situation, states have cancelled annual examinations. National- and state-level board exams have also been cancelled in the country. With declining Covid-19 cases in the country, as the second wave is receding, the government once again reiterated that the pandemic is not over yet. Children may not be at a greater risk of contracting Covid-19, but the preparedness is optimal, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-should-schools-reopen-in-india-govt-answers-101624014615604.html
18-06-2021||India||37 CSIR labs to partner with TataMD to expand CRISPR-based RT PCR||The Council for Industrial and Scientific Research (CSIR) labs will partner with TataMD, the healthcare venture of Tata Group, to expand Covid-19 testing to Tier II and III cities. The labs will conduct the CRISPR-based RT PCR test for detecting Covid-19 at 37 locations. The CRISPR-based test, initially named Feluda after the fictional detective, was developed by the CSIR lab, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology-New Delhi (CSIR-IGIB), and was commercialised and named TataMD CHECK. Thirteen CSIR labs already conduct RT-PCR tests and were involved in an effort to scale up the more accurate testing technique in India after the pandemic broke out last year. Using the gene-editing technology CRISPR, the test simplifies the RT PCR machine, eliminating the need for high-tech q-RT PCR machines and uses readily available thermo-cyclers. It also reduces the time for conducting the test to around 45 minutes after RNA extraction. The traditional RT PCR tests take around five hours for RNA extraction and completing the test. Also Read | Delhi records 165 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths; positivity rate at 0.22%“Apart from vaccination, rapid testing and isolation of SARS-CoV-2 positive persons has emerged as the best strategy in combatting Covid-19. This initiative in partnership with Tata MD to deploy the RT-PCR CRISPR test at multiple CSIR labs spread across the country is an important step. This will augment the national capacity to test for COVID and detect it locally,” said Dr Shekhar C Mande, director general, CSIR. The 37 labs that will start using the technology under the partnership with TataMD include Indian Institute Of Integrative Medicine in Jammu, National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology in Thiruvananthpuram, Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute in Bhavnagar, North East Institute of Science & Technology in Jorhat. “By partnering with CSIR’s network of labs and deploying fully equipped mobile laboratories, we are confident that we can quickly augment testing capacity using faster and scalable methods. This will significantly enhance the ability of state and district administrations to ensure wider availability and easier access to testing on an on-going basis,” said Girish Krishnamurthy, CEO and MD of TataMD.The first lab to start using the technology will be Indian Institute of Petroleum-Dehradun (IIP). “The current testing capacity will be 800 daily tests that can be scaled up using the TataMD CHECK automation solution if demand rises significantly,” said Dr Anjan Ray, director, IIP. TataMD also offers automated readout of the test results that can used to be scale up testing. The paper strip test encodes the Cas-9 protein that can attach with specific parts of the genetic material of Sar-CoV-2 to form lines on the strip that can be read to be positive or negative, just like sophisticated form of the home-based pregnancy kits. The scientists from CSIR-IGIB, who developed Feluda, have also developed a test named after the author of the detective series, Ray, that has been modified to identify the variants of concern using Cas-9 protein coded to detect specific mutations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/37-csir-labs-to-partner-with-tatamd-to-expand-crispr-based-rt-pcr-101624016605034.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s 3rd Covid wave may arrive by October, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: ReportA group of medical experts surveyed by news agency Reuters has projected that India’s next Covid-19 wave, the country’s third, would arrive here by October, adding that though this third wave would be handled better than the second wave, the Covid-19 pandemic would remain a public health concern for at least one more year. Read moreMumbai vaccine scam: After housing society, production houses duped; 4 arrestedThe Mumbai Police on Friday arrested four people in connection with the vaccine scam in Mumbai which is believed to have spread its net from one housing society to production houses, which are now allowed to organise vaccination at their premises. Read more'Remain cautious,' warns health minister Harsh Vardhan as states relax Covid-19 restrictionsUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday urged people to remain mindful of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as several states are in the middle of the unlocking process. Read moreSupreme Court refuses to stay HC order granting bail to 3 students in Delhi riots caseThe Supreme Court said on Friday the decision on the bail for Asif Iqbal Tanha, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, released on Thursday night after spending more than a year in jail over alleged links to the violence in northeast Delhi last year, has "pan-India ramifications." Read moreVirat Kohli giving tips to Ind opener for success in England ahead of WTC FinalThe World Test Championship (WTC) Final against New Zealand at Southampton is just the start of a gruelling tour for India as they will play a five-match Test series against England after this. Read moreThis aviary in Karnataka’s Mysuru holds world record for housing most bird species. WatchShuka Vana, located in Karnataka’s Mysuru, holds the world record for housing most bird species in an aviary. A video shared on Facebook by Guinness World Records (GWR), shows the incredible world of the sanctuary. Read moreAnushka Sharma’s millennial look in Balenciaga shirt, worth London flight ticketWe can’t help but obsess over Anushka Sharma’s sartorial elegance as the diva is blessed with pulling off not just red carpet looks but also street styles and maternity fashion with equal panache and as she gives a tour of Ageas Bowl in Southampton, with her husband Virat Kohli, the fashion police is in for a treat. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Tab S7 FE, Galaxy Tab A7 Lite launched in India: Check price, specsSamsung’s next-generation tablets, the Galaxy Tab S7 FE and the Galaxy Tab A7 Lite have been in the news for quite some time now. Reports in the past have detailed everything from features to date of availability of its next-generation tablets. Read moreWatch: Amid 3rd wave worry, PM Modi launches 'crash course' for 1 lakh Covid warriors||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-3rd-covid-wave-may-arrive-by-october-says-report-and-all-the-latest-news-101624014801109.html
18-06-2021||India||Mumbai vaccine scam: After housing society, production houses duped; 4 arrested||The Mumbai Police on Friday arrested four people in connection with the vaccine scam in Mumbai which is believed to have spread its net from one housing society to production houses, which are now allowed to organise vaccination at their premises. The overall scam came to the fore after several discrepancies were found out in the vaccination certificate, hospital name, vaccination date etc. But whether the original vaccine has been administered to these people is being investigated.Vaccine scam at Hiranandani Estate Society scamMumbai's Hiranandani Estate Society organised a vaccination camp on May 30 where about 390 people were given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccination. As they started receiving their vaccine certificates (provisional), the residents found that the name of the hospital was not matching, the dates were wrong. And also, after they were administered the doses, they received calls asking for their Co-WIN OTP, which indicates they were not registered on Co-WIN before vaccination. The hospitals dragged into the controversy have denied any involvement. Vaccine scam at production housesFollowing the government's workplace vaccination policy, several production houses of Mumbai have got their employees vaccinated. But as the scam of the housing society came to light, a number of production houses, including Tips Industries Limited, have reportedly complained of a vaccination scam. According to reports, Tips Industries Limited head Ramesh Taurany has raised suspicion as none of his employees, who were vaccinated on May 30 and June 3, has received their vaccination certificates. Tips was told that their vaccination certificates will be issued by Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital.Another production house Matchbox Pictures took part in one of the vaccination drives arranged by Tips and it has also filed a complaint against the vaccine scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-vaccine-scam-after-housing-society-production-houses-duped-4-arrested-101624013039907.html
18-06-2021||India||'Remain cautious,' warns health minister Harsh Vardhan as states relax Covid-19 restrictions||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday urged people to remain mindful of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as several states are in the middle of the unlocking process. "People started taking Covid appropriate behaviour lightly after the vaccine was rolled out. We have started the unlocking process but we still need to remain cautious and follow all Covid protocols properly," the health minister was quoted as saying by ANI.After nearly two months of the devastating second wave, Covid-19 cases in the country are receding with the daily number of infection now hovering below the 70,000-mark. On Friday, the country added 62,480 fresh cases of the infection, taking the overall tally to 29,762,793. While 1,587 people lost their lives and the death toll now stands at 383,490.The active cases have declined to 798,656 comprising 2.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.03 per cent, as per the data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Also Read | India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: ReportIn line with the health minister's statement, Dr Naveet Wig, head of the medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), also asked people to continue to follow Covid-19 protocol as the Covid-19 "has not been eradicated yet". "Virus has not been eradicated, it keeps on changing its colours. Wear a clean mask and do not use an unhygienic mask at all," Dr Wig said, as per the ANI report.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a customised crash course programme for Covid-19 workers, virtually. During the launch, PM Modi also announced that the central government is working towards preparing as many as one lakh frontline workers in the country.PM Modi also said that the course will be completed in three months so these trained professionals will be immediately available to be deployed ahead of the possible third wave in the country. "Skill, reskill, and upskill is the mantra," he also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remain-cautious-warns-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-as-states-relax-covid-19-restrictions-101624012230083.html
18-06-2021||India||India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: Report||A group of medical experts surveyed by news agency Reuters has projected that India’s next Covid-19 wave, the country’s third, would arrive here by October, adding that though this third wave would be handled better than the second wave, the Covid-19 pandemic would remain a public health concern for at least one more year.Also Read | 'Lambda' Covid-19 strain: WHO finds new 'variant of interest' in South America40 healthcare specialists, doctors, scientists, virologists, epidemiologists and professors from around the world were questioned by Reuters for this snap survey, which was conducted from June 3-17. Among those who predicted there would be a third wave, more than 85%, or 21 out of 24 respondents said it would hit by October, including three who projected it to arrive by August and 12 who gave a September timeline. The others predicted an arrival of the third wave between November and February next year.Also Read | Covid protocol breach will only hasten 3rd wave: Delhi HC on violation of normsHowever, 24 out of 34 or more than 70% experts were of the opinion that any possible third wave would be controlled better than the second one. The second Covid-19 wave was at its peak in India in April-May and, during this period, the country registered record daily cases and deaths due to the viral disease. A shortage of vaccines, oxygen, medicines and hospital beds was also reported during the second wave. Since then, however, the daily cases and deaths have seen a steady decline, partly due to restrictive measures imposed by state governments.“The third wave would be more controlled as more vaccinations would have been rolled out, leading to a lesser number of cases. Also, there would be some degree of natural immunity from this wave,” Dr Randeep Guleria, director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said.Also Read | Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero surveyThe experts, however, seemed divided over the impact of a potential third wave on children and those below the age of 18. While 26 out of 40 experts said children would be most at risk, the remaining 14 said this would not be the case.30 respondents projected that Covid-19 would continue to be a public health threat in India for at least another year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-third-covid-19-wave-may-arrive-by-october-report-101624009841199.html
18-06-2021||India||Congress leadership in touch with Sachin Pilot, says Ajay Maken||Congress leader Ajay Maken on Friday said the party’s leadership was in touch with Sachin Pilot while dismissing reports that senior leaders have avoided meeting the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister as baseless talk. He called Pilot, who was removed as the deputy chief minister and the state party chief after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year, an asset and a star campaigner.Maken said Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who Pilot is in touch with, has been out of Delhi for the last 10 days. He added Pilot is also in constant talks with him and another top leader K C Venugopal. “It is not possible that he (Pilot) has sought time for meetings and did not get it.”Also Read | Man arrested for killing wife, son in Rajasthan’s JhalawarThe comments of Maken, who is Rajasthan’s Congress in charge, came amid calls from the Pilot camp for fulfilling promises made to the former deputy chief minister after he returned to the party’s fold following his rebellion.Priyanka Gandhi played an important role in resolving the political crisis when Pilot rebelled. There have been demands for cabinet expansion and political appointments for Pilot’s loyalists.Pilot last week expressed his displeasure over the lack of action even as a committee, which includes Maken, was formed last year to address the issues he raised against Gehlot. HT has reported the central leadership of the Congress was trying to work out a cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan.Maken said the work is in on to fill the vacant nine cabinet berths and to make political appointments. “I am speaking to the chief minister, state party chief, and other leaders for the appointments.”He added they were talking to everyone. “...after the political crisis last year, our effort is that every section, seniority, future of Congress, caste and regional equations are considered,” he said when asked about the expansion and other appointments.Maken urged lawmakers against going public with their grievances. “Every lawmaker should understand the Congress was born out of sacrifice.” He added discipline will be considered whenever political appointments and cabinet expansion are done.Maken insisted all is well in Rajasthan Congress. “We fought the two waves of Covid-19 in the finest manner. The performance of the state was excellent in comparison to other states; be it the vaccination, infection or the death rate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leadership-in-touch-with-pilot-maken-101624007244446.html
18-06-2021||India||'Akshay Kumar was so impressed', say BSF officials a day after actor's visit||Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar spent Thursday with Indian Border Security Force jawans at Tulail camp in Jammu and Kashmir. The actor has already shared some snippets of his "memorable day" on his social media accounts and described the experience as "humbling". The actor has also donated ₹1 crore for a school building at Bandipora which will be named after his father Hari Om. According to BSF officials, the actor was impressed with the library that has been built there for the children of the jawans that he decided to donate the money for the construction of the school."It is a big achievement for us and the library will be used for hundreds of children in the coming years," a BSF official said. The library was started as a part of the welfare activities of the BSF Women's Welfare Association, presently headed by Anu Asthana. IPS Women Welfare Association granted the BSF ₹25,000 along with which BSF put some money and started the library, BSF sources said.The actor took a tour of the library and was visibly happy, officials said. He also left a message in the visitors' book which he signed as Akshay Hari OM Bhatia. "I am glad I got this beautiful opportunity. Thank you BSF for taking care of my country," Akshay Kumar wrote with "lots of love and prayers".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akshay-kumar-was-so-impressed-says-bsf-officials-a-day-after-actor-s-visit-101624006783624.html
18-06-2021||India||Petrol costs over ₹100 per litre in these cities. Check list here||Petrol prices in India are reaching peaks despite the international oil prices going down. State-run companies increased fuel prices for the 26th time in 46 days raising petrol rates by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise on Friday.The hike in petrol prices since May 4 saw the auto fuel making records by breaching the ₹100 per litre mark in various cities across the country. States like Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana and Ladakh saw several cities surpassing the ₹100-mark.Also read: Rahul Gandhi hits out at Centre for rising fuel pricesThe recent rise in petrol prices has made it costlier by ₹6.53 per litre and diesel by ₹6.96 per litre across the nation.These are some of the places where the petrol price has crossed the ₹100-mark:Petrol is the most expensive in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar, where it is sold at ₹108.07 per litre. Diesel is also over ₹100 and costs ₹100.82 per litre.The latest revision in prices witnessed petrol surpassing the ₹100-mark for the first time in Bengaluru as it now costs ₹100.17 per litre in the metropolitan. It is also the second metro after Mumbai to have petrol prices above ₹100 per litre.In Mumbai, the new change in the rates hiked the price to ₹103.08 per litre. Diesel in Mumbai costs ₹95.14 per litre.Ladakh crossed the ₹100-mark on Monday as it was priced at ₹101.95 per litre. The latest price hike changed the rate to ₹102.44 per litre.Petrol in Bhopal costs ₹105.13 per litre.Hyderabad is also part of the list as petrol costs ₹100.74 per litre in the city as on Friday.Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Banswara, Indore, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga are some other cities where petrol costs over ₹100 for one litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-costs-over-rs-100-per-litre-in-these-cities-check-list-here-101624003095231.html
18-06-2021||India||Pragya Thakur to host Yoga session on International Yoga Day||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Parliament member Pragya Singh Thakur will virtually host a Yoga session that Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for Democracies is organising on the International Yoga Day for lawmakers on Sunday.Also Read | Suvendu Adhikari seeks disqualification of Mukul Roy as Krishnanagar MLAIn a bulletin, Lok Sabha Secretariat informed the lawmakers about the practical sessions and lectures on Yoga. Yoga instructor Ami Desai will lead the first session as part of the programme. Sumedhanand Saraswati, the Parliament member from Rohtak, will hold a session titled “Yoga and Meditation for Holistic Well Being”. Thakur, the member of Parliament from Bhopal, will host the session “Yoga: A Way of Life”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pragya-thakur-to-host-yoga-session-on-international-yoga-day-101624005384318.html
18-06-2021||India||Tripura extends Covid curfew in 12 civic bodies till June 25||Tripura has extended Covid curfew in 12 civic bodies, including Agartala municipal corporation, till June 25. The positivity rate, the percentage of people who test positive out of all those tested, in these civic bodies has ranged between 3.72% and 5% or above percent in the past nine days.Curfew was first imposed in all these urban bodies on May 16 and has been extended in phases since.Also Read | Covid protocol breach will only hasten 3rd wave: Delhi HC on violation of normsThe other civic bodies where curfew has been extended include Kumarghat and Kailasahar municipal council in Unakoti district; Khowai; Belonia and Santirbazar in South district; Bishalgarh in Sepahijala district; Udaipur in Gomati district; Mohanpur and Ranirbazar in West district; and Panisagar in North district.As per the government notification, day curfew in other areas will be restricted to only busy areas on concerned district magistrates’ discretion, from 2pm to 6pm, and the night curfew will be from 6pm to 5am.Shops and markets would be allowed to open from 6am to 2pm in the curfew areas . All offices will function till 4pm with 50% of workforce. All shopping malls, swimming pools, cinema halls and parks will continue to remain close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-extends-covid-curfew-in-12-civic-bodies-till-june-25-101624004004550.html
18-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay HC order granting bail to 3 students in Delhi riots case||The Supreme Court said on Friday the decision on the bail for Asif Iqbal Tanha, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, released on Thursday night after spending more than a year in jail over alleged links to the violence in northeast Delhi last year, has "pan-India ramifications." "The issue is important. It has pan-India ramifications and so we would like to issue notice and decide the matter for the good of the country," the Supreme Court said.The top court also issued a notice on Delhi Police's appeal challenging the remarks made by the Delhi High Court while granting bail to activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha.The Supreme Court held that the order will not be treated as a precedent and the same shall not be relied upon by any parties in the case before any proceedings in any Court. The top court clarified that it has not interfered with the bail granted to the three accused at this stage. The matter will be taken up after July 19.A Delhi HC bench comprising Justices Siddharth Mridul and AJ Bhambhani on Thursday passed the release orders for Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, students of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. The three were granted bail previously on Tuesday by the Delhi HC regarding the northeast Delhi riots. In its bail order on Tuesday, the Delhi High Court said that the allegations against the three students do not prima facie disclose the commission of any offense under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The court also rules that the additional restrictions on the grant of bail also does not apply. The court further said that the line between terrorist activity and the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest is getting "somewhat blurred" in the mind of the State, "in its anxiety to suppress dissent."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-hc-order-granting-bail-to-3-students-in-delhi-riots-case-101624003593149.html
18-06-2021||India||Rani of Jhansi death anniversary today: Tributes pour in for the fearless queen||Leaders across the political spectrum on Friday paid tributes to Rani of Jhansi, Lakshmibai, on her death anniversary, calling her a "symbol of woman power". Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said Maharani Lakshmibai played a leading role in the first freedom struggle.The Congress party described Maharani Laxmibai's "indomitable courage" while paying tribute. “Salute to the brave Rani Laxmibai, who sacrificed her life in the freedom struggle, on her death anniversary,” it wrote on Twitter.“Our heartfelt tribute to the fearless queen of Jhansi, #RaniLaxmiBai on her Death Anniversary. The impeccable valor and bravery with which she fought in the First War of Independence 1857 against Britishers made her an icon for the freedom struggle of our country,” the Union ministry of culture tweeted.Maharani Lakshmibai is regarded as one of the leading figures of India’s rebellion in 1857 against the British, which is also referred to as the first war of independence. She was also known to have fiercely guarded Jhansi against the British till her death in 1858.Born in 1828 into a Marathi Karhade Brahmin family in Varanasi, Maharani Lakshmibai was initially named Manikarnika Tambe. Her father, Moropant Tambe was the commander of the war of Kalyanpranth and worked for Peshwa Baji Rao II of Bithoor district. Her mother was Bhagirathi Sapre and she died when Manikarnika was only four years old. It was habitual for her to ride on horseback rather than sitting on a palanquin whenever she moved from her palace to a temple.Manikarnika was educated at home and was also taught shooting, fencing, mallakhamb and horsemanship. She was married to Gangadhar Rao Newalkar, the Maharaja of Jhansi, in 1842. She lost her first child Damodar Rao when he was only four months old. She then adopted Anand Rao, who was the son of Maharaja Gangadhar Rao Newalkar’s cousin. She renamed Anand Rao Damodar.Some of the famous quotes of Maharani Lakshmibai are:> “If defeated and killed on the field of battle, we shall surely earn eternal glory and salvation.”> “I shall not surrender my Jhansi.”> “We are preparing our forces. It is very important to fight the English.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rani-of-jhansi-death-anniversary-today-tributes-pour-in-for-the-fearless-queen-101624003054394.html
18-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hits out at Centre for rising fuel prices||Noting the skyrocketing prices of petrol and diesel in the country, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday fired a fresh salvo against the central government as state-run oil companies raised fuel rates for the 26th time in 46 days. "The rare day GOI does not hike fuel prices is the exception which proves the rule that prices are increased every day," Rahul Gandhi tweeted.The rare day GOI does not hike fuel prices is the exception which proves the rule that prices are increased everyday. #FuelPriceHikeHe also took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) government's slogan, "Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas", stating that the situation is so bad that "vikas" or development is when the fuel prices are not increased on one day, which becomes a "bigger news". "Such is the condition of Modi government's vikas that if the price of petrol and diesel does not increase any day, then it becomes a bigger news!" Rahul Gandhi's tweet, in Hindi, read.Also read: Petrol price crosses ₹103 in Mumbai, ₹100 in BengaluruThe latest price revision has made petrol costlier by ₹6.53 per litre and diesel by ₹6.96 per litre across the country since May 4. After the revision, petrol crossed the ₹103 a litre mark for the first time in Mumbai and ₹100 in Bengaluru even as international oil prices moved downward. Petrol prices in Delhi on Friday stood at ₹96.93 per litre, while diesel is priced at ₹87.69 per litre.Meanwhile, truck operators' body All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on June 16 said that it will protest against the government's "apathy" to the plight of the transport fraternity. The organization said that it will stage a nationwide protest against the rising diesel prices on June 28. Last week, the Congress party held demonstrations at petrol pumps in Delhi and across the country protesting against the incessant rise in fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-centre-for-rising-fuel-prices-101623999833247.html
18-06-2021||India||Pak foreign minister clears Taliban of violence, accuses India of terror acts||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has sought to absolve the Taliban for the high levels of violence in Afghanistan and accused India of “carrying out terrorist activities” from Afghan soil, drawing sharp criticism from Pakistani and Afghan leaders on Friday. Qureshi made the remarks in an interview with Afghanistan’s Tolo News, excerpts of which were posted on the channel’s Twitter feed. He also sought to question the need for India to have a large presence in Afghanistan simply on the ground that the two countries do not share a border. Asked about the high levels of violence in Afghanistan amid popular perceptions that the Taliban are responsible for a series of bombings and targeted assassinations of government officials, Qureshi replied: “Who’s responsible for that? Again, if you try and create this impression that the violence is high because of Taliban...again, that would be an exaggeration. Why do I say that? Aren’t there other elements over there who are playing the role of a spoiler.”Also Read | ‘Remove shortcomings’: India tells Pakistan on bill permitting Jadhav to appealResponding to a question on the forces responsible for the violence, he said: “Daesh, like forces within Afghanistan...who gain from the war economy, who want to perpetuate their power, who are not seeing beyond their nose and just want to hang on to power.” Talking about India’s presence in Afghanistan, Qureshi sought to perpetuate the myth pushed by the Pakistani security establishment that there are more than four Indian consulates on Afghan soil. He also contended that India’s presence in Afghanistan is “larger than it ought to be” and that India is “carrying out terrorist activities” from Afghan soil. Asked how many Indian consulates there are in Afghanistan, he replied: “Well, on paper, perhaps four.” Responding to a question on whether he doubted this figure, he said, “No, I’m saying we feel that, at times, you don’t share a border with India. Obviously, you have sovereign relations and you have bilateral relations, and you have every right to have sovereign and bilateral relations with India. You have trade with India, they come and carry out development work there, that’s completely fine with us.” He added, “But at times we feel that their presence is perhaps larger than it ought to be because they...don’t share a border with you.” Qureshi said it would bother him if India uses “your [Afghan] soil against us. Asked if and how India is using Afghan soil for anti-Pakistan activities, he said: “Yes, they are...By carrying out terrorist activities.” There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Qureshi’s comments. In the past, New Delhi has rubbished Islamabad’s claims that Afghan soil is being used for anti-Pakistan activities, saying its focus in Afghanistan is on development and reconstruction activities. India is currently the largest regional donor in Afghanistan with pledges of about $3 billion. Pakistan’s security establishment has also sought to perpetuate the myth that India has dozens of consulates in Afghanistan. India has only four consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif. The consulates in Herat and Jalaabad were closed last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the security situation and are yet to be reopened. Qureshi’s comments drew criticism from former Pakistani parliamentarian and prominent Pashtun activist Afrasiab Khattak, who said the Taliban wouldn’t need a foreign minister “when they already have one” in Qureshi, and Afghan National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib, who contended that Pakistan’s foreign minister was “uninformed, ignorant or [an] accomplice” of the Taliban. “Why would Taliban need another foreign minister when they already have one? Pakistan’s ‘neutrality’ in Afghanistan was never credible but it has finally thrown away even that pretension. On its way to fully internalising the Afghan conflict, is Pak sure it can chew what it’s biting?” Khattak tweeted. Mohib referred to Qureshi’s remarks absolving the Taliban for the increased violence and said in a tweet: “This comes as Taliban launches violent offensives against Afghan people across the country, we know how & why they continue to be enabled to do this. Quraishi is either uninformed, ignorant or accomplice. Maybe he also rejects that Osama [bin Laden] was found next to Pakistani Military HQ.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-foreign-minister-clears-taliban-of-violence-accuses-india-of-terror-acts-101624002684326.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sachin Pilot met Priyanka Gandhi, in talks with others, says Ajay Maken and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sachin Pilot met Priyanka Gandhi, in talks with other top brass: Ajay MakenSachin Pilot is a senior leader of the Congress party and there is no way that he will not be given an appointment with party leadership if he seeks an audience, said Ajay Maken, general secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), to news agency ANI on Friday. Read moreTiger carcass with bullet wound found in Assam’s KazirangaThe carcass of a male tiger was found with a bullet wound on Friday morning on the outskirts of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) in Assam. Read moreWorking towards preparing 1 lakh Covid frontline workers: PM Modi launches customized crash course programmePrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday during the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country, the virus changed rapidly which posed new challenges. Read moreUP police send legal notice to Twitter India MD over Loni incidentThe Uttar Pradesh Police have summoned Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for questioning within seven days in connection with the posting and promotion on the microblogging site of an allegedly manipulated video of the assault of an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad. Read moreIndia vs New Zealand, WTC Final, Southampton weather today: Overcast skies, rain promise to threaten play at Rose BowlThe final of the first ever World Test Championship is finally here and cricket fans across the world couldn't be more excited. But with some excitement, there is some tension-filled news as well, which is currently going by the term 'Southampton weather'. Read moreSatish Kaushik says pregnant Neena Gupta ‘was in tears’ when he offered to marry her: ‘I simply stood by her’Actor Neena Gupta, in her recently released autobiography, Sach Kahun Toh, shared an anecdote on how her good friend, actor Satish Kaushik offered to marry her when she was pregnant with her daughter, fashion designer Masaba Gupta. Read moreMadhuri Dixit suggests strengthening the digestive organs with Yoga’s MudrasanaAs International Yoga Day is just around the corner and will be observed on June 21, fitness enthusiasts across the world as pulling up their socks to raise awareness of the many benefits of Yoga and Bollywood actor Madhuri Dixit too jumped the bandwagon as she performed Mudrasana during her morning exercise session this Friday. Read moreDell launches Inspiron 13, Inspiron 14, and Inspiron 15 laptops in India, check out price and specsDell has launched a range of new laptops in India under its Inspiron range. The new range includes the Dell Inspiron 13, the Dell Inspiron 14 2-in-1, and the Dell Inspiron 15 with Intel and AMD configurations. Read moreHyundai Alcazar launched at ₹16.30 lakh, takes on Tata Safari, Hector PlusHyundai Alcazar was officially launched in the Indian market at a starting price of ₹16.30 lakh, going up to ₹19.99 lakh (ex showroom and introductory prices). Read moreTwo-year-old asks grandpa if she could help him in ‘yawdwowk’. Viral video is too sweet to handleIn today’s edition of sweet videos which may make you say “Aww” multiple times, here’s a clip of a little one asking her grandfather if she could help him with his “yawdwowk.” Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sachin-pilot-met-priyanka-gandhi-in-talks-with-other-top-brass-says-ajay-maken-and-all-the-latest-news-101623998754556.html
18-06-2021||India||SC stays cases against Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah actor Munmun Dutta||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed First Information Reports (FIRs) registered in five states against actor Munmun Dutta, who is a part of popular TV show Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, for allegedly using a casteist slur in a video posted on Twitter last month even as it pulled her up for the comment.“What you said may amount to bringing the entire community into disrepute. You say you are a woman but tell us if women have any better rights than men or they also have equal rights?” the bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian asked.Also Watch | Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha released from jailDutta’s lawyer, Puneet Bali, acknowledged the actor made a mistake and deleted her Twitter post within two hours of posting the video. The Supreme Court has in several cases clubbed FIRs arising out of the same incident, Bali added. Bali pleaded that all cases against her be shifted to Mumbai.The court stayed the criminal cases against Dutta in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh. It also issued a notice to Dalit rights activist and lawyer Rajat Kalsan, who got the first FIR registered against the actor in Haryana’s Hisar on May 13. The FIR was filed under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for allegedly humiliating the community.Kalsan has been asked to respond to Dutta’s plea for quashing the FIR within six weeks.Dutta shared the video of her interaction with her fans, and she made the comment while talking about her make-up and provoked outrage. She later trimmed her video and issued an apology on social media. “... one word used by me has been misinterpreted. It was never said with the intent of insult, intimidate, humiliate or hurt anyone’s feelings. Because of my language barrier, I was genuinely misinformed about the meaning of the word. Once I was made aware of it meaning I immediately took the part down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-cases-against-taarak-mehta-ka-ooltah-chashmah-actor-munmun-dutta-101624000704474.html
18-06-2021||India||TN CM Stalin meets Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi in Delhi||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin met Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Friday as he concluded his first two-day visit to the national capital after the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led coalition returned to power in Tamil Nadu last month. Congress is a part of the government in the state.Rahul Gandhi tweeted a photo of their meeting saying, “We will keep working with the DMK to build a strong and prosperous state for the Tamil people.” Stalin presented a copy of the book “Journey of a Civilization: Indus to Vaigai” to Sonia Gandhi. Also Read | MK Stalin calls on PM Modi with 25 demandsA DMK leader said it was a courtesy call.On Thursday, Stalin met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and submitted a memorandum of 25 demands, including the scrapping of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the three farm laws passed in September last year. Stalin said that he was happy and satisfied with his meeting with Modi and that the Prime Minister assured him of support. He also raised issues such as inadequate vaccine supply, GST dues, abolition of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, and sought more rights for Sri Lankan Tamils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncm-stalin-meets-sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-in-delhi-101624000164400.html
18-06-2021||India||Electrification of 19 Siachen villages to help Ladakh achieve carbon-neutrality target, says officials||As many as 19 villages in Siachen has been electrified with supply from the Chamshen micro-hydel project (MHP), a development that will help Ladakh inch closer towards achieving the carbon-neutrality target, officials said on Friday.The Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy funded the Chamshen project under the Ladakh Renewable Energy Initiative (LREI) scheme, the officials said. The electrified villages are Chamshen, Kuri, Charasa, Burma, Pinchimik, Hasara, Kyagar, Sumooor, Lakjung, Tirith, Tyaksha, Panamik, Tirisha, Hargyam, Fukpochey, Kobet, Ayee, Aranu and Sasoma.The electrification of these villages would result in the phasing out of 3 DG sets, including 160 kVA Panamik DG set, 160 kVA Chamshen DG set and 250 kVA Kyagar DG set, Secretary Power, Ravinder Kumar said.The electrification of the villages was the result of the joint effort of the Power Development Department and Ladakh Renewable Energy Development Agency (LREDA), he said, adding the surplus power could be supplied to the Army in the border areas.The villages were electrified through a 11 KV line under SDP with the 450 KW Chamshen Micro-Hydel Project (MHP).Meanwhile, Ladakh Lt Governor's advisor Umang Narula convened a meeting here regarding the preparation of action plans by individual departments for achieving a carbon-neutral status for Ladakh.Addressing the meeting, Narula said the idea of a Carbon-Neutral Ladakh was envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and it aims at planning future developmental activities to minimize carbon emissions."It is an intrinsic part of Vision 2050 for development of Ladakh and carbon neutrality has to be embedded in every department's vision and action plan,” he said.TERI has been nominated by Niti Aayog to prepare an action plan document and certain recommendations were made on how to achieve carbon neutrality in various sectors, he noted.The Advisor reviewed the implementation status of the action plans prepared by the departments for achieving carbon neutrality based on the broader suggested interventions by TERI.He said the advisor directed that all households in Ladakh should be encouraged to install solar cooking devices and further steps be taken to promote the construction of solar passive residential, official and commercial buildings in the urban areas.The advisor also directed that all buildings should be accessible through a ramp or lift as per accessibility norms.Similarly, the Tourism department was asked to promote homestay tourism which is sustainable and has a lower carbon footprint and in particular incentivise construction of passive solar homestay accommodation.He said the transport department was asked to plan the introduction of electric vehicles on a pilot basis for public and private transport and establish solar powered charging stations.The UT administration is in the process of procuring e-cars, e-buses and introducing e-rickshaws.The Advisor exhorted upon utilizing existing water resources optimally to bring more area under cultivation and pastureland which can sequester carbon emissions.He also asked the agriculture and horticulture departments and the deputy commissioners to focus on drip irrigation and other efficient methods of micro-irrigation such as ponds to maximize the use of existing water resources and also focus on adoption of organic manure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electrification-of-19-siachen-villages-to-help-ladakh-achieve-carbon-neutrality-target-says-officials-101623998224394.html
18-06-2021||India||Coronavirus vaccines have no impact on male fertility, study confirms||Coronavirus vaccines do not have any effect on male fertility, the results of a first-of-its-kind study published on Friday show, after finding that the levels of sperm in volunteers remained at healthy levels after they got two doses of mRNA vaccines.The study by researchers at University of Miami covered 45 men who were assessed before and after they received their vaccines. Its results reinforce the theoretical understanding that these vaccines do not impact fertility, addressing a false belief among many vaccine sceptics.“Of the 45 men, 21 (46.7%) received BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNtech) and 24 (53.3%) received mRNA-1273 (Moderna vaccine). Baseline sperm concentration and TMSC (total mobile sperm count) were 26 million/mL and 36 million, respectively. After the second vaccine dose, the median sperm concentration significantly increased to 30 million/mL and the median TMSC to 44 million. Semen volume and sperm motility also significantly increased,” the report, published in the peer-reviewed Journal of American Medical Association (Jama), said.The authors explain the increase as being within routine variation and could be a result of increased abstinence duration prior to the second sampling.Also Read | ‘Lambda’ Covid-19 strain: WHO finds new ‘variant of interest’ in South America“In this study of sperm parameters before and after two doses of a Covid-19 mRNA vaccine, there were no significant decreases in any sperm parameter among this small cohort of healthy men. Because the vaccines contain mRNA and not the live virus, it is unlikely that the vaccine would affect sperm parameters,” the authors write.None of Covid-19 vaccines use a live virus. Even in the case of adenovirus vector doses, such as those made by OxfordAstraZeneca (sold as Covishield in India) and Russia’s Gamaleya Institute (sold as Sputnik), the adenovirus is modified to not replicate and cannot cause an actual infection – it merely acts as a conduit for the code of the Spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2.In November, 2020, scientists found evidence that people may be at a higher risk of infertility if they get infected with Covid-19. The study by researchers from China found that in samples taken from six male Covid-19 patients who died from the disease showed high levels of cells and proteins that indicated inflammation and cell death in the testes and epidymis.In the men recovering from Covid-19, 39% of them had low sperm counts and 61% had an increased number of white blood cells in their semen, which suggested compromised sperm function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-vaccines-have-no-impact-on-male-fertility-study-confirms-101623998424477.html
18-06-2021||India||Working towards preparing 1 lakh Covid frontline workers: PM Modi launches customized crash course programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday India needs to be prepared to combat new challenges posed by the rapidly mutating coronavirus as the country is witnessing a waning second wave of the pandemic. “Covid-19 is still there and there is a strong possibility of the virus being mutated. Therefore, the country’s preparations have to be ramped up in order to combat new challenges. We are working towards preparing 1 lakh frontline workers in the country,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister was speaking at the launch of the customized crash course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers. PM Modi said the crash course will be completed within two to three months. The frontline workers will be immediately available and will act as a ‘trained sahayak’ to assist in the present arrangements and reduce the burden, he added.“The crash course has been designed by the country’s top experts upon the requirement of states,” PM Modi said during the virtual address and pointed out the programme will also bring new employment opportunities for the country’s youth.The customized crash course programme is designed as a special programme under the Central Component of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with a financial outlay of ₹276 crore, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The programme will commence in 111 training centres spread over 26 states. Frontline workers will be trained in six customised job roles - home care support, basic care support, advanced care support, emergency care support, sample collection support, and medical equipment support, the PMO statement added.The programme also aims towards creating skilled non-medical healthcare workers to fill the present and future requirements of the workforce in India’s health sector.Towards the end of his address, PM Modi said that from June 21 vaccine doses will be administered free of cost to those above the age of 18. “The Centre is committed to vaccinating every citizen of this country for free. We have to follow all Covid protocols. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is extremely important,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-customized-crash-course-programme-for-covid-frontline-workers-101623993322415.html
18-06-2021||India||Indian Railways to restore services of special trains. Check complete list here||Indian Railways will be resuming several special trains from June 21, services which were earlier disrupted due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal announced earlier this week from his official Twitter handle that train services are being started once again by the Indian Railways in the upcoming days. Along with the resumption of the earlier special train services, a new summer special train is also being started from June 25, which will run from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh to Bandra Terminus in Maharashtra.आगामी कुछ समय में भारतीय रेल द्वारा अनेक रेल सेवाओं का संचालन शुरु किया जा रहा है। इन ट्रेनों से संबंधित अधिक जानकारी के लिये देखेंः https://t.co/i36wQ5A7t3 इसके साथ ही, 25 जून से गोरखपुर से बांद्रा टर्मिनस तक एक ग्रीष्मकालीन विशेष ट्रेन भी आरंभ की जा रही है। pic.twitter.com/5iHgty4Vk9Here are all special train services which are being resumed by Indian Railways, starting June 21:Train Number 02011 New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02012 Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02017 New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02018 Dehradun-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02013 New Delhi-Amritsar Junction Shatabdi Express from 1 JulyTrain Number 02014 Amritsar Junction-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02005 New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02006 Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04048 Delhi Junction-Kotdwara Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04047 Kotdwara-Delhi Junction Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02046 Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02045 New Delhi-Chandigarh Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02029 New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02030 Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02265 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi Duronto from 2 JulyTrain Number 02266 Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto from 3 JulyTrain Number 02462 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Sri Shakti from 1 JulyTrain Number 02461 New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Sri Shakti from 2 JulyTrain Number 04527 Kalka-Shimla Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04528 Shimla-Kalka Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04517 Kalka-Shimla Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04518 Shimla-Kalka Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04505 Kalka-Shimla Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04506 Shimla-Kalka Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04051 New Delhi-Daurai Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04052 Daurai-New Delhi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04640 Firozpur Cantt-Sahibzada Ajeet Singh Nagar Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04639 Sahibzada Ajeet Singh Nagar-Firozpur Cantt Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02441 Bilaspur Junction-New Delhi Express from 24 JuneTrain Number 02442 New Delhi-Bilaspur Junction Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04606 Jammu Tawi-Yognagari Rishikesh Express from 4 JulyTrain Number 04605 Yognagari Rishikesh-Jammu Tawi Express from 5 JulyTrain Number 04041 Delhi Junction-Dehradun Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04042 Dehradun-Delhi Junction Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04515 Kalka-Shimla Express Special from 21 JuneTrain Number 04516 Shimla-Kalka Express Special from 22 JuneTrain Number 04210 Lucknow-Prayagraj Sangam Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04209 Prayagraj Sangam-Lucknow Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04233 Prayagraj Sangam-Mankapur Junction from 21 JuneTrain Number 04234 Mankapur Junction-Prayagraj Sangam Express from 22 JuneTrain number 04231 Prayagraj Sangam-Basti Manwar Sangam Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04232 Basti-Prayagraj Sangam Manwar Sangam Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 05053 Chhapra-Lucknow Junction Express from 1 JulyTrain Number 05054 Lucknow Junction-Chhapra Express from 28 JuneTrain Number 05083 Chhapra-Farrukhabad Express from 29 JuneTrain Number 05084 Farrukhabad-Chhapra Express from 30 JuneTrain Number 05114 Chhapra Kachehari-Gomti Nagar Express from 1 JulyTrain Number 05113 Gomti Nagar-Chhapra Kachehari Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02595 Gorakhpur-Anand Vihar (T) Express from 17 JuneTrain Number 02596 Anand Vihar (T)-Gorakhpur Express from 18 June||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-restore-services-of-special-trains-check-complete-list-here-101623992063246.html
18-06-2021||India||UP police send legal notice to Twitter India MD over Loni incident||The Uttar Pradesh Police have summoned Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for questioning within seven days in connection with the posting and promotion on the microblogging site of an allegedly manipulated video of the assault of an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad.Also Read: Could Twitter, WhatsApp face ban in India? Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad repliesThe summon was issued two days after Twitter, news website wire.in, journalists and Congress leaders were booked for “promoting enmity between religions” for posting and promoting the video amid conflicting narratives of the attack. The video purportedly showed the man being beaten up and his attackers cutting his beard.The 72-year-old man’s family and friends have said the man’s attackers forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and chopped off his beard. The Uttar Pradesh Police have claimed there was no communal angle to the attack even as a Samajwadi Party leader said that the police deliberately left out the alleged communal slogan chanting from the First Information Report filed in the case.Also Read | ‘Dilutes your credibility’: Government’s notice to Twitter in toolkit caseAkhilesh Kumar Mishra, the investigating officer in the case, said the notice was issued to Maheshwari late on Thursday evening under the regular provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and he has been asked to appear within seven days and record his statement. “The notice is served so that he appears to record statements under the CrPC’s Section 161.”The section empowers an investigating officer to seek the appearance of any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of a case.HT has reached out to Twitter for a comment. The copy will be updated once the company responds.Officers aware of the matter said Twitter has been named in the case as it did not prevent the video from going viral and allegedly helped in its promotion and circulation.Twitter was booked amid disagreements between the government and the company over the new guidelines that require digital companies to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. They have also faced off over the government’s orders to Twitter to take down posts. Twitter has also raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and police intimidation.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday blamed Twitter for deliberately choosing not to comply with the guidelines even as officials in his ministry said that this could have the social media company lose the protection it enjoys as an intermediary. The guidelines came into effect on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-sends-legal-notice-to-twitter-india-md-over-loni-incident-101623989363370.html
18-06-2021||India||India reports 62,480 new Covid-19 cases, active cases go below 800,000||India on Friday registered 62,480 cases and 1,587 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 29,762,793 and 383,490 respectively, according to the Union health ministry. Nearly 89,000 people recovered in the last 24 hours and the cumulative figures of recoveries have climbed to 28,580,647 while the active cases have come down to 798,656 and constitute 2.78 per cent of the caseload.Friday’s case count is 4,728 less than that of Thursday’s when 67,208 people tested positive for the viral disease. Since Wednesday, the country had been witnessing a marginal increase in its daily tally when 62,224 cases were reported. While on Tuesday, 60,471 people were detected Covid-19 positive, the lowest single-day rise in more than 70 days.Meanwhile, the toll on Friday has been the lowest since April 18 this year, when 1,501 people succumbed to Covid-19.Also Read| Kids, adults have similar antibodies: AIIMS Sero SurveyA total of 387,167,696 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,929,476 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday.Even though India has managed to gain slight control over the second wave of the pandemic after it had witnessed its worst health crisis in April this year, the possibility of a third and more deadly wave is still lurking. It has been often pointed out that children will be more prone to the viral disease in the third wave in India due to which states and Union Territories (UTs) have started ramping up their health infrastructure.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/RD4SMkwj1CHowever, a seroprevalence study carried out by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has stated that the possible third wave of the pandemic is unlikely to disproportionately affect children than adults. The SARS-CoV-2 sero-positivity rate among children was high and was comparable to the adult population in the study, which was conducted in five selected sites including Delhi with a total sample size of 10,000.In Delhi, 74.7 per cent of the population, comprising both children and adults, were exposed to Covid-19, the WHO-AIIMS study found out. This is much greater seroprevalence than the Delhi government’s survey from January 1 where 56.1 per cent were found to have antibodies against the viral disease, Hindustan Times reported.Also Read| Banquet and tent house owners want Delhi govt to allow weddings, functionsThe national capital has started with the unlocking process and several Covid-19 related restrictions have been eased such as re-opening of restaurants, salons, shopping malls, metro etc. However, there is a strong possibility that infections might shoot up again as more and more relaxations are given by the government.Meanwhile, India has administered 268,960,399 doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 to eligible beneficiaries till now of which nearly 3.26 million were administered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said. A total of 218,873,616 have been inoculated with the first dose while 50,086,783 have been inoculated with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-62-480-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-go-below-800000-101623987268000.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: China unit targets Indian telcos, firms in cyber espionage and all the latest news||China unit targets Indian telcos, firms in cyber espionageA suspected unit of Chinese cyber soldiers targeted Indian telecom companies, government agencies and several defence contractors, a cyber threats intelligence company said on Thursday. Read moreWTC final: Is Virat Kohli battling worrying form in Tests? Numbers suggest soJune 18, 2021 will officially mark the beginning of Virat Kohli's third tour of England. He has been to England to play Test cricket twice before - in 2014 and 2018, where he tasted contrasting fortunes with the bat. Read moreSherni director on Rajkummar Rao, Vidya Balan: 'More similarities than differences between the two'Sherni, starring Vidya Balan in the lead role, lands online on Friday, June 18. Director Amir Masurkar talked to Hindustan Times to share details about his vision behind the film, the struggles he faced while making it. Read more Bird lays eggs in nest built on wreath on a door, homeowner posts pics of babiesHow would you react if you found a bird’s nest outside your home? This Twitter user found one in a wreath he had on his door. His tweet about the bird situation has since gone viral. Read moreWatch: Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha released from jailActivists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha released from jail. The student activists, arrested in may last year, were granted bail by Delhi HC on June 15. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-unit-targets-indian-telcos-firms-in-cyber-espionage-and-all-the-latest-news-101623986609242.html
18-06-2021||India||Maha hopes to keep 3rd Covid wave at bay with strict curbs, faster vaccination||Maharashtra is likely to witness the third wave of Covid-19 infections as early as mid-August, according to state Covid task force members, but they feel curbs, coupled with faster vaccination, could delay it and reduce its impact. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray convened a meeting on Wednesday over preparations for the possible third wave, where the health department had projected that the state could see double the cases then, while the active case count could go up to 800,000. Dr Rahul Pandit, task force member and head intensivist at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said mathematical projections suggest the next wave could hit in eight to 12 weeks of the second wave ebbing and the state must prepare for it in the next four weeks. Also Read | Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero survey“The third wave hit the UK sooner [than the 8-12 weeks’ period]. Therefore, we have to be prepared in the next four weeks, let the wave come whenever it comes. Our efforts should be towards preparing for it but also trying to prevent it altogether. It may not hit us for another eight to 12 weeks but we need to be prepared if it does,” he said, adding that no model can accurately predict the virus. Maharashtra added 9,830 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 5,944,710. It reported 236 deaths in the last 24 hours, while 400 fatalities were added to the tally taking the death toll to 116,026. The state’s active case count stood at 139,960. Mumbai on Thursday added 660 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 717,832. Mumbai saw 20 deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 15,247. The active cases in the city were 18,417 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-hopes-to-keep-3rd-covid-wave-at-bay-with-strict-curbs-faster-vaccination-101623986483312.html
18-06-2021||India||Govt extends driving license validity till September 30: All you need to know||The Centre on Thursday announced the validity of documents such as driving licenses, vehicle registration certificates, fitness certificates and other permits has been extended till September 30, 2021. The extension only applies for those documents that expired after February 2020 and couldn’t be renewed due to Covid-19 restrictions, the government also said. “Taking into consideration the need to prevent the spread of COVID-19, MoRT&H has advised the Enforcement Authorities that the validity of Fitness, Permit (all types), License, Registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till 30th Sept, 2021,” the Union road transport ministry tweeted earlier on June 17.Here is everything you need to know about the latest directives by the central government regarding the extension of driving licenses and similar documents:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-driving-license-validity-till-september-30-all-you-need-to-know-101623984678699.html
18-06-2021||India||Monsoon progress likely to pick up between June 27 and June 30||Monsoon progress is likely to pick up between June 27 and June 30 and advance to most parts of northwest India outside west Rajasthan, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its two-week forecast on Thursday.Subdued rainfall activity is likely to continue over northwest India till June 27 and due to a gradual establishment of easterly winds and straightening of monsoon pattern over the country, a fresh spell of rainfall is likely over the region during the period. During the week ending June 30, rainfall is likely to be normal over some pockets of northwest India except parts of western Himalayan region where it is likely to be normal to below normal.Due to a likely strengthening of westerly winds and off-shore trough along west coast towards end of month, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is likely along the west coast. Rainfall is likely to be near normal in the remaining parts of the country outside northeastern states and extreme southern parts of southern Peninsular India, where it is likely to be below normal.Between June 1 and June 16, overall rainfall is 33% above normal over the country.Also Read | As rains approach, Delhi steps up measures to check dengueThe northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar.Large-scale atmospheric conditions are not favourable for further advance of monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts Punjab, Haryana and Delhi till June 27. However, there could be slow progress into some more parts of Gujarat state and Uttar Pradesh during the next 2-3 days.A cyclonic circulation is lying over Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Sikkim and north Odisha during the next 2-3 days.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over east Uttar Pradesh & its neighbourhood. Under its influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over east Uttar Pradesh during the next 2-3 days.An offshore trough (line of low pressure) is running from south Gujarat coast to north Kerala coast. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Konka, Goa and Madhya Maharashtra during the next 2-3 days; and over Karnataka, Kerala & Mahe during the next two days. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also very likely over Konkan, Goa and Madhya Maharashtra during the next 24 hours.A western disturbance is running from north Jammu & Kashmir to northeast Arabian Sea. Under its influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls with isolated extremely heavy rain is very likely over Uttarakhand during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-progress-likely-to-pick-up-between-june-27-and-june-30-101623985163088.html
18-06-2021||India||Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero survey||A serological surveillance (sero survey) under the World Health Organization (WHO), conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), has allayed apprehension regarding a potential third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India disproportionately affecting children. The interim findings of the ongoing sero survey point out that the SARS-CoV-2 seropositivity rate in children aged two years and above is comparable to that in adults and thus there is no statistical evidence to suggest that the 2-17 age group is especially vulnerable to a potential third wave.Also Read: Kids, adults have similar antibodies: AIIMS Sero SurveyThe findings of the ongoing sero survey have been published on medRxiv, a pre-print server, and are based on a mid-term analysis of the data of the 4,509 participants -- 700 children in the 2-17 years age group and 3,809 aged 18 years and above. The five selected sites are as follows -- Delhi Urban Resettlement Colony, Delhi Rural (villages in Faridabad district of Haryana under Delhi-NCR), Bhubaneswar Rural, Gorakhpur rural, and Agartala rural. Data was collected between March 15 and June 10 from these selected sites.Here are the key interim findings from the ongoing sero survey conducted by WHO and AIIMS:1 . The seroprevalence, presence of virus-fighting total serum antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus, was assessed qualitatively by using a standard ELISA kit in five states with a proposed total sample size of 10,000. Among children aged 2-17 years, the seroprevalence was found to be 55.7% across the five selected study sites, in comparison to 63.5% among adults. The difference was judged to be statistically insignificant.2 . Regardless of the age group, rural sites reported a lower seropositivity rate on average as compared to urban sites in Delhi. Even within rural sites, children reported a lower seropositivity rate as compared to adults. However, this difference was not observed in the urban sites.3 . The interim findings show that female children show a slightly higher seropositivity rate than males, which is in contrast to the meta-analysis which initially showed a higher seroprevalence in men. The findings may continue to change as more data become available, the study said.4 . Higher mobility and independence may be a reason behind the higher seropositivity rate in children aged 10-17 years, when compared to that in younger children.5 . In Delhi, which was one of the five sites for the study, the researchers found that 74.7% of the population – both children and adults – had been exposed to the infection. This is a much higher seroprevalence than the state government’s survey from January where 56.1% were found to have antibodies against the virus. The samples for the AIIMS study were collected between April and May, and would not have detected antibodies of those who got the infection during the second wave.6 . A large proportion of children (50.9%) had asymptomatic Covid-19 infection. Even before the second wave, children below the age of 18 in South Delhi had as much seroprevalence (73.9%) as the below 18 years (74.8%).7. As compared to the 74.7% in urban settlements of South Delhi, the prevalence was 59.3% in the villages of Delhi and Ballabhgarh. “Results show that a large majority of the population had already been infected by the time we conducted the study at Delhi urban site which belongs to lower and middle socioeconomic strata population and very congested neighbourhood,” the study said.8. With all locations other than Delhi being rural, the average seroprevalence in rural areas stood at 58.8% as per the study. The highest seroprevalence was found in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh where 87.9% of the people had been exposed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-may-not-hit-kids-disproportionately-who-aiims-sero-survey-101623981104188.html
18-06-2021||India||Indians' funds in Swiss banks rise to over ₹20,000 crore, customer deposits down for second year||Funds parked by Indian individuals and firms in Swiss banks, including through India-based branches and other financial institutions, jumped to 2.55 billion Swiss francs (over ₹20,700 crore) in 2020 on a sharp surge in holdings via securities and similar instruments, though customer deposits fell, annual data from Switzerland's central bank showed on Thursday.The increase in aggregate funds of Indian clients with Swiss banks, from 899 million Swiss francs ( ₹6,625 crore) at the end of 2019, reverses a two-year declining trend and has taken the figure to the highest level in 13 years.It stood at a record high of nearly 6.5 billion Swiss francs in 2006, after which it has been mostly on a downward path, except for a few years including in 2011, 2013 and 2017, as per the Swiss National Bank (SNB) data.The total amount of CHF 2,554.7 million ( ₹20,706 crore), described by the SNB as 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks or 'amounts due to' their Indian clients at the end of 2020, included CHF 503.9 million (over ₹4,000 crore) in customer deposits, CHF 383 million (over ₹3,100 crore) held via other banks, CHF 2 million ( ₹16.5 crore) through fiduciaries or trusts and the highest component of CHF 1,664.8 million (nearly ₹13,500 crore) as 'other amounts due to customers' in form of bonds, securities and various other financial instruments.While the funds classified as 'customer account deposits' have actually declined from CHF 550 million at the end of 2019 and those through fiduciaries also more than halved from CHF 7.4 million, the money held via other banks rose sharply from CHF 88 million in this period.However, the biggest difference has been a surge in 'other amounts due to customers' from India, which rose over six times from CHF 253 million at 2019-end.All four components had declined during 2019.These are official figures reported by banks to the SNB and do not indicate the quantum of the much-debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland.These figures also do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in names of third-country entities.According to the SNB, its data for 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks towards Indian clients takes into account all types of funds of Indian customers at Swiss banks, including deposits from individuals, banks and enterprises. This includes data for branches of Swiss banks in India, as also non-deposit liabilities.On the other hand, the 'locational banking statistics' of the Bank for International Settlement (BIS), which have been described in the past by Indian and Swiss authorities as a more reliable measure for deposits by Indian individuals in Swiss banks, show an increase of nearly 39 per cent during 2020 in such funds to USD 125.9 million ( ₹932 crore).This figure takes into account deposits as well as loans of Indian non-bank clients of Swiss-domiciled banks and had shown an increase of 7 per cent in 2019, after declining by 11 per cent in 2018 and by 44 per cent in 2017.It peaked at over USD 2.3 billion (over ₹9,000 crore) at the end of 2007.Swiss authorities have always maintained that assets held by Indian residents in Switzerland cannot be considered as 'black money' and they actively support India in its fight against tax fraud and evasion.An automatic exchange of information in tax matters between Switzerland and India has been in force since 2018. Under this framework, detailed financial information on all Indian residents having accounts with Swiss financial institutions since 2018 was provided for the first time to Indian tax authorities in September 2019 and this is to be followed every year.In addition to this, Switzerland has been actively sharing details about accounts of Indians suspected to have indulged in financial wrongdoings after submission of prima facie evidence. Such exchange of information has taken place in hundreds of cases so far.Overall, customer deposits in all Swiss banks rose in 2020 to nearly CHF 2 trillion, which included over CHF 600 billion of foreign customer deposits.While the UK topped the charts for foreign clients' money in Swiss banks at CHF 377 billion, it was followed by the US (CHF 152 billion) at the second spot -- the only two countries with 100-billion-plus client funds.Others in the top 10 were West Indies, France, Hong Kong, Germany, Singapore, Luxembourg, Cayman Islands and Bahamas.India was placed at 51st place, ahead of countries like New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Hungary, Mauritius, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.Among BRICS nations, India stood below China and Russia, but above South Africa and Brazil.Others placed above India included Netherlands, UAE, Japan, Australia, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Israel, Ireland, Turkey, Mexico, Austria, Greece, Egypt, Canada, Qatar, Belgium, Bermuda, Kuwait, South Korea, Portugal, Jordan, Thailand, Seychelles, Argentina, Indonesia, Malaysia and Gibraltar.The countries for which Swiss banks reported a decline in amounts due to clients included the US and UK, while the money parked by individuals and enterprises from Bangladesh also declined during 2020.However, the amount almost doubled in the case of Pakistan to over CHF 642 million.Just like India, the issue of alleged black money in Swiss banks has been a political hot potato in the two neighbouring countries as well.As per the SNB, there were 243 banks in Switzerland at the end of 2020. PTI BJ ABM ABM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-funds-in-swiss-banks-rise-to-over-rs-20-000-crore-customer-deposits-down-for-second-year-101623980863992.html
18-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: India, 3 EU nations begin 2-day naval drill in Gulf of Aden||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:BJP to contest UP Assembly polls under leadership of AdityanathThe next Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls will be contested under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh confirmed on Friday. This comes amid speculation that the Union government maybe looking at replacing Adityanath over Covid-19 management. Pakistan opposition stages a walkout in National AssemblyPakistan opposition on Friday staged a walkout from the National Assembly over federal budget. According to the local media, Bilawal Bhutto said that the country has seen an unprecedented increase in inflation, poverty and unemployment during the PTI's rule. He also questioned the authenticity of the government's claims of economic growth.Govt defaming farmers' protest, alleges SKMThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday alleged that the central government is "defaming" the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm laws. The umbrella body of the farmers' union also said that the agitation would not dissipate as being "hoped" by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "Every opportunity is being desperately seized upon to slander the protestors. However, their failed strategy is bound to fail again," PTI quoted the union as saying.India, 3 EU nations begin 2-day naval drill in Gulf of AdenIndia and three European nation began a two-day high-voltage naval wargame in the Gulf of Aden with the aim of improving operational interoperability and promote, peace, security and stability in the key waterways, PTI quoted an official as saying.No motor vehicle allowed on main Chandni Chowk road from 9am to 9pm: Delhi Traffice PoliceDelhi Traffic Police on Friday prohibited movement of any motor vehicle on the main Chandni Chowk road from Red Fort to Fatehpuri Mosque from 9am to 9pm. The police said no motor vehicle is allowed to ply on the route during the time on all days.No MP objected when request made to Centre: Om Birla on Central VistaLok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Friday said not even a single Member of Parliament (MP) in either Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha objected to the construction of the new parliament building when the request for it was made by both houses to the Centre.Development, welfare of J-K top priorities of Modi govt: MHAUnion Home Minister Amit Shah in a high-level meeting on Friday reviewed developmental works in Jammu and Kashmir. The home ministry said that all-round development and welfare of J-K are top priorities of the Modi government. During the meeting, Shah congratulated Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha for completing 76 per cent vaccination targets in J-K and 100% in four districts.Bengal finance minister urges Union minister for steel to stop dismantling raw materials division of SAILWest Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra writes to Union Minister for Steel, Dharmendra Pradhan, urging him to "stop dismantling of Raw Materials Division of SAIL, headquartered in Kolkata" pic.twitter.com/pVDGZNPI2BNo change in leadership, BS Yediyurappa will continue as CM: Karnataka ministerKarnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Friday said that there is no change in the leadership and BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister."There is no change in the leadership. BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister. No MLA is talking about this. There are only one or two of them & we will take strict action within few days," ANI quoted him as saying.5-member delegation of LJP meets EC on FridayA 5-member delegation of Lok Janshakti Party met Election Commission on Friday. "In 2019, I was elected as LJP president for 5 years. EC has assured us that if somebody tries to prove claim in name of LJP, we will be given chance to provide evidence," ANI quoted Chirag Paswan as saying about the meeting. Assam govt cancels HSLC, HS examsAssam education minister Ranoj Pegu on Friday said that the government has decided to cancel High School Leaving Certificate (HSLC) and Higher Secondary (HS) examinations.NSA Ajit Doval, IB, R&AW chief, other directors arrive at MHA for high-level meetNational security advisor Ajit Doval, home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar, R&AW chief Samant Kumar Goel, CRPF director General Kuldiep Singh and Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbagh Singh arrived at Union home ministry on Friday to attend a high-level meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah.Parliamentary Standing Committee meeting on IT begins; Twitter reps also presentMeeting of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information & Technology has begun and representatives from Twitter India are also present in the meeting. The representatives from the microblogging site deposed before the parliamentary panel over issues of social media platform misuse and protection of citizen rights.Sharp decline of 81% in weekly Covid positivity rate: Health ministryA sharp decline of 81% in weekly positivity observed, since the highest reported positivity of 21.6% between April 30-May 6, 2021At the same time, no. of districts having a positivity rate of less than 5% is on the rise - presently there are 513 such districts: JS, @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/ScsJrMiv1sElection completely valid under party's constitution: New LJP chief ParasNewly elected Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Pashupati Kumar Paras said according to the party's constitution, Chirag Paswan is neither LJP's national president nor the leader of the parliamentary party. "Yesterday’s election was completely valid under party's constitution, of which he is not aware," ANI quoted Paras as saying for the constitutionality of his appointment as party president.Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases rise marginally to 165; toll reaches 24,900 with 14 additional deaths🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 18th June 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/8zhAiTwF0QVirus not eradicated yet, keeps changing colours: AIIMS doctorDr Naveet Wig, head of the medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) on Friday cautioned about the looming threat of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Virus has not been eradicated, it keeps on changing its colours. Wear a clean mask and do not use an unhygienic mask at all," ANI quoted Dr Wig as saying.Israel to give 1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to Palestinians#BREAKING Israel to provide million Covid vaccine doses to Palestinians pic.twitter.com/TcepJOcgPKAgustaWestland case: Delhi court rejects bail petition of Christian MichelA special court of Delhi on Friday dismissed bail petition of Christian Michel, who is an alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland case. The court rejected the bail in both CBI and ED cases, reported ANI.Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar says govt ready to discuss issues regarding provision of 3 farm laws, rules out repealभारत सरकार नए कृषि कानूनों से संबंधित प्रावधानों पर किसी भी किसान संगठन से और कभी भी बात करने को तैयार है...हम उनका स्वागत करते हैं... pic.twitter.com/gv1FF9zU8iNeed to remain cautious: Harsh Vardhan on negligence of Covid appropriate behaviorUnion minister for health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday urged the citizens to remain cautious and follow all Covid protocol. "People started taking Covid appropriate behaviour lightly after vaccine was rolled out. We have started the unlocking process but we still need to remain cautious and follow all Covid protocols properly," ANI quoted the minister as saying.Red alert issued in parts of Karnataka for June 18,19: IMDIMD Karnataka said red alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall has been issued in Dakshin Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts for Friday and Saturday. Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts have been given orange alert warning for the same period, reported ANI.Southwest monsoon advances into parts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, MP, UP: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday said that the southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of north Arabian Sea, most parts of Gujarat region, some parts of Saurashtra, southeast Rajasthan and some more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar PradeshCalcutta HC directs NHRC to probe complaints on persons displaced in post-poll violenceCalcutta High Court orders National Human Rights Commission to examine complaints about displacement of people in West Bengal due to post poll violence.BJP's Suvendu Adhikari submits petition to WB Speaker for disqualification of TMC MLA Mukul RoyLeader of Opposition in West Bengal Legislative Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has given a petition to the assembly Speaker for disqualification of TMC leader Mukul Roy, MLA from 83-Krishnanagar Uttar Assembly constituency, reports ANI.Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at Centre over fuel pricesCongress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the Union government over fuel prices in the country. "The rare day GOI does not hike fuel prices is the exception which proves the rule that prices are increased everyday," he tweeted.Delhi HC issues notice to Centre, Delhi govts over Covid-19 protocol violation in marketplacesDelhi High Court takes suo motu cognizance on various images of marketplaces circulated on WhatsApp where people were not wearing masks and not following Covid-19 protocols. The Court issues notice to Centre and Delhi government asking them to file status report, reports ANI. Assam Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi resigns one and half months after winAssam Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi tenders his resignation as a Member of the State Legislative Assembly, to Speaker Biswajit Daimary, reports ANI.Over 387 million samples tested for Covid-19 in India: ICMRWith 1,929,476 samples tested for Covid-19 on June 17, cumulative testing in India reached 387,167,696, the Indian Council of Medical Research said.India records 62,480 new Covid-19 cases, 1,587 more deathsIndia reports 62,480 new Covid-19 cases and 1,587 more fatalities according to data from the Union health ministry. Active cases below 800,000-mark at 798,656.PM Modi to launch crash course for Covid-19 frontline workers today at 11amPrime Minister Narendra Modi would launch 'Customized Crash Course programme for Covid 19 Frontline workers' at 11am via video conferencing. The programme aims to upskill more than 100,000 Covid-19 warriors across the country, his office said. Following the launch, the programme would commence in 111 training centres across 26 states.Petrol price today: ₹103 in Mumbai, ₹100 in BengaluruPetrol now costs more than ₹100 a litre in seven states and Union territories namely Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Ladakh.Click here to know the price in different citiesGhaziabad Police send notice to Twitter India head over video provoking 'communal unrest'The Ghaziabad Police had sent a legal notice to the Managing Director of Twitter India over a video of an elderly man in Loni being assaulted with the intent of "provoking communal unrest."The MD has been asked to come to the police station in Lone Border for recording their statement within seven days, reports ANI.Global Covid-19 deaths go past 4-million mark, finds ReportThe Covid-19 pandemic has caused more than 4 million deaths worldwide, according to the tally by agency Reuters, as many countries struggle to procure vaccines to inoculate their populations.Click here to read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-18-2021-101623980099320.html
18-06-2021||India||PM Modi's approval rating at 66%, ahead of US President Biden, Germany's Merkel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval ratings stand at 66 per cent and continue to be ahead of other global heads, according to a survey conducted by an American data intelligence firm. The Morning Consult shows PM Modi is ahead of other world leaders of 13 countries including the US, the UK, Russia, Australia, Canada, Brazil, France and Germany."MorningConsult, which tracks national ratings of the elected leaders of 13 countries, shows a 20-point slide over the past year in the proportion of Indians who approve of Mr Modi. Yet at 66% in early June, he still outperforms all the rest," the firm tweeted.The Morning Consult Global Leader Approval Rating Tracker, which was updated on Thursday and has a sample size of 2,126 adults in India, showed 66 per cent approval for PM Modi and shows that 28 per cent of those surveyed disapproved of him.Morning Consult, which collects data through its Political Intelligence unit, a “proprietary platform that provides real-time polling data on political elections”, shows that in August 2019, when the Modi government abrogated Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, his approval ratings stood at 82 per cent, while disapproval ratings were at just 11 per cent.Also read | Why the second wave may not hurt Narendra Modi politicallyThe second position, according to Morning Consult, was bagged by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi (65%), followed by Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador (63%), Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison (54%), German Chancellor Angela Merkel (53%), US President Joe Biden (53%), Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau (48%), UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson (44%), South Korean President Moon Jae-In (37%), Spanish Spain Pedro Sánchez (36%), Brazilian President Jaire Bolsonaro (35%), French President Emmanuel Macron (35%) and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga (29%).Global Leader Approval: Among All Adults https://t.co/dQsNxouZWb Modi: 66%Draghi: 65%López Obrador: 63% Morrison: 54%Merkel: 53%Biden: 53% Trudeau: 48%Johnson: 44% Moon: 37%Sánchez: 36%Bolsonaro: 35% Macron: 35% Suga: 29%*Updated 6/17/21 pic.twitter.com/FvCSODtIxaThe Morning Consult said that the daily global survey data is based on a "seven-day moving average of all adults in a particular country with a margin of error of between +/- 1-3 per cent." "All interviews are conducted online, among nationally representative samples of adults. (In India, the sample is representative of the literate population)," it said on its website.Also read | The political variables that will shape the 2024 verdictThe Morning Consult said the surveys are weighted in each country by age, gender, region, and education breakdowns in certain countries based on official government sources. "In the United States, surveys are also weighted by race and ethnicity. Respondents complete these surveys in languages appropriate for their countries," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-approval-rating-at-66-ahead-of-us-president-biden-germany-s-merkel-101623979979763.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre sets target to reduce 50% road accident deaths by 2024: Nitin Gadkari||Minister for road transport and highways and micro, small and medium enterprises, Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said that the Centre's target is to reduce road accident deaths by 50 per cent by the year 2024.Addressing a virtual session on 'Role of Corporates in Arresting Road Fatalities' organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Gadkari congratulated the corporate body on the announcement of Road Safety consortium 'Safar', based on the safe system approach and release of a white paper on road safety for the corporate world.The minister also emphasised the need for identification of 'black spot' in every state, district and city, and said that the World Bank and ADB have already sanctioned a scheme by which the Centre is allocating ₹14,000 crores for states, National Highways Authority of India and other stakeholders to remove black spots.The minister said that his ministry is striving hard to reduce road accident deaths by restructuring and strengthening four 'E's of road safety--Engineering (including road and automobile engineering), Economy, Enforcement and Education."The corporate world should carry out the independent surveys to identify the reasons behind the accidents and a report may be submitted to the NHAI," he suggested.The minister further pointed out that 50 per cent of the road accidents are due to road engineering problems and now the government has taken special initiatives to improve the black spot."This will greatly contribute towards the vision of 'zero road accident' in India. The cooperation of NGOs, social organisations, universities is needed for education and awareness," he said and announced that an independent road safety council, headed by a retired IAS officer would come into force within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-target-to-reduce-50-road-accident-deaths-by-2024-nitin-gadkari-101623978805522.html
18-06-2021||India||Three low-intensity earthquakes jolt Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya||Three states in the northeastern part of India - Assam, Manipur and Meghalaya - were hit by earthquakes early on Friday, according to the National Center for Seismology (NCS). NCS said Assam’s Sonitpur district recorded an earthquake of magnitude of 4.1 and Manipur’s Chandel and West Khasi Hills in Meghalaya recorded magnitude 3.0 and 2.6 quakes respectively.“Earthquake of Magnitude:4.1, Occurred on 18-06-2021, 02:04:40 IST, Lat: 26.73 & Long: 92.44, Depth: 22 Km ,Location: 36km WNW of Tezpur, Assam,” the NCS tweeted and said the earthquake was "strong".This is the second earthquake to hit Sonitpur district’s Tezpur town in three days. On Tuesday night, Tezpur recorded an earthquake of magnitude 3.0. It occurred around 10.53pm at a depth of 10 kilometres and the epicentre was located 60 kilometers west of Tezpur.The earthquake reported in Manipur’s Chandel area has been classified as ‘Rather Strong’ with a depth of 10km. “Earthquake of Magnitude:3.0, Occurred on 18-06-2021, 01:06:08 IST, Lat: 24.30 & Long: 94.10, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 39km ESE of Moirang, Manipur,” NCS wrote on the microblogging site.Previously, the state was hit by an earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on May 23 in Ukhrul with a depth of 109 kilometers.Meanwhile, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Friday issued guidelines on ho to stay safe during an earthquake. If indoors, people should stay away from furniture, windows and lamps. People should stay away from buildings, walls and power polls if they are outside. However, if they are in an open space, they should stay there till the shaking stops and move away from buildings, exterior walls and heavy objects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-earthquakes-jolt-3-states-northeastern-states-101623977820822.html
18-06-2021||India||Two men rescue woman from rapist, assault her later: Police||Two men, who rescued a 35-year-old woman from a rapist in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, raped her later, police said on Thursday.According to the complaint filed by the survivor on Wednesday, the first incident took place on May 30 , when a man she met in her residential colony in Jaspur entered her house and raped her.After the woman raised an alarm, the other two accused, who are residents of the same colony, rescued her.They beat up man, but let him go on the promise that he would not repeat the mistake in the future, said JS Deopa, in-charge of Jaspur police stationAs per the complainant, on June 2 , the two men, who earlier saved her, barged into her house and raped her, said Deopa. The accused also recorded the incident and continued to harass her by threatening to leak the video, he added.All three have been booked under sections 452(house trespass) and 376(rape) of the Indian Penal Code, he said. “We have registered an FIR on the complaint of the woman against the accused and started a probe. Accused will be arrested soon,” said Deopa.The woman’s husband works abroad and she lives in Jaspur with her two children, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-rescue-woman-from-rapist-assault-her-later-police-101623974394893.html
18-06-2021||India||Serum Institute of India likely to start Covovax trials on kids by July||The Serum Institute of India (SII) is likely to begin clinical trials of its second Covid-19 vaccine, Covovax, on children, said people familiar with the matter. This will make it the third vaccine to be tested on children in the country after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadilla’s ZyCov-D.The trials could start by July, one of the people added on the condition of anonymity.US biotechnology company Novavax’s protein-based Covid-19 vaccine, NVX-CoV2373, will be locally manufactured by SII under the brand name Covovax. SII’s chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla had earlier said that the vaccine could be launched in India by September, subject to the grant of necessary regulatory clearances.In an interview to CNBC-TV18 last month, Poonawalla said the company planned to make and stockpile doses of the vaccine even though manufacturing was impacted somewhat because of the curbs that the US placed on the export of raw materials.Those curbs have since been eased. “…we are starting to stockpile and manufacture Covovax this month itself… Right now, we could have been making twice as much if we had the raw materials; having said that, in the next four to five months, we would have made adequate arrangements from other suppliers outside of the US which is good news, so this is only a temporary problem. We just need it for these three months; after that we will be completely self-reliant,” Poonawalla added.Novavax on Monday announced that NVX-CoV2373 demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and 90.4% overall efficacy, in its Phase 3 trial. “These clinical results reinforce that NVX-CoV2373 is extremely effective and offers complete protection against both moderate and severe Covid-19 infection,” Stanley C. Erck, president and chief executive officer, Novavax, said in a press statement on Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-likely-to-start-covovax-trials-on-kids-by-july-101623973997503.html
18-06-2021||India||No dispute in party, says Tripura BJP chief||Agartala: There is no “dispute” in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Tripura and if there were any, they have been sorted out, the BJP Tripura chief Manik Saha said after a marathon meeting led by the party’s general secretary organisation BL Santhosh and Northeast zonal secretary Ajay Jamwal.“There is no dispute among the BJP leaders. We are in a family and in family, sometimes such things may happen. And if there is any, it has been hundred percent sorted out”, Saha told reporters after Thursday’s meeting.The factional feud in the BJP’s Tripura unit resurfaced recently when legislators led by Sudip Roy Barman, who has made his chief ministerial ambitions known, again started building pressure to change chief minister Biplab Deb.The friction between the two groups has exacerbated after Mukul Roy rejoined the Trinamool Congress in Bengal. Roy was instrumental in Barman shifting to the BJP from the Trinamool Congress and there have been swirling rumours in Tripura that an effort to get the MLAs to cross over had started.Tripura BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty insisted that no one was going to join the Trinamool Congress from the BJP.BL Santhosh’s meetings, he said, were focused on strengthening the party organization where the central leaders have stressed on constructive works from the booth level. “They have held meetings with every person in the party, from office bearers to ministers. They have given us direction to make our party organization strong . It was a very good and fruitful meeting”, Chakraborty told the reporters this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dispute-in-party-says-tripura-bjp-chief-101623956662414.html
18-06-2021||India||Man accused in rape, murder of 2 minor girls in Assam shot at while trying to flee||One of the seven accused in the rape and murder case of two minor girls from the same family in Kokrajhar district of Assam, was injured when police fired at him while he was trying to escape from custody, officials said on Thursday. Farizul Rehman, 22, is one of the three accused in the case charged with raping and murdering the two victims, aged 14 and 16. The other four accused are charged with conspiracy, concealment of evidence etc. According to police, the incident happened late on Wednesday night when Farizul was taken by a police team to search for a mobile phone which he had allegedly disposed following the crime. Police say on reaching the spot, instead of a mobile supposed to be buried there, the accused took possession of a sharp weapon hidden at the spot and attacked policemen and tried to escape by cutting the rope he was tied with. The police claim they fired two shots in retaliation and one of them hit Farizul’s leg. One policeman also sustained injuries in the incident. “One of the accused tried to escape during a search operation near Bedlangmari, Salbari and police had to fire to prevent him from escaping. He is grievously injured and hospitalized,” Special DGP GP Singh tweeted on Thursday. According to the police, the accused is currently admitted at the Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed Medical College and Hospital in Barpeta district. His condition is stated to be stable. The incident made headlines after bodies of the two victims were found hanging from a tree near their house in Kokrajhar district of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) on Friday evening, hours after they went missing. The accused were arrested within three days of the incident. The incident, which was made to look like a case of suicide, had attracted a lot of attention with chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who holds the home portfolio, personally monitoring investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-accused-in-rape-murder-of-2-minor-girls-in-assam-shot-at-while-trying-to-flee-101623956420886.html
18-06-2021||India||Karnataka HC grants default bail to 115 people in DJ Halli violence case||Bengaluru: The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday granted default bail to 115 people arrested over the East Bengaluru riots last year, while keeping on hold a trial court’s order extending the time to complete the investigation by another 90 days, saying it was legally unsustainable. Justice S Vishwanath Shetty passed the order while allowing a batch of petitions filed by accused Muzammil Pasha and others, who were arrested on August 12, 2020. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), after it could not complete the probe within the stipulated 90 days, had filed an application in the trial court for an extension for completion of investigation under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 1967. The trail court had extended the time for completion of the investigation by 90 days in November last year and the applications filed by petitioners for default bail were rejected in January this year. Subsequently, Pasha and other accused moved the high court in January, this year. The HC on Wednesday noted that the application filed by the prosecution requesting an extension of time for completion of the investigation, without notifying the accused, would frustrate their indefeasible right for statutory bail. The riots were triggered by a Facebook post by Naveen P, nephew of Congress MLA from Pulakeshinagar constituency R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, in DJ Halli and KG Halli areas. On August 11 last year, a mob gathered in those areas reacted after police sought time to take action over a complaint filed against Naveen’s post, which was termed derogatory to Muslims, as per the police complaint filed on August 11. Pasha, an accused in the case, had approached the DJ Halli police station with this complaint against Naveen at 7.45 pm on August 11. The attacks began at 9.30 pm and ended in the early hours of August 12 after MLAs and other senior leaders gathered at the spot, according to the FIR. Four people were killed in the riots, according to police. Police filed 68 FIRs in this case. In two FIRs, they invoked sections 15 and 16 (punishment for terrorist activity), section 18 (conspiracy to commit a terrorist act) and section 20 (being members of a terrorist organisation) of the UAPA. This was the largest number of people ever charged under the UAPA for a single incident of violence in Karnataka. The Bengaluru Police slapped the stringiest charges against the accused just days after a fact-finding committee, led by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Aravind Lambavalli, demanded an investigation by NIA. The central agency then took over the investigation into the case on September 11, 2020. The case had caught the attention of the human rights groups since it was the only riot case in which the government slapped UAPA charges, even though the state had reported witnessed 971 cases of riots in the past five years. Meanwhile, families in DJ Halli affected by the mass arrests claimed they have been wronged. A woman, whose husband was arrested in the case, told HT that she had CCTV footage to prove that her husband was not at the site of the riot. “There is CCTV footage showing him getting into the apartment from the only entry and exit to their building. He doesn’t come out there for the entire duration of the violence,” she claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-grants-default-bail-to-115-people-in-dj-halli-violence-case-101623955579518.html
18-06-2021||India||Off-duty Kashmir cop shot dead near his house, 3rd cop to be killed in a week||Srinagar: An off-duty Jammu and Kashmir policeman was shot dead near his house in the old city of Srinagar on Thursday, police said.Javaid Ahmad was shot at by suspected militants near his home at Saidapora in Srinagar. He sustained a gunshot injury in his neck and was rushed to Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura.“There was firing on the policeman and he was taken to SKIMS but he has succumbed to his injuries,” an official manning police control room Srinagar said.Local reports said that the cop was on the protective detail of a judicial officer and was returning home when the attack happened.On Saturday, two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others injured when suspected Lashkar operatives opened fire to target security forces in Sopore town of Baramulla district.The attack, which targeted a Sopore police station team on Covid-19 duty, was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), according to J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offduty-kashmir-cop-shot-dead-near-his-house-3rd-cop-to-be-killed-in-a-week-101623954920957.html
18-06-2021||India||‘Remove shortcomings’: India tells Pakistan on bill permitting Jadhav to appeal||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to remove shortcomings in a bill passed by the country’s Parliament to allow Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying, to appeal against his conviction. The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill of 2020 was passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly or lower house of Parliament on June 10. The bill, which is yet to clear the Senate or upper house, is aimed at ensuring consular access to Jadhav in line with an International Court of Justice (ICJ) verdict staying his death sentence and calling for a review of his conviction. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing that Pakistan needs to take “appropriate steps to address the shortcomings in the bill and to comply with the judgement of the ICJ in letter and spirit”. On Tuesday, the Islamabad high court adjourned till October 5 the hearing of the Pakistan government’s petition regarding the appointing of a counsel for Jadhav following a request from attorney general Khalid Javed Khan. Bagchi said the bill passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly “codifies into law” an earlier ordinance “with all its shortcomings”. He added, “It does not create a machinery to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s case, as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ.” He pointed out the ICJ had “ruled that Pakistan was in breach of its international obligations because of the failure to provide consular access to Jadhav”. “The ordinance, and now the bill, invites the municipal courts in Pakistan to decide whether or not any prejudice has been caused to Jadhav on account of the failure to provide consular access. This is clearly a breach of the basic tenet that municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a state has fulfilled its obligations in international law,” Bagchi said. “Not only this, it further invites the municipal court to sit in appeal, as it were, over the judgement of the ICJ,” he added. Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was arrested in March 2016 in Pakistan’s Balochistan province on charges of spying and sentenced to death the following year. India has rejected the charges levelled against him and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018 and ruled the following year that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of his conviction and sentencing. Responding to another question on Pakistan foreign minister foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi writing a letter to the president of the UN Security Council and the UN secretary-general on reports that India may be contemplating further changes in Jammu and Kashmir, Bagchi made it clear that the region is an “integral part” of India and Islamabad should instead focus on tackling cross-border terrorism. “The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India. No amount of questioning can change this reality. Also, cross-border terrorism is unacceptable and no amount of justification can make it acceptable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-shortcomings-india-tells-pakistan-on-bill-permitting-jadhav-to-appeal-101623954681005.html
18-06-2021||India||HS Doreswamy: A Gandhian who fought for people’s rights till the end||At the age of 103, he believed that doctors should not waste a bed on him. While Bengaluru was praying that the centenarian recovers from Covid-19 at the earliest, freedom fighter HS Doreswamy was telling hospital staff that he had lived his life and his bed should be given to someone younger.The doctors, out of respect for what he had done in life, refused to listen to him. He recovered from Covid-19. Doreswamy, who was hospitalised on May 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged on May 12 as his condition improved.But 14 days later, he died due to a cardiac arrest.“The primary cause of his death was his heart condition, but the precipitating cause was Covid-19,” said CN Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research.For doctors such as Manjunath, letting a man like Doreswamy die on their watch was difficult.“He kept telling us that he had lived a full life and insisted that his bed be given to a young person. He questioned why he should get such good treatment. I tried to convince him and tell him we have no shortage of beds,” he said.Doreswamy has never held any political position and was the driving force behind several people’s movements in the state of Karnataka, often leading from the front, even at 102. He spoke for the people, regardless of the party in power.At the age of 23, he was first drawn towards the radical movement against the British government. With help of a friend, he began to plant bombs in government offices and postal boxes. “Our aim was not to harm anyone, but we wanted to disrupt the government machinery,” he told HT during an interview on February 18.His life took a turn in 1936 when he met Mahatma Gandhi in Bengaluru, and became his follower. “During the Quit India Movement, I helped organise a strike by all major cloth mills in the city, especially since they were stitching parachute cloth, used by the British in the Air Force during the war,” he recounts in his memoir Nenapina Suruli Teredaga, which translates as memories unravelled.He was jailed for 17 months between December 1942 and May 1944 for this, but Doreswamy described his time in the jail as being in university. “I learnt Hindi and Tamil. I even became good at volleyball during that time. We used to get lectures on politics from great leaders,” he said.From Vinoba Bhave’s Bhoodan movement in the 1950s to Jayaprakash Narayan’s Sampoorna Kranti movement in the 1970s, to India Against Corruption movement in the 2010s, Doreswamy was part of the several movements that followed. He was even jailed during the Emergency for writing a letter against then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.“After the Emergency was announced, I wrote a letter to Indira Gandhi, saying she was a dictator. In the letter, I threatened to go from village to village and mobilise the people against her dictatorship. Soon after that, I held the first meeting in Gandhi Bazar (in Bengaluru). I was arrested. But I was in jail only for four months,” he recounted during the interview.“During the trial, the prosecution said that I had criticised the prime minister and that I was an enemy of the state. But that judge who was hearing my case said that I had every right to criticise the government and there is no proof to say that I am an enemy of the state. The judge then told the prosecution to ask the government under what charge should I be booked and released me,” he said.A vocal critic of the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, he hit the streets to protest the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the new farm laws, and was convinced that things would change.“Nothing is permanent,” he said when asked about the policies of the current government. “There will be ups and downs. During the freedom struggle there was Gandhi, during the emergency there was JP (Jayaprakash Narayan) and then Anna Hazare also came, even though he was misguided later. If not a leader, there will be a movement that takes on what is wrong in our country.”The centenarian was also a big believer in the young. When asked about the future of the movements he was part of, he had said: “Today’s young people are smart and wise. The young people of the country have always fought for the right causes. They know what should be done and no one can stop them.”It was almost as if he was passing on the baton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hs-doreswamy-a-gandhian-who-fought-for-people-s-rights-till-the-end-101623954260831.html
18-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir cop killed by suspected terrorists||Suspected terrorists shot dead a policeman in Saidapora area of Srinagar on Thursday, an official familiar with the matter said.Local reports suggested that Javaid Ahmad, who was serving as a guard to a judicial officer, was returning after duty when the attack took place near his residence.Police said the officer sustained injuries to his neck and was rushed to the Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Soura, where he was declared dead. “They fired at the policeman. He was taken to SKIMS but succumbed to injuries,” said the official, who was handling the police control room in Srinagar.Following the incident, security personnel were rushed to the area to trace the culprits.On Saturday, two policemen and as many civilians were killed, and at least three others were injured after suspected terrorists opened fire, targeting a police team on Covid-19 duty in Sopore town of Baramulla district.J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was behind the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-cop-killed-by-suspected-terrorists-101623954260183.html
18-06-2021||India||Biological E’s vaccine efficacy same as Novavax: Government panel chief||Biological E’s made- in-India Covid-19 vaccine has shown very promising results in the initial trials and could have similar efficacy as that of US’ Novavax vaccine because of having a similar platform, Dr N K Arora, chief of the Centre’s Covid working group, said on Thursday.On Monday, Novavax announced that NVX-CoV2373, its recombinant nanoparticle protein-based Covid-19 vaccine that Serum Institute of India is locally manufacturing as Covovax, has demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and an overall efficacy of 90.4%.“Biological E’s vaccine is being developed on a similar platform and that is why we are hopeful that it will also have around 90% or above efficacy. If trials go as planned, we should have the vaccine out for use by October this year,” Arora said.The cost of the vaccine could be as low as ₹250 per two doses.“That is the estimated price that is being talked about but the final price could be different,” he said.Earlier this month, the Union health ministry announced that it had finalised arrangements with the Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer to reserve 300 million doses, even though the results of the phase I/II trials are yet to be made public and phase III trial is still underway.“These vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by M/s Biological-E from August-December 2021... ,” the ministry had said in a statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-s-vaccine-efficacy-same-as-novavax-govt-panel-chief-101623954021243.html
18-06-2021||India||CBSE Class 12 formula out, results by July 31||The Supreme Court accepted on Thursday the formula to evaluate Class 12 students of the country’s two largest education boards – CBSE and CISCE – after the school-leaving examinations were cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak.The approved mechanism for CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) includes a 30:30:40 formula, which takes into account a student’s performance in the last three examinations (the 12th pre-board, the 11th finals, and the 10th board) to settle at a score for the theory component of the examination that could not be held.The theory portion accounts for 70% or 80% of a subject score, with the remainder coming from internal practical tests that most schools managed to complete prior to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19.In the case of Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), the formula will take into consideration the students’ Class 10 ICSE Board exam results, project and practical work in subjects, and best marks obtained in school exams in classes 11 and 12.Both boards will also follow a score moderation policy in which individual scores will be tweaked to be in tune with a school’s past performance. CBSE will consider this on the basis of a reference year to reflect the school’s best performance in the last three years, while in the case of CISCE, it will be the school’s best performance over the last six years. CBSE and CISCE will declare results by July 31, they submitted to the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, who asked the boards to incorporate a dispute resolution mechanism.School administrators said the mechanisms to evaluate the students represent the best way forward during an unprecedented time.“There were very few options available for the evaluation of Class 12 students without actually taking their exams. It was also not justifiable to evaluate students only based on Class 12 internal exams or pre-boards. Besides, if some people think that the inclusion of Class 11 marks will put students in a disadvantageous position, they should also consider that the best of three marks in Class 10 will compensate for that. Overall, the formula is student-friendly,” said Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools in Delhi.Some students and parents expressed concerns about the policy to consider scores from Class 11, saying that many schools have tough marking criteria in the year in order to prepare students for the board exams the next year.Aprajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association and mother of a Class 12 student, said schools must keep these factors in mind while marking students. “Class 11 students take some time to settle in with their new subjects and curriculum. Schools also do strict marking in Class 11 to prepare them for boards. Class 12 pre-boards were also conducted amid the chaos of the pandemic. These factors call for a humanitarian approach while compiling results by schools.” “The question papers for classes 11 and 12 internals are always tough. Besides, students were appearing for various competitive examinations while preparing for their pre-boards. The current evaluation pattern will put students at a disadvantage because these marks will be used for our higher education prospects as well,” said Riya Chauhan, 17, a Class 12 student at Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh. During Thursday’s hearing, the court said: “We make it clear that the concerned Boards may formulate the final scheme on the above lines and include the two suggestions given by the Court, which may then be notified.”Applying this rule, each school will form a five-member Results Committee with the principal, two senior-most teachers of Class 12 of that school, and two teachers of Class 12 from a neighbouring school. The CBSE scheme was devised by a 13-member expert panel, and the CISCE scheme was formulated by a nine-member committee.Both schemes provided for an option for students to appear in a physical exam. CBSE, which caters to 1.45 million Class 12 students, did not specify a date for holding the exam. Attorney general KK Venugopal told the court that it was hard to lay down a time limit. “The examination is to be conducted when conditions are conducive. That depends on Covid-19 vanishing from India,” he said.The bench said, “Most students will be happy with the scheme but some outer limit must be provided for students who want to take this examination. This can be subject to situation prevailing then.”The petitioner, Mamta Sharma, accepted the schemes of CBSE and CISCE, and supported the suggestions made by the court. The lone voice of dissent came from Uttar Pradesh Parents Association, which challenged the decision to cancel the examinations when conditions were conducive for holding it physically.Association counsel, senior advocate Vikas Singh, cited the example of Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT) being conducted physically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-class-12-formula-out-results-by-july-31-101623953665295.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre formalises mechanism for TV channels’ regulation||The government has amended the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, to mandate that the ad-hoc structure of self-regulation now be brought under a formal framework with a three-tier mechanism similar to what recently been announced for streaming content services as part of the new information technology rules.The Union government issued a gazette notification dated June 17, which says there must be self-regulation by broadcasters, self-regulation by the self-regulating bodies of the broadcasters, and an oversight mechanism by the government.A government official said the new guidelines will apply across entertainment channels, news channels and other cable channels. “There’s around 900 channels,” said an official from the ministry, who asked not to be named. “They are already part of a system, there is already a self-regulation, just putting a legal term,” the official said.Broadcasters also have to issue an acknowledgment of a complaint received within 24 hours of it being filed.The complainant, if not satisfied with the response that has to be filed within 15 days, can further escalate the complaint to the self-regulatory body. The self-regulatory body has sixty days to address the complaint, failing which the complainant can escalate the matter to oversight mechanism, which will be an inter-ministerial government body.“Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, and consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Defence, and representatives of such other Ministries and Organisations, including experts, as the Central Government may decide,” the government said in its notification.NDTV editorial director Sonia Singh, who is on the News Broadcasters Association board, said that the government’s directives were being studied and a response could be expected in a few days.Former minister for information and broadcasting Manish Tewari said similar guidelines have been under government consideration for quite some time. “The government has decided to embed a statutory framework for what was earlier an ad-hoc mechanism,” he said, adding: “Ever since the television space was liberalised in the 1990s this has been under consideration. A better assessment can be offered once we read the fine print of the government’s new guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-formalises-mechanism-for-tv-channels-regulation-101623953539909.html
18-06-2021||India||MK Stalin calls on PM Modi with 25 demands||MK Stalin, the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday to discuss issues related to the state and also raised the demand for repealing the citizenship amendment act and the three new farm laws. This was Stalin’s first visit to Delhi, and his first meeting with the PM after assuming office in May. Stalin’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam won the elections in the state in alliance with the Congress, defeating the AIADMK-BJP grouping.Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Stalin said he was happy and satisfied with the interaction. “He assured me that he will support Tamil Nadu in all its development work,” the TN CM, who submitted a list of 25 demands to the PM, said.Among the issues raised by Stalin were: the release of pending GST dues to the state; declaring Tamil as the official language in the Madras high court; and granting citizenship to Sri Lankan refugees in Tamil Nadu.Stalin also sought the scrapping of NEET, the common medical test, and revoking the new education policy. Both the DMK and the AIADMK have argued that it goes against the principles of social justice, and disadvantages underprivileged students.“He (Stalin) told me the meeting was cordial,” said a DMK MP not wishing to be named.“We have placed several issues with the Prime Minister and there may be problems in a few (demands) as they are BJP’s core issues. Let us see how many he considers.”Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja met Stalin in Tamil Nadu house late on Thursday. On Friday, Stalin is likely to meet Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi before he flies back to Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-calls-on-pm-with-25-demands-101623953359901.html
18-06-2021||India||India concerned over lack of uniform vaccination requirements across world||India on Thursday called for a “constructive solution” to problems faced by students whose plans to travel to the US to join classes in the autumn have been hit by the absence of uniform vaccination requirements.The US embassy began scheduling visa interviews for Indian students this week and American officials have said applicants won’t require proof of Covid-19 vaccination to enter the US. Students will only require a negative Covid-19 test conducted three days prior to their departure.While thousands of students have secured visa appointments for July and August, some American educational institutions are calling for applicants who got the Covaxin or Sputnik V shots to be re-vaccinated as these jabs are not recognised by US authorities.Asked about these issues at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “There is no uniformity in the requirements. The US government has clarified that vaccination is not a mandatory requirement for our students to travel.”He said “multiple conversations” were on between India students and the US universities. “We would obviously support out students. I think everyone concerned is interested in ensuring that the students are able to reach the universities and undertake regular classes and we hope that a constructive solution is found,” he added.Covaxin and Covishield are the two main jabs being used in India’s vaccination programme. Covishield, which is the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, has been granted an emergency use listing by the World Health Organization (WHO), and is accepted under the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) guidelines for entry of foreign travellers.While ruling out the possibility of India issuing any “vaccine passport” at the present time, Bagchi said global discussions on this issue should be conducted in the context of vaccines being more widely available around the world.“There is an ongoing global debate on this issue of so-called vaccine passports. We feel this has to be linked to the larger issue of vaccine equity, given that many developing countries have not yet been able to vaccinate a large percentage of their population,” he said.“We would favour discussions on the subject of vaccine passports with greater focus on vaccine equity. I don’t have any information about India issuing any vaccine passport,” he said.In response to another question on the sharing of the US administration’s plans to share 80 million surplus doses of vaccines with countries around the world, Bagchi said India is still awaiting details regarding the timeline and quantity of shots that will be shared with various countries.Bagchi also said India is hopeful the process of the WHO granting emergency use authorisation for the Covaxin shot developed by Bharat Biotech will be expeditiously completed. “We are keeping a close watch on this issue. Our expectation would be that this process would be completed speedily,” he said.Bharat Biotech submitted an expression of interest for emergency use authorisation to WHO on April 19. The UN’s health agency sought more information from Bharat Biotech following the submission.WHO’s latest update on emergency use listing of Covid-19 vaccines, issued on June 16, shows that a pre-submission meeting is planned for June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-concerned-over-lack-of-uniform-vaccination-requirements-across-world-101623953240693.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre, forces refine theaterisation plans before seeking CCS approval||The defence ministry and the armed forces are refining the military’s theaterisation plans through internal consultations and detailed discussions with other ministries involved before seeking the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to implement the long-awaited military reform to optimally utilise the resources of the armed forces, senior officials familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity on Thursday.Different aspects related to theaterisation were discussed and examined in detail by top government officials who reviewed a draft cabinet note on new joint structures at a meeting held in South Block earlier this month, said an official.The key points discussed included the executing authority for theatre commands, the geographies they will control, command and control structures, budgeting, extending the service of senior three-star officers who will take over as theatre commanders and placing some paramilitary forces under the commands, said a second official. Some of these issues involve the finance and home ministries.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the services, depending on the roles assigned.HT reported in February that India was set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command likely to be launched by May. Deliberations on the proposal may take more time as all stakeholders have to be brought on board. “Processes have to be followed before the proposal is sent to the CCS for approval. We have to have more discussions to iron out the details... But there will be no inordinate delay,” said the first official.Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources. “Some paramilitary forces, which come under the home ministry, may be subsumed into the theatre commands. The coast guard will also come under the Maritime Theatre Command...,” said the second official.Experts said building consensus among stakeholders was crucial to take the theaterisation plan forward. “A final decision will be taken after due deliberations to streamline all aspects related to theatre commands. I hope theaterisation is accorded top priority,” said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forces-refine-theaterisation-plans-before-seeking-ccs-approval-101623953239081.html
18-06-2021||India||Paras faction names him LJP chief, Chirag Paswan moves EC over party’s symbol||The bitter power struggle for control of Bihar’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) escalated on Thursday as rebel MP Pashupati Kumar Paras was unanimously elected as the new national president by his faction, even as the group headed by his nephew and MP Chirag Paswan approached the Election Commission in New Delhi to stop Paras from using the party’s symbol and flag in its meeting.Chirag Paswan also declared that he has convened a meeting of the party’s national executive committee on Sunday, rejecting his uncle’s election as the party president.Paswan, according to news agency PTI, insisted that the meeting held in Patna was “unconstitutional” and lacked a quorum.The Paras faction of the party “removed” Chirag Paswan from the president’s post on Tuesday, and appointed a loyalist, Suraj Bhan Singh as working president.On Thursday, Singh announced that 68-year-old Paras was the party’s new president.“I will try to take the party forward by taking all sections of the society together,” Paras told reporters in Patna soon after his faction named him the new party chief.The crisis in the LJP began on Sunday, when five LJP Lok Sabha members replaced Chirag Paswan with Paras.On Monday, the Lok Sabha secretariat issued a notification recognising Paras as the parliamentary party chief.Paras blamed his nephew for the family feud.“When a nephew becomes dictator, what will the uncle do,” he said, rubbishing Paswan’s insistence earlier that he could not be removed as the party chief.Paras said nobody can be the party president for life in a democratic system.“The president has to be elected after a period. According to the constitution of our party, the president has to be elected every 2-3 years,” he said.Chirag Paswan’s last-minute move to convene a meeting of the national executive is seen as a show of strength to counter the perception that he, after losing control of the parliamentary party, had lost the support of the executive as well. A LJP leader said Paswan could also use the proceedings of the proposed meeting on Sunday to back up its case before the Election Commission.LJP’s secretary general Abdul Khaliq said a physical meeting of its national executive will be held in the national capital on Sunday to reiterate Paswan’s earlier election as its national president.Patna high court lawyer Amit Shrivastava said as and when the dispute formally reaches the Election Commission, the panel would be guided by the LJP constitution.“The provisions and clauses in the LJP’s party constitution will be the determining factor in deciding whether any decision regarding appointment or termination of membership taken by the party top leaders is right or wrong, if any of the parties move court. The LJP is a recognised party by the Election Commission and is guided by the party constitution,” said Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paras-faction-names-him-ljp-chief-chirag-moves-ec-over-party-s-symbol-101623953119028.html
18-06-2021||India||Kids, adults have similar antibodies: AIIMS Sero Survey||The exposure of children to Covid-19 has been similar to adults’, a serological surveillance study spearheaded by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has found, addressing fears that a third wave of Covid-19 could disproportionately affect children.The seroprevalence, presence of virus-fighting antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, among children was 55.7% across five study sites, in comparison to 63.5% among adults -- the difference was judged to be statistically insignificant.In Delhi, which was one of the five sites for the study, the researchers found that 74.7% of the population – both children and adults – had been exposed to the infection. This is much higher seroprevalence that the state government’s survey from January where 56.1% were found to have antibodies against the virus. The samples for the AIIMS study were collected between April and May, and would not have detected antibodies of those who got the infection during the second wave.There was also an urban-rural divide in prevalence in Delhi-NCR.As compared to the 74.7% in urban settlements of South Delhi, the prevalence was 59.3% in villages of Delhi and Ballabhgarh. “Results show that a large majority of the population had already been infected by the time we conducted the study at Delhi urban site which belongs to lower and middle socioeconomic strata population and very congested neighbourhood,” the study said. With all locations other than Delhi being rural, the average seroprevalence in rural areas stood at 58.8% as per the study.The highest seroprevalence was found in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh where 87.9% of the people had been exposed to the infection.More importantly, the seroprevalence among children and adults in the same regions were similar.“Wherever the prevalence of antibodies was high among the adults, it was high among the children, busting the myth that so far children have been less affected. The thing is, the binding of the virus to the human cell receptors is not very good in children and hence they mostly develop either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic infection,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, one of the authors of the study and the head of the department of community medicine at the AIIMS.He added, “People have been saying that after the young, the third wave will impact children more. The fact is most of them have been already exposed to the infection along with their families. And, numerous studies have now shown that natural infection can provide better and longer protection against a second infection.”The data for 4,509 study participants was collected between March and June of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kids-adults-have-similar-antibodies-sero-survey-101623953000262.html
18-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM, ex-CM trade barbs on fake Covid tests during Kumbh Mela||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat and former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat clashed on Thursday over allegations of fake Covid tests during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar as police lodged the first FIR in the case against a local agency accused of fabricating thousands of rapid tests.The state health department lodged an FIR against Max Corporate Services, Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs on the basis of a complaint by Haridwar chief medical officer Shambhu Kumar Jha. The three labs were booked for negligence, spreading disease, cheating and criminal conspiracy, and under sections of the 2005 disaster management act and the 1897 epidemic diseases act.The controversy also turned political on Thursday as former CM Rawat called for an impartial investigation. “This (the testing allegations) is a serious crime, not negligence. Stringent action should be taken and an impartial investigation should be conducted,” Rawat said.Later in the day, CM Rawat defended himself. “I came in March and this is an old issue. When we got information about this, we immediately instituted an inquiry... Strict action will be taken against the guilty,” he said.Tirath Singh Rawat replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March this year, weeks before the mega holy event was to kick off in Haridwar. One of the CM’s first decisions was to approve a full-scale Kumbh mela despite experts warning that social distancing and adequate testing will be impossible at a time infections were climbing across the country. Eventually, 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this — at least six million people — congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave.Allegations of fake testing surfaced last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Real-time data checking through the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal revealed fake entries on basis of mobile numbers and addresses of people who were never tested. Many people said they had not even visited Haridwar in April.In Haridwar, station house officer of city police station, Rajesh Shah, said Max Corporate Services brought in Nalva Lab and Lalchandani Lab by signing a pact. These labs conducted tests at five places in Haridwar.Max Corporate Services (a private firm unrelated to the Max healthcare group) didn’t respond to requests for a comment. Nalva Labs denied the allegations and said while the lab signed an MoU with Max, there was no financial transactions and the agreement was called off in April last week.Lalchandani Labs also denied the allegations and said they only conducted 10,000 rapid tests. “We conducted the tests in the first 20 days.... we were asked to conduct RT-PCR tests, which was not logistically possible so we stopped,” said Arjan Lalchandani, managing director.The Kumbh Mela Health administration has opened a separate probe and will reach out to every person whose name and mobile number was found in the Covid-19 testing data. “A four-member panel is probing this matter,” said Mela Health officer Dr Arjun Singh Sengar.During the Kumbh from April 1 to 30, 600,831 Covid-19 tests were conducted of which only 17,317 were positive. This translated to a positivity rate of 2.88% at a time the whole state was reporting 14% infection rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-cm-ex-cm-trade-barbs-on-fake-covid-tests-101623952879067.html
18-06-2021||India||Ahead of monsoon session, at least 403 Lok Sabha MPs have taken both jabs||At least 403 members of the Lok Sabha, nearly three-fourth of its current strength of 540, have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccines ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, said a top functionary of Indian Parliament, raising hopes that next month’s session will not need to be curtailed.Some members of Parliament (MP) have not been able to take their second jab yet as they contracted Covid-19 after the first dose, the functionary said on condition of anonymity. To be sure, research has shown that people who have had an infection and one dose of the vaccine have very high protection against the virus.“Another 30 MPs have not sent us any communication. We are trying to contact them to know their vaccination status,” the functionary added.The pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and parliament staff improves chances of a longer parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament in a session that comes after the end of a bruising second wave of the pandemic that hit India hard in April and May.So far, at least 50 lawmakers have been affected by the Covid-19 and at least three MPs, including minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi, died of Covid-19 or Covid- related complications.The number of Rajya Sabha lawmakers who have received both doses wasn’t immediately available. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla opened a Covid-19 vaccination centre in the Parliament complex in March to cater to the lawmakers, their family and parliamentary officials. The exclusive centre helped in quick vaccination of MPs and the officials to create a safer health environment ahead of the session.There is still a possibility that people can get the infection despite the jab but the symptoms will be much milder. The vaccines have shown very high efficacy in protecting people from hospitalisation, even when the infection is caused by the new delta strain of the virus.Top parliament officials said that RT-PCR tests and social distancing norms will remain part of the protocol in Parliament as parts of India continue to report new cases.“But vaccination will not be mandatory for MPs to attend Parliament. We are encouraging them to take the vaccines and providing them with all facilities,” said the top functionary.The count of vaccinated MPs include those who got the shots in Parliament as well as other vaccination sitesIndia has administered 265 million doses of vaccines to 215.6 million people, one of the world’s largest vaccination drives. Apart from the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines that are manufactured in the country, India has also procured stocks of Russian Sputnik V which will be produced in India from the second half of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-monsoon-session-at-least-403-lok-sabha-mps-have-taken-both-jabs-101623952040288.html
18-06-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Haryana to evict residents of Aravalli slums||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Haryana government to evict thousands of slum-dwellers encroaching on Aravalli forest land in Faridabad district and clear all encroachments by July 19.A plea was moved jointly by four people living in Khori Gaon in Faridabad, requesting the court to restrain the authorities from carrying out demolition and give them some more time to produce documents to prove their claims for rehabilitation. But the bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari referred to its June 7 order on another petition in which it had refused to stay the demolition drive and directed the municipal corporation of Faridabad to finish clearing the hutments within six weeks.“We want our forest land to be cleared. We have given enough time to the occupants and said repeatedly that they will have to vacate. But if they happen to be still there, it is at their own risk. It is forest land, not some other land. It has to be cleared,” the bench said.Advocate Aparna Bhat, appearing for the dwellers in the fresh petition, submitted that there were around 10,000 families on the site, including women and children, who had nowhere to go once their hutments were pulled down.But the bench was unmoved. “Don’t give us numbers. For how long have they been occupying this forestland? When it came to our notice, we also passed an order in April last year, giving you ample time to produce relevant documents so that you could be rehabilitated. But you did nothing. The forestland has to be cleared now...what has been happening is extraordinary. This is not the rule of law. There cannot be petitions after petitions,” the bench said.Bhat pleaded for a stay by saying that the demolition drive was being carried out without verifying the documents the people could produce in place of the title deeds. But the court, unconvinced, said the petitioners “missed the bus” by doing nothing to produce the documents in the year since the demolition drive was notified by the corporation in February 2020.“You have missed the bus. You accepted the order last year and never wanted any modification. You cannot come up with new excuses every time. We can only reiterate in our order that they will follow the law and will adhere to the rehabilitation scheme,” the court said.On her part, Bhat again emphasised that most of the dwellers were poor migrants and destitute, but the court said: “That is for the state to consider how damage can be minimised. We are only concerned about eviction of the forest area. We gave you more than a year to do the needful. You cannot keep on occupying the forest areas.”Appearing for the Haryana government, additional advocate general Ruchi Kohli complained of stone pelting by occupants during the demolition drive. The bench, however, retorted: “You know what to do. We don’t have to say anything. We want our orders to be complied with.”The court said it cannot “indulge” the petitioner and added that the “corporation and state authorities may proceed on the basis of the commitment given to this court” that demolition will follow the due process and rehabilitation will be examined as per the state’s scheme.The bench has fixed July 27 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-asks-haryana-to-evict-residents-of-aravalli-slums-101623952038935.html
18-06-2021||India||China unit targets Indian telcos, firms in cyber espionage||A suspected unit of Chinese cyber soldiers targeted Indian telecom companies, government agencies and several defence contractors, a cyber threats intelligence company said on Thursday, disclosing what it said was technical evidence of these operations and links to a specific People’s Liberation Army (PLA) unit.The findings were published by the United States-headquartered Recorded Future, which earlier this year reported evidence of sustained Chinese cyber operations targeting India’s critical infrastructure in the power and ports sectors. The unit exposed in March was called RedEcho, while the new group has been identified as RedFoxtrot.“Recorded Future’s Insikt Group identified the suspected Chinese state-sponsored group we track as RedFoxtrot targeting multiple Indian organisations throughout 2020 and 2021.“Within India specifically, we identified the group successfully targeting two telecommunications organisations, three defense contractors, and several additional government and private sector organisations in the past 6 months,” said a person from Recorded Future’s Insikt Group, the division that tracks advanced cyber threats.A person in India’s cybersecurity establishment did not respond to requests for a comment on the report.“Notably, this activity took place at a time of heightened tensions between India and China,” the Insikt represenative added in a discussion over email with HT. The affected organisations have been notified.In a separate blog post, Recorded Future said the findings were were based on analysis of network traffic, footprint of the malware used by the attackers, domain registration records and data transmitting from the possible targets.While the campaign reported earlier this year appeared to be focussed on breaching critical infrastructure in India -- the targets purportedly included National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) plants -- the new campaign seems “more aligned with traditional PLA-linked activity in gathering military intelligence”.“We believe RedFoxtrot conducts cyber espionage operations to gather intelligence on military and defense matters based on the consistent targeting of organisations within this field,” the person quoted above said, while explaining that targeting of telecommunications companies could include “strategic intelligence gathering through monitoring of downstream targets (telecommunications customers), bulk collection of communication data, as well as the ability to track and monitor individual targets”.State-on-state cyber operations typically fall in two categories: sabotage and espionage, with the latter being more common – although both are equally hard to detect and attribute.In March 2021, the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Cert-IN) said it found signs of China-linked cyber actors conducting an espionage campaign against the Indian transportation sector.China and China-linked cyber operations have been seen as a persistent threat in India. “In relation to other ‘Big Four’ adversaries, China, and the PLA, is one of the world’s biggest cyber powers, both in terms of sophistication and the scale of operations. The recent US ODNI (Office of the Director of National Intelligence) annual threat assessment stated China is ‘a prolific and effective cyber-espionage threat, possesses substantial cyber-attack capabilities, and presents a growing influence threat’,” the Recorded Future representative said.Recorded Future’s analysis found RedFoxtrot was linked to PLA unit 69010, and identified a location in Urumqi, Xinjiang, as the possible headquarters. “Due to lax operational security measures employed by a suspected RedFoxtrot operator, Insikt Group linked the threat group to the physical address of Unit 69010’s headquarters,” it said.“RedFoxtrot has primarily targeted aerospace and defense, government, telecommunications, mining, and research organisations in Afghanistan, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. These targets suggest the group is likely interested in gathering intelligence on military technology and defence,” the report said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-unit-targets-indian-telcos-firms-in-cyber-espionage-101623951378842.html
18-06-2021||India||Encounter specialist cop Pradeep Sharma arrested over Antilia bomb scare||In a major breakthrough in the Antilia explosives scare and the Mansukh Hiran murder case, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested former Mumbai Police officer Pradeep Sharma after an early morning raid at his residence on Thursday.NIA officials said Sharma had a role to play in the “larger conspiracy” in which 20 loose gelatin sticks were planted in a Scorpio parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence on February 25, following which the body of a Thane industrialist to whom the car belonged, turned up in a creek on the outskirts of Mumbai on March 5.The federal agency on Thursday also arrested two more men in connection with Hiran’s death -- Satish Mothukari (also known as Tanni or Vicky Baba) and Manish Soni -- and produced the three before a special court seeking their custody.The agency told the court that Mothukari and Soni along with Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav – the NIA had arrested the latter two last week -- had smothered Hiran in a red Tavera car on Ghodbunder Road in Thane and dumped his body in creek near Mumbra, at the behest of Sharma and former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze. The special court remanded the trio to NIA custody till June 28.The NIA arrested Vaze on March 13 and claimed that he was the mastermind behind the explosives scare and the murder. Vaze, currently in custody, has denied the charges in the court.During the Thursday raid, NIA officials seized a printer, a computer and a laptop from Sharma’s Andheri residence. They also recovered an unlicensed firearm and ammunition.“The NIA conducted a raid at his residence located in JB Nagar in Mumbai’s Andheri (West) around 6am and the operation continued for several hours. The officials recovered some incriminating documents from his house,” news agency PTI quoted an NIA official as saying.An NIA team had picked up Sharma from Amby Valley near the hill station of Lonavla on Wednesday night and brought him to its office in south Mumbai for questioning, an official said. Sharma is the fifth policeman to be arrested by the NIA, which has so far held 10 persons in connection with this case.Prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves told the court that Soni drove the car while the Shelar, Jadhav and Mothukari smothered Hiran in the car and then dumped his body in creek. Gonsalves said that they informed Vaze and Sharma after the murder and received a large sum for murdering Hiran. Some of that award has been recovered, the NIA prosecutor said.“Everything was done at the instance of Vaze and Sharma,” Gonsalves said and added that the NIA has everything to prove their case. He said that Mothukari and Soni confessed to the murder, while Shelar showed NIA officers the spot where Hiran was murdered. The agency has seized the Tavera and found some blood stains in the vehicle. The DNA has been collected and sent for forensic examination.“Sharma is an ex-cop but he roams with a revolver which is unlicensed. Why was he contacted by the murderers?” said Gonsalves. Meanwhile, Sharma said he had been framed. “If I was really involved, would I be sleeping in my house? I am a retired police officer,” he said.Advocate Sudeep Pasbola who represented Sharma opposed the remand plea and said that Sharma was called by NIA twice and interrogated for about 10 hours. There was no material to support the claims made by the federal agency, he said. Sharma said the revolver was purchased by him in 1997 and was licenced, but the license was not renewed.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiliahiran-murder-case-nia-arrests-ex-encounter-cop-101623951139465.html
18-06-2021||India||Army brass reviews situation along LAC, LoC||The army brass on Thursday kicked off a two-day conference in the Capital to discuss important organisational and operational matters, including the situation along the country’s borders with China and Pakistan, officials familiar with the development said.The biennial Army Commanders’ Conference is chaired by the army chief.“The operational situation on the northern and western borders was reviewed on the opening day of the conference, chaired by army chief General MM Naravane,” said one of the officials cited above.The review is significant against the backdrop of the ongoing negotiations for disengagement of Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, and the ceasefire between Indian and Pakistani armies holding at the Line of Control (LoC), the official added.The conference is taking place at a time when India and China have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of their soldiers deployed at friction points on the LAC.The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-rank officers since June 6, 2020, to reduce tensions along the disputed border.The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry in the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks.Talks have not made any headway in resolving the problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.Things have, however, been quiet on the LoC after the Indian and Pakistani militaries announced on February 25 that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the LoC from midnight of February 24. India and Pakistan had agreed to a ceasefire on the LoC in November 2003, but it was frequently violated.Last month, the army chief said that the restoration of ceasefire between the two armies was holding, had led to a significant drop in infiltration by terrorists from Pakistan and contributed to the overall sense of peace and well-being in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-brass-reviews-situation-along-lac-loc-101623951138856.html
18-06-2021||India||Received one dose of Covid-19 vaccine? Know how protected you are||With the vaccination drive against Covid-19 expanding every day, the number of people in India who are fully vaccinated stands at over 5 crore, while over 21 crore people have received the first dose of the vaccine. Since all the currently available vaccines comprise two doses, the Centre is urging everyone, especially frontline workers, to complete the course by getting both doses. Having said that, the Centre has also said that the first dose too offers some protection. But it is not desirable to take only one shot, it has been reiterated.First dose versus 2nd doseAccording to a PGI Chandigarh study, vaccine effectiveness is 75 per cent for all those who received the first dose and both doses. The government's Covid-19 expert group chairman Dr NK Arora has said that the study proves that at least in the short run, effectiveness is similar notwithstanding whether one has received one dose or both doses. "If you received only one dose, still you are protected," Dr Arora said.Another study on Covishield reveals that the protection of one dose is around 61 per cent, and for two doses it's 65 per cent.Explained: Why there are demands to cut the gap between two Covishield doses“A few days back, another very important study by CMC Vellore, Tamil Nadu which covers most of the current epidemic wave India experienced in April and May 2021 shows that if somebody is partially immunized, vaccine effectiveness of Covishield is 61% and with two doses, the effectiveness is 65% - and there is very little difference, especially since there is some degree of uncertainty involved in these calculations," the Centre has said.Chances of reinfection after the first dose and 2nd doseChances of reinfection after vaccination is not negligible as incidents of infection between the doses have also been reported. The Centre said two organisations in Delhi are studying vaccine efficiency. “And both these studies show that breakthrough infection with one dose is around 4%, and around 5% with two doses, basically hardly any difference. And the other study shows that 1.5% - 2% breakthrough infections," the government said.Why is the efficiency of the 1st dose in question?The government has extended the gap between the first dose and the second dose of the Covishield vaccine to three months. Hence, it is being studied how long the first dose protects. For Covaxin, the gap between the doses remains 28 days but the efficiency of one dose is also being studied.What do international studies say?Public Health England has recently said that the protection of the first shot of the Oxford vaccine (Covishield in India) is not as much as it was thought earlier. Hence, a few countries are again narrowing the gap between the doses of Oxford vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/received-one-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-know-how-protected-you-are-101623947209502.html
18-06-2021||India||‘Dilutes your credibility’: Government’s notice to Twitter in toolkit case||In two letters sent to social media company Twitter on May 21 and May 25, the government cited the “percepts of natural justice” to persuade the firm to remove the “manipulated media tag” on the tweets by several senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.The letters are significant milestones in events of the past few months that have seen relationship between Twitter and the government deteriorate even as the company dragged its feet and missed a May 25 deadline for complying with new guidelines for IT intermediaries.“It’s baffling that at this critical juncture, Twitter has chosen unilaterally to go ahead and designate certain tweets as ‘Manipulated’,” designated officer Pronab Mohanty, who heads an inter-ministerial committee that looks after take-down orders issued by the government, said in his letter to Twitter on May 21. “This dilutes the credibility of Twitter as a neutral and unbiased platform facilitating exchange of views by investigation by the law enforcement agency, also puts a question mark on the status of Twitter as an intermediary.“On May 18, Twitter tagged a post by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra and other senior BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and party’s national social media in-charge Priti Gandhi, as “manipulated media”. The tweets alleged that the Congress had circulated a document (a toolkit) that outlined ways to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. The matter is also being investigated by the special cell of Delhi Police.The letter accused Twitter of “overreach” for applying the tag. “In this light, such unilateral designation of the ‘toolkit’ as manipulated seeks to influence and overreach the fair investigation process, which is totally unwarranted,” Mohanty said in the letter. In its response dated May 22, Twitter told the government that it did not aim to influence any legal proceedings. “In doing so (tagging the content), we certainly did not intend to impact any inquiry that a governmental entity or a law enforcement agency in India might be conducting in connection with those Tweets,” it said. The government, however, said in its second letter on May 25 that the “views of Twitter will likely percolate into the fabric of the ongoing investigation and impact its outcome in a manner that will put its impartiality and objectivity in question”.Twitter’s response also sought to explain the placing of the tag: “With respect to the Tweets that are the focus of your letter, we determined that those tweets violated our synthetic and manipulated media policies as described above. As a result, and consistent with those policies and our status as a private platform, we applied the appropriate label to those violative tweets.”Twitter has, however in the past, asserted that it follows policies that are clearly outlined on its website when it comes to tagging any media as manipulated or fabricated. These internal rules have been invoked to label prominent persons like former US President Donald Trump in the past.The exchange between the government and Twitter was made available to digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation in response to a right to information request. HT has seen and reviewed the exchange, which has not been reported before. Separately, because of its tardiness in complying with the new guidelines for social media intermediaries, Twitter runs the risk of losing the protection against liability that such companies enjoy for content posted on their platform, although experts said this is something the courts, not the IT ministry will have to decide.The IT ministry pressed the issue, seeking the logic behind the tagging in its second letter on May 25. This letter said that the company should be transparent in applying the criteria “specified in its Platform Policies and afford a chance for users whose Tweets have been tagged as manipulated”. “Till this opportunity is given, the tagging should remain in abeyance.”A government official familiar with the matter said that “Twitter cannot act as judge, jury and executioner,” the official said. “If they have arrived at the conclusion that the document is fake, then why are they reticent about sharing it with the government.”This is pretty much what Mohanty wrote in the first letter. “The matter is still under investigation and the enforcement agencies are yet to arrive at any definite conclusion.” He added: “Such tagging by Twitter appears pre-judged, prejudiced and a deliberate attempt to colour the investigation by local law enforcement agency.”Apar Gupta, Internet Freedom Foundation trustee said, “The present letter rather than addressing the problem of transparency increases the spread of manipulated media instead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-dilutes-your-credibility-government-s-notice-to-twitter-in-toolkit-case-101623945978380.html
18-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Goa will open for tourists but only after this happens||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said the state will open its tourism sector only after it provides Covid-19 vaccines to 100 per cent of its population, at least the first dose. Until then, the tourist spot will remain out of bounds.Sawant said the state government's target is to accomplish this goal of vaccinating everyone in the state with the first dose by July 31 and it will consider reopening only after achieving that target.Also read: Ajanta and Ellora Caves to reopen for tourists from today"Until we administer the first dose of vaccine (across the state), tourism will not be reopened here. Our target is to accomplish this goal by July 31. We will consider reopening only after achieving that goal," ANI quoted Sawant as saying.The state government launched 'Tika Utsav 3.0' on Sunday to achieve 100 per cent vaccination coverage of the first shot.Earlier this week, the chief minister met with the stakeholders of the tourism industry, who also advised him to take any decision pertaining to reopening Goa after July 31 and also called for strict enforcement of protocol for entry to the state.The coronavirus-induced curbs in Goa were extended on Sunday till June 21, as the positivity rate in the state stood at 14 per cent. The restrictions were imposed on May 9 and have been extended several times since then.Also read: NSUI urges Goa govt to hold online exams of final year polytechnic studentsFollowing the lockdown-like restrictions, casinos, bars, restaurants, shops, river cruises, schools, colleges, educational institutions are closed. Social, sports, cultural and academic functions are prohibited. Marriage functions are allowed only after permission from the district magistrate or sub-divisional magistrate and with an attendance cap of 50."The inter-state movement of persons is allowed for those carrying Covid-19 negative report for a test done a maximum of 72 hours prior to entering Goa. Those entering Goa for medical emergencies are allowed after producing proof of the same," PTI quoted the official as detailing the entry protocol to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-goa-will-open-for-tourists-but-only-after-this-happens-101623927920872.html
18-06-2021||India||No penalty for driving with expired licences, other documents until Sept 30||The Union government has extended till September 30 the validity of driving licenses, vehicle registration certificates, fitness certificates, and all kinds of permits that expired after February 2020 and could not be renewed because of the restrictions imposed to check the Covid-19 pandemic.In an advisory, the road transport and highways ministry on Thursday directed transport departments against prosecuting motorists using documents that expired since February last year.Driving without a valid license attracts a penalty of ₹5,000, while the penalties for other invalid documents are ₹5,000 (registration certificate), ₹10,000 (permit for commercial vehicles), ₹2,000-5,000 (fitness certificate for goods vehicles).Officials clarified that an extension has not been granted for expired Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates.Through another notification, the ministry has also created a new uniform PUC certificate format and mandated all states to link their PUC database with the national register. The “One nation, One PUC” does away with the rule to get new PUC certificates when moving to another state and all new certificates will have a QR code with details of the vehicle, its emission level and its owner. For the first time, a rejection slip will also be issued if the emission is more than the prescribed level, so the vehicle can be serviced or used at other centres in case pollution-checking devices are not working.“...it is advised that the validity of all the referred documents, whose extension of validity could not or was not likely granted due to lockdown and which had expired since the 1st of Feb, 2020, or would expire by 30th September, 2021, the same may be treated to be valid till 30th September, 2021,” said the advisory. “All the states and Union Territories are requested to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that the citizens, transporters and various other organisations, which are operating under this difficult time, may not get harassed and face difficulties,” it added.The Delhi transport department is expected to issue a specific order following the Centre’s note, officials said. This is the sixth such extension after earlier advisories in this regard.A transport department official requested people against queuing up at Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in Delhi unless they wanted a learner or permanent license for the first time. “The ministry has extended the validity of fitness, permits, licenses, registration or other documents under Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, till September 30,” said the official, who asked not to be named.The state transport department said it was burdened with a deluge of queries about driving licenses, fitness certificates, and permit renewals. The process of getting driving licences involves a wait of up to two months. The RTO at New Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan is one of the busiest transport offices in the city, conducting up to 250 driving tests on its semi-automatic driving test tracks every day before the pandemic. Around 80 tests are conducted every day these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-penalty-for-driving-with-expired-licences-other-documents-until-sept-30-101623913455808.html
