19-06-2021||India||Andhra man slits girl's throat, kills her for rejecting his proposal, arrested||Andhra Pradesh police on Friday arrested a youth from Kadapa who had absconded after murdering a 19-year-old girl for rejecting his proposal.According to sub-inspector of Badvel rural police station, Chandrasekhar, Charan, 21, from Chintala Cheruvu village had been following Sirisha, 19 of the same village for some time."He has been following her in the name of love. But the girl rejected his proposal. This evening at around 4.30 pm Sirisha went to a field next to her house to fetch grass. Charan followed her and attacked her with a knife. He slit her throat and murdered her," said Chandrasekhar."On coming to know about the matter, family members and other villagers beat him up. The injured accused has been shifted to Badvel government hospital," he added.The police have shifted the girl's body to the government general hospital.Legal formalities are to be complied with. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-man-slits-girl-s-throat-kills-her-for-rejecting-his-proposal-arrested-101624126447367.html
19-06-2021||India||10-day-old infant sold for ₹10,000 by poor Odisha couple rescued: Cop||BHUBANESWAR: An infant bought by a 42-year-old childless rag picker for ₹10,000 from its parents, also rag pickers, has been rescued by the police and a non-profit in Odisha capital Bhubaneswar, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The 10-day-old boy has been sent to Subhadra Mahatab Seva Sadan, a special adoption agency for rehabilitation in Bhubaneswar.The woman who bought the infant on June 14 has been arrested on charges of illegal adoption and buying a child. Police said they are yet to trace the biological parents who are missing.“The biological parents wanted to sell this baby as they had no money to survive on the streets,” said Benudhar Senapati of Childline, the NGO that was first tipped off about the baby’s sale. Senapati said their initial inquiries have led them to believe that the father may have driven the deal to feed his addiction to drugs and alcohol.Arun Kumar Swain, inspector in-charge of the Kharvel Nagar police station, said the police rescued the baby on a tip off from the NGO. “The nomadic couple who sold their child are rag pickers. The woman, Sumedin Bibi, who bought the baby is also into ragpicking and knew about the birth. As she was childless, she asked the couple to give her the child. The child’s father asked for ₹10,000 which she paid at her home at Malisahi,” said inspector Swain.Stories of child sale are not uncommon in Odisha, once infamous for its poverty in 80s and 90s as scores of poverty-ridden families sold off their sons and daughters to well-off families unable to feed them. Western Odisha districts like Kalahandi and Bolangir are replete with examples of child sale. In 1985, the sale of 2-year-old tribal girl Banita to a blind man for as little as ₹40 and a saree by her sister-in-law Phanas Punji brought the poverty of the state into the limelight. Though Odisha’s per capita income has risen sharply from what it was back then, its real per capita income has consistently remained below the national average.In October last year, police in Sambalpur district rescued a one-month-old girl from a couple who had allegedly bought her from an impoverished couple for ₹15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10dayold-infant-sold-for-rs-10-000-by-poor-odisha-couple-rescued-cop-101624124130432.html
19-06-2021||India||Kerala to offer 'In-Car Dining', food will be served in parked vehicles||From early last year after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the culture of eating out and dining took a huge hit. Kerala Tourism has decided to launch a facility to revive this popular everyday lifestyle with an interesting take while paying critical attention to the threats posed by the Covid-19 disease outbreak.The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) is launching a facility that serves travelers food inside their vehicles. The move is aimed at allaying health risks while eating in public spaces amid Covid-19.How does In-Car Dining work?Under 'In-Car Dining', the customers can remain in their parked vehicles and place their orders at KTDC's Aahaar restaurants. The orders will reach to the customers vehicle, tourism minister PA Mohamed Riyas explained.The menu under the 'In-Car dining' will cover breakfast, lunch and dinner besides snacks.The scheme is being implemented considering public safety hazards even as a slide in the second wave of the pandemic is expected to help the tourism industry pick up, the minister said.Only select KTDC restaurants will carry out the scheme, Riyas added.The minister said that in the process, 'In-Car Dining' seeks to provide our customers with a new experience. The aim, he explained, is to provide people with safe and tasty food. "We plan to reach out to the people with safe and tasty food. KTDC hotel chains will be renovated under the project 'Mission Facelift' after classifying them on a priority basis," Riyas said.Kerala is also set to see floating restaurants in select destinations across the state on the lines of the one at Veli in Thiruvananthapuram, the first of which will come up at Kadalundi, the minister added.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said Covid-19 cases in the state have decreased by 42%. However, he has asked the people to continue exercising caution in the face of a highly contagious delta variant of the virus."The third wave of virus can be prevented if "we all are vigilant as a community", Vijayan said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-offer-in-car-dining-where-food-is-served-in-parked-vehicles-101624111456516.html
19-06-2021||India||10 injured in blast at steel factory in Maharashtra's Jalna||At least ten workers were injured on Saturday in a blast at a steel manufacturing unit in Jana district of Maharashtra, over 400 km from Mumbai, police said. A boiler exploded and hot molten iron fell on workers at Sapashrungi Steel Mill, located in a Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area, said an official. Four workers were admitted to a hospital in Jalna while six were shifted to Aurangabad for treatment, said police sub-inspector Pramod Bondle. A case was registered against the manager of the company for alleged negligence and further probe was on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-injured-in-blast-at-steel-factory-in-maharashtra-s-jalna-101624120631047.html
19-06-2021||India||Centre invites 14 J&K ministers, including Omar Abdulla, Mehbooba Mufti, to PM Modi meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to chair a meeting in Jammu and Kashmir on June 24 and as many as 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state, have been invited, news agency PTI reported citing officials.The four former chief ministers are Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference (NC), senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti. The other ministers on the list include Congress leader Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig, and BJP leaders Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta.In addition, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head GA Mir, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravinder Raina, and Panthers Party (PP) leader Bhim Singh have also been invited by the Centre.Various central ministers, including Union home minister Amit Shah, are also expected to be part of the meeting.The much-anticipated meeting is the first such exercise that is taking place since 2019 when the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its bifurcation into union territories.Meanwhile, PTI reported that Omar Abdullah will hold consultations within the party over the next few days. The Political Affairs Committee of the PDP would also be meeting on Sunday to take a decision about the talks, it also reported.Earlier on Friday, Shah chaired a high-level security meeting in Delhi with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, R&AW chief Samant Kumar Goel, and CRPF DG Kuldeep Singh.The meeting seems to be part of the preparations for the all-party meet, though the agenda of it was developmental issues and the current situation in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-invites-14-j-k-ministers-including-omar-abdulla-mehbooba-mufti-to-pm-modi-meeting-101624120098069.html
19-06-2021||India||Take vaccine and then come to the meeting: Tharoor-led Parliament panel to Facebook||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor-led Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has conveyed a strict message to Facebook that the company representatives will have to be physically present in front of the panel notwithstanding what Facebook's company policies say, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after the panel met Twitter representatives and reminded them that the microblogging platform has to abide by the laws of the country.Facebook informed the parliamentary panel that they could attend an online meeting, which the panel has rejected. The date of the meeting has not been finalised yet. The panel has said that it will give the members enough time to complete their vaccination, but the meeting will be held in person.All other social media and web platforms like YouTube, Google will have to send their representations physically before the panel, ANI reported.Facebook said the company has prohibited its officers to attend an in-person meeting as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is still going on, sources told ANI. "Taking cognisance of Facebook's reply, now the chairman of the committee sought the list of Facebook officials whom the company wants to send before the committee. The chairman said the committee will provide Covid vaccination to such officials and will also give enough time to come before the committee," sources told ANI. The news agency reached out to Facebook, which declined to comment.The panel on Friday met Twitter representatives and told them that the microblogging platform will have to abide by the rules of the land. Twitter is at loggerheads with the government over the new IT rules, though the microblogging platform continues to claim that it is cooperating and coordinating with the government. Twitter has recently lost legal protection, which makes it responsible for what anyone posts on the platform.On the new IT rules, Facebook has said it will implement the operational processes and improve efficiencies. It has also listed the address of its local grievance redressal company. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, situated at 216, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi – 110020, will handle Facebook and WhatsApp's grivance redressal system. While Spoorthi Priya will be the grievance officer for Facebook, Paresh B Lal will be WhatsApp's designated officer, the company has mentioned.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-vaccine-and-then-come-for-the-meeting-tharoor-led-parliament-panel-to-facebook-101624116335873.html
19-06-2021||India||Top 10 states that have administered highest Covid vaccine doses so far. Check here||India has administered more than 27 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses since it began the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16. The cumulative vaccine coverage amounted to 27,23,88,783 doses through 37,48,147 sessions till Saturday 7am, the Union health ministry data said.Over 33 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours across the nation, the ministry data showed.As India continues to conduct the world's #LargestVaccineDrive in full swing, take a look at the state-wise break-up of the number of #COVIDVaccine doses administered. For more real-time updates, visit https://t.co/re1fmuMPbB. #IndiaFightsCorona@MoHFW_India @PMOIndia @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/fqNuYcaz3wHere are the top 10 states that have administered the highest number of vaccine doses so far:Maharashtra has administered the highest number of vaccine doses to date. It has given over 271.5 lakh vaccine doses since January 16.Uttar Pradesh has administered the second-highest number of vaccine doses amounting to over 250.83 lakh, according to the health ministry.Gujarat has administered 215.54 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses till date.Followed by Rajasthan that has administered 206.18 lakh vaccine doses so far.Next in the top 10 states, is West Bengal that has administered 186.11 lakh vaccine doses.Karnataka has given 180.69 lakh vaccine doses in the state till date.Madhya Pradesh has administered 149.72 lakh vaccine doses since Janaury 16.Bihar has given over 131 lakh vaccine doses.Andhra Pradesh has administered 124.65 lakh vaccine doses.Followed by Tamil Nadu with over 121 lakh vaccine doses given to date.Also read| Third Covid-19 wave in India: What experts say about the gap between two wavesThe government began its liberalized and accelerated phase 3 strategy for inoculation on May 1 and under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer procured by the Centre will be provided to the states and Union territories (UT) for free.More than 28.50 crore vaccine doses have been provided to the states and UTs so far, through the Centre's free of cost channel and through direct procurement category, the health ministry informed.The ministry said over 2.87 crore Covid vaccine doses are still available with th states and UTs to be administered and over 52 lakh vaccine doses are in the pipeline, which will be received by the states and UTs within next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-10-states-that-have-administered-highest-covid-vaccine-doses-so-far-check-here-101624115511268.html
19-06-2021||India||Alert sounded as water level rises in rivers in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh||Authorities have sounded an alert in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh as several river are flowing above the danger mark in Uttarakhand, while the water level in Ganga has risen in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh as well.In Uttarakhand, Ganga is above the danger mark in both Haridwar and Rishikesh, while Bhagirathi has exceeded the level at Devprayag in Tehri district. According to data available on the website of the Central Water Commission (CWC), Ganga’s water level is at 294.1 metres, which is 0.10 metres above the danger mark.“In Rishikesh, Ganga is flowing four metres above the water level. In Devprayag, water in Bhagirathi is at 465 metres, or two metres above the danger level, and is showing a rising trend,” CWC superintending engineer Rajesh Kumar said.Residents of villages on the banks of Ganga and Bhagirathi in the hill state have been shifted to shelters being run by the respective district administrations, and to other safe locations, officials said.Meanwhile, in Chamoli, Alaknanda is flowing two metres above the danger mark, while the corresponding figure for Pindar in Karnaprayag is 1.5 metres, Chamoli District Disaster Management Office said.Uttarakhand has been lashed by heavy rains over the last three days, with 142 mm of rainfall in Chamoli on Saturday, while Karnaprayag received 136 mm of rainfall. It was measured at 128mm in Pauri district’s Sri Nagar, 103.8mm in Rudraprayag, 97.2mm in Joshimath and 53 mm in Rishikesh.Meanwhile, district authorities in Muzaffarnagar in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh have alerted people against venturing near Ganga in view of the river’s rising water level. “As a precautionary measure, people have been asked not to go near the river after 375,000 cusec of water was released from a barrage in Haridwar,” subdivisional magistrate Jayendra Kumar said.The water level in the river has been on the rise, according to officials.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alert-sounded-as-water-level-rises-in-rivers-in-uttarakhand-and-uttar-pradesh-101624116742780.html
19-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre asks states to file FIR against those involved in assault on medics and all the latest news||MHA asks states, UTs to take strict actions against those who assault health workersAmid the rise in violence against healthcare workers, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday urged the states and Union territories (UT) to take strict actions against those who assault healthcare professionals. Read MoreBJP may also challenge poll results in some seats, says Bengal’s Dilip GhoshThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may file election petitions to challenge election results of seats lost by its candidates by a wafer-thin margin, the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh said on Saturday, days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and four Trinamool Congress leaders filed similar petitions in the Calcutta high court. Read MoreKarnataka eases lockdown restrictions in 16 districts with less Covid-19 loadThe Karnataka government on Saturday relaxed lockdown restrictions in districts with less than 5 per cent Covid-19 case positivity rate. Read More'Very disappointed': Shane Warne slams New Zealand for not playing a spinner in WTC final against IndiaAustralia bowling legend Shane Warne slammed New Zealand for not playing a spinner in the World Test Championship final against India. Read MoreYouTube picture-in-picture (PiP) FINALLY rolled out on these devices, but there is a catchYouTube picture-in-picture (PiP) update is finally here and some people can start enjoying it. However, there are many who have been left out and will not be able to access this YouTube feature. Read MoreFather’s Day 2021: Emotional to funny - Stories of bond of love between dads and their kidsFather's Day will be celebrated on June 20 this year. Created in 1910 by Sonora Smart Dodd in the US, this day is presently observed all across the world on the third Sunday of the month of June. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-asks-states-to-file-fir-against-those-involved-in-assault-on-medics-and-all-the-latest-news-101624114543023.html
19-06-2021||India||India wants gaps in bill for Kulbhushan Jadhav fixed, Pak calls it obfuscation||NEW DELHI: Pakistan on Saturday contended India was engaging in a campaign to obfuscate the issue of appointing a lawyer to represent Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying. The claim by Islamabad came two days after India asked Pakistan to remove shortcomings in a bill passed by the neighbouring country’s Parliament to allow Jadhav to appeal against his conviction.Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was arrested in March 2016 in Pakistan’s Balochistan province on charges of spying and sentenced to death by a military court the following year. India has rejected the charges levelled against him and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.The International Court of Justice (ICJ) stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018 and ruled the following year that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of his conviction and sentencing.A statement issued on Saturday by Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson said paragraph 118 of the ICJ’s judgement requires India to “act in good faith, and arrange legal representation” for Jadhav.“Regrettably, India has been engaging in a deliberate campaign to obfuscate the issue of appointment of a lawyer. As a result, the government of Pakistan had to initiate proceedings before the Islamabad high court to request the court to appoint a lawyer for Commander Jadhav,” the statement said.The high court had “invited India to clarify its position in this regard but India continues to deliberately politicise the issue”, it added.In keeping with the ICJ’s judgment, Pakistan chose to provide Jadhav the right of review and reconsideration by the country’s superior courts through the International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Ordinance of 2020, the spokesperson said.“Pakistan’s commitment to uphold the ICJ judgment was again reflected by the passage of ICJ (Review and Reconsideration) Bill for Review from the National Assembly of Pakistan,” the statement further said.The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill was passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly or lower house of Parliament on June 10. The bill, which is yet to clear the Senate or upper house, is aimed at ensuring consular access to Jadhav in line with the ICJ verdict, which called for an effective review of his conviction.The Islamabad high court recently adjourned till October 5 the hearing of the Pakistan government’s petition regarding the appointing of a counsel for Jadhav.India has said the bill passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly has several shortcomings and does not “create a machinery to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s case, as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ”.The external affairs ministry said the bill invites municipal courts in Pakistan to decide whether or not any prejudice has been caused to Jadhav on account of the failure to provide consular access. “This is clearly a breach of the basic tenet that municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a state has fulfilled its obligations in international law,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-gaps-in-bill-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-fixed-pak-calls-it-obfuscation-101624116330018.html
19-06-2021||India||MHA asks states, UTs to take strict actions against those who assault health workers||Amid the rise in violence against healthcare workers, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday urged the states and Union territories (UT) to take strict actions against those who assault healthcare professionals. The home secretary asked the states and UTs to keep a close watch on such cases and invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act, where applicable."In the present circumstances, it has become imperative that strict action be taken against those who assault healthcare professionals. Institutional FIRs should be registered against the assaulters and such cases should be fast tracked. You may also like to invoke the provisions of the Epidemics Disease (Amendment) Act, 2020, where applicable," home secretary Bhalla wrote in a letter to chief secretaries and administrators.Also read: Stir held across country over violence against health workersThe home secretary also urged the states and UTs to keep a close watch on any objectionable content in social media that may exacerbate the situation. He asked the governments to make efforts like posters in hospitals and social media posts to emphasise the contribution of healthcare professionals and doctors during the major healthcare crisis of the century-the coronavirus pandemic.Further, he also requested the state governments to take these measures on priority and to proactively engage with the members of the medical fraternity."I would request the states and Union territories may take these measures on priority and proactively engage with the members of the medical fraternity to assuage their concerns." the home secretary wrote.This comes a day after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) held a nationwide protest in demand for the implementation of a central law to protect doctors and healthcare professionals against acts of violence.The home secretary in the letter also said that their earlier advisories dated April 27 and June 9 suggested remedial measures like provision of adequate security at healthcare facilities, especially at Covid designated hospitals, controlled and restricted access to the premises, deployment of quick response police teams at vulnerable locations, effective local level intervention with well equipped centralized control room for monitoring and quick response etc.There have been several incidents of violence against doctors serving in Covid wards. They were brutally attacked and beaten in states like Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka.The IMA on Wednesday said that around 730 doctors have lost their lives during the second wave of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-uts-to-take-strict-actions-against-those-who-assault-health-workers-101624108223841.html
19-06-2021||India||Karnataka eases lockdown restrictions in 16 districts with less Covid-19 load||The Karnataka government on Saturday relaxed lockdown restrictions in districts with less than 5 per cent Covid-19 case positivity rate. All shops and hotels, clubs, restaurants allowed to operate till 5pm, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said adding that lodges, resorts, gyms, private offices will also be allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity in 16 districts that have less than 5 per cent Covid-19 positivity. These relaxations will be in place from June 21 to July 5.The announcement was due to come on Saturday as the current restrictions are coming to an end on Saturday. Earlier in the day, neighbouring Telangana announced a full lifting of the restrictions in the state. The Telangana government has also decided to reopen schools and educational institutions from July 1.Karnataka was one of the worst-hit states in the second wave of the pandemic as well. The peak is now past as daily new cases have come around 5,000 in the state. on Friday, the state reported 5,783 new Covid-19 cases and 168 fatalities on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 27.96 lakh and the toll to 33,602. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,03,063, followed by Mysuru 1,60,944 and Tumakuru 1,13,359. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,13,808, followed by Mysuru 1,50,619and Tumakuru 1,08,276. Cumulatively a total of 3,23,93,253 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,42,498 were done on Friday alone, PTI reported.Which districts in Karnataka have less than 5% case positivity rateThe relaxation rules will be applicable in Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppal, Chikkballapur, Tumkur, Kolar, Bengaluru urban, Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkote, Kalburgi, Haveri, Ramanagara, Yadgir, and Bidar districts as they fulfil the requirement for the relaxations.Following an unlocking pattern like that of Maharashtra, the Karnataka government too has categorised districts based on the severity of the Covid-19 cases.Guideline for districts with less than 5% positivity rate> Shops will be allowed to remain open till 5pm> Restaurants can allow dine-in till 5pm.> Buses and metro will operate at a 50 per cent capacity.> Guesthouses, resorts, lodges, gyms will also open at 50 per cent capacity.Bengaluru Metro: Namma metro services will resume from June 21 on weekdays from Monday to Friday. Metro train services will not be available on Saturday and Sunday as weekend curfew is still in place. What about other districts13 districts with a positivity rate between 5 to 10 per cent, the earlier guideline issued on June 11 will remain applicable. These districts are Hassan, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Bangalore Rural, Davanagere, Kodagu, Dharwad, Bellary, Chitradurga and Vijayapura.Mysuru is the only district in Karnataka with an above 10 per cent case positivity rate. Hence, there will be no change in the present lockdown restrictions in Mysuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-eases-lockdown-restrictions-in-16-districts-with-less-covid-19-load-101624110697494.html
19-06-2021||India||Third Covid-19 wave in India: What experts say about the gap between two waves||Warning about a possible third wave, several experts have predicted the timing of a possible third wave of the pandemic in the last few days. There are mathematical methods to predict this timing and most experts, including AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, opined that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is inevitable in India.What is the general gap between the two waves?A gap of roughly four to five months has been observed between two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. If India's graph is considered, the first peak was in September and the second peak took place in April-May —in a gap of six months.A poll conducted by Reuters predicted that the third wave may hit India in October, November — which also is six months away.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria on Saturday said the third wave may come within six to eight weeks if Covid appropriate behaviour is not maintained properly. According to him, the virus can make a comeback within two months, earlier than the trend noticed in India so far, if the unlocking process is not measured.Why the gap between two waves is not uniformAcross the world, the gap between the two waves of the pandemic is not uniform as it depends on vaccine coverage, human behaviour, and the variant of the virus. Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Rahul Padita has said that some countries witnessed a gap of 14 to 15 weeks, but some encountered a fresh wave even before two months of the earlier wave.For example, Germany, France witnessed the third wave of the pandemic in April, while the United Kingdom is beginning to enter the 3rd wave.What happened during the 1918 Spanish Flu?There were three waves in the 1918 Spanish Flu, which had taken place during Spring, Fall and Winter. The second wave was the biggest recording the highest number of deaths.Swine Flu occurred in two waves between 2009 and 2010.Why all these outbreaks have wavesThe respiratory infections come in waves, Dr Guleria had said earlier. In a press meet earlier this month, Dr Guleria said that waves occur in respiratory disease pandemic because the virus changes its form and a portion of the population remains susceptible to it. But when most people develop immunity — either through vaccination or naturally — the virus becomes endemic. "This is what happened to H1N1. Now the infection has a seasonality. It comes only in monsoon and winter," Dr Guleria had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-19-wave-in-india-what-experts-say-about-the-gap-between-two-waves-101624109279075.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Health workers in Chhattisgarh cross multiple hurdles to vaccinate people in remote villages||Healthcare workers are going beyond limits to inoculate everyone against the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The workers are trying to reach, crossing all the hurdles, be it a river, mountains or forest, the remotest corner of India in an attempt to vaccinate everyone.A team of healthcare workers reached the remote area of Balrampur in Chhattisgarh to hold a Covid-19 vaccination drive, for which they crossed a knee-deep river, climbed mountains and walked 9kms through a dense forest, reported news agency ANI. A member of the team ANM Gyaneshwari told ANI that the team of the health department walked through the dense forest and crossed the river to vaccinate the people of Bachwar village against the virus.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"Our health team visits these areas for regular checkups. It takes about half a day to reach here. With our Covid awareness campaign, there is no hesitancy regarding vaccination among the people in this village," ANI quoted Balrampur chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Basant Singh as saying.The villagers too appreciated the efforts of the team and told ANI that the health department team not only vaccinates the people but also provides essential health information."The doctors also shared with us their experience of being vaccinated against the virus," ANI quoted one of the villagers as saying.Also read: Woman Maoist killed in Bastar gunfight; AK-47 recovered: Chhattisgarh policeMeanwhile, India reported 60,753 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The country reported less than 100,000 new infections for the 12th day in a row, the health ministry stated.India's cumulative vaccination coverage reached over 27.23 crore on Saturday as 27,23,88,783 vaccine doses have been administered through 7,48,147 sessions so far, the health ministry said. More than 3.3 million vaccine doses were administered across the country in the last 24 hours, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-health-workers-in-chhattisgarh-cross-multiple-hurdles-to-vaccinate-people-in-remote-villages-101624104807204.html
19-06-2021||India||63-year-old woman in Bihar gets both Covaxin, Covishield in 5 minutes interval||A woman named Sunila Devi in Bihar was administered with both Covaxin and Covishield shots at an interval of five minutes. multiple media reports said on Saturday. The 63-year-old woman is a resident of Awadhpur village and she received both of the jabs at the Beldarichak middle school vaccination camp in rural Patna.She is said to be in stable condition and is under the observation of doctors. Devi is said to have been inoculated twice “by mistake”.Following this, a team of medical experts have been deployed to the camp to investigate. They have asked for an explanation from the two nurses who administered the vaccines to Devi.According to reports, Devi was administered with Covishield jab first after the due registration process. She was then asked to wait for five minutes and being unaware of the process, she stood in the second queue which was for the Covaxin jab.However, in an India Today report, Devi claims that she told the second nurse about the first jab, but the nurse insisted that, "another jab will be given in the same hand". She is now demanding strict action against the alleged negligence in the report.If Devi continues tore no adverse symptoms, she will be tested for antibodies after 14 days, a senior health official at AIIMS Patna has said.This is not the first such case that has emerged since the beginning of the inoculation drive in the country. In May, a 43-year-old woman in Rajasthan's Dausa village alleged she was jabbed with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccination simultaneously.However, the staff at the Centre has denied this. "The first attempt to vaccinate her was withdrawn when some blood began to pop put. It is called a prick. The nursing staff then located another spot on her arm and vaccinated her with the first dose. She (Kiran) presumed that she was vaccinated twice, which is not true at all," said Chief medical health officer (CMHO) Dausa, Dr Manish Chodhary, adding that proper vaccination protocol was followed.India rolled out a massive vaccination drive in the country on January 16. It began with frontline workers at the top of the priority list, and has now opened to all above 18-year-olds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63yearold-woman-in-bihar-gets-both-covaxin-covishield-in-5-minutes-interval-101624105819379.html
19-06-2021||India||Coastal Karnataka district reports 15 deaths, 1,006 new Covid-19 cases in single day||As many as 1,006 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 15 fatalities have been reported on Friday alone in Dakshina Kannada, the coastal district of Karnataka, as reported in local media Prajavani. This district accounts for the second-highest number of cases in Karnataka after Bengaluru, according to a statistics released by the district administration. The capital city, Bengaluru with a population of 1.5 crore, is currently reporting the highest number of cases with 1,100 fresh infections and 39 deaths on Friday. Dakshina Kannada with a much smaller population of 14.25 lakh people recorded a higher positivity rate.Also read: Karnataka starts rural campaign to allay fears of Covid-19 vaccinesTesting and surveillance have been intensified in the district and teams of medical workers from Mangaluru and the district health department have been sent to assess the situation. The district office communiqué said that on Friday as many as 665 people recovered from the disease. Dakshina Kannada reported 87,350 positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020. Out of the cumulative 87,350 positive cases, 79,395 have recovered, 6,931 are undergoing treatment and 1,024 people have died, officials in the health department said. According to district health officer Dr. Kishore Kumar, “It is worrisome that Dakshin Kannada has recorded 10.07% positivity on Friday which is the highest in recent months." The district authorities have declared 23 containment zones of which seven are in Mangaluru city and eight in the hilly taluk of Buntwal. Testing has been ramped up to reach 10,000 people every day on an average. The apartments and individual colonies have been targeted under the ‘ring surveillance method. Deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra said that the low and highrise buildings where positivity has been reported will be turned into containment zones. As many as 50 houses in the vicinity of places with positive cases will also be brought under surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coastal-karnataka-district-reports-15-deaths-1-006-new-covid-19-cases-in-single-day-101624105452580.html
19-06-2021||India||Karnataka starts rural campaign to allay fears of Covid-19 vaccines||The Karnataka government started its rural anti-covid drive with a motive to allay the fears and suspicion regarding vaccination. This call was given by the senior member of the state cabinet Suresh Kumar at a tribal village in Yelandur in Chamarajanagar district on Friday.  He reminded a group of tribal leaders that the Biligirirangana Betta Grama Panchayat in Chamarajanagar district has been declared Covid free panchayat. Now, their next aim should be to work towards ensuring 100 percent Covid vaccinated panchayats. He urged and encouraged the leaders to spread the message far and wide, and motivate everybody in the Panchayat to get vaccinated, reported Prajavani. Also read: North Karnataka at risk of floods due to last week’s rainfall in MaharashtraThe Chamarajanagar district is predominantly rural and tribal in nature. So far there had not been any penetration of anti covid and vaccination-related information. This is the first drive taken up to mitigate unwillingness for vaccines and spread awareness in the remote corners of the state.Suresh Kumar said the government was keen on insulating the rural and remote areas of the state against Covid infection. This awareness drive about vaccination will be carried out by all levels of people’s representatives, officials and social leaders from nearby towns and cities.And simultaneously leadership would be fostered among the villagers, in this regard to take the campaign further.Karnataka is one of the first states in the country that attempted to dispel misapprehensions about Covid vaccination in the rural areas. “We will make it better in the coming days by reaching the last person with vaccination and information on Standard Operating Protocol,”said Suresh Kumar.Chamarajanagar, Hunsur, Kodagu, Mandya, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru are some of the districts that have a high density of rural and tribal population. These districts of Karnataka are under the scanner of the government’s health department for the rural anti-Covid drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-starts-rural-campaign-to-allay-fears-of-covid-19-vaccines-101624104274369.html
19-06-2021||India||What is Covid Severity Score? Govt's new software for better Covid-19 management||The Union health ministry on Saturday released information about a software that will identify Covid patients who may require ventilation. The current Covid-19 situation in the country is under control, but as experts are urging people to exercise caution, the third wave in India can't be dismissed. Preparations are going on in view of a possible third wave.The software will calculate a Covid Severity Score —which is also the name of the software — based on an algorithm. "Sudden ICU and other emergency requirements during the pandemic have been a challenge for hospitals to manage. Timely information about such situations would help manage the health crisis better," the government said in a statement.अब Software करेगा ventilator support की ज़रूरत वाले कोरोना रोगियों की पहचान !@IndiaDST के अधीन Science For Equity Empowerment and Development (SEED) के सहयोग से विकसित Covid Severity Score (CSS) Software से आपात स्थिति आने से पहले रोगी को रेफ़र करने में मदद मिलेगी। pic.twitter.com/QxuOT60cynThe technology has been developed by the Foundation for Innovation in Health, Kolkata, with the support of the department of biotechnology and IIT Guwahati. The algorithm, as said by the government, measures symptoms, signs, vital parameters, test reports and comorbidities of the COVID positive patient and scores each against a pre-set dynamic algorithm thus allocating a Covid Severity Score. The software has been tested at some primary health clinics, the government said.While the software will identify patiemts who require serious intervention in advance, it will also identify those unlikely to require critical care support, and thus freeing more beds, the ministry said.During the second peak of the pandemic, the overall health infrstructure of the country crumbled with the number of serious cases shooting up. Demands for ICU beds, oxygen beds increased suddenly as more and more patients required serious medical intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-covid-severity-score-govt-s-new-software-for-better-covid-19-management-101624103804398.html
19-06-2021||India||Court takes cognisance of charge sheet against Deep Sidhu, others in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet filed against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar has summoned all the accused through video conferencing on June 29.Production warrants have been issued against Maninder Singh and Khempreet Singh, who are still in judicial custody. Except for the duo, all the other accused are out on bail. The judge said the court is taking cognisance of the charge sheet relating to various sections of Indian Penal Code, except those sections for which prosecution sanction is still awaited. Sanction under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Arms Act is still awaited from concerned authorities.On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort injuring scores of policemen.The police had filed a supplementary charge sheet on June 17. The investigating officer pointed out names of the witnesses who were severely injured or from whom weapon was snatched, in the final report.The Delhi Police Crime Branch, which is tasked with the investigation, had filed a 3,224 page-long first charge sheet against Sidhu and 15 others on May 17, nearly four months after the violence.Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort. He is facing charges of rioting, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, dacoity, culpable homicide among various other sections of the Indian Penal Code. He was in jail for over two months and released on bail on April 17. Besides Sidhu, the police have also mentioned the name of Iqbal Singh, who was doing a Facebook Live session in which he allegedly instigated the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-takes-cognisance-of-charge-sheet-against-deep-sidhu-others-in-republic-day-violence-case-101624102320008.html
19-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid 3rd wave to hit India in next 6-8 weeks, says AIIMS director Guleria and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 third wave to hit India in next 6-8 weeks: AIIMS Director Randeep GuleriaAll India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) Randeep Guleria on Saturday warned against the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that it can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, news agency PTI reported. Read more‘Indian armed forces better equipped, more vigilant on Indo-China borders’: Air Chief Marshal BhadauriaIndian armed forces have been more vigilant and alert on the Indo-China border, especially after the last year’s clashes with Chinese forces in Eastern Ladakh, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Saturday while interacting with media after the Combined Graduation Parade of newly-trained flight cadets of various branches of Indian Air Force at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Read more'Kidnapping plot, college fight': Pinarayi Vijayan and K Sudhakaran are certainly not long-lost friendsKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala's new Congress chief K Sudhakaran went to the same college and some of their recollections have created a stir in media as they do not seem to be long-lost friends. Read moreWomen in social entrepreneurship get unified platformTo provide momentum to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, non-governmental organisation Action for India (AFI) launched a business accelerator programme Women in Social Entrepreneurship (WISE). Read moreMilkha Singh passes away: Indian cricket legends pay tribute to 'The Flying Sikh'Several legends of Indian cricket paid tribute to Milkha Singh, who passed away Friday night after a long battle with Covid-19 at the age of 91. Singh introduced India to track and field and remains its ultimate king till the end. Read moreAnushka Sharma makes fans jealous, watches Ind-NZ match toss from hotel balconyActor Anushka Sharma has shared a new picture on her Instagram Story and made cricket lovers quite jealous. As Team India gears up for the WTC Final Test match against New Zealand on Saturday, Anushka showed how she will be enjoying the match from the window of her hotel bedroom. Read moreRIP Milkha Singh: Anand Mahindra pays heartfelt tribute to ‘The Flying Sikh’India lost legend Milkha Singh on Friday, June 18. Following his demise, people from all walks of life have taken to social media to pay their tributes for “The Flying Sikh”, among them is industrialist Anand Mahindra too. Read moreWatch: Iran elects ultraconservative cleric Ebrahim Raisi as its new president||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-3rd-wave-to-hit-india-in-next-6-8-weeks-says-aiims-director-guleria-and-all-the-latest-news-101624099874220.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid-19 third wave to hit India in next 6-8 weeks: AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria||All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria on Saturday warned against the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that it can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, news agency PTI reported. Stressing on the need to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, Guleria said that until a sizable number of the population are vaccinated people should strictly adhere to face masks and social distancing norms."If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed, the third wave can happen in six to eight weeks. We need to work aggressively to prevent another large wave till vaccination kicks in," the news agency quoted the senior doctor as saying.Speaking on lockdown measures as a way to control the outbreak, Guleria said it cannot be the solution keeping in view the devastating impact on the economy. On preventive measures, he suggested an aggressive surveillance strategy in Covid hotspots and lockdowns in case of any significant surge.Referring to the multiple reports claiming that the next wave will put children in the vulnerable category, Guleria reiterated that till now, there is no evidence to suggest that.Earlier, India's epidemiologists indicated that the third wave of Covid-19 is inevitable and is likely to start from September-October.After maintaining a steady decline in daily cases, India was hit by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May. During this massive number of people succumbed to the viral infection while the number of daily cases surpassed the 400,000-mark. The number has now come to below 70,000 in the last couple of days.According to the daily bulletin by the Union ministry of health family welfare, India reported 60,753 new cases over the last 24 hours. India's total tally now stands at 29,823,546, while the number of active cases has come down to 7,60,019, the lowest in 74 days.The death toll climbed to 385,137 with 1,647 fresh fatalities and active cases comprise 2.55 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.16 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-to-hit-india-in-next-6-8-weeks-aiims-director-randeep-guleria-101624101413209.html
19-06-2021||India||Rafale fighter jets to be inducted into Indian Air Force by 2022, says Bhadauria||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said the IAF is on its target to induct all the 36 Rafale fighter jets by 2022.Speaking after reviewing the Combined Graduation Parade (CGP) at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal in Hyderabad, Bhadauria said, "The target is 2022. It is absolutely on target. I mentioned earlier. Except for one or two aircraft, minor delays because of Covid-related issues, but, in fact, some deliveries have been ahead of time. So, broadly, we are absolutely on target on the Rafale induction plan. On the operationalisation plan, you are aware, we are fully operational.. so, in terms of time, we will be absolutely on time."Also Read: 3 more Rafale jets leave for India from FranceIndia had signed an inter-governmental deal with France to buy 36 of these fighter jets at a cost of ₹59,000 crore in September 2016.In April 2021, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh also said that the whole batch of the aircraft would reach the country by April 2022. "I want to inform you that till now, 11 Rafale have arrived and by this March, 17 Rafale will be on our land. I also inform that all Rafale will reach India by April, 2022," he had said while replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha.On the situation in eastern Ladakh on the Indo-China border, the IAF chief said there was a need to continue with the parley and carry out the disengagement at the "balance friction points," adding that talks between the two sides were underway."The first attempt is to continue with the talks and do the disengagement at the balance friction points. And, of course, follow it up with de-escalation," he said."However, in parallel, the ground realities are being monitored closely. Whatever is the reality across, in terms of current leftover locations, deployments, any changes, that is being monitored closely and whatever actions are required on our part, we are taking," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-fighter-jets-to-be-inducted-into-indian-air-force-by-2022-says-bhadauria-101624093362394.html
19-06-2021||India||Telangana lockdown ends on June 19; Experts' opinion consulted, says CMO||The Telangana Cabinet on Saturday decided to go for a full lifting of the lockdown starting from June 20, the CMO tweeted. The decision has been taken considering the Covid-19 situation of the state and after consulting medical authorities, the Chief minister's office said. The cabinet was scheduled to meet on Saturday to review the existing restrictions as the present lockdown, extended in the first half of June, will end today. Schools and other educational institutes in the state will reopen on July 1.Hyderabad Metro Rail will now operate from 7am to 9pm from Sunday.లాక్ డౌన్ ను సంపూర్ణంగా ఎత్తివేయాలని రాష్ట్ర కేబినెట్ నిర్ణయించింది. రాష్ట్రంలో కరోనా కేసుల సంఖ్య, పాజిటివిటీ శాతం గణనీయంగా తగ్గిందని, కరోనా పూర్తి నియంత్రణలోకి వచ్చిందని, వైద్యశాఖ అధికారులు అందించిన నివేదికలను పరిశీలించి ఈ మేరకు లాక్ డౌన్ ను ఎత్తివేయాలని నిర్ణయం తీసుకున్నది.With the overall Covid-19 situation steadily improving in the country, several states are embracing unlocking. But a complete unlocking after the second wave of the pandemic is unprecedented and experts are also warning against it. The Telangana government said the decision has been taken consulting experts' opinion.During the lockdown, the state provided relaxation between 6am and 5pm and also allowed a grace period of one hour. So, activities were actually permitted till 6pm.Telangana on Friday reported 1,417 new Covid-19 cases and 12 fatalities. Though the state has never been in the frontline of the wave of the pandemic — be it the first or the second — it witnessed a serious situation from time to time. The overall Covid-19 tally of the state is 6,10,834, while the state's total toll is 3,546 — till Friday.States which went under lockdown in the wake of the second phase of the pandemic, like Delhi, Maharashtra are reopening in phases with a limited set of activities being allowed. Maharashtra too has divided its dictricts on various zones depending on Covid-19 severity and allowed activities accordingly.Risks of complete lifting of lockdownA complete withdrawal of restriction involves the risk of possible crowding. Uncontrolled crowding will hasten the third wave in the country, experts have said. AIIMS director Randeep Guleria on Saturday said the next wave of the pandemic may strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, if covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed appropriately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-lift-lockdown-completely-from-sunday-experts-opinion-consulted-says-cmo-101624096265518.html
19-06-2021||India||'Kidnapping plot, college fight': Pinarayi Vijayan and K Sudhakaran are certainly not long-lost friends||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala's new Congress chief K Sudhakaran went to the same college and some of their recollections have created a stir in media as they do not seem to be long-lost friends. In an interview given to Manorama Weekly, Sudhakaran said he had beaten up Vijayan when both of them were students in Government Brennen College in Thalassery. "He may have hallucinated about it," Vijayan said in reply when he was asked about Sudhakaran's comment.Pinarayi Vijayan meanwhile revealed a secret story that involves a tip-off of kidnapping. As reported by local media, the story goes like this: A former Congress leader who is no more once informed Vijayan that Sudhakaran was planning to kidnap Vijayan's children. The chief minister said he did not leak this information to anyone, including his wife as they would have panicked.So what actually happened in the college?Vijayan said the incident that Sudhakaran referred to took place when Vijayan was an outgoing student and Sudhakaran joined the college. According to the CM's version, Vijayan at that time was a leader of the Kerala Student Federation and Sudhakaran was in Kerala Student Union. The incident took place when Vijayan's party boycotted the exam.Sudhakaran, on the other hand, said many of his off-record comments were published by the Malayalam magazine and also dismissed any truth in the plot of kidnapping. He said Vijayan should have immediately informed the police, had something like this happened.Sudhakaran took charge as the new president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee on June 16. That he has already been able to create a flutter is being interpreted positively in Kerala Congress and he is being seen as a strong opposition leader against Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kidnapping-plot-college-fight-pinarayi-vijayan-and-k-sudhakaran-are-certainly-not-long-lost-friends-101624095493228.html
19-06-2021||India||Women in social entrepreneurship get unified platform||To provide momentum to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, non-governmental organisation Action for India (AFI) launched a business accelerator programme Women in Social Entrepreneurship (WISE).It aims at high potential women in social entrepreneurship, who are on their scaling journeys to becoming the next impact unicorns. The programme ignites the minds of the women social entrepreneurs through exploring, networking, funding opportunities, partnering and building new endeavours with AFI. It also offers extensive mentoring and handholding with choicest of leaders, through critically-designed learning spaces to grow their businesses through mentorship sessions, webinars and podcasts.By reflecting upon the journeys of women social entrepreneurs in the past, AFI aims to bridge the gaps of opportunity of investment and accelerate through tailor-made interventions.The concept of creating a Women Entrepreneurship Platform (WEP) to promote and support established as well as aspiring women entrepreneurs in India was born at the Annual Global Entrepreneurship Summit hosted jointly by NITI Aayog and the United States government in Hyderabad in 2017.It is the first-of-its-kind facilitation platform mandated to work in collaboration with public sector as well as private-run organisations and bring them on a single platform. It also enables sharing of best practices amongst women entrepreneurs and partner organisations and promote evidence-based policy making.AFI’s founder president Sanjay Kadaveru said, “Despite passing through a challenging year, it was one of the most active and successful years for AFI. We launched quite a number of initiatives and programmes, pooling in the right resources bridging the gap for the social entrepreneurs. We are thankful to receive the grant from the eBay Foundation enabling us to get this into action.”“There are a lot of accelerators around the world, but women in particular face unique challenges specific to them. Something that we endeavour to do is to design customised interventions that address the challenges faced by women social entrepreneurs to help them accelerate on their scaling journeys.”Discussing the landscape of women entrepreneurship in India, Shanti Mohan, the CEO of Lets Venture highlighted that there is a gender disadvantage. “Looking at the Indian ecosystem today, there are about 30% women entrepreneurs and probably fewer of them are women founders; less than 5% are funded and around 1% are in the investing spaces. Seeing the macro scenario, we must address the fact rather than fight it, that there is a gender disadvantage. It has been a learning for me, that you must spend less time fund-raising and invest more time in building your business.”She added, “We as women founders must take away the fact that we are going to be discriminated, when we go fundraising. As entrepreneurs we must be okay making mistakes and not always try being perfectionists. This is the best time to be an entrepreneur in India.”The NGO welcomed its first cohort of five ‘WISEpreneurs’ from across sectors, including education, health, technology and livelihood.The team comprises Shveta Raina, founder, Talerang, a platform that gets students and young professionals ready for their careers through high quality training, mentorship and access to internships and jobs; Neha Kirpal, co-founder, InnerHour, a mental healthcare platform; Akshita Sachdeva, co-founder, Trestle Labs, an initiative focussed towards empowering the visually-impaired community towards inclusive education, employment and content accessibility; Janhavi Joshi, co-Founder, Bleetech Innovations, a firm that works towards inclusion and accessibility for the deaf through different design and technological innovations; and Pooja Rai, founder, Anthill Creations, an organisation focussed on making sustainable playgrounds and bringing play and learning home to children who are missing school due to the pandemic.The AFI programme strives to give impetus to women social entrepreneurs thereby positively adding to the social and economic development of the society to create a larger global impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-in-social-entrepreneurship-get-unified-platform-101624091707804.html
19-06-2021||India||National Reading Day 2021: Silver jubilee year of P N Panicker movement to promote reading||India celebrates June 19 as the National Reading Day in honour of P N Panicker, the father of the Library and Literacy Movement in Kerala. This year marks the silver jubilee year or the 25th edition of the celebrations.The P N Panicker Foundation and P N Panicker Vigyan Vikas Kendra have been observing the national reading day, reading week and reading month since June 19, 1996. The P N Panicker national reading day and digital reading month will be celebrated from June 19 to July 18, 2021. Just like previous years, the mass movement to promote the culture of reading will be celebrated in collaboration with the government of India, the ministry of education, NITI Aayog, the national digital library of India (NDLI), the government of Kerala, P.N. Panicker Foundation, P.N. Panicker Vigyan Vikas Kendra and other stakeholders.Also read: Here's how flickering screens help children with reading, writing difficultiesMany reading-related activities will be organized on the occasion like webinars on the importance of reading, digital library and intellectual property rights, Covid-19 awareness, green economy etc. There will also be a digital reading pledge and other reading competitions for school students like quizzes, open art, essay writing.Reading competitions for college students involve quiz, open art, debate, for teachers, librarians and faculty involve quiz and video book.In 1996, the day began as the movement to promote a culture of reading to inculcate the habit of reading and promote book-mindedness among school children, youth as well as the underprivileged population of the country, according to the foundation.In June 2017, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Kerala and launched the 22nd national reading day and digital reading month celebrations. The Prime Minister gave a clarion call to promote the message of Vayichu Valaruka or read and grow to 300 million people across the country by 2022 when India will celebrate its 75th year of independence.The PM directed the foundation to promote digital reading to propagate the use of digital technology in all educational tools of the country in 2017. Since past year, digital tools in education is the primary tool of schooling after the coronavirus pandemic hit the world.The government of Kerala and the central government through NITI Aayog has entrusted P N Panicker Foundation and P N Panicker Vigyan Vikas Kendra with the responsibility of observing national reading day and digital reading month every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-reading-day-2021-silver-jubilee-year-of-p-n-panicker-movement-to-promote-reading-101624089023815.html
19-06-2021||India||Will inoculate 300,000 beneficiaries daily from June 21: Assam CM||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced on Saturday that the state government has set a target of vaccinating 300,000 beneficiaries daily against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) starting from June 21 till June 30, according to news agency PTI.Sarma added that for the next one week, there will be no government work and all of the state machinery will be engaged in the vaccination drive. “This is a part of our Enhanced Immunisation Drive. From June 21, we shall be targeting three lakh vaccinations daily till June 30,” he said while speaking to reporters.The chief minister also instructed all government employees to get inoculated within this month as government offices will reopen from July 1. He urged the employees of private companies to get the vaccine dose, as the state government will allow private offices to function till 5pm from July.A total of 5,201,172 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in Assam till now of which 4,170,576 have received the first dose and 1,030,596 have received the second dose too.Earlier, Sarma told state government officials on June 15 to not slacken the vaccination drive and come up with district-specific strategies to achieve 100 per cent inoculation. Officials were also asked to carry out vulnerability mapping at the block level as more infections were being reported in smaller towns and rural areas.Assam has so far recorded 477,159 Covid-19 cases and 4,138 more deaths and 4,835 recoveries. On Friday, the state saw a marginal increase of 3,706 new cases while 33 more people succumbed to the viral disease. However, the daily recoveries outnumbered the new cases for a third consecutive day. The total recoveries have climbed to 436,043 and active cases have come down to 35,631.The lockdown-like restrictions in the state have been extended till June 22 and relaxations have been provided in some districts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-inoculate-300-000-beneficiaries-daily-from-june-21-assam-cm-101624088217641.html
19-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM, President condole demise of DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra passes away, PM, President condole demisePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed sorrow over the death of department of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) secretary Dr Guruprasad Mohapatra. Read moreIndian funds in Swiss banks rose over ₹20,000 crore? Centre refutes claimThe government on Saturday refuted reports Indians were allegedly holding black money in Switzerland and said it has reached out to Swiss authorities to verify details about the deposits. Read moreLight moment on the mountains: Doctors in PPE kits dance to 'Kala Chashma'A video of two doctors, wearing PPE kits and dancing to a Bollywood song, was shared on Twitter by Union minister Jitendra Singh. "Happy to see our frontline healthcare workers relieving their stress after finishing door-to-door vaccination drive in far-flung hilly terrains of district Doda," the minister tweeted. Read moreCongress leaders greet Rahul Gandhi on birthday, party to observe 'Sewa Diwas'Birthday greetings flowed in for Rahul Gandhi, Congress leader and member of parliament from Kerala's Wayanad, as the veteran leader turned 51 on Saturday (June 19). Read more'The toss hasn't happened yet': Steyn says India 'more than welcome' to make changes to Playing XI for WTC final vs NZBesides weather, if there is one question that has emerged as the hot topic among Indian cricket fans in the last 24 hours, it is about their Playing XI for the World Test Championship final against New Zealand at the Ageas Bowl. Read moreKangana Ranaut misses 'anti national librus', wants them to join Koo: 'They had started to love my sweet torture'Actor Kangana Ranaut is missing her days on Twitter when she would be caught up in a feud with someone, ever so often. Kangana was banned from Twitter in May for sharing incendiary tweets after the West Bengal elections. Read moreFather’s Day: Irrfan Khan to Aamir Khan, meet Bollywood's reel feminist fathersHappy Father's Day: Feminism and patriarchy have become the latest buzzwords and dominate conversations across every aspect of life, whether it's entertainment or politics. Read more‘Gen Zs ka Saas Bahu English Drama’: Smriti Irani misses Game of Thrones, shares witty postGame of Thrones (GOT), an American fantasy series, has developed a loyal fan following across the world. Turns out, Smriti Irani is among them too. If you’re someone who misses GOT, then this post by the minister will speak to your heart. Read moreWatch | RIP Milkha Singh: The 'Flying Sikh' leaves lasting legacy on Indian sports||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dpiit-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-passes-away-pm-president-condole-demise-and-all-the-latest-news-101624086195705.html
19-06-2021||India||Chennai faces prolonged power cuts, maintenance work on. All details here||Chennai residents may experience several power cuts throughout the first half of Saturday, as the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO) takes on maintenance work, leading to a potential disruption in power supply. According to reports, TANGEDCO had informed in an official release on Friday that the power supply will remain snapped in several parts of Chennai from 9am to 1pm on Saturday, owing to maintenance work.Among the regions in Chennai facing a power cut on Saturday are Adyar, Besant Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Pattabiram, Thirumullaivoyal, Velachery East, West and Central, IT Corridor, Puzhal, Stanley, Saidapet, Porur, Neelankarai, Pallavakkam, Guindy, KK Nagar, Manali New Town, and Melur, the reports said, citing the official release from TANGEDCO.Although maintenance work in Chennai is slated to continue till 1pm, TANGEDO said that the power supply will be restored earlier if the work is completed ahead of schedule.TANGEDCO reportedly elaborated on the list of areas in Chennai that are looking at a power cut on Sunday due to maintenance work. Here's the list of regions:Thirumullaivoyal: Lakshmipuram Koonimedu, Gandhi Nagar, and adjacent areas.Pattabiram: Lakshmi Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, and adjacent areas.IT Corridor: ETL area, Sholinganallur, Thoraipakkam, Ezhil Nagar, Taramani, and adjacent areas.Manali: Manali New Town, KGL Nagar, and adjacent areas.Velachery East: Tansi Nagar, Anna Nagar Extension, Annai Indira Nagar, Anna Nagar, VGP Selva Nagar, and its extension, Balamurgan Street and Venus Colony.Guindy: Madipakkam, Adambakkam, Nanganallur, TG Nagar and adjacent areas.Saidapet: Rengarajapuram, Thomas Nagar, Kakkan Puram, and adjacent areas.Neelankarai: Blue Beach Road, Sea View Avenue, Casuarina Drive, and adjacent areas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-faces-prolonged-power-cuts-maintenance-work-on-all-details-here-101624085635740.html
19-06-2021||India||DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra dies of post-Covid complications, PM, President condole demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed sorrow over the death of department of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) secretary Dr Guruprasad Mohapatra.Grieving the loss of the administrator, the Prime Minister remembered his days as the chief minister of Gujarat when he had worked with Mohapatra. The PM commended the bureaucrat's innovative zeal and paid his condolences to his family and friends."Saddened by the demise of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary. I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.Saddened by the demise of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary. I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.Mohapatra died due to post-Covid complications on Saturday. He was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in mid-April when the country was suffering from the destructive second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over the demise."Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary was a very able and hardworking officer. His untimely demise is very saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with his bereaved family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti Shanti," the president tweeted.Also read: J&K leaders express willingness to engage as Modi is expected to hold all-party meetingThe Gujarat-cadre IAS officer from the 1986 batch had earlier served as a joint secretary in the department of commerce. At the state level, Mohapatra also held the charge of the municipal commissioner in Surat, Gujarat.He had also served as the chairman of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) before taking over as DPIIT secretary in August 2019.Tributes poured in from various ministers after learning about his demise. Home minister Amit Shah said, "Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary was a very able and hardworking officer. His untimely demise is very saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with his bereaved family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti Shanti."Union minister Piyush Goyal also expressed anguish over the demise of the DPIIT secretary and said his long-lasting service to the nation has left a lasting impact."Extremely saddened to hear about the loss of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Secretary DPIIT. His long-standing service and dedication to the Nation have left a lasting impact. I convey my deepest sympathies to his family and friends,” Goyal tweeted.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda were also among the leaders who grieved the demise of Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dpiit-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-dies-of-post-covid-complications-pm-president-condoles-demise-101624084478868.html
19-06-2021||India||Light moment on the mountains: Doctors in PPE kits dance to 'Kala Chashma'||A video of two doctors, wearing PPE kits and dancing to a Bollywood song, was shared on Twitter by Union minister Jitendra Singh. "Happy to see our frontline healthcare workers relieving their stress after finishing door-to-door vaccination drive in far-flung hilly terrains of district Doda," the minister tweeted.They were seen grooving to the famous Bollywood song 'Kala Chashma' in hilly terrain in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district. The video, posted by the minister at 10.47am on June 19, has already garnered over 500 views.VIDEO: Happy to see our frontline healthcare workers relieving their stress after finishing door-to-door vaccination drive in far-flung hilly terrains of district #Doda. #JammuAndKashmir pic.twitter.com/bmNN9Xjg06In Jammu and Kashmir, doctors and other health workers have been going all out to ensure that everyone in the state gets vaccinated at the earliest. The healthcare workers cross the difficult hilly terrains and rivers on foot to conduct door-to-door inoculation.The Indian Army is collaborating with the Union Territory administration to vaccinate people living in far-flung areas."We came very close to the Line of Control to inoculate those who cannot come to the cities to get vaccinated. The area is hilly and the terrain is difficult, therefore we came here to vaccinate all, especially those who are aged and disabled, and could not come to the vaccination centre," Captain Sadik Arman, an Army doctor told ANI.Also Read: Jammu and Kashmir administration enforces new curbs to tackle rising Covid-19 casesThis is not the first time that a video of doctors de-stressing after a long day at work has surfaced. Another such video was posted by a doctor on her Instagram account last year in July, where she was seen grooving to the beats of 'Garmi'. While she described herself as "looking like a Teletubby", viewers loved her enthusiasm and positivity.The 'Garmi' video was followed by another such video that went viral in October 2020, in which a doctor was seen dancing to the song 'Ghungroo' to cheer up Covid-19 patients. The video showed ENT surgeon Dr Arup Senapati, who works at Assam’s Silchar medical college, wearing PPE kit and dancing effortlessly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-moment-on-the-mountains-doctors-in-ppe-kits-dance-to-kala-chashma-101624085026932.html
19-06-2021||India||Industry secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra passes away||Department of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra died due to post-Covid complications on Saturday.“Extremely saddened to hear about the loss of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Secretary DPIIT. His long-standing service and dedication to the Nation have left a lasting impact. I convey my deepest sympathies to his family and friends,” commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said in a tweet.Mohapatra, a 1986-batch Gujarat cadre IAS officer, took over as DPIIT secretary in August 2019. He also served as the chairman of the Airports Authority of India (AAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industry-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-passes-away-101624085129979.html
19-06-2021||India||'Ensure Covid-19 norms, don't grow complacent': Centre to states as cases drop||The Centre on Saturday warned all states and Union territories to not grow complacent in ensuring appropriate coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols and asked the respective administrations to monitor signs of a surge in Covid-19 cases.Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla wrote to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories, asking officials to ensure that there is no complacency in adhering to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and in the test-track-treat strategy. The warning from the Union home ministry comes as several states are relaxing their Covid-19 curbs in view of a declining trend in the daily new cases.Also Read: Telangana lockdown to be extended?: Govt to decide today"With the decline in the number of active cases, many states and UTs have started relaxing restrictions. I would like to highlight that the decision to impose or ease the restriction has to be taken, based on the assessment of the situation at ground level. While the opening up of activities, after a decline in cases is essential, the states and UTs must ensure that the whole process is carefully calibrated," the letter, issued by the Union home secretary, noted.The fivefold strategy of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour includes the mandatory use of masks, hand hygiene, social distancing, and also proper ventilation of closed spaces. Regular monitoring of these protocols is required to prevent a relapse of the Covid-19 situation in the country, the home ministry added.Also Read: Andhra Pradesh extends partial lockdown till June 30"However, the easing of restrictions in some states have led to the resumption of crowding of people in markets etc. without adherence to the norms of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. It is, therefore essential to ensure that complacency does not set in, and there is no let-up in adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour while opening up activities," the letter highlighted.The Union home secretary also asked states to keep a close watch on early signs of a surge in active and high positivity rates, as well as continue the strategy of 'test-track-treat'."A system should be in place at the micro-level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself, through local containment measures as per the existing guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare," the Centre said.Highlighting the need for Covid-19 vaccination, the Union home secretary said that a successful immunisation drive is essential to break the chain of virus transmission. "Therefore, all states and UT governments should step up the pace of vaccination, to cover the maximum number of people in an expeditious manner," the letter read.The Centre asked state administration officials to issue appropriate directions to the districts and all other concerned authorities to ensure that the orders are followed through and that the country can gradually relax its Covid-19 restrictions in a safe and cautious manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-covid-19-norms-don-t-grow-complacent-centre-to-states-as-cases-drop-101624082203583.html
19-06-2021||India||Indian funds in Swiss banks rose over ₹20,000 crore? Centre refutes claim||The government on Saturday refuted reports Indians were allegedly holding black money in Switzerland and said it has reached out to Swiss authorities to verify details about the deposits.Reports citing annual data from Switzerland's central bank said deposits of Indian individuals and firms, including through India-based branches and other financial institutions, in Swiss banks, jumped 286 per cent to over ₹20,700 crore in 2020, from ₹6,625 crore at the end of 2019, on a sharp surge in holdings via securities and similar instruments, even though customer deposits fell. They said that the jump in aggregate funds of Indians with Swiss banks reverses a two-year declining trend and has taken the figure to a 13-year high.According to the reports, these figures do not include the money that "Indians, NRIs or others might have in banks in Switzerland in names of third-country entities."The Union finance ministry pointed out in a statement that India and Switzerland have signed the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (MAAC). "Both countries have also signed the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement (MCAA) pursuant to which, the Automatic Exchange of Information (AEOI) is activated between the two countries for sharing of financial account information annually for calendar year 2018 onwards," it added.The finance ministry added that India and Switzerland exchanged financial information of their residents in 2019 as well as 2020. "In view of the existing legal arrangement for exchange of information of financial accounts (which has a significant deterrent effect on tax evasion through undisclosed assets abroad), there does not appear to be any significant possibility of the increase of deposits in the Swiss banks which is out of undeclared incomes of Indian residents," it added.The ministry also said five factors could potentially explain the rise in deposits in Switzerland, including increased business transactions and deposits "owing to the business of Swiss bank branches located in India" and that in inter-bank transactions between the banks of the two countries. "A capital increase for a subsidiary of a Swiss company in India and increase in the liabilities connected with the outstanding derivative financial instruments," were also among them, it said."The Swiss authorities have been requested to provide the relevant facts along with their view on possible reasons for increase/decrease in the light of the media reports highlighted above," the ministry said.After the reports came in, the Congress on Friday demanded the Centre make full disclosure of the nature of black money and names of the individuals, who have stashed it in Swiss banks. The opposition parties also asked the government to bring a white paper detailing the amount of money it has brought back to India in the last seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-funds-in-swiss-banks-rose-over-rs-20-000-crore-centre-refutes-claim-101624079126189.html
19-06-2021||India||Congress leaders greet Rahul Gandhi on birthday, party to observe 'Sewa Diwas'||Birthday greetings flowed in for Rahul Gandhi, Congress leader and member of parliament from Kerala's Wayanad, as the veteran leader turned 51 on Saturday (June 19). Much like last year, the grand old party has planned to observe Rahul Gandhi's birthday as 'Sewa Diwas' this time as well, distributing essential items, including face masks, medicine kits, and cooked meals free-of-cost among the people in the national capital who have faced the brunt of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Birthday wishes for Rahul Gandhi on this day ranged across the political spectrum. While Congress leaders and the party's various regional units took to their official Twitter handles to post greetings for their leader, members of the opposing BJP camp were also seen reciprocating the sentiment as well. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan wished Rahul Gandhi on his birthday and prayed for his long life. Union minister of state Babul Supriyo, too, extended birthday greetings to the Congress leader and wished for his good health.Union minister Nitin Gadkari and the leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, also extended their respective birthday greetings for Rahul Gandhi.My very best wishes to @rahulgandhi for a splendid birthday and a happy and fulfilling year ahead. #HappyBirthdayRahulGandhi @incindia pic.twitter.com/cDMGkPdjItअखिल भारतीय कांग्रेस कमेटी के पूर्व अध्यक्ष श्री @RahulGandhi जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं।मैं ईश्वर से आपके उत्तम स्वास्थ्य एवं दीर्घायु जीवन की कामना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/QjxvSUoQruBirthday greetings to Shri @RahulGandhi ji. May you be blessed with good health and long life.कांग्रेस नेता श्री @RahulGandhi जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई व मंगलमय शुभकामनाएंl ईश्वर से आपके स्वस्थ, सफल एवं दीर्घायु जीवन की कामना करता हूँ।श्री @RahulGandhi जी को जन्मदिन पर शुभकामनाएं!ईश्वर आपको दीर्घायु करें।Delhi Congress workers, under the leadership of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) president Chaudhary Anil Kumar, will distribute masks, medicine kits, cooked meals, water, and other items to people in the 272 wards of the municipal corporations of the national capital, the organisation said in a statement.The Congress leaders will also visit the families of those who have lost their near and dear ones to the deadly coronavirus, and extend help and support to them, said Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-greet-rahul-gandhi-on-birthday-party-to-observe-sewa-diwas-101624077642647.html
19-06-2021||India||Odisha CM lays foundation stone for 8 more PSA oxygen generation plants||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday virtually laid the foundation stone of various Pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, health infrastructures, and Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) plants in eight districts of the state.According to an official release, the districts include Jharsuguda, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Puri, Sonpur, Nayagarh, Sundargarh, and Mayurbhanj.The state government aims at setting up a total of 20 PSA plants in Odisha, out of which the foundation stone of 7 was laid on June 9, and today, the foundation stone for 8 more has been laid, it said.Talking about Odisha's Covid-19 situation, the chief minister said that it has improved significantly, "but we have to be more careful.""The fight against Covid-19 has continued for over a year. In the second wave, which began in April, declining oxygen levels among the patient were a major issue. Steps to strengthen the oxygen supply system in all our hospitals are being taken," he added.The chief minister said that "every life is precious" has been the state government's moto for Covid-19, and hence, the Covid patients were provided with free treatment and medicines in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-8-more-psa-oxygen-generation-plants-101624076801696.html
19-06-2021||India||Magnitude 4.2 earthquake rocks Assam, fifth tremor in 24 hours||A 4.2-magnitude earthquake struck Assam in the early hours of Saturday, the fifth such tremor to hit the northeastern region during the past 24 hours, officials said.A National Center for Seismology report said the latest quake was recorded at 1.07 am, with its epicenter near Tezpur, the headquarter of Sonitpur district, at a depth of 30 km.There was no immediate report of injury or damage to the property.The state was rocked by two more quakes, including a 4.1-magnitude one early on Friday, which also had its epicentre in Sonitpur district.Besides Assam, an earthquake of magnitude 3 with epicenter in Chandel district of Manipur was recorded on Friday and another 2.6-magnitude tremor with epicenter in West Khasi Hills district of Meghalaya.No loss of life or property has been reported in any of the temblors.The northeastern region sits over a high seismic zone, making it prone to earthquakes.A strong 6.4-magnitude quake had shaken Assam on April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-4-2-earthquake-rocks-assam-fifth-tremor-in-24-hours-101624076567726.html
19-06-2021||India||India abstains from voting on UN's Myanmar resolution, supports ASEAN initiative||India on Friday abstained from voting on the United Nations General Assembly's (UNGA's) resolution for an arms embargo against Myanmar, saying its views were not reflected in the draft resolution before the Assembly passed it. The UN's resolution demonstrated widespread global opposition to the Myanmar military and demanded that the country's democratic transition be restored."The fact that there is lack of support from all neighbouring countries, as well as several countries in the region itself, should, hopefully, serve as an eye-opener to those who choose to pursue a hasty course of action," India's ambassador to the United Nations TS Tirumurti said, adding that it does not believe that the tabling of this resolution for adoption at this juncture, is "conducive to aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening the democratic process in Myanmar."The UN's resolution called "upon the Myanmar armed forces to respect the people's will as freely expressed by results of the general election of November 8, 2020, to end the state of emergency, to respect all human rights of people of Myanmar and to allow the sustained democratic transition of Myanmar, including the opening of the democratically elected parliament, and by working towards bringing all national institutions, including the armed forces, under a fully inclusive civilian government that is representative of the people's will."Belarus called for a vote on the resolution in the 193-member UNGA while supporters had hoped for a resolution unanimously by consensus. The measure was finally approved with 119 countries voting 'yes', Belarus voting 'no' and 36 countries abstaining, including Myanmar’s neighbors China and India, along with Russia, according to the news agency AP.Meanwhile, Tirumurti said India stood by the ASEAN initiative on Myanmar and the 'Five-Point Consensus' that calls for the envoy's dispatch and the immediate cessation of violence. "India welcomes ASEAN initiative on Myanmar and the ‘Five-Point Consensus’. Our diplomatic engagements will be aimed at strengthening these efforts. We call for upholding the rule of law and release of detained leaders," TS Tirumurti said."India’s position on Myanmar's situation has been clear and consistent. We have expressed our deep concern about the developments in Myanmar. We strongly condemn the use of violence and urge maximum restraint," Tirumuti said.The envoy further said that India will stand by Myanmar as the country moves towards democracy. "India will continue to engage with measures to accelerate and support the democratic transition in Myanmar so that the hopes and aspirations of the people of Myanmar are fully respected and met," he said.Commenting on the issue of repatriation of displaced persons from the Rakhine state of Myanmar, the envoy said India has the highest stake in resolving it at the earliest as it is the only country that shares a long border with Bangladesh and Myanmar.The elected leaders of Myanmar were overthrown on February 1 this year in a coup by the army, which accused Aung Sang Suu Kyi's ruling party of cheating in the November elections. The army's allegation has been rejected by the previous election commission and international monitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-abstains-from-voting-on-un-s-myanmar-resolution-supports-asean-initiative-101624072646435.html
19-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid cases fall to 60,753, slight increase in new deaths at 1,647||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 29,823,546 on Saturday after 60,753 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 1,647 people succumbed to Covid-19 and 97,743 recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and recoveries to 385,137 and 28,678,390 respectively so far. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases for the 37th consecutive day.The active cases have come down to 760,019, the lowest after 74 days. They constitute 2.68 per cent of the caseload.Saturday’s cases are 1,727 less than that of Friday’s when 62,480 people were detected Covid-19 positive. On the other hand, the death toll on Saturday is 60 more than that of Friday’s when 1,587 fatalities were reported, the lowest in over two months.Also Read| India sees state-wise decline in average daily new cases, govt shares mapOver 1.9 million samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative testing figures to 389,207,637, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday.The Union health ministry said on Friday that there has been a continuous decline in the daily infections since the country reported a peak of over 414,000 cases on May 7.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/4aUosbedNt“Since May 7, we have witnessed a continuous decline. On May 25, the daily cases went below the 200,000-mark. On June 7, the cases were around 100,000 and if you analyse the data of Friday, 62,480 new cases were seen. This means there is a decline of almost 85 per cent since the highest reported peak in new cases. For the past 11 days, the daily cases have remained below the 100,000-mark,” health ministry's joint secretary Lav Agarwal said while addressing a routine briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country.On the vaccination front, India has inoculated 272,388,783 people till now of which over 3.3 million were given the shot in the last 24 hours. Underlining the importance of vaccination, NITI Aayog's Dr VK Paul said during Friday’s briefing that studies carried out among healthcare workers revealed that after getting inoculated, the chances of getting hospitalised are reduced by 75-80 per cent even if they test positive for the viral disease. “The possibility of such individuals needing oxygen support is around 8 per cent and the risk of ICU admission is only 6 per cent in vaccinated persons,” Dr Paul added.As the debate on the 12-16 weeks gap between two doses of the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine is intensifying, the chief investigator of AstraZeneca's vaccine clinical trials has backed the duration announced by the Centre on May 13.Also Read| Covishield: Second dose in 3 months? Here's what AstraZeneca trial chief saysSpeaking to The Wire, Professor Andrew Pollard said on Friday the vaccination policy of India and the United Kingdom cannot be compared because of the different circumstances in both these countries. “An immunisation policy that aims to vaccinate the largest number of people in the quickest possible time with at least one dose makes sense in the present circumstances in India,” Pollard said and pointed out that a single dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine provides above 70 per cent protection against serious illness and hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-60-753-deaths-at-1647-101624073232366.html
19-06-2021||India||J&K leaders express willingness to engage as Modi is expected to hold all-party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold an all-party meeting on Jammu & Kashmir next week, an official in his office said and added the schedule for the first such political engagement since the Centre stripped the region of its semi-autonomous status has been tentatively fixed.A second official said the government was keen to restart the democratic process in the region, which has been without an elected government since June 2018. The official added there has been an effort to speak to public representatives and have them participate in the process almost two years after Jammu & Kashmir’s constitutional status was changed in August 2019. The erstwhile state was also split into two Union territories.Officials said the local parties have agreed informally to participate and after they come to Delhi to meet Modi next week, some announcement is expected.The first major electoral exercise--District Development Council polls--was held in the region as part of efforts to restart political activities in Jammu & Kashmir last year. All major political parties participated in the exercise. The parties have also shown willingness to engage with the Centre.The National Conference (NC)--Jammu & Kashmir’s oldest party and the architect of the special status--has said it was reconsidering its position on boycotting such meetings till the region’s special status and statehood was restoredHT has learnt that the region’s political parties may also agree to participate in the Delimitation Commission proceedings. The commission was set up in March 2020 to redraw the constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir before the next assembly elections are held. The last elected government in the region fell in June 2018 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) withdrew support to chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party (PDP)-led government.Mufti and two other former chief ministers were among hundreds of people arrested in the run-up to the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status. A communications blackout and a lockdown were also imposed to stem protests against the move. All the restrictions have since been removed.Suhail Bukhari, a spokesperson for PDP, said Mufti has been called for Modi’s meeting informally. “It is an informal invitation and hopefully the party will also receive a formal invitation,” he said.NC spokesman Imran Nabi said he was aware of an invitation extended to his party but added the ice was breaking. “We (NC) have not changed our stance... but the party has always been open to dialogue.”Also read: ‘Anguished by his passing away’ - PM Modi pays tribute to Milkha SinghAltaf Bukhari, the chief of the Apni Party formed after the changes to the region’s constitutional status, said he has not been invited for any proposed meeting even as he underlined dialogue is the only way forward. “It is a welcome step if Prime Minister Modi is meeting Jammu & Kashmir leadership. We have been demanding restoration of statehood, job and land reservation for the locals from day one and we are hopeful of getting all these things through a democratic process,” said Bukhari, who met Modi last year.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said he has not got an invite yet. He added he was unaware whether any of the constituents of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of parties including the NC and PDP, has been invited.The leaders of PADG, which was formed last year for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status, have been hinting that their doors are open for any dialogue.Congress leader Ghulam Ahmad Mir said only dialogue can resolve issues related to Jammu & Kashmir, which is currently in mess. “Congress has always championed dialogue and for that, all sides have to show the flexibility. There is unofficial communication going between the Centre and certain Kashmiri leaders. Dialogue is always welcome.”People aware of the matter said former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has also been informed about the meeting in New Delhi.Former minister Sajad Lone-led Peoples Conference spokesman Adnan Ashraf said that they have not been invited to the meeting. “We have never been averse to any dialogue on Kashmir. The dialogue is a welcome step.”BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur said that if the invitations are extended, it is a welcome step. “This is a process for holding conducive elections either by the end of this year or earlier next year. If the roundtable conference will be held, our state leaders will be there, and it is a good step.”A meeting Union home minister Amit Shah chaired in Delhi on Friday is seen to have been part of the preparations for the all-party meet even as the agenda for it was developmental issues and the current situation in Jammu & Kashmir.Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and other top officials attended Shah’s meeting on Friday. In a statement, the home ministry said Shah called all-around development and welfare of people of Jammu & Kashmir the government’s top priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-hold-an-all-party-meeting-on-j-k-next-week-101624073488053.html
19-06-2021||India||Indian Railways approves 660 more trains, including 108 holiday specials||The Indian Railways has approved the operation of 660 additional trains in various zones to help migrant labourers travel and to clear the waiting list in origin destinations amid the declining number of Covid-19 cases across the country.The Indian Railways said in a statement that before the pandemic, an average of about 1768 mail or express trains were being operated every day and as of Friday, there are 983 trains on tracks daily "which is about 56% of the pre-Covid level". "The number of trains is being enhanced gradually as per demand and commercial justification," it said."As on 01.06.2021, about 800 Mail/Express trains were in operation. During the period 01.06.2021 to 18.06.2021, approval for operating 660 additional Mail/Express trains has been given to the Zonal Railways," the Indian Railways' statement said.For the convenience of passengers, Indian Railways approves 660 more trains in June 2021.About 983 Mail/Express trains are being operated.https://t.co/gr4OiX7plf pic.twitter.com/RsphvPGxaDThese include 552 mail and express trains and 108 holiday special trains.The zonal railways have been advised to restore trains in a graded manner, keeping in view the local conditions, the demand for tickets and the Covid situation in the region.Also read | Indian Railways aims to become 'net zero carbon emitter' by 2030Meanwhile, the Southern Railway also announced the restoration of a number of special trains, earlier cancelled due to poor patronage, from next week. The Southern Railway said in a release that daily specials such as Chennai Egmore-Thanjavur, Dr MGR Chennai Central-Thiruvananthapuram, Coimbatore-Nagercoil and Punalur-Madurai will be restored from June 20 and 21. "Please continue to follow covid safety norms such as wearing of masks, social distancing and hand hygiene," Southern Railway said.The North Eastern Railway will also run two pairs of summer special trains between Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur and Ernakulam in Kerala. The Gorakhpur Ernakulam Special Fare Summer Special will leave Gorakhpur at 8.30am on June 19 and June 26 (Saturdays) and reach Ernakulam at 2.30pm on the third day. While coming back, the special train will leave Ernakulam at 11.55pm on June 21 and June 28 (Mondays) and reach Gorakhpur at 6.30am on the fourth day. Weekly special trains will also run on the Silchar-Coimbatore sector from June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-approves-660-more-trains-including-108-holiday-specials-101624068157879.html
19-06-2021||India||Covishield: Second vaccine dose in 3 months? Here's what AstraZeneca trial chief says||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination programme in India has triggered much debate on the desired gap between the two doses of the vaccine. AstraZeneca, the pharmaceutical company behind the AZD1222 Covid-19 vaccine, being sold under the brand name 'Covishield' in India, has now backed the idea of keeping a 12-16 week gap between the two doses of its vaccine. The chief investigator of the AstraZeneca vaccine trials, in an interview with a news organisation on Friday, said that the level of protection provided by the vaccine significantly increases in the second and third months after taking the shot.Explained: Why there are demands to cut the gap between two Covishield dosesIndia recently decided to extend the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks from six to eight weeks. There has been a lot of contention over this decision, particularly because of varied opinions of vaccine efficacy and different countries pursuing markedly different approaches regarding the duration between two vaccine doses.Professor Andrew Pollard, who supervises the team conducting the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine trials, said that the Covid-19 vaccination policies in the United Kingdom and India should not be compared with one another due to the vastly different circumstances in the two countries. The goal of the immunisation policy in India, he said, is to ensure at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine for the largest number of people at the earliest, which is understandable with regards to the present coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country.Pollard, the director of the Oxford vaccine group, clarified that AstraZeneca is not working on a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine. Since both doses are needed to boost protection against coronavirus disease, it is understandable that in case of a vaccine shortage, better measures be instituted for the widest number of people instead of a smaller group. He pointed out that the UK only reduced the gap between two vaccines when a large part of its population was already vaccinated.Also Read: Received one dose of Covid-19 vaccine? Know how protected you areThe gap between the two shots matters because that's how the vaccine works. The first shot increases antibodies while the second shot is a booster one. If the second shot is delayed, the first shot gets more time to work. In April, Public Health England said the vaccine efficacy increases when the interval is 12 weeks. The United Kingdom also overcame the surge caused by the Alpha variant keeping the gap at 12 weeks.Meanwhile, India has vaccinated more than 27 crore vaccine doses till now, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. Nearly 30 lakh vaccine doses were administered till 7pm yesterday, while more than 5.2 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the 18-44 age group so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-second-covid-19-vaccine-dose-in-3-months-here-s-what-astrazeneca-trial-chief-says-101624065160599.html
19-06-2021||India||Telangana lockdown to be extended?: Govt to decide today||The Telangana cabinet is scheduled to meet on Saturday to discuss several key issues, including the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, and the effect of monsoon on agriculture. The present phase of lockdown will end on Saturday and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is expected to take a decision on the issue as Covid-19 cases in the southern state are declining."An emergency State Cabinet meeting will be held here at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday at 2 pm under the chairmanship of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao," a Telangana government's release said on Friday. It said that in the meeting, the cabinet is expected to discuss matters such as "lockdown in the state, rainfall, cultivation in the Monsoon season, agriculture-related seasonal issues, lifting of Godavari waters, Hydel power generation and other issues would be discussed."The ongoing lockdown in the state is coming to an end on Saturday. The cabinet has given relaxation between 6am to 5pm during the lockdown and also granted an additional one hour, till 6pm, for people to reach home from their offices. The cabinet decided on June 8 to extend the lockdown for 10 days.Also read | Telangana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 19 with some relaxationTelangana on Friday reported 1417 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its tally to 610,834 and the death toll rose to 3546 with 12 more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 149, followed by Rangareddy at 104 and Khammam at 93, according to a state government bulletin on Friday evening.Also read | 66 doctors succumbed to Covid-19 in Telugu states during second wave: IMAThe number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases with 1897 people recovering from Covid-19, taking the cumulative number to 588,259. The number of active cases of Covid-19 was 19,029, the bulletin said. It said 124,430 samples were tested on Friday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 1,73,14,780. The samples tested per million population was 465,200.The bulletin said the case fatality rate in Telangana was 0.58 per cent against 1.3 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 96.30 per cent, while it was 95.99 per cent in the country, it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lockdown-to-be-extended-govt-to-decide-today-101624062415698.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid-19: India sees state-wise decline in average daily new cases, govt shares map||India is witnessing a steady decline in the state-wise average number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases daily, a map shared by the central government on Twitter has shown. The map, sourced with the help of Union health ministry data from Thursday, shows that the national average growth in daily new cases is currently in the negative, -5.05% to be precise. While a few states, particularly in the northeastern part of the country, are still showing heightened average growth in daily new cases, a major section of the rest of India was seen taking on a 'negative growth' across the same graph.India's state-wise decline in average daily new Covid-19 cases was shown in a map shared by the central government on Friday through its MyGovIndia portal on Twitter, an official channel meant to update coronavirus-related stats. The data was said to have been sourced from the official figures published by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday (June 17).India's efforts to defeat #COVID19 are beginning to show colours! Here's the state-wise stats showing a decline in the average daily new cases. For more updates, visit https://t.co/CKhgW2LA7d #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/drG6pBtGmyThe map shows that the majority of India, including previous hotspots such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and national capital Delhi, are now witnessing negative average growth in daily new cases. However, a few select pockets, particularly in the northern and northeast parts of the country are still showing an above-average growth in daily new cases. Uttarakhand in the north, Kerala down south, and Assam and Tripura in the northeast have shown an average growth of 0-10% in daily new cases over the past seven days. Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, and Mizoram have witnessed a heightened average growth of 10-20% over the same duration. Only one state, Sikkim, lies in the red zone i.e. an average growth of over 20% in daily new cases during this time.India's Covid-19 figures were colour-coded on the infographic, state-wise, according to its average growth in daily new cases over the past seven days, i.e. from June 10-17. While green signifies a 'negative growth' benchmark -- a trend seen across a major section of India -- other colours show heightened average growth. Yellow, orange and red signify an average growth in daily new cases of 0-10%, 10-20%, and more than 20%, respectively, over the preceding seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-sees-state-wise-decline-in-average-daily-new-cases-govt-shares-map-101624060135194.html
19-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: Goa extends Covid-19 curfew till June 28||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.For those who keep a keen eye on political developments, or want to know about the rumblings in faraway corners of the world, this platform will bring the latest and fastest news updates to bring you up to speed.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Goa extends state level curfew till June 28Goa extends state level curfew till June 28, shops in malls allowed to open from 7am to 3pm. "State-level curfew will be extended till 7 am on June 28. Shops in malls, except for cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones allowed to be open between 7 am to 3 pm. Fish market may also open," tweets chief minister Pramod Sawant.10 injured in blast at steel factory in Maharashtra's JalnaAt least ten workers were injured on Saturday in a blast at a steel manufacturing unit in Jana district of Maharashtra, over 400 km from Mumbai, police said. Read More8,912 new cases, 257 deaths in MaharashtraMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally increased by 8,912, while the number of active cases has come down to 132,597, according to the daily health bulletin. 257 deaths over the last 24 hours took the death count to 117,356.CRPF DG visits Kashmir to review security operationsCRPF director general (DG) Kuldiep Singh on Saturday visited Kashmir and reviewed the operations of the paramilitary force, which is deployed for internal security and law and order in the region, officials said, PTI reported.Punjab govt cancels Class 12 exams in view of Covid-19Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the government has decided to cancel examinations of Class 12 due to Covid pandemic. Punjab school education board would declare the results as per the pattern of the CBSE, ANI reported Singla as saying.14 leaders from J-K invited to meet PM in Delhi on June 24: OfficialAround 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state, have been invited for the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 21, PTI quoted an official as saying.Private offices can operate with 50% staff in 16 districts of Karnataka with less than 5% positivity rateThe Karnataka government on Saturday relaxed lockdown restrictions in districts with less than 5 per cent Covid-19 case positivity rate. Read moreWill fight until Lakshadweep gets justice: Filmaker Aisha SultanaFilmaker Aisha Sultana, who was granted interim anticipatory bail for a week on June 17, on Saturday said that she did nothing against the country and will fight until Lakshadweep gets justice. "I will cooperate with the police of Lakshadweep. They have asked me to appear tomorrow. I hope I will get justice," ANI quoted Sultana as saying. A sedition case was registered against her by Kavaratti Police of Lakshadweep for her 'bio-weapon' remark.MHA asks states, UTs to take strict action against those who assault healthcare professionalsUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday wrote to chief secretaries and administrators of all states and UTs for implementation of a slew of measures to check incidents of violence against healthcare workers.Delhi reports 135 new Covid-19 cases, seven deaths in 24 hours🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 19th June 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/hwPztPiCxzTripura govt cancels Class 10 and 12 examsTripura education minister Ratanlal Nath said that the government has decided to cancel Class 10 and Class 12 exams of Tripura Board of Secondary Education. However, if any student is not satisfied with the results, they can appear in the exam when the situation is conducive, ANI quoted Nath as saying.Last rites of 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh being performed in ChandigarhLast rites of former sprinter #MilkhaSingh being performed at the cremation ground at Matka Chowk, in ChandigarhUnion Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, Punjab Governor & UT Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore, and Haryana Sports Minister Sandeep Singh are among those present pic.twitter.com/Y1DTC3Ckq9Bengal Congress chief holds meeting to discuss assembly poll resultsWest Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday held a meeting with all district presidents in Kolkata to discuss the assembly election results.Former IAS officer AK Sharma, who joined BJP in January, appointed vice president of party’s UP unitUttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has appointed MLC AK Sharma as vice president of the party's state unit, reported ANI.Telangana government announces end of Covid lockdown from SundayThe Telangana Cabinet on Saturday decided to go for a full lifting of the lockdown starting from June 20, the CMO tweeted. The decision has been taken considering the Covid-19 situation of the state and after consulting medical authorities, the Chief minister's office said. Read moreOm Birla took steps that enriched Parliamentary democracy: PM ModiOver the last two years, Shri @ombirlakota Ji has ushered in a series of steps that have enriched our Parliamentary democracy and enhanced productivity, leading to the passage of many historic as well as pro-people legislations. Congratulations to him!Punjab govt declares one-day holiday in honor of Milkha SinghPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh declared a one-day holiday on the death of track legend Milkha Singh. He said that the government will give him a state funeral and will also have a Milkha Singh chair in Sports University, Patiala in his honor. "We are giving him State funeral in Punjab and declared a one-day holiday. It's a great loss for all of us. Younger generation will get inspired by him. We're also going to have #MilkhaSingh chair in Sports University, Patiala," ANI quoted Singh as saying.J & K L-G Sinha to hold meeting with DDC, BDC, panchayat representatives every monthJammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said that he will hold 'LG Mulaqaat' or L-G meet with district development council (DDC), block development council (BDC) and panchayat representatives every month."J&K Govt is making Panchayati Raj institutions more empowered & vibrant in true sense. 'LG Mulaqaat' will become a platform to voice developmental aspirations of people,"ANI quoted him as saying. Red Fort violence: Deep Sidhu asked to appear before court on June 29A Delhi court on Saturday took cognizance of chargesheet in connection with a case relating to violence at Red Fort on Republic Day against Deep Sidhu and others. The court issued summons to Deep Sidhu and others, asking them to appear before it via video conference on June 29.'Worst since independence...': Dhankhar on post-poll violenceWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar held a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah over political violence in West Bengal. "This is an occasion for us to believe in democracy, constitution, rule of law. I appeal to bureaucracy and police to confine to their code of conduct and regulations. Such kind of post-poll violence is worst seen since independence," he said after the meeting.Power cuts in Tamil Nadu between 9am and 1pm for maintenance workTamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO) announced power cuts from 9am to 1pm for maintenance work.DMK minister Senthil Balaji on Thursday said that electricity maintenance work will go on for another 10 days starting June 19. According to him, this was because the previous (AIADMK) regime didn't conduct maintenance work for 9 months.Jagdeep Dhankhar arrives at the residence of Amit ShahWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar arrived at the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah for a meeting before leaving for Kolkata later in the afternoon. The governor met the minister on Thursday as well.Punjab to accord state funeral to Milkha Singh, observe one-day mourningPunjab will accord state funeral to Milkha Singh, who passed away on Friday, and observe a one-day mourning in his memory.Ajay Kumar Bhalla writes to states, UT's, urges all to ensure Covid-19 behaviour is followedUnion home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla wrote to all states and union territories asking them to ensure there is no complacency in adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and in the test-track-treat strategy. He also asked states to keep a close watch on early signs of a surge in active and high positivity rates.Talks on for disengagement at Eastern Ladakh: Air Force chiefAir Force chief air marshal RKS Bhadauria said talks were on for the next round over disengagement at Eastern Ladakh. "There's a proposal for Commander-level talks and decisions will be taken. The first attempt is to continue with talks and do disengagement of balance friction points and follow it with de-escalation," he said.PM Modi condoles death of DPIIT secretary"I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends," PM Modi tweeted after the on the death of DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra.India's active Covid cases fall by 2.55%, recovery rate at 96.16%India active Covid cases fell by 2.55% on Saturday while the recovery rate climbed to 96.16% with 97,743 patients getting discharged in the last 24 hours.1,647 Covid-19 deaths recorded in India in 24 hoursAs many as 1,647 people died of the virus in India in 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 385,137.India records 60,753 fresh Covid-19 casesIndia on Saturday recorded 60,753 new cases of Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry website. With this, the total infection tally reached 29,823,546.India welcomes UNGA adoption of resolution on MyanmarAfter the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) condemned Myanmar’s military coup and called for an arm embargo against the country, India's ambassador to the UN said his country stood by the resolution.Biden warns of 'potentially deadlier' delta variantUS President Joe Biden has cautioned citizens against delta Covid-19 variant, potentially more deadly than others, and urged all Americans to get vaccinated.Interprovincial bus overturns in Peru, at least 27 deadAt least 27 people were killed and several suffered injuries after an interprovincial bus overturned in the southern Peruvian region of Ayacucho on Friday, news agency ANI reported on Saturday quoting local media. The bus fell into a 250-meter ravine at about 3am while traveling on the Interoceanic Highway from the Ayacucho region to Arequipa.India sees state-wise decline in average daily new Covid-19 casesIndia is witnessing a steady decline in the state-wise average number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases daily, a map shared by the central government on Twitter has shown. The map, sourced with the help of Union health ministry data from Thursday, shows that the national average growth in daily new cases is currently in the negative, -5.05% to be precise. Read moreChina considering to end childbirth restrictions by 2025, says reportThe Chinese government is considering to end childbirth restrictions by 2025, news agency ANI reported. As told to the Wall Street Journal, China could completely eliminate its childbirth restrictions at the end of the government's current five-year economic plan.Telangana cabinet to take call on Covid-19 lockdown todayThe Telangana cabinet will be meeting on Saturday to hold discussion on key issues, including the the ongoing lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "An emergency State Cabinet meeting will be held here at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday at 2 pm under the chairmanship of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao," according to a release issued by the state government.The ongoing lockdown is supposed to end today. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-19-2021-101624060038548.html
19-06-2021||India||Seers plan to move HC seeking probe into Ram temple construction cost||A section of seers, led by Swami Avimukteshwaranand Saraswati, plans to approach the Allahabad high court seeking a probe into the overall costs incurred during the construction of the Ram temple and the protection of historic temples and idols, which they allege are being removed from the Ram Janmabhoomi campus.“Historic temples inside the Ram Janmabhoomi campus are being demolished. They should have been restored and renovated. Historical idols of these temples are missing,” said Avimukteshwaranand, who is also a disciple of Ramalaya Trust head Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati.The development comes as the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which oversees the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, is facing widespread allegations of corruption in connection with the Ayodhya land deal and claims that the Trust general secretary, Champat Rai, bought the piece of land at an inflated price. The Trust has denied all allegations of irregularities.The Ramalaya trust has also sought appointment of a custodian of the temple, till the Trust is absolved of all charges.Rubbishing the allegations, Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, spokesperson for president of the Trust, said: “Those who are threatening us have never contributed to the Ram temple movement. We have fought the legal battle for decades. We are not afraid of court cases...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seers-plan-to-move-hc-seeking-probe-into-ram-temple-construction-cost-101624058400599.html
19-06-2021||India||Delhi court dismisses Christian Michel bail pleas in chopper case||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail pleas of alleged middleman Christian Michel in connection with the AgustaWestland corruption case filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation, and the money laundering case by the Enforcement Directorate.Special CBI Judge Arvind Kumar refused to grant relief to the British national, who was extradited from Dubai in 2018. The court noted that the stage was not fit to grant him bail.In his bail applications moved in both the cases, the accused had said he was not required for the purpose of investigation, and expressed willingness to cooperate with the investigation. The applications said the accused never sought to evade the process of law, and that no purpose will be served by keeping him in further custody. The ₹3,600-crore alleged scam relates to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-dismisses-christian-michel-bail-pleas-in-chopper-case-101624055584847.html
19-06-2021||India||India can resume vaccine exports but after meeting own demands, says VK Paul||India, the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines, wants to resume exports of coronavirus doses but can't do so until its domestic needs are met, the head of the country's Covid-19 task force said Friday.“Once our immediate need of vaccinating a significant proportion of Indian people is achieved and vaccine stockpiles are visible from multiple sources, we would then like to play the role of serving others and providing vaccines to them,” Dr. Vinod K. Paul said in an interview with The Associated Press.Paul defended the Indian government's move to restrict vaccine exports in April as it battled a ferocious surge in infections.He noted that India had given away a “substantial” amount of vaccines at the start of the year as it launched its own immunization drive. “So that has to be respected and has to be recognized, as not many nations have done that,” he said.From January, India began exporting vaccines to more than 90 countries. But the exports stopped when infections soared in India, leaving many developing countries without adequate supplies and affecting millions of people.As critics accused India of mismanaging its sluggish vaccination efforts at home, countries such as Nepal and Bangladesh began looking toward China to fill their vaccine shortfalls.The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, also abandoned its role as the main supplier to COVAX, the UN-backed project to supply vaccines to poor regions of the world. Last month, it said it may not be able to start delivering doses until the end of this year, dealing a significant blow to global efforts to immunize people against the coronavirus.Paul said a resumption of exports is still “very much on the radar.” But when asked when the restrictions would be lifted, he answered, “It is not fair to put any date at this point in time.”Confirmed coronavirus cases in India have surpassed 29 million, while deaths have surged beyond 380,000. Experts believe both numbers are vast undercounts.Media reports have cast doubts on the government's data collection, with crematoriums and statewide tallies of deaths showing different figures. Paul said the government has no reason to hide deaths or cases.New cases are finally tapering off after exceeding 400,000 a day in May, a global record. But authorities are gearing up for another possible wave of infection and are focusing on yanking vaccination rates up.Currently, less than 5% of India's people are fully immunized, with experts cautioning that vaccination rates must go up significantly to protect a sizable chunk of the population by the end of the year.The hope is that India will achieve a rapid increase in inoculations in the coming months. Last month, Paul told reporters that about 2 billion doses could be available by December under a roadmap that depends on India's two main suppliers -- Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech -- ramping up production and five other potential vaccines being made available in the coming months.But experts and critics pointed out that both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have struggled to boost manufacturing, and that the other potential vaccines are still undergoing trials with no clear date for when they would be available, raising questions over whether Paul's estimate was realistic.Paul acknowledged Friday that it was an “optimistic” projection. But he said it was based on estimates by the manufacturers themselves and that the figure showed “there is the potential.”“We are also mindful of the fact that there are steps to be met,” he said, conceding that vaccine makers may face regulatory hurdles or trouble obtaining raw materials.He said India can expect to see at least 740 million doses between August and December. But this includes 300 million of a vaccine that is still in late testing and not yet available. More orders will be placed in the future, he added.While much of India's vast rural hinterlands were largely spared from Covid-19 last year, that has not been the case during the recent surge. Access to healthcare is much more limited in the countryside, raising fears that the virus could rip through small towns and villages unabated.Going forward, the focus will have to shift to these small towns and villages, Paul said.“The spread of our preparedness will be much more into the hinterlands, into the rural areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-resume-vaccine-exports-but-after-meeting-own-demands-says-vk-paul-101624045283679.html
19-06-2021||India||UP hospital that conducted oxygen mock drill gets 'clean chit', report cites co-morbidities||The Uttar Pradesh hospital that allegedly cut off the oxygen supply for five minutes in a "mock drill" in April resulting in the death of 22 people has been given a 'clean chit' by the Agra district administration on late Friday night, officials said in a fresh report. The report, absolving the charges against the hospital, says there was no mock drill conducted and the Covid-19 patients who succumbed during that period died due to comorbidities.According to the report, it was found that "no ‘mock drill’ was conducted as alleged at 7 am of 26th April and out of 16 who died in that period of 26th and 27th April, 14 had co-morbidities". The district administration had earlier stated that there were only 7 deaths but admitted 16 deaths on basis of the report submitted. “There was no mock drill conducted on 96 patients admitted and wrong meaning was interpreted of words used in video going viral’ stated the report.In a video that went viral in April, Paras Hospital’s owner Dr Arinjay Jain, who is not visible in the video, is heard saying in the 1.3-minute audio clip that they were told that even the chief minister cannot provide oxygen so they should start discharging patients."Then I decided to try something out - a mock drill of sorts - and asked the staff to identify those whose oxygen supply can be cut. That way, we will get to know who will die and who will survive,” Jain is heard saying in the video.“The mock drill happened at 7 am, no one knows about this. Twenty-two patients started gasping for breath and their bodies began turning blue. We came to know that they will not survive," he added.The report was released by the district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh based on findings of four-member death audit committee and another two-member magistrate enquiry.The committees also found that there was no evidence of mock drill conducted by stopping the oxygen supply to patients as alleged in the viral video."If this mock drill was conducted then there should be 22 deaths on the morning of 26th April but there were no such deaths. There was an ample supply of oxygen. The assessment done for oxygen requirement was the ‘mock drill’," the report said. The report added: "In fact symptoms of Hypoxia and Oxygen Saturation level were monitored so that treatment could be done with limited oxygen available. A bedside analysis of every patient was done and it was found that 22 patients were in critical condition".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-hospital-that-conducted-oxygen-mock-drill-gets-clean-chit-report-cites-comorbidities-101624047210262.html
19-06-2021||India||Mother of journalist Siddique Kappan, held on way to Hathras, dies in Kerala||Mother of Siddique Kappan, a journalist from Kerala who was arrested on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to report the alleged gang rape of a Dalit woman in October year, died in her home in Malappuram district on Friday, her relatives said. Khadeeja Kutty was 90.Jailed in Mathura jail, the Supreme Court in February this year had allowed Kappan to visit his ailing mother and he spent five days in his house under the strict vigil of the Uttar Pradesh police. Kappan’s relatives said he was informed about his mother’s death, and he expressed his helplessness in attending last rites. They added that Khadeeja’s burial, who died due to age-related complications, will be held later on Friday. In one of the recent interviews, Khadeeja had expressed her desire to meet her son.Kappan, who has acute diabetes, was shifted to a hospital in Delhi after he had tested positive for Covid-19 in April. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and many MPs from the state had written to the Chief Justice of India about the “inhuman treatment” meted out to him. Later, he was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for treatment on April 30. After he recovered from Covid-19, he was again sent back to Mathura jail on May 7. However, his wife had alleged that he was shifted to the jail even before he cured fully.In April, his wife Rahyanth Kappan sat on a dharna outside Malappuram collectorate. She said her husband was innocent and he was on his way to file a report on the incident. She said the Uttar Pradesh police were not even allowing lawyers to talk to him over phone and many new charges were slapped against him.Kappan and three others who were heading to Hathras to report the alleged gang rape were arrested in October last year on charges including under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The UP police claimed they were active workers of the Popular Front of India, a fundamentalist outfit, adding that they were masquerading as journalists and trying to fuel trouble in the state.Kappan hails from Vengara in Malappuram and was working in Delhi for the last six years. He is associated with Malayalam news portal azhimukham.com. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) is fighting his case. Two days back, a court in Mathura dropped the charge of conspiring to breach peace in the state against them (Kappan and three others) after the police failed to file charge sheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-of-journalist-kappan-held-on-way-to-hathras-dies-in-kerala-101624043725868.html
19-06-2021||India||YouTuber held in TN over abusive content||Chennai: The cyber crime wing of Chennai police on Friday arrested popular Youtuber and gamer M Madan Kumar (29) for allegedly live streaming PUBG, a game banned in India, with offensive and abusive commentary towards women. Kumar, who was absconding ever since he was summoned for an enquiry, was arrested from Dharmapuri district, police said. His wife Krithika (26), who ran the YouTube channels with him, was arrested on June 16 from Salem district and brought to Chennai. Her mobile phone, laptop and desktop were seized for further probe in the case, police said.The couple’s house in the city was also searched, they added. The arrests were made based on a complaint by a Chennai resident PK Abhishek Ravi that sought action against Kumr and a ban on the channels for obscene portrayal of women and creating perversion among minors.“We received more than 100 complaints and are continuing to receive several complaints from across Tamil Nadu,” said an investigating officer in the case.The couple, both graduates in Electronics and Communications, were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act, 2000. While hearing the accused’s anticipatory bail plea on Thursday, justice M Dhandapani of Madras high court had expressed shock after hearing the recorded conversations between Madan and his subscribers, some of whom are believed to be minors. The judge then asked the petitioner’s counsel to take note of the language in the conversations before appearing for another hearing on Friday. The plea, however, turned infructuous as Madan was arrested on Friday. The accused has more than 777,000 subscribers on his YouTube channel named ‘Madan’ which is described as ‘strategies, tips and tricks for PUBG mobile - Take your game to next level… subscribe for daily live videos.” Besides this, the accused runs several other channels on the streaming platform such as ‘Toxic Madan 18+’ which has 105,000 subscribers.“They earned several lakhs in a month through their subscriptions and views and lived lavishly. They owned luxury cars,” the officer quoted above said. Experts say some of the charges may not withstand legal scrutiny. Advocate Gayatri Khandhadai, who works in areas of internet policy and feminism, believes the gaming community across the world is sexist and needs change. “In India, perhaps this issue of women being abused in the multi-player gaming community is becoming public now. In the videos I watched today, the accused is seen abusing other women players, he is using sexualised abuses when he’s speaking to other male gamers and adopts a demeaning and dismissive tone towards women. These comments do amount to abuse and intimidation under current law,” she said. “However, I am conflicted over other content like when he shares his sexual encounters with other players while he is gaming. It could be argued that this is his sexual expression. In my opinion, it is lascivious content as per law. Given the amount of followers he has (on YouTube), it is evident that this is a social problem which needs to be addressed from the front. Since these are private spaces, there is really no way to monitor and moderate this content effectively because that would essentially mean loss of privacy,” she added. City police commissioner Shankar Jiwal said the Centre has introduced relevant rules to deal with such cases in the online gaming world. “There are separate rules for OTT and social media. They’re (Centre) coming up with three levels of mechanisms to complain, monitor and supervise. And we have powers to take criminal action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youtuber-held-in-tn-over-abusive-content-101624043605983.html
19-06-2021||India||Madras HC grants six-week extension for final report in IPS officer sexual harassment case||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday granted an extension to the investigating officer to file a final report within a period of six weeks in the case of a sexual harassment complaint filed by a woman IPS officer against a special director general of police who was subsequently suspended. The case was taken suo moto by justice Anand Venkatesh to monitor the investigations led by the CB-CID. “The investigation is almost complete and what remains is certain reports to be collected by the Investigation Officer before the final report is filed before the concerned jurisdictional Court,” the court said in its orders. The judge said that he was satisfied with the reasons given for the delay and for the investigation not being complete within a six-week time frame set by an earlier court order on April 30. The investigation officer filed a status report that seven more witnesses were examined so a total 113 witnesses have been examined under Section 161(3) Criminal Procedure Code so far and their statements have been recorded. 32 witnesses were interviewed again. Three accused have been examined-- the special director general of police (under suspension) on charges of for sexual harassment, Chengalapttu superintendent of police (under suspension) for preventing the victim from filing a complaint and colluding with the accused and a superintendent of police from Salem. Statements from the complainant’s father-in-law and husband have also been recorded as ‘crucial witnesses. Advocated General, R Shanmugasundaram, submitted that the report of the Internal Complaints Committee has already been submitted to the Secretary, Home Department and steps are being taken to proceed further on the basis of the report submitted.The court was informed that only the analysis report is pending with the Forensic Department. “The State Public Prosecutor, on instructions from the Investigation Officer, submitted that all efforts are being taken to collect the analysis report and an outer time limit of six more weeks may be granted in order to file the final report in this case,” the court said.The alleged harassment took place on February 21 when the complainant had travelled in the car of the accused while they were on official duty for former chief minister Edappadi Palanisami’s tour of the central districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-grants-six-week-extension-for-final-report-in-ips-officer-sexual-harassment-case-101624043485879.html
19-06-2021||India||Ramesh Chennithala likely to be made AICC general secretary||Thiruvananthapuram: Senior Congress leader from Kerala Ramesh Chennithala is likely to be made the general secretary of All India Congress Committee (AICC). He was shifted from the post of the opposition leader last month after the party’s humiliating defeat in assembly elections. Speculation is rife after he was summoned to Delhi by the party high command on Friday. After the poll debacle, the party had decided to make major surgery in the faction-ridden state unit. Senior leader V D Satheesan was made the opposition leader and Kannur strongman K Sudhakaran was elevated to the state party chief’s post. In Kerala two prominent groups - one led by former CM Oommen Chandy and the other by Chennithala - called the shot for many years and the party came to a conclusion that growing factionalism was eating into the vitals of the organisation. After he was replaced, Chennithala had expressed his displeasure in the open. After the debacle, he and PCC chief Mullapally Ramachandran had informed their decision to resign from their posts but the party asked them to continue. “I am satisfied after meeting party leader Rahul Gandhi. I explained to him reasons that led to our defeat. True, I and Chandy expressed concern over some of the recent changes. But everything is clear now,” he said, adding it is for the party to decide where he should work. There are reports that after making him the AICC general secretary he will be given the responsibility of some states which are going to the poll like Punjab or Gujarat. To a question, he said he’s happy to work as an ordinary worker and not after posts. Chennithala started his political career in student days and later he became the all-India president of the National Students Union. In 1985 he became a minister in Karunakaran government at the age of 28. But later he fell out with his mentor when he started grooming his son K Muraleedharan. Later he shifted his base to Delhi and became MP four times. He was also the AICC secretary during Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure. In 2005 he again returned to the state politics and later became the PCC chief and in 2016 he was made the opposition leader of the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramesh-chennithala-likely-to-be-made-aicc-general-secretary-101624043370524.html
19-06-2021||India||On Day 2 of Delhi visit, TN CM calls on Sonia, Rahul||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin met Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday, concluding his two-day maiden visit to the capital after he formed the DMK-led coalition including the Congress government on May 7. Rahul Gandhi tweeted a photo from their meeting saying, “We will keep working with the DMK to build a strong and prosperous state for the Tamil people.” Stalin was accompanied by his wife Durga and the meeting went on for more than 20 minutes. He presented a copy of the book ‘Journey of a Civilization: Indus to Vaigai’ by R Balakrishnan to Sonia Gandhi. “It was a courtesy call,” said a DMK MP in Delhi not wishing to be named. Stalin also recalled that their relationship has been ongoing since the time of his late father and DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi. “I felt this was very close to my heart,” Stalin tweeted in Tamil. On Thursday, Stalin had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for about 25 minutes and submitted a memorandum of 25 demands. Some of this included issues which have been rolled out by the BJP-led union government and opposed by the DMK, such as the demand to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the three new farm laws and the national education policy. Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Stalin said that he was happy and satisfied with the interaction and that the Prime Minister assured him of support. Stalin had also raised issues such as inadequate vaccine supply, GST dues, abolition of NEET, retrieving Katchatheevu island, offering more rights to Sri Lankan Tamils and to reject the permission granted to Karnataka’s Mekedatu dam project. He also took a jibe that the union government is asking states to not reveal the number of vaccine stocks while referring to shortage of vaccines in Tamil Nadu. Before Stalin’s arrival, a dozen DMK MPs had camped in Delhi, including his half-sister K Kanimozhi. “Though it is customary for chief ministers to meet Prime Ministers since Nehru’s period, this was also the first time that Stalin is meeting and spending some time with Modi so he now has first-hand idea of the kind of the person that Modi is,” said political analyst, Maalan Narayanan. “Until now, Stalin has only gone by what his MPs, alliance partners, and media friends have told him about Modi. They both have to face a Lok Sabha election in two-and-a-half years for which they are under compulsions to deliver. This puts DMK in a peculiar situation because they cannot be seen as being friends with the BJP which will upset their vote-bank but they will have to work together so they will have to blow hot and cold,” said Narayanan. He added that Stalin will neither take a confrontational approach like his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee nor that of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik at the risk of being seen as subservient. “In the coming months, I see him rallying the opposition together while working hand-in-hand with the union government,” said Narayanan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-2-of-delhi-visit-tn-cm-calls-on-sonia-rahul-101624043305858.html
19-06-2021||India||Supreme Court tells Calcutta HC to defer hearing of Narada case||The Supreme Court on Friday asked a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court hearing the Narada sting case to defer the hearing on Monday till it decides on the question of allowing West Bengal Chief Minister and Law Minister to file their affidavits in the pending matter.The West Bengal government had approached the Supreme Court to oppose a Calcutta High Court decision on June 9 refusing to accept affidavits by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her Cabinet colleague Law Minister Moloy Ghatak in a matter where the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) accused them of leading a mob soon after the agency arrested four prominent Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders in the Narada sting case. A Vacation Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian agreed to take up the matter on Tuesday. On being informed that the High Court will be continuing with the hearing of the case on Monday, the bench said, “We hope that the High Court will not take up the matter on Monday and Tuesday.” In their separate appeals before the Supreme Court, the WB government and Ghatak said the order deprives them of putting the truth before the HC in order to refute CBI’s allegations. The HC in its order said, “They (Chief Minister and Law Minister) have waited for the arguments in the case to be substantially completed before seeking to place on record their pleadings in response. It is nothing else but filling the lacunae or supporting the accused.” The five-judge bench of the High Court passed the order while hearing an appeal by the CBI seeking shifting of the Narada sting trial from the Special CBI court to High Court. The agency had claimed that on May 17, the West Bengal Chief Minister led a mob to the CBI office in Kolkata and staged a dharna to protest against the arrests. Later in the day, the Law Minster was accused of leading a mob of over 2,000 people at the trial court which granted them bail. Even the bail granted to the four accused was challenged by the agency. Both matters were heard together by a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court. West Bengal in its appeal said, “The impugned order deprives the petitioner of the right to be heard, right to respond, and affects its right to access to justice, and is in violation of law.” The petition stated that on two occasions, CBI filed affidavits to improve its case without taking permission of the Court.Senior advocate Vikas Singh who appeared for the state told the apex court that the affidavit was ready for filing on June 7, well within the four-week time allotted to parties under the High Court Rules. “Just as a matter of courtesy we had asked the High Court. We were not supposed to ask as Rule 38 of High Court Rules gives me the right to file an affidavit.”Ghatak, on the other hand, denied the CBI claim that on May 17 he was present in the trial court. Explaining his presence in Bichar Bhawan Court Complex, Ghatak explained that he came there to attend a meeting with the Public Prosecutor and panel lawyers to discuss reconstitution of panels for the new government. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi who appeared for him said it is unfathomable that the petitioner would be present in an empty courtroom as the hearing that day took place virtually. The High Court while denying permission for filing of affidavits held that arguments were at the verge of conclusion and any order at this stage would delay proceedings. The state found this statement “erroneous” as only CBI had concluded arguments while eight other parties were yet to commence arguments. The Narada case involved a sting operation conducted by a journalist who approached the accused persons for favours in return for money. The sting was telecast on a channel Narada News just before the Assembly polls in the state in 2016. A year later, the Calcutta High Court ordered a CBI probe into the entire case. On May 17, CBI filed the charge sheet and arrested two state ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee along with two former state ministers Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-tells-calcutta-hc-to-defer-hearing-of-narada-case-101624041987296.html
19-06-2021||India||RTI activist files complaint against Surya||A police complaint has been filed against Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya for allegedly violating lockdown norms. A city based RTI activist, in a complaint lodged with Ulsoor Gate police station on Thursday, alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP was seen dining in at a hotel on Nrupatunga Road on Tuesday. However, police are yet to register a first information report (FIR) in this regard, said officials in Bengaluru central division. RTI activist Vijay Dennis, in his complaint, pointed out that during the lockdown, dining in at a restaurant or a hotel is not allowed and only takeaways are permitted. He referred to a news broadcast by News First Kannada on June 15, which showed Surya and singer Vijay Prakash having a meal at Hotel Nisarga Grand, in his complaint, a copy of which was accessed by HT. “This is a violation of the lockdown, and the MP should be booked and an FIR lodged under the NDMA (National Disaster Management Act) and IPC (Indian Penal Code),” Dennis said in the complaint, a copy of which was accessed by HT.He, however, added in his complaint that if the news turned out to be fake, a case should be filed against the news channel. Officials from the Ulsoor Gate police station confirmed to having received a complaint and said they were looking into the allegations. “MPs and MLAs are a mirror of the society to the public, if the face of the country or state will violate the lockdown or any law, it will motivate the common public to follow their footprint,” Dennis, who is the founder and director of Karnataka RTI Workers Seva Samithi, said in his complaint. Tejasvi Surya was not available for comment. A reaction from the MP’s office on the controversy was awaited.Due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka has been under lockdown since April 27. While curbs have been relaxed in some districts, including Bengaluru, dining in and many other facilities are yet to be reopened by the government. This is not the first time that Surya has courted a controversy. On May 5, the MP was accused of unfairly targeting members of the Muslim community during his inspection of the Covid-19 war room in south Bengaluru. During the inspection, he read out the names of 17 out of the 205 persons employed at the centre, asking their qualifications. All of them were Muslim names. A video of the inspection purportedly showed a staffer replying to Surya that all of them were hired after BBMP, Bengaluru’s municipal body, invited applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rti-activist-files-complaint-against-surya-101624041985766.html
19-06-2021||India||PM Modi set to hold talks in Jammu-Kashmir on June 24: Officials||In a bid to bolster political processes, including assembly elections in the union territory, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is set to hold a meeting with regional parties in Jammu and Kashmir next week, reported news agency PTI. The meeting is likely to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and attended by Union home minister Amit Shah and other central leaders, the report added.Initiating the first step, the Centre has started the process of inviting National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah, PDP chairperson Mehbooba Mufti, Altaf Bukhari of the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), and People's Conference head Sajjad Lone for discussions, PTI reporting quoting officials.This meet between Prime Minister Modi and regional parties will be the first such meet in close to two years since the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its bifurcation into union territories in August 2019.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-set-to-hold-talks-in-jammu-kashmir-on-june-24-officials-101624040510767.html
19-06-2021||India||Probe on to find how a pvt agency bagged contract for Covid tests at Mahakumbh||Police formed a special investigation team (SIT) on Friday to probe allegations of 100,000 fake Covid-19 tests conducted during the Mahakumbh in April as investigators focused on how an unknown private agency secured the contract during the high-profile event.Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai K Raj said in an order that the seven-member SIT was formed to speed up the ongoing probe into the private agency, Max Corporate Services, and two private labs, Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa labs. Two other probes, one by the Kumbh Mela administration and another by district administration, are already on.“The special team was formed to assist and ensure speedy investigation of the cases lodged in fake Covid testing,” said Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand director general of police. The SIT asked people to come forward with any information of fake tests.The development came on a day Max Corporate Services – a Noida-based private firm unrelated to Max Healthcare Group – moved the Uttarakhand high court against the FIR lodged in Haridwar’s Kotwali police station, arguing that it was a service provider that contracted other labs for conducting the tests.Investigators are now probing how a relatively unknown agency bagged the lucrative test contract. Max Corporate Services was initially rejected by the district health administration because it was not recognised by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) but was later chosen by the Kumbh Mela health administration after it sub-contracted two ICMR-recognised labs for testing.In late March, Max Corporate Services signed memorandums of understanding with Lalchandani Lab and Nalva Labs. On paper, the two labs conducted roughly 123,000 Covid-19 tests, of which about 118,000 were rapid antigen tests and 5,000 were RT-PCR, said the investigators.For the last two days, investigators have questioned Kumbh Mela health officer Dr AS Sengar. “The mela health administration probably didn’t carry out verification of the labs which resulted in them easily carrying out fake tests. Even those who collected samples are now under the scanner,” said an investigator on condition of anonymity.Sengar previously said that the mela administration was committed to probing the allegations and have set up an internal investigation. “From fake testing, fake sample collectors to fake phone numbers all aspects are being probed. We have to wait for the final probe report as and when it’s submitted,” said Haridwar chief medical officer Shambhu Kumar Jha.The Kumbh mela was curtailed this year but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this — at least six million people — congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.Allegations of fake testing surfaced last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Real-time data checking through the ICMR portal revealed fake entries on basis of mobile numbers and addresses of people who were never tested. On contacting such people, many said they had not even visited Haridwar in April.On Thursday, the three labs were booked for negligence, spreading disease, cheating and criminal conspiracy, and under sections of the 2005 Disaster Management Act and the 1897 Epidemic Diseases Act.Lalchandani Labs and Nalwa Labs both denied the allegations. Max Corporate Services was unavailable for a comment.But on Friday, Max Corporate Services approached the Uttarakhand high court seeking protection against police action and arguing that it contracted nationally accredited laboratories for testing during the Mahakumbh and was only a service provider.“If any fake testing has been done, Max Corporate Services has no role to play and in fact is willing to unearth if any such thing has happened”, said the firm’s lawyer, Kartikey Hari Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-on-to-find-how-a-pvt-agency-bagged-contract-for-covid-tests-at-mahakumbh-101624041025854.html
19-06-2021||India||Orders on students’ bail won’t be a precedent: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said the Delhi high court orders granting bail to three student activists, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in May last year for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots were “surprising” and directed that these orders shall not be treated as a precedent in any other case or relied upon in any court proceeding.The top court, which was hearing appeals by the Delhi Police against the bail orders, said it was staying “the effect of the high court order” but clarified that the three activists, who were released from prison on Thursday evening, shall remain out on bail for now.A bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian remarked that the bail orders required scrutiny of the top court in so far as they sought to interpret the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and returned a finding on the circumstances when the anti-terror law could be invoked.It accepted submissions of solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, both appearing for the Delhi Police, that the high court orders could impact several other cases under UAPA pending before different courts.“We agree that many questions arise since the legality of the UAPA or otherwise was not in question before the high court,” remarked the bench.“The issue is important and it could have pan India ramifications. We are going to issue notice and examine it. The way provisions of the law (UAPA) have been interpreted by the high court, it will probably require an examination by this court. We will like to issue notices and decide the matter for the good of the country,” remarked the bench.“We will say that since bail has already been granted, we may not interfere with that at this stage. But we will otherwise stay the effect of these orders.”A high court bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani on Tuesday ordered the release of the three student activists on bail, describing the charges against them as “hyperbole” and ruling that it would be “a stretch” to “say that the protest affected the community at large for it to qualify as an act of terror”.Mehta, the country’s second senior-most law officer, underlined that the high court orders turned the UAPA and the Constitution on its head by giving a strange interpretation to the law.“Unfortunately, the high court says it was in anxiety on the part of the state to suppress dissent. I ask since when did the right to protest started including the right to kill and hurl bombs? 53 were left dead and more than 700 were injured in the riots but the high court says eventually the riots were controlled. It is as good as saying if someone plants a bomb and that bomb is defused, there will not be any crime,” said Mehta.He said that the high court orders could be cited by the accused in several other cases to seek their exoneration on the sole ground that they genuinely believed in a cause and did not threaten the defence of India, as has been held by the high court.“If what has been held by the high court becomes a law, the persons who had attacked and bombed an Indian Prime Minister in the past would not and cannot be held as terrorist as they would have also have genuinely believed in their cause and their activity would not be covered by defence of India or an activity carried out during the war,” said Mehta.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the accused, said he had no problem with the Supreme Court examining the high court orders on a point of law but the fact of the matter remained that these were just orders on bail.To this, the bench replied: “That is what is troubling us. These were orders on bail. In a bail application, a 100-page judgment discussing all laws is very surprising. What we can say is, bail has been granted and they will not be affected, but we will stay the effect of the high court order.”The bench then issued notices to the student activists, seeking their written replies to the appeals in three weeks. It fixed the matter for hearing next in the week commencing July 19.Over 750 FIRs were filed and several people arrested for the communal riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, leaving 53 people dead and several hundreds injured.Kalita, Narwal and Tanha were named in one of these FIRs, accused of orchestrating the blocking of roads in an area where riots broke out. Narwal and Kalita had already been granted bail in two other cases, in which they are accused of unlawful assembly and inciting riots. Tanha has already got bail in another case that alleges he was part of a “premeditated conspiracy” to orchestrate the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orders-on-students-bail-won-t-be-a-precedent-sc-101624040845797.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid vaccination doesn’t affect male fertility: Study||Coronavirus vaccines do not have any effect on male fertility, the results of a first-of-its-kind study published on Friday show, after finding that the levels of sperm in volunteers remained at healthy levels after they got two doses of mRNA vaccines.The study by researchers at University of Miami covered 45 men who were assessed before and after they received their vaccines. Its results reinforce the theoretical understanding that these vaccines do not impact fertility, addressing a false belief among many vaccine sceptics.“Of the 45 men, 21 (46.7%) received BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNtech) and 24 (53.3%) received mRNA-1273 (Moderna vaccine). Baseline sperm concentration and TMSC (total mobile sperm count) were 26 million/mL and 36 million, respectively. After the second vaccine dose, the median sperm concentration significantly increased to 30 million/mL and the median TMSC to 44 million. Semen volume and sperm motility also significantly increased,” the report, published in the peer-reviewed Journal of American Medical Association (Jama), said.The authors explain the increase as being within routine variation and could be a result of increased abstinence duration prior to the second sampling.“In this study of sperm parameters before and after two doses of a Covid-19 mRNA vaccine, there were no significant decreases in any sperm parameter among this small cohort of healthy men. Because the vaccines contain mRNA and not the live virus, it is unlikely that the vaccine would affect sperm parameters,” the authors write.None of Covid-19 vaccines use a live virus. Even in the case of adenovirus vector doses, such as those made by OxfordAstraZeneca (sold as Covishield in India) and Russia’s Gamaleya Institute (sold as Sputnik), the adenovirus is modified to not replicate and cannot cause an actual infection – it merely acts as a conduit for the code of the Spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2.Experts said it is important to address vaccine hesitancy. “Misinformation around COVID-19 vaccines needs to be dispelled, as this can become a major reason for people refusing to get vaccinated. Studies like these help address myths around COVID-19 vaccines being harmful, in this case to male fertility. We need to use science to counter incorrect information, as well as ensure that we communicate facts through all available platforms,” said Dr Anant Bhan, researchers, Global Health, Bioethics and Health Policy.In November, 2020, scientists found evidence that people may be at a higher risk of infertility if they get infected with Covid-19. The study by researchers from China found that in samples taken from six male Covid-19 patients who died from the disease showed high levels of cells and proteins that indicated inflammation and cell death in the testes and epidymis.In the men recovering from Covid-19, 39% of them had low sperm counts and 61% had an increased number of white blood cells in their semen, which suggested compromised sperm function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-doesn-t-affect-male-fertility-study-101624040846318.html
19-06-2021||India||Ministry may give green nod to Adani’s coal-to-PVC plant||Union environment ministry is considering granting environmental clearance to a coal-to-PVC plant that will come up in Gujarat’s Kachchh district, said people familiar with the matter.The unit that is being set up by Adani Enterprises will have a poly-vinyl-chloride (PVC) production capacity of 2000 KTPA (Kilo Tons Per Annum) requiring 3.1 million metric tonnes per annum (MTPA) of coal that will be imported from Australia, Russia and other countries.The environment ministry’s impact assessment division granted standard terms of reference (TOR) to the plant on April 17. The grant of TOR is one of the first steps in the environmental clearance process.The project will come up at a cost of ₹29,000 crores (US $ 4 billion). Coal is likely to be blended with pet coke , and blending of other coals such as Anthracite Coal is also being explored for the project according to documents on environment ministry’s Parivesh website, seen by HT.A report in the Guardian published on June 18 suggested that the PVC unit will be using coal from Bravus Mining and Resources’ (formerly Adani Australia) Carmichael coal mine which is mired in environmental controversies and litigation.Bravus Mining and Resources, however, put out a statement on Friday that “Carmichael coal, like any other traditional thermal coal, is not suitable for use in plastics. It is suitable for use in energy and electricity generation and has always been intended for that use.”It added that “India will be a foundation customer for the Carmichael Project and is the fourth largest global user of electricity as well as the source of the biggest growth in global energy demand (source International Energy Agency).”According to documents on Parivesh website, no change in land use will be required as 278.79 ha of identified land for the project belongs to the Adani Ports and SEZ (APSEZ) and is already designated for industrial purpose. Forest clearance for 1840 ha of forest land was granted in 2009.The rationale for the project according to Adani Enterprises’ submission to the environment ministry is that PVC demand in India is around 3.5 MTPA which is growing at the rate of 7% year on year.With stagnancy in domestic production of PVC at 1.4 MTPA, India is dependent on imports to keep pace with the demand.“Adani Group is the largest private power producer in India. Power is an important raw material for powering extensive plants such as coal to PVC. In this context, Adani group is planning to come up with a coal-to-PVC project at Mundra, Bhuj, Gujarat. The proposed project will reduce import dependency of polymers and promote domestic manufacturing of polymers, in line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative,” the pre-feasibility report of the project states.In response to a questionnaire from HT, an Adani spokesperson said: “At the outset, coal from the Carmichael Project in Australia is not suitable for the PVC plant. Secondly, it is widely proven that using coal as a chemical feedstock to produce PVC is less polluting as compared to conventional methods such as petrochemical refinery and ethylene cracker. Further, PVC is not toxic or single-use plastic, but an infrastructure material with a life span of several decades.”“Thirdly, given that the project is energy-intensive , the Adani Group’s massive renewable capacity of 24+ GW will enable it to make this a low carbon-intensive project,” the spokesperson added.The member secretary (Industrial Projects) of the expert appraisal committee assessing the project was not available for comment on Friday, his secretary said. A senior environment ministry official said “all the information is available on the website. We have nothing else to add.”According to an Overview on Plastic Waste released by the Central Pollution Control Board in 2013, during polymerization process fugitive emissions are released.“This case brings together two highly controversial projects in Australia and India. Large amount of Mundra’s forest land diverted in 2009, has remained unutilized. In 2008, the Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee (CEC) recommended rejecting the proposal for diversion on grounds of its ecological sensitivity, and repeated requests to change of purpose for which the land should be diverted. Prior to diversion, these areas were coastal commons also used by nearby villages and seasonal pastoralists. Post approval they are devoid of mangroves and fenced off . The forest clearance allowed large part of the diverted land to be securitized and remain unutilized for the last 12 years,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-may-give-green-nod-to-adani-s-coal-to-pvc-plant-101624040726926.html
19-06-2021||India||LJP warring factions move Election Commission staking claim over party||A factional fight for control of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) reached the Election Commission on Friday after Jamui MP Chirag Paswan and his estranged uncle and Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras approached the poll watchdog with petitions against each other.A five-member delegation headed by Paswan met EC officials on Friday, and later a three-member team from Paras’s faction also submitted documents to the poll panel. Both factions are expected to hold rival executive committee meetings to stake claim over the party during the weekend.The crisis broke out late Sunday night when Paras and four other MPs rebelled against Paswan and replaced him as parliamentary party chief with Paras. Since then, Paras’s faction has elected him as national president, while Paswan’s group has rejected the new appointments and expelled the rebel lawmakers.On Friday, Paswan claimed that the majority of the executive members are with him, and that the rebels violated LJP constitution. “The EC has assured us that if somebody tries to prove claim in name of LJP, we will be given chance to provide evidence,” said Paswan.The 38-year-old leader said he will meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to ask that a Lok Sabha secretariat decision on Monday to recognise Paras as the LJP parliamentary party head be reversed. “The Speaker made a mistake by deciding without the constitution of our party. I will meet and tell him about the constitution of our party. We had suspended 10 people from the party, including five MPs,” said Paswan.On Thursday, Paswan’s faction asked EC to stop Paras from using LJP’s symbol (bungalow), and flag at their meetings. Paswan also said that he convened a meeting of the party’s national executive committee on Sunday.Hours later, a three-member delegation from the Paras camp, comprising his secretary Ahmed, Vinod Nagar and Sanjay Saraf (all party leaders) submitted papers in EC.Paras, who reached Delhi on Friday, also rejected allegations made by Paswan that his election as LJP chief was “unconstitutional and lacked quorum.”“Let EC and party take a call on this. I was elected unanimously. Returning officer gave me the letter for being elected as national president. A draft has been submitted to the Election Commission today,” said Paras.Asked if he was expecting a Union cabinet berth, he said that it was the Prime Minister’s prerogative. “If I become a minister, I will definitely leave the post in party,” he said.The Paras faction is likely to hold its executive committee meeting on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-warring-factions-move-ec-staking-claim-over-party-101624040666857.html
19-06-2021||India||Twitter India MD summoned by UP Police||The Uttar Pradesh Police have summoned Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for questioning within seven days in connection with an allegedly misleading video showing an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad being assaulted. The firm has also been issued a second notice by the Ghaziabad police to seek “account details” of the suspects accused by the police of posting and promoting the video.The summons was issued late on Thursday evening, two days after Twitter, news website wire.in, journalists and Congress leaders were named in a First Information Report (FIR) for allegedly “promoting enmity between religions” for posting and promoting the video amid conflicting narratives of the attack. The video purportedly showed the man being beaten up and his attackers cutting his beard.The initial FIR in connection with the assault of the 72-year-old man was registered by the Loni border police on June 7. The attack had taken place two days earlier but the video started getting traction on social media around June 14.The 72-year-old man’s family and friends have said the man’s attackers forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and chopped off his beard. The Uttar Pradesh Police have claimed that there was no communal angle to the attack even as a Samajwadi Party leader said that the police deliberately left out the alleged communal slogan chanting from the First Information Report filed in the case.Akhilesh Kumar Mishra, the investigating officer in the case, said the notice was issued to Maheshwari late on Thursday evening under the regular provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and he has been asked to appear within seven days and record his statement. “The notice is served so that he appears to record statements under the CrPC’s Section 161.”The section empowers an investigating officer to seek the appearance of any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of a case.Senior police officials supervising the case said the second notice served on Twitter was issued under Section 91 of the CrPC, which empowers the investigating officer to produce any document or any other material relevant to the case.“In the notice we have sought account details of the suspects named in the FIR. The details include the login of sessions by the suspects and the activity taken up in connection with the video. We will also issue them notices under CrPC 160 in due course of investigation,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Officials familiar with development said that the notice was issued through the cyber-cell of the Ghaziabad police and requires production of required documents within a month.HT reached out to Twitter on Friday, but the company declined to comment.Officers aware of the matter said Twitter has been named in the case on charges that it did not prevent the video from going viral and allegedly helped in its promotion and circulation.Twitter was booked amid disagreements between the government and the company over the new guidelines that require digital companies to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. They have also faced off over the government’s orders to Twitter to take down posts. Twitter has also raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and police intimidation.The government insists that Twitter cannot seek safe harbour under the Information Technology Act and claim that it is an intermediary for posts on its platform because it has not complied with the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The guidelines came into effect on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-md-summoned-101624040665737.html
19-06-2021||India||No shortcomings in farm laws, but ready to discuss provisions: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that “there were no shortcomings” in the three farm laws against which a large number of farmers have been on protests since November-end last year, ruling out any possibility of repealing the three pieces of legislation. The minister, however, said the government was ready to talk to farm unions on any provisions in the laws.“There were no shortcomings. The government is prepared to talk to farmers. Other than [the question of] repeal, if any farm union wants talks related to any provision of the laws even in the middle of the night, then Narendra Singh Tomar will welcome it,” the minister said in Gwalior after an informal meeting with local leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Tomar said the government made all efforts to resolve issues raised by farmers, and was still prepared to do so.Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, among other states, have been protesting along Delhi’s borders for the past seven months against the central government’s three new farm laws, passed in September last year.Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a key farm leader, said on Friday: “The minister’s remarks show arrogance and farmers will continue their protest.”“The government will have to withdraw the laws. We won’t rest until these black laws are withdrawn,” said Rakesh Tikait, another farm leader.On May 21, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but said that they were steadfast on their demand to repeal the legislation.In response to the letter to the Prime Minister, Tomar said the government was ready to talk. “The farmers should either list out their specific objections to the three laws or come up with an alternative proposal,” he said at the time, adding that the government had offered to freeze the laws for a period of 18 months, which was rejected.The government has so far held 11 rounds of talks, which hit a dead end on January 22. The Supreme Court has put the laws on hold since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-shortcomings-in-farm-laws-but-ready-to-discuss-provisions-tomar-101624040666247.html
19-06-2021||India||A free-spirited man who relished every challenge||Around 3:30am on May 15, just a week shy of his 51st birthday, Gordon Lobo’s vitals took a turn for the worse.Doctors at the Goa Medical College and Hospital struggled to revive his dropping oxygen levels even as his family looked on hopefully. At the time, Goa was posting roughly 2,000 cases daily and every second person tested for Covid in the coastal state returned a positive result.At 5am, Lobo died, roughly three weeks after he was admitted to the hospital for Covid. He is survived by his wife, Flavia, and 16-year-old son Logan.Lobo was one of 75-odd people who died across five days at the premier hospital due to a drop in oxygen pressure between 2am and 6am every day – a period referred to by the high court as the “dark hours”.The devastating second wave of Covid is ebbing in the state now. But for his family and large circle of friends, his passing created a void that has been hard to fill.“Another body bag wheeled out of a Covid ward, another addition to the daily death statistics. But for those that knew him and loved him, his passing is a kick in the gut, an irreparable loss, a giant Gordon-shaped hole that will never be filled,” said his close friend Rajiv D’Silva.“It is a cliché when someone has passed to say they were ‘full of life’, but in Gordon’s case, I can’t help but use it. If there ever was a human filled to the brim with joie de vivre, that was our Gordon,” he added.An architect by profession, Lobo was a popular figure in his native village of Aldona in north Goa. ‘Gordy,’ or simply ‘Gord’ loved village festivals and celebrations, especially during São João, a festival celebrated in June around community wells, tanks and ponds.To his friends, Lobo’s demise took away more than a lively personality.“Gordon Lobo was the wildest man I ever met. His unkempt curly grey-streaked hair, his baggy shirt and trousers with a thousand pockets, his droopy eye and equally droopy moustache, astride a junk of a bike, gave him a distinct look,” José Lourenço, a family friend said in tribute.“Wildness ran in Gordy’s blood. If he came to your party you could expect some unpredictable events to occur, for sure… ‘Oi Jupiter!’ he would call out to busy waiters. If that did not evoke a response, he would yell: ‘Mexico!’ Invariably one of these names would work, and a waiter would come scurrying over, to placate the madman at our table. And he would insist on every soiled plate being instantly cleared from the table. If Gordy was at your table, you just felt taken care of,” he recalled.Lobo was also a huge comic book fan who would travel great distances to collect rare editions.“He had an extensive library at his wife Flavia’s ancestral house in Aldona. I once borrowed a book of Kafka’s stories, an edition of The Father Brown Collected Stories, and a third book of crazy trivia from him. He was deeply devoted to his comic book collection. Which explains his son Logan’s name,” Lourenço added.Logan refers to a character in the Marvel universe.As a professional architect, Lobo specialised in helping restore and maintain old Goan houses.“Working on his construction sites gave him great pleasure. Ordinary houses didn’t thrill him. He would brighten up telling of compound walls built in a day or structures repaired overnight, or tackling tricky litigation-hassled works. The man relished a challenge. Else he would relish wallowing on a site, taking ages to finish it,” Lourenço added.He collected knives, swords, and took a keen interest in crafting stuff out of what would appear to be waste wood.“His evenings would be spent at the Aldona Institute with villagers. He was a man with a tremendous wild spirit,” said Lourenco||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-free-spirited-man-who-relished-every-challenge-101624040605755.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid leading to loss of grey matter, hits cognition: Study||Covid-19, even if mild or moderate, is possibly leaving people with significant impact on their brains, according to a study involving pre- and post-infection brain scans involving close to 800 people in a study carried out in the UK.The scans showed loss of grey matter, indicative of damage, and the areas affected involved functions relating to smell and taste, cognition and memory formation. Most of the patients examined had mild-to-moderate disease.“We identified significant effects of Covid-19 in the brain with a loss of grey matter in the left parahippocampal gyrus, the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex and the left insula. When looking over the entire cortical surface, these results extended to the anterior cingulate cortex, supramarginal gyrus and temporal pole,” said the researchers, who work with the University of Oxford, in their report on medRxiv, which is yet to be peer-reviewed.The study was conducted after the researchers pored over data of 40,000 people in the UK Biobank, a long-term, large scale repository of biomedical data, and reached out to volunteers. In all, 782 people who previously underwent brain scans participated, and of these, 394 subsequently tested positive for Sars-Cov-2.The researchers used the scans of these people from before their infection and carried out new scans afterwards. They compared both these scans, as well as the change they saw with the control group — the remaining people who did not have Covid-19 between the two sets of scans.“In total, 394 Covid-19 patients with usable imaging data at both timepoints were included in this study, as well as 388 controls, matched for age, sex, ethnicity and time elapsed between the two scans. These large numbers may allow us to detect subtle, but consistently spatially distributed sites of damage caused by the disease, thus underlining in vivo the possible spreading pathways of the virus within the brain,” the authors said.The authors said they found three main regions that showed significant loss of grey matter, in both thickness as well as volume: the parahippocampal gyrus, the lateral orbitofrontal cortex, and the superior insula. All of these were localised to the left hemisphere of the brain.The parahippocampal gyrus plays an important role in spatial memory and navigation; the orbitofrontal cortex is believed to play a role in higher-order cognition such as decision-making, and the superior insula is part of a region that is yet to be fully understood but is believed to play a role in processing some sensory inputs and emotions.“The loss of grey matter in areas of brain linked to taste and smell is consistent with the clinical symptoms of the patients; loss of taste and smell is one of the earliest symptoms in many Covid-19 patients and it is one of the most sensitive markers of infection,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, head of the department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College.“One of our studies had proposed that there were two mechanisms that the virus could be using to affect the brain --- either getting in directly through the olfactory mucosa (the inner lining in the nasal cavity) or forming tiny clots in the epithelial layer of the blood vessels in the brain. The examination of the pre and post-Covid-19 scans seems to support the first hypothesis... but we still need further studies to understand what it means for the Covid-19 patients. Grey matter once destroyed cannot be created, but patients do get back their sense of smell and taste in four to six weeks,” he added.The researchers found that similar neurological features were seen in a small group of 15 people who were hospitalised. “Comparing the few patients who had been hospitalised with Covid-19 with those who had not also showed a similar pattern of olfactory- and memory-related brain regions, particularly centred around the left cingulate cortex, and the right hippocampus and amygdale [as being affected],” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-leading-to-loss-of-grey-matter-hits-cognition-study-101624040606307.html
19-06-2021||India||PM Modi unveils courses to train 100k frontline staff||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched six crash course programmes to train and upskill over 100,000 frontline workers to help fight the Covid-19 pandemic even as he stressed that the “virus is present” and urged the people to remain cautious.“The virus is present, and the possibility of mutation is also there. The second wave of the pandemic illustrated the kind of challenges that the virus may present to us. The country needs to stay prepared to meet the challenges and training more than one lakh (100,000) frontline warriors is a step in that direction,” said the Prime Minister.Till Friday, India administered 272,072,645 doses of vaccines, one of the world’s largest vaccination drives, although in per capita terms, the country lags behind nations with smaller populations. Apart from the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines that are manufactured in the country, India has also procured stocks of Russian Sputnik V which will be produced in India from the second half of the year.During the virtual address, Modi said India took up the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and ramped up its capabilities related to Covid care and treatment.“Status of PPE kits, testing and other medical infrastructure related to Covid care and treatment bears testimony to the efforts (of government),” he said.He also sought to assure that the central government is committed to providing free Covid vaccination for everyone starting June 21.About the crash courses, the PM said the Covid warriors will be trained in six customised roles — Home Care Support, Basic Care Support, Advanced Care Support, Emergency Care Support, Sample Collection Support, and Medical Equipment Support.“These courses are designed to skill as well as upskill the health care workforce. 111 such centres are being started from today across the nation under the Skill India programme. With this, we will have more than one lakh new skilled health care frontline workers in the next few months,” said the PM.“Given the size of our population, it is necessary to keep increasing the number of doctors, nurses and paramedics in the health sector… The seriousness and the pace at which the work on preparing the health professionals is going on now is unprecedented,” he added.The courses have been designed as a special programme under the Central Component of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with the total financial outlay of ₹276 crore, the PMO said.Modi also praised the Centre’s Skill India Mission, saying that the Covid-19 pandemic has proven the importance of ‘skilling, re-skilling and up-skilling’.“Today Skill India Mission is helping millions of this country’s youth every year in providing training according to the needs of the day. Since last year the Ministry of Skill Development has trained lakhs of health workers across the country, even amid the pandemic,” he said.The Prime Minister lauded health professionals like ASHA workers, anganwadi and other workers deployed in village dispensaries, describing them as one of the strong pillars of our health sector who are often left out of the discussion.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-unveils-courses-to-train-100k-frontline-staff-101624040546874.html
19-06-2021||India||Stir held across country over violence against health workers||Nearly 250 resident doctors’ associations on Friday joined a nationwide protest against recent incidents of violence on doctors and demanded a central legislation to curb such cases. The protest was jointly organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA).“There have been so many instances of violence in just the last couple of months. We demand that the government passes a central law to prevent violence against doctors...,” said Dr Manish Jangra, general secretary, FAIMA.The “Save the Saviors” protest was peaceful and did not affect the services in the hospitals, Dr AK Ravikumar, honorary state secretary of IMA, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.On June 1, a doctor posted at a Covid Care Centre in Assam was assaulted by the relatives of a patient who succumbed to the virus. On April 26, relatives of a deceased patient vandalised the emergency ward and injured several employees of Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo hospital.“Currently, 21 states have local laws but what we need is a strong central law to protect doctors from violence...,” said the IMA in a letter.In 2019, the home ministry opposed a draft bill to prevent violence against health care staff, saying that the special law was not feasible as health is a state subject. The bill sought to impose a jail term of up to 10 years for assaulting doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-held-across-country-over-violence-against-health-workers-101624040545702.html
19-06-2021||India||Top court asks Calcutta high court to defer hearing in Narada case||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Calcutta high court to defer the hearing in the Narada sting case to be held on Monday till it decides on the question of allowing West Bengal chief minister and law minister to file their affidavits in the pending matter. The top court will hear the matter on Tuesday.A vacation bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian agreed to take up the matter on Tuesday. The bench said, “We hope that the high court will not take up the matter on Monday and Tuesday.”The state government approached the Supreme Court on June 11 to oppose a June 9 high court decision refusing to accept affidavits by CM Mamata Banerjee and law minister Moloy Ghatak in a matter where the Central Bureau of investigation accused them of leading a mob on May 17, soon after the agency arrested four Trinamool Congress leaders. They said that the order deprives them of putting the truth before the court in order to refute CBI’s allegations. The HC had said, “They (CM and law minister) have waited for the arguments in the case to be substantially completed before seeking to place on record their pleadings in response. It is nothing else but filling the lacunae or supporting the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-asks-calcutta-hc-to-defer-hearing-in-narada-case-101624040487461.html
19-06-2021||India||Schools may not open any time soon, says government||Schools will only be reopened after adequate consultation as scientific data and evidence from other countries suggest that more information is required before allowing children back into classrooms during a pandemic, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said at a Union health ministry briefing on Friday.Paul’s statement comes at a time the state governments and public health experts are attempting to allay concerns that the next wave of Covid-19 infections may hit children harder.“If we look at the global scenario, many countries reopened schools and then saw a surge in cases because of which they had to shut schools again. We cannot put our children and teachers in a similar situation... we need to have more confidence that we have controlled the pandemic enough that we will not face the kind of a situation that other countries faced. Eventually, we will have to reopen but now is not the time,” Paul said.Doctors and scientists have repeatedly said that the virus is known to infect children with mild or asymptomatic illness in a majority of cases, but children can still transmit the disease to others -- who may be more vulnerable -- in the household.“You have to keep in mind that in a school you have teachers, helpers, limited possibility of observing social distancing, etc. All this needs to be thoroughly considered, along with other related vital issues before a decision is taken in this regard,” Paul said, adding that “there is growing scientific evidence to be considered too”.Schools across India have been closed for physical classes since the second wave of the pandemic began in March this year. Some states had reopened schools after the first wave tapered off, but the latest national outbreak pushed classes back online.Although some regions in other countries, including the US and the UK, saw some minor outbreaks among school students and staff members, researchers say there isn’t enough evidence to say that the virus transmits easier in such surroundings.On Friday, Paul also warned against relying on the idea of achieving natural herd immunity -- a threshold of infection levels within a population after which transmission of the virus falls and the outbreak dies down.He said there is no confidence on what the herd immunity threshold will be and how the virus variants will evolve. “If we take a look at the example of Brazil, we saw it had high seroprevalence (which indicates previous infection) and yet had a large outbreak of the P.1 variant. Similarly, Delhi had over 50% seropositivity, and still we saw what happened in the second wave. We can’t take sero study findings for granted. The virus also continues to change.”On speculation that the next outbreak may infect more children, Paul said that children -- when infected with Covid-19 -- largely get mild illness, but “we have to remain cautious”.“There is a possibility that the virus may mutate further to an extent that it affects children more... and that is why we need to stay fully prepared to deal with any surge in future.”The Niti Aayog member noted that the Union health ministry has released guidelines for treatment of children diagnosed with Covid-19, and that the government is prepared to handle any potential surge.He touted the benefits of vaccination, and said several studies have shown the chances of hospitalisation are 75-80% lower in people who have been inoculated. “The point that we are trying to reiterate is that vaccines are absolutely safe and there should be no room for vaccine hesitancy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-may-not-open-any-time-soon-says-govt-101624040486225.html
19-06-2021||India||‘Onus on China to address remaining issues on LAC’: Foreign secretary Shringla||India and China have addressed some of the issues related to the situation created on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by the Chinese side, and the onus is now on Beijing to ensure that the remaining issues are tackled, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday.“As we’ve seen last year, [there is] an unusual situation, multiple transgressions on the border areas... to some extent, we have addressed some of the issues that had arisen out of this situation that was created by China. But there are still friction points... we are very clear that until these issues are addressed and our border areas are peaceful and tranquil, we will not be able to go into with is known as a normal relationship,” Shringla said, making it clear that the ball is now in the Chinese court for resolving the standoff. He made the remarks during an online dialogue on the theme “India’s foreign policy in the post-Covid world” organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onus-on-china-to-address-remaining-issues-on-lac-foreign-secretary-shringla-101624035686064.html
19-06-2021||India||‘Powers in anti-defection law need to be redefined’, says Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla completes two years in office on Saturday. In his tenure, the House has broken records in the participation of MPs, performance of the House, and legislation cleared. He tells Saubhadra Chatterji that anti-defection laws require changes, and parliamentary oversight must be strengthened. Edited excerpts:You complete two years in office. How has your experience been?It’s been a great experience. We have been able to strengthen the democratic traditions and work continues even during the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, we reached an average of 122% productivity in the last five sessions. The one during Covid recorded 167% productivity. In the first session, 33 bills were passed in 37 sittings. These figures underline the commitment of our parliamentarians to perform their duties.One of your strategies has been to give more time for MPs to speak in the House.MPs participated 1,744 times in the sessions in last two years. Debates ran longer than their allotted times. This shows the responsibility and eagerness of the MPs to actively participate in the lawmaking process. I have noticed that every MP wants to talk about issues related to their constituency. I remember once 161 MPs spoke in a day. My job is to provide maximum opportunity to elected representatives. Earlier, issues raised in Zero Hour didn’t attract the government’s response. Now, the government responds... I also persuade MPs and ministers to keep their queries and answers short, so that more questions can be taken up in Question Hour.Most of your predecessors have been veterans in Parliament but you are in your second term. Did you face any difficulties handling senior MPs?Initially, I thought the Speaker’s post would be a challenge. But I regularly communicate with all MPs, and it helped me secure their cooperation. Without their support, I can never run the House.Many MPs requested you to start online meetings of the standing committees. But it was not allowed.When rules were framed by eminent people in the past, no one imagined that such a situation would arise one day. Rule 266 envisaged the proceedings would be secret so that MPs can rise above partisan lines in their deliberations. While some people demanded digital meetings, many opposed it. The rules can only be changed in a Parliament session, but no such demand was made in the first session during Covid. It would have been better if the demands were raised then.Some Opposition MPs also alleged that their issues such as economic situation or job loss are never taken up for discussion.Who is stopping them? There are several avenues to raise issues. They can put questions in the Question Hour or raise any issue in Zero Hour. In both cases, the government will reply to them.You are now dealing with appeals under the anti-defection law. The presiding officers’ conference had discussed this issue at length but nothing happened thereafter.All presiding officers were unanimous that the legislative speakers’ power in the Tenth Schedule needs to be redefined, and I agree. Political situation was different when the Schedule was enacted. People remained committed to the ideology of their parties. But the situation has changed.What are your targets for the next three years?I want to strengthen parliamentary oversight to make the ministries and departments more accountable to Parliament. We are developing a mechanism to ensure that the government looks into all matters raised under Rule 377 and executive action is taken on all suggestions of the standing committees. We have started 24x7 service for members. We will strengthen our research wing to help MPs come better prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-change-anti-defection-law-says-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-101624031726194.html
19-06-2021||India||CM Jagan claims having filled up 6 lakh govt jobs in 2 years, TDP calls it bogus||Hyderabad: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday claimed that his government filled up more than six lakh job vacancies across various government departments in the last two years and announced filling up of another 10,143 vacancies in 2021-22. The chief minister’s comments came during an event on Friday.“Of the total 6.03 lakh jobs created, 184,264 were created regularly, 399,791 are outsourced and 19,701 are on a contract basis. The government has also increased the salaries for 702,656 posts which were paid a meagre amount in the previous government’s tenure,” CM Reddy said while releasing a calendar for conducting recruitments in the coming year.The opposition Telugu Desam Party was quick to react and described the government’s claims as a “hoax” and a “jugglery of figures.”The chief minister said it was for the first time in the history of the state that the unemployed youth would know the exact month of the release of job notification and the number of vacant posts. He said that the entire recruitment process would be done transparently without the involvement of any middlemen. The selection would be done based on the marks obtained in the written test conducted by the government without any interviews. CM Jagan claimed that in the last two years, his government filled up a total of 603,756 jobs vacancies, including 1.22 lakh permanent jobs in the village and ward secretariats. Another 2.50 lakh youths were recruited as village and ward volunteers.As per the latest job calendar, the notification to fill 1,238 backlog SC, ST and DA posts will be released in July. The notification for another 36 posts in the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) group 1&2 category would be issued in August, in September for 450 police jobs, in October for 451 posts in the health department. The notification for 5,251 paramedical, lab technicians and pharmacist jobs would be issued in November and for 441 nurse jobs in December.In January 2022, there would be a notification for the recruitment of 240 lecturer posts in degree colleges, for 2,000 posts as assistant professors in universities in February 2022 and 36 posts in other departments will be filled in March 2022.Senior TDP leader and former finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu ridiculed the chief minister’s claims and called them bogus. “The claims are just bogus. Can the government disclose the names and telephone numbers of those who were recruited in the last two years?” he asked.Ramakrishnudu wondered how could the Jagan government call the merger of over 50,000 Road Transport Corporation employees, working for several decades into the state government’s road transport authority, as new recruitments.“Similarly, 95,112 outsourced employees appointed during the TDP regime in various departments are now being shown as new recruits under AP Outsourced Employees Corporation,” he pointed out.The minister alleged that over two lakh village and ward volunteers, claimed to have been recruited by the government, were none other than YSRC workers. “They were not recruited through any public service commission but via recommendations. Each of them is being paid a paltry ₹5,000 per month. If they are government employees, they should get at least ₹18,000 per month as per the Minimum Wages Act,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-claims-having-filled-up-6-lakh-govt-jobs-in-2-years-tdp-calls-it-bogus-101624017805426.html
19-06-2021||India||Forest guards gun down tiger in ‘self defence’ near Kaziranga park||The carcass of a tiger, suspected to have been killed in accidental firing by forest officials as they tried to scare him away from a village, was found on the outskirts of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) in Assam on Friday, officials said.According to a statement by the forest department, the carcass was found at 7.10am by forest personnel near Japoripathar in the Karuabari area on the periphery of KNPTR. “On enquiry, it was found that the tiger died due to a bullet wound, suspected to be [from] accidental firing while trying to scare away the tiger from the public area,” the statement added.P Sivakumar, KNPTR director, said the 10-year-old male tiger strayed away from the park and killed a cow in a nearby village on Thursday.A team of forest personnel was sent to the area to scare away the animal and direct it back to the park, he said. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the tiger attacked our team and a bullet fired in self-defence by a forest personnel accidentally hit the animal...,” he said.The forest department has ordered an inquiry to probe the incident, Sivakumar said, adding: “If there was any lapse on the part of forest personnel in the incident that led to the tiger’s death, proper action would be taken.” A post-mortem was conducted and the results are awaited.This is the third tiger death to be reported from the national park this year.Earlier this month, the carcass of a four-year-old tiger was found at Sidha Kathani area of the park. Officials said there were multiple injury marks on the tiger’s body and they suspected that he died after sustaining grievous injuries during a fight with another tiger.A female tiger cub’s body was found with puncture marks on the neck and broken ribs in February this year. Forest officials said that the cub, just over 4 months old, may have been killed by an adult tiger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-carcass-with-bullet-wound-found-in-assam-s-kaziranga-101623999204299.html
19-06-2021||India||Panel formed to settle theaterisation concerns||The government has constituted an expert panel for consultations on the military’s theaterisation plans before seeking the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to implement the long-awaited military reform to optimally utilise the resources of the armed forces, officials aware of the matter said on Friday.“A committee has been formed to look into different aspects of theaterisation. It has members of the armed forces, defence ministry and other ministries involved in the planning and implementation aspects,” said one of the officials.Issues related to theaterisation were discussed and examined in detail by top officials who reviewed a draft cabinet note on new joint structures at a meeting this month, as reported by HT on Thursday. HT learns that there were some differences that emerged at that meeting and that the panel is expected to address these.The key points discussed included the executing authority for theatre commands, the geographies they will control, command and control structures, budgeting and placing some paramilitary forces under the commands. Some of these issues involve the finance and home ministries.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.HT reported in February that India was set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command likely to be launched by May. “Processes have to be followed before the proposal is sent to the CCS for approval. We have to have more discussions to iron out the details of the theaterisation plan. All stakeholders have to be in agreement... But there will be no inordinate delay,” another official said on Thursday.Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources.Experts said building consensus among all stakeholders was crucial to take the theaterisation plan forward.There are some very substantive issues involved in the raising of theatre commands, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “...Theatre commands are essential, but the model can only be successfully implemented if there is a consensus within the three services, which currently appears to be lacking. Hopefully, the new committee can iron out the differences,” Hooda added.The government expects General Bipin Rawat, who took charge as India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve this is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.The operational control of all the theatre commands will eventually come under CDS, with the service chiefs being responsible for raising, training and sustaining their forces, as previously reported by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-formed-to-take-theaterisation-talks-forward-101623996804112.html
19-06-2021||India||Assam Congress MLA resigns; set to join ruling BJP next week||The Congress in Assam suffered a setback on Friday as one of its MLAs resigned from the assembly citing the party high command’s failure to listen to their second-tier leaders. Rupjyoti Kurmi, who won from the Mariani seat in Jorhat district for a fourth consecutive term, said he is set to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coming Monday.Kurmi submitted his resignation as legislator to assembly Speaker Biswajit Daimary, one and half months after his win, and was accompanied by two BJP MLAs — parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika and chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s political secretary Jayanta Malla Baruah.Addressing the media, Kurmi said: “I was assured of the post of Leader of Opposition in the assembly but was denied that later. I had applied for the post of the party’s state president, but didn’t get that. The party didn’t include my name in the list of members for public accounts committee of state assembly. It seems the Congress doesn’t want leaders like me, who belong to a particular community, to rise.”“I must congratulate the hard work and dedication with which chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is working and am confident that there will be all-round development in the state under his leadership. That’s why, I have decided to join the BJP coming Monday,” he added.The Congress, meanwhile, expelled Kurmi from the party with immediate effect.The decision to expel Kurmi for “his anti-party activities” has been approved by the AICC, said state unit chief Ripun Bora||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-mla-resigns-set-to-join-ruling-bjp-next-week-101623995786119.html
