20-06-2021||India||City bars can open till 10pm at 50% capacity||Bars can reopen with 50% seating capacity from Monday and so can public parks, gardens, golf clubs and outdoor yoga activities, the Delhi government said on Sunday as it withdrew lockdown restrictions for the fourth consecutive week to revive the city’s economy hit by the second wave of the pandemic.The order also said that cinema halls, gymnasiums, spas, schools, colleges and all educational institutes, swimming pools, auditoriums and banquet halls will remain closed for at least another week, till 5am on June 28.The relaxations have been permitted at a time when courts and public health experts have warned states and Union territories against reopening too fast and triggering another outbreak. A third national wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, they warn, may be even deadlier than the previous one as the virus may evolve.Delhi enforced a strict lockdown, largely allowing only essential activities and services to continue, from April 19. The government began a phased withdrawal of curbs from June, starting with resuming factory operations and construction work and eventually allowing most businesses to reopen.“Bars are allowed up to 50% of the seating capacity from 12 noon to 10pm,” the order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said on Sunday. The statement underscored that the owners of the restaurants and the bars will be held responsible for strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and guidelines. “In case any violation is found, strict penal criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant/bar,” it added.Other than that, “public parks, gardens, golf clubs, and outdoor yoga activities will be allowed. Apart from the individual, parks/gardens owning agencies (MCDs, DDA, NDMC, DCB etc.) as well as the concerned RWA, owners/directors of golf clubs, yoga instructors shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order said.The DDMA statement also permitted outdoor yoga activities from Monday, but it said yoga centres will remain shut for now. It also specified operating hours for dine-in at restaurants, which opened last week with 50% seating capacity, from 8am to 10pm. The other existing norms remain the same.All shops and salons in markets, multiplexes and malls had completely reopened from June 14, but weekly markets will continue to operate in a restricted manner. Public buses and Delhi Metro services will run as usual at 50% seating capacity, and cabs and auto-rickshaws can carry two passengers per vehicle.Additionally, the cap of 20 guests for weddings, which can only be held at courts or inside personal residences, will remain. Funerals can be held with up to 20 people in attendance. All gatherings — social, religious, political and sports — are barred, and the prohibition of visitors in places of worship will continue, the order said.The second national wave of infections — dominated by a more transmissible “Delta” variant of the virus — was also the world’s worst outbreak between March and May this year. India recorded over 400,000 cases in a single day several times in early May — the highest any country has ever seen in more than a year of the pandemic.The national capital took a particularly hard hit during this time. The city’s health infrastructure collapsed under the massive caseload, and in April, residents of the Capital ran pillar to post for hospital beds, essential life-saving drugs and even medical oxygen. The dire situation eased only in May after a flurry of directions by the courts. Weeks later, markets and public places in Delhi are back to seeing high footfalls, with people crowding the area with little or no regard for social distancing and mask hygiene. Last week, the Delhi high court took note of the rules being flouted and warned authorities that the Capital will be in “great trouble” if this continues.The Union home ministry on Saturday also warned all states/UTs not to become complacent about reopening and be on the guard against another potential outbreak.An official of the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government said on Sunday that the lockdown has been eased keeping in mind the city’s economy. Gym owners said were disappointed with the continued ban. “Thousands of gym owners are now forced to shut their gyms... As a mark of our protest against this order, will are announcing a complete boycott of the Yoga day,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president, Delhi Gym Association. Experts say it is crucial that authorities balance economic revival with caution about a potential third wave. Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Vellore, said: “People have to be responsible and there should be strict and intense enforcement drives. Vaccination numbers also need to be increased gradually. The government should keep a close watch on Covid-19 trends and take its time in lifting restrictions from closed spaces such as gyms, cinema halls, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-bars-can-open-till-10pm-at-50-capacity-101624213714006.html
20-06-2021||India||Centre rules out ₹4 lakh ex-gratia for deaths due to Covid-19||The Centre has ruled out an ex-gratia compensation of ₹four lakh for each of the nearly 3.85 lakh people who died due to Covid-19 in the country.In an affidavit filed late on Saturday in the Supreme Court, the Centre said that the finances of both Centre and State are under severe strain due to reduced tax revenues and increased expenditure on health infrastructure on account of the pandemic. Looking at the scale of deaths caused by the pandemic that is still not over, the Centre felt it won’t be wise to spend the scarce financial resources for granting ex-gratia.“Already the finances of State Governments and the Central Government are under severe strain, due to the reduction in tax revenues and increase in health expenses on account of the pandemic. Thus, utilization of scarce resources for giving ex-gratia, may have unfortunate consequences of affecting the pandemic response and health expenditure in other aspects and hence cause more damage than good,” stated the affidavit filed by Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs.The Centre also warned Courts from interfering in policy decisions. It said, “It is well settled through numerous judgments of the Supreme Court that this is a matter which should be performed by the authority (National Disaster Management Authority), to whom it has been entrusted and not one where the Court will substitute its own judgment for the decision to be taken by the Executive. Any attempt to second guess may create unintended and unfortunate Constitutional and administrative ramifications.”The affidavit came in response to two PILs listed before the Supreme Court on Monday. The PILs filed by two lawyers – Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal – referred to two notifications of the Central Government, one issued on March 14, 2020 declaring Covid-19 as a notified disaster under the National Disaster Management Act 2005 (DMA) and the other issued on April 8, 2015 quantifying ex-gratia compensation of ₹4 lakh to victims killed in a notified disaster.As per Section 12(iii) of DMA, this money is to be paid from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). In addition, Bansal’s petition raised the issue of compensation for health care workers who have died while performing Covid-19 duties.The Centre stated that Public Health is a state subject and the burden would fall on the SDRF to pay the compensation. For all states combined, the total budget allocated to SDRF this year comes to ₹22,184 crore. “If the entire SDRF funds get consumed on ex-gratia for Covid-19 victims, the States may not have sufficient funds for organizing Covid-19 response, for provision of various essential medical and other supplies, or to take care of other disasters like cyclones, floods, etc,” the Centre submitted.As regards healthcare workers, the Centre informed about its scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) offering a comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs. 50 lakh to 22.12 lakh for healthcare providers. The government has so far settled 477 claims of healthcare workers under this scheme by releasing ₹442.4 crore to the insurance company.The claim for compensation was further denied on the ground that there existed no precedent for granting ex-gratia for an ongoing disease or for a disaster event extending into several months or years. “Granting ex-gratia for one disease, while denying the same for those accounting for larger share of mortality, would not be fair or proper,” the reply stated.The affidavit also explained the context for declaring Covid-19 as a notified disaster in March 2020. While states were provided funds to deal with Covid-19 under the National Health Mission, in order to supplement efforts of the State governments, the Centre decided to declare Covid-19 as a disaster by way of a “special one-time dispensation”. This was done to facilitate use of funds under SDRF towards measures for quarantining, sample collection, screening, and procurement of essential equipment or labs for response to Covid-19, the Centre told the Court.The response of the Centre will be taken up by a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah on Monday.The petitions also raised an underlying issue about hospitals and municipal authorities not citing Covid-19 as cause of death in their records. Kansal’s petition specifically pointed out that many of these deaths were shown as failed heart or lung condition even though the root cause was Covid-19. The petition wanted to fix this situation to enable kin of Covid-19 victims to receive compensation.Addressing this issue, the Centre cited its October 9, 2020 letter issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs (MoHFW) to all states and union territories. Reproducing the text from the letter, the affidavit said, “All deaths with a diagnosis of Covid-19, irrespective of co-morbidities, are to be classified as deaths due to Covid-19.” This rule was not to apply to a death due to accidental trauma, poisoning, acute myocardial infarction where Covid-19 was an incidental finding. These were part of Death Certification guidelines issued by Centre to States/UTs.The Centre stated that anybody who failed to register Covid-19 deaths (even certifying doctor) will suffer penal consequences under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code which punishes acts in breach of public servant’s order. Such offences are punishable with an imprisonment ranging between one to six months or fine.What was envisaged under DMA was a catastrophe or calamity such as earthquake, flood which is a one-time incident or few periodic incidents. “Due to its scale and impact, it would not be appropriate to apply the scheme of assistance, eligible for natural disasters, to the epidemic,” the Centre said.The Government gave statistics of its spending under various central schemes linked with Covid-19 relief to show its continued spending for Covid-19 mitigation. It even shared budget estimate for 2021-22 for mass vaccination to the tune of ₹35,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rules-out-rs-4-lakh-ex-gratia-for-deaths-due-to-covid19-101624213235654.html
20-06-2021||India||CBI probes aid fraud, quizzes man ‘killed’ in train accident||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has begun a probe into the compensation granted to the family of a purported victim of the 2010 Gyaneswari Express accident after an investigation by the vigilance department of the South-Eastern Railway found that the man was alive.The alleged victim, Amritava Chaudhury, a resident of Jorabagan area of central Kolkata, was declared dead along with 147 others in the aftermath of the accident that claimed 148 lives and left nearly 200 people injured.His sister, Mahua Gupta, was granted a government job and his family received the monetary compensation, CBI officials said.On May 28, 2010, a goods train hit five compartments of the Mumbai-bound Gyaneswari Express that landed on the adjacent railway tracks after 13 of the compartments derailed in West Midnapore district of West Bengal. The accident happened during a four-day strike of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) and it was suspected that members of the banned outfit removed a portion of the tracks, leading to the derailment. A probe was conducted by the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and a few arrests were made.Many bodies of the victims were damaged beyond recognition. While the identification process went on for years which included DNA tests, families of the many of the victims alleged that the bodies of their relatives were claimed and cremated by others.According to a CBI official, the people involved in the fraud produced DNA samples that matched with the members of Chaudhury’s family to claim the compensation of ₹2 lakh and a government job announced by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Mamata Banerjee, who was then the Union railway minister, also announced ₹5 lakh each for these families while the state government announced a compensation of ₹3 lakh.“Efforts are on to ascertain whose body was handed over to the Chaudhury family,” another official said. It wasn’t immediately clear if Chaudhury was travelling on the train at the time of the accident.Chaudhury, along with his father Mihir Chaudhury, were questioned by the CBI at Nizam Palace on Sunday afternoon.Following his interrogation, Chaudhury said he is ready to return the compensation and his sister would resign from the government job. “I have been framed,” he told reporters.CBI officials suspect that railway employees were also involved in the fraud and have filed a case.On receiving a complaint that the man is alive, the vigilance department of the railways conducted a probe and finding substance in the allegation, referred the matter to the CBI, an official said, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-probes-aid-fraud-quizzes-man-killed-in-train-accident-101624212933425.html
20-06-2021||India||CBI questions Kolkata man declared ‘dead’ in Gyaneswari Express accident in 2010||Eleven years after he was declared dead in the Gyaneswari Express accident along with 147 other passengers, Amritava Chaudhury, a resident of Jorabagan area in north Kolkata, was interrogated for hours by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday, in connection with a scam that allegedly helped the man’s sister get a government job. His family, too, was paid monetary compensation by the state and the Centre, officials said.The suspect’s father, Mihir Chaudhury, was also questioned. The Chaudhurys were summoned to the anti-corruption branch of the CBI at Nizam Palace on Sunday afternoon. They have been asked to appear again. Amritava Chaudhury told the media that he is ready to return the monetary compensation along with interest and his sister would resign from the job she was given. “I have been framed,” he said.CBI officials said Amritava Chaudhury invested the money in his business.Thirteen compartments of the Mumbai-bound Gyaneswari Express got derailed in West Midnapore district on May 28, 2010, and five of these landed on the adjacent railway tracks. The five compartments were hit by a goods train coming from the opposite direction. As many as 148 passengers were killed and around 200 were injured. The compartments were completely mangled. Many bodies were crushed beyond recognition and could not be identified. Several families alleged that the remains of what they suspected to be bodies of their relatives were taken away by others and cremated. The identification process went on for several years and DNA tests were done.The accident took place during a four-day strike called by the Communist Party of India (Maoist) and it was suspected that the guerrillas, who were operating in the region at that time, removed a portion of the railway track that led to the derailment.The then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each for the kin of the deceased as well as a government job. Mamata Banerjee, who was then the Union railway minister, announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh each for these families while the state government announced a compensation of ₹3 lakh.CBI officials, who did not want to be quoted, said Chaudhury was declared dead and people involved in the scam produced DNA samples claiming that it belonged to him and matched with members of his family. The matter came to light during a probe by the vigilance department of the South-Eastern Railway and the CBI filed a case on June 9. CBI officials suspect the involvement of some railway employees.CBI officials are trying to find out whose body was handed over to the Chaudhurys and who fudged the DNA reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-kolkata-man-declared-dead-in-gyaneswari-express-accident-in-2010-101624209214081.html
20-06-2021||India||International Yoga Day: PM Modi writes to Lankan, Brazilian presidents||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote to Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa last month and thanked them for their cooperation in celebrating the International Day of Yoga.In his letter to President Rajapaksa, Modi expressed his gratitude for making Yoga Day celebrations in Sri Lanka a resounding success every year.The prime minister, in the letter dated May 25, noted that the 'Yoga For Wellness' theme this year reflected the concern for the good health and wellbeing of people across the globe, according to a tweet by the Indian mission in Lanka.In his letter to Brazilian President Bolsanaro dated May 14, Modi said in 2014, the overwhelming response of the United Nations General Assembly to recognise June 21 as International Day of Yoga underlined the universal appeal of Yoga that transcends all barriers.Since then, the International Day of Yoga has been marked globally with great fervour, he noted.The Missions of India abroad have been coordinating activities in the run-up to International Day of Yoga on June 21 in their respective countries, and as per reports, Yoga Day will be observed in about 190 nations globally, the Ayush Ministry had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-yoga-day-pm-modi-writes-to-lankan-brazilian-presidents-101624207749482.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Metro, bus services to resume services in Chennai starting Monday||Metro services in Chennai will resume with 50 per cent capacity after the Tamil Nadu government announced more relaxations in lockdown norms for 27 districts starting Monday. Similarly, intra and inter-district bus (non-airconditioned) services will also become operational in four districts including Chennai with 50 per cent seat occupancy, the government announced in a statement on Sunday.This comes after a gap of 42 days of lockdown-like restrictions that were imposed to control the Covid-19 outbreak during the second wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, the state government has retained the lockdown in the state for another week, till June 28. In the latest order, the state government categorised 38 districts into three separate groups for the purpose of easing curbs. The government allowed more relaxations for 23 districts in the second category and four districts in the third slot got the most relaxations that include the resumption of bus services.Meanwhile, schools, colleges and universities will remain closed for regular classes.With a spike in daily cases of Covid-19, the state government clamped a lockdown from May 10 and most services including public transportation came to a halt.On May 21, Tamil Nadu recorded its highest single-day spike of daily cases as 36,184 cases contracted the disease in 24 hours. Since then the cases began to gradually decrease. In view of this, the government has been reopening economic activities in a phased manner.Continuing the declining trend, Tamil Nadu logged 7,817 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the caseload to 2.42 million, while 182 deaths took the toll to 31,197.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-metro-bus-services-to-resume-services-in-chennai-starting-monday-101624208076684.html
20-06-2021||India||Free Covid-19 vaccination from tomorrow: List of dos and don'ts||India will enter a significant phase of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 from June 21 where everybody above the age of 18 will be provided free vaccination from the Centre. From tomorrow, prior registration on Co-Win will not remain mandatory which is likely to increase the number of daily vaccination. In this phase, starting from tomorrow, the government is aiming to inoculate 50 lakh people per day. As of now, the daily number is below 40 lakh.The government has taken additional measures to make the private sector a part of this phase by keeping 25 per cent of vaccines for private hospitals to procure. But they will not be above to overcharge as the price has been capped.Though prior registration is not required, all vaccination will be documented on Co-Win portal. Hence, beneficiaries must ensure that they are registered on the site before vaccination.If you are going to a government hospital> Vaccination will be free.> Prior registration on Co-Win is not mandatory, as the government allows on-spot registration starting from tomorrow.If you are going to a private hospital> Prior registration on Co-Win is not needed.> Do not pay more than ₹1,410 for Covaxin, ₹790 for Covishield and ₹1,145 for Sputnik V, as the Centre has capped the maximum price of these vaccines at private hospitals.How to verify a vaccination certificateAs several cases of vaccine scams are being reported, it is important to check the authenticity of the vaccine certificate.> Go to verify.cowin.gov.in which has an option for Scan QR code.> Click on that button.> A notification will prompt you to activate your device’s camera.> Point the camera to the QR code on the certificate issued and scan> After verification, it will show the name, age, gender, certificate ID, date of issuance, the name of the vaccination facility etc.> If the certificate is not genuine, a 'certificate invalid' message will be displayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-covid-19-vaccination-from-tomorrow-list-of-dos-and-donts-101624205149875.html
20-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep admin moots proposal to shift HC jurisdiction from Kerala to Karnataka||The Lakshadweep administration, which has been facing widespread protests from the islands' people over some of its policies, has mooted a proposal to shift its legal jurisdiction from the Kerala High Court to the Karnataka High Court, officials said.The proposal was initiated by the administration after several litigations were moved before the Kerala High Court against the decisions taken by the islands' new administrator Praful Khoda Patel.These decisions included revising standard operating procedures for Covid appropriate behaviour, introduction of the "goonda act" and demolishing hutments of fishermen for widening of roads.Patel, who is the administrator of Daman and Diu, was given the additional charge of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep in the first week of December last year, when the former administrator Dineshwar Sharma died after a brief illness.This year, as many as 23 applications, including 11 writ petitions, have been filed against the administrator of Lakshadweep and also against the alleged high-handedness of either the police or the local government of the islands.However, for reasons best known to the island's administration, which is under the spotlight over its handling of these issues, it has made a proposal for shifting its legal jurisdiction from the high court of Kerala to Karnataka.Efforts to seek comments from the advisor of the administrator, A Anbarasu, and Collector of Lakshadweep S Asker Ali did not fructify.Mails to their official e-mails and WhatsApp messages did not elicit any response to a question asking the rationale behind mooting of the proposal for shifting of legal jurisdiction.The jurisdiction of a high court can be shifted only through an act of Parliament, according to the law."Parliament may by law constitute a high court for a Union Territory or declare any court in any such territory to be a high court for all or any of the purposes of this Constitution," according to Article 241 of the Constitution.Section 4 of the same article mentions that "nothing in this article derogates from the power of Parliament to extend or exclude the jurisdiction of a high court for a state to, or from, any Union Territory or part thereof".Talking to PTI over phone, Lok Sabha member Mohammed Faizal P P said, "This was his (Patel) first attempt to shift the judicial jurisdiction from Kerala to Karnataka.""Why was he so particular to transfer it... it's totally a misappropriation of the post. The mother tongue of the people on these islands is Malayalam," he said."One should not forget the name of the high court is Kerala and Lakshadweep High Court. This proposal was conceived during his first visit to the islands," Faizal said and asked was there a need for this and how could he justify the proposal.Faizal said there have been 36 administrators before Patel and no one had this kind of an idea."However, if this proposal will see any light of the day, we will oppose it tooth and nail on the floor of Parliament as well as with the judiciary," the Lok Sabha member from Nationalist Congress Party said.He said the Save Lakshadweep Front (SLF) has been making appeals to the Centre for changing the administrator at the earliest."The SLF is a non-violent people's movement which has been requesting the central leadership to change Patel with someone who can be people's administrator," he added.Legal experts from Lakshadweep said that Malayalam is the spoken as well as the written language both in Kerala and Lakshadweep and, therefore, the process could be streamlined.Shifting of the jurisdiction of the high court will change the entire judicial system of the islands as all the judicial officers are sent from the Kerala High Court because of the common language and script.Prominent lawyer from Lakshadweep, C N Noorul Hidya, said that she had heard about the issue of changing jurisdiction."But that is not the right move. How can they change the jurisdiction when we share the bond of language and the court documents are accepted in Malayalam language only," Hidya told PTI over phone from Lakshadweep.She said that most of the people will be opposing any such move as that would virtually lead them to denial of justice."One has to understand that the high court in Kerala is just 400 kms away whereas that of Karnataka is over 1,000 kms with no direct connectivity as well," Hidya said.Legal experts also opined that changing of high court would also mean extra-burden on the exchequer as all the cases, at present under trial, would have to be heard again afresh. PTI SKL ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-admin-moots-proposal-to-shift-hc-jurisdiction-from-kerala-101624204658399.html
20-06-2021||India||RSS offshoot wants WTO to relax provisions for patent free access to make vaccines||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an offshoot of the RSS has urged the World Trade Organization (WTO) to relax the provisions of its Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement for patent free access to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines and medicines.SJM’s national co-convenor, Ashwani Mahajan on Sunday said there is a need to scale up the production of vaccines to protect people against new Covid-19 infections. “To protect people from Coronavirus, the world needs about 14 billion vaccine doses, whereas in the last 6 months, only 200 crore doses of vaccines could be produced by all eight pharma companies,” Mahajan said.To meet the gap in production, the SJM has suggested that global pharmaceutical companies should voluntarily transfer technology, raw material sources and trade secrets, to other pharma companies to facilitate production of vaccines and medicines free from patents. It has also called for governments to use their sovereign rights to licence more pharmaceutical firms to make vaccines.India, which has recorded 386,713 Covid-19 deaths so far has administered more than 27 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses since it began the vaccination drive on January 16, data from the Union health ministry shows. In October 2020, India and South Africa at the WTO had jointly proposed a waiver on intellectual property on medicinal tools for vaccines.Mahajan cautioned that unless the restrictions on manufacture of vaccines are lifted, the immunization programme will be hampered. “At the current rate, it may take another 2-3 years for the world’s eligible population to be vaccinated. It is imperative to vaccinate all the people all over the globe at a much faster pace, because ‘no one will be safe until everyone is safe’,” Mahajan said.The SJM has been pushing for relaxing patent laws even if it is for a limited period, to increase the production of vaccines and medicines. An online signature campaign for ‘Universal Access to Vaccine and Medicines’ started by the SJM, which has so far got support of 14 lakh people from India and abroad will be submitted to WTO, governments of different countries and to the companies that produce the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-offshoot-wants-wto-to-relax-provisions-for-patent-free-access-to-make-vaccines-101624204113610.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: WHO chief scientist's take on Covid-19 booster shot and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Will a Covid-19 booster shot be required? Here's what WHO's chief scientist saysAs the Delta variant is emerging as new reason for concerns, many countries and pharmaceuticals are thinking of an additional shot of vaccine after complete vaccination. Read more here.Amitabh Bachchan’s family priest beaten up by police at Vindhyachal templeThe clashes erupted after policemen escorted the Chandauli district magistrate and his family to the temple and performed prayers despite the weekend lockdown. Read more here. The politics of foreign aid in IndiaRecent Covid-19 aid to India has stirred a debate. But India neither stopped accepting aid after 2004, nor is accepting aid a sign of weakness. Read more here.Jackie Shroff on going bankrupt after Boom failed: 'My wife didn't want the house back'After the Ayesha Shroff produced Boom flopped at the box office, Jackie Shroff and his family found themselves in a erratic financial position. The actor opened up about the impact of the failure. Read more here. New Zealand's Kyle Jamieson bags second five-wicket haul in Tests against India, surpasses Ashwin for new WTC recordNew Zealand pacer Kyle Jamieson played a crucial part in helping his side bundle out India for 217 in their first innings by claiming a record-breaking five-wicket haul in Southampton. Read more here. 'Mission Impossible': Harsh Goenka shares clip of monkeys climbing down buildingBusiness tycoon Harsh Goenka recently took to Twitter to share an incredible clip of two monkey coming down from the top of a high building with utter ease. The video has now grabbed netizens’ attention and may leave you stunned at the monkeys’ skills. See here. Watch: Monkey inside Metro train in Delhi; sits next to passengers, climbs pole||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-who-chief-scientist-s-take-on-covid-19-booster-shot-and-101624202463035.html
20-06-2021||India||Will a Covid-19 booster shot be required? Here's what WHO's chief scientist says||World Health Organization's chief scientists Soumya Swaminathan has recently said that there is not enough information to either confirm or dismiss the requirement of a booster shot after the Covid-19 vaccination. The United Kingdom has launched a countrywide study to explore whether a third shot of the same vaccine will provide greater coverage to people who have already been fully vaccinated. Chances of reinfections are less but breakthrough infections have taken place all over the world.The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which marketed Sputnik V, said it will offer a booster shot, which has high potential to work against the Delta variant of coronavirus, first detected in India, to other vaccine manufacturers. This is because Sputnik V is more effective against the Delta variant than other vaccine makers, RDIF said.What is a booster shot?All the present vaccines comprise two doses. It is not clearly known how long the effect of vaccination stays and so many countries are thinking of an annual shot.Too premature, says WHOSoumya Swaminathan said it is premature to consider this as many high-risk individuals in most of the world have not yet got their full vaccination. Data from countries introducing precautionary extra inoculations later this year -- particularly for vulnerable people whose immunity to SARS-CoV-2 may wane faster -- will inform WHO’s guidance, she said.Delta variant, first detected in India, is seen as the reason behind fresh Covid-19 outbreaks in the UK and many other European countries. Meanwhile, another mutation of Delta variant, Delta Plus, has been reported in India which, the government said, is not yet a variant of concern. India is looking forward to the first three-dose vaccine ZyCov-D which will come to the Drug Controller General of India for approval in a few days. WHO earlier expressed concern over how Delta variant is becoming the dominant variant because of its significantly increased transmissibility. "We need more data, again from well-designed studies on the efficacy of the different vaccines that are in use in different countries against the different variants. So what this means is that there has to be in place, a study that uses a good design," Swaminathan said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-a-covid-19-booster-shot-be-required-here-s-what-who-s-chief-scientist-says-101624199846966.html
20-06-2021||India||In major milestone, Andhra Pradesh vaccinates over a million people in a day||In a major milestone for Andhra Pradesh, health officials vaccinated more than a million people in a single day against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday. As of 6pm today, a total of 1,256,215 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine. The number is expected to rise further as the drive is still underway in several parts of the state.According to a report by PTI, 11 million people in the state have received the first dose of the jab, while 2.729 million people have been administered the second dose since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme began on January 16 nationwide.The mega vaccination drive, with a focus on people above the age of 45 years and mothers with children under five years, began at 6 am in more than 2,200 locations in all 13 districts of the state. By 2 pm, the authorities inoculated 902,308 people, according to the figures by the state health department. By 3.30 pm, the number crossed a million mark.The authorities are aiming to administer 1.4 million doses by the end of the day.The two Godavari districts, East and West, topped the list with 0.148 million and 0.143 million vaccinations so far on Sunday. Krishna, Visakhapatnam and Guntur also crossed 100,000-mark each. In the previous single-day jump, 628,961 people were vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh on April 14.Meanwhile, the state reported 5,646 fresh Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours. While 7,772 people recovered and another 50 succumbed to the viral disease. The death toll in the state now stands at 12,319 and the active caseload has now reduced to 63,068, according to the daily health bulletin released on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-major-milestone-andhra-pradesh-vaccinates-over-a-million-people-in-a-day-101624199909137.html
20-06-2021||India||International Yoga Day: Will address Yoga Day programme tomorrow, PM Modi tweets||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 7th Yoga Day programme on the occasion of the International Yoga Day on June 21 at around 6.30am, he tweeted. The theme of this year's Yoga Day is Yoga for wellness, which focuses on practising Yoga for both physical and mental well being."Tomorrow, 21st June, we will mark the 7th Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental well-being. At around 6:30 AM tomorrow, will be addressing the Yoga Day programme," PM Modi tweeted. The event will be live telecast on all Doordarshan channels.Tomorrow, 21st June, we will mark the 7th Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focusses on practising Yoga for physical and mental well-being. At around 6:30 AM tomorrow, will be addressing the Yoga Day programme.The main event of the day will be a televised programme as there are restrictions on congregations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The event will also include an address by the minister of state for Ayush, Kiren Rijiju, and a live Yoga demonstration by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga.In a statement issued by the Ayush ministry, throughout the tough times of the pandemic, the ministry took up several digital initiatives to make the practice of Yoga accessible to maximum people. The Missions of India abroad are coordinating various activities in the run-up to the day in their respective countries, and as per reports, Yoga Day will be observed in about 190 countries globally, the ministry said.The culture minister will celebrate the day through events at 75 cultural places in the country. Four cities in Maharashtra have been selected for this campaign which are - Aga Khan Palace, Pune, Kanheri Caves, Mumbai, Ellora Caves, Aurangabad, and Old High Court Building, Nagpur.The United Nations recognised June 21 as the International Day of Yoga in 2014 after PM Modi took the initiative, the Ayush ministry said. Since 2015, the day has evolved into a mass movement for health, around the world, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-yoga-day-pm-modi-to-address-the-7th-yoga-day-programme-at-630am-101624192569034.html
20-06-2021||India||AIIMS professor lists factors determining Covid-19 third wave||Amid concerns over a possible third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) professor listed out factors that could determine waves of the viral disease. "One is virus-related and second is human-related factors," Neeraj Nischal, assistant professor of the department of medicine in AIIMS said on Sunday, ANI reported."The mutation of the virus is beyond our control. Through Covid-appropriate behaviour one can stop these waves," he said, as per the news agency.Underlining the importance of vaccination, Nischal said that it will "help in preventing you from getting an infection." "Even if u get infected then it will ensure that you don't get a severe form of the disease," Nischal added.This comes as the health officials are rallying to prepare for the Covid-19 third wave, predicted by many researchers and doctors. On Saturday, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria warned against the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that it can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks."If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed, the third wave can happen in six to eight weeks. We need to work aggressively to prevent another large wave till vaccination kicks in," the news agency PTI quoted the senior doctor as saying.Earlier, Dr MV Padma Srivastava, head of the department of neurology at AIIMS also predicted the same. "Everybody is saying not to let your guard down. Otherwise, we will hit the third wave," she said."We have the history of a hundred years ago that even the Spanish flu pandemic did have a third wave, so history is repeating itself. This is being said because of the number of variants and inappropriate behaviour among other things," she also said.Meanwhile, the Delta variant of Covid-19 is infecting people in the United Kingdom in an exponential number as authorities were planning to reopen the economy. According to reports, the highly transmissible variant first identified in India is now making 99 per cent of fresh Covid-19 cases in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-professor-lists-factors-determining-covid-19-third-wave-101624191290621.html
20-06-2021||India||Chennai Police bring back ex-AIADMK minister arrested from Bengaluru||The Chennai police on Sunday arrested former AIADMK IT minister M Manikandan from Bengaluru on a slew of charges filed by a Malaysian-Tamil woman, including rape and criminal intimidation, HT has learnt. “He was taken to the Anekal police station in Bengaluru first and now we are on-route to Chennai to conduct further investigations,” said an investigating officer who did not wish to be identified. Two special teams were formed to nab him after he had evaded arrest.The politician’s anticipatory bail plea was rejected by the Madras high court on June 16 to prevent the accused from tampering with evidence given his past powerful position and under circumstances where the charges are grave. The police had booked Manikandan under sections 417 (punishment for cheating), 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) & 506(i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code read with section 67A of the Information Technology Act.According to the submissions made in court, the complainant, a Malaysian citizen working in the Malaysian Tourism Development Organisation, was introduced to Manikandan by one Bharani, a second accused in the case, in May 2017. Manikandan was the Information Technology minister at that time.The two were in a relationship for a few years having stayed and travelled together. The complainant says Manikandan promised to marry her after divorcing his wife. The complainant charged the politician with rape, forcing her to abort three pregnancies, hitting her and issuing death threats to her.Manikandan’s counsel told the court that there was not ‘an iota of truth’ to the complaints and that she was 27-years old at that time and consented to sexual intercourse. The counsel said that her motive was to extort money from him, adding that the complaint comes after a change in government.“On a prima facie consideration, we cannot rule out the perpetration of fraud by the petitioner (the accused) by falsely promising the defacto complainant that he will marry her in order to quench his lust for sex,” the court said in its orders passed last Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-police-bring-back-ex-aiadmk-minister-arrested-from-bengaluru-101624191514869.html
20-06-2021||India||IMD issues heavy rainfall, thunderstorm warning for these states. Check list||Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next 24 hours, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Sunday in its afternoon bulletin. This is not because of the progression of the southwest monsoon, the weather department said as the progress of the monsoon has now become slow. A low-pressure area has been formed over southeast Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood.Here are the rainfall prediction for states> Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the next 24 hours. After that, there will be a significant reduction in rainfall. This is under the influence of a low-pressure area.> Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning is very likely over East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the next 24 hours. "This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors," the weather department has warned.> Uttarakhand is also likely to receive widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls during the next 24 hours under the influence of a Western Disturbance as a trough in mid-tropospheric levels and monsoonal easterlies.> The southwest monsoon is yet to enter the remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and Punjab and the advancement is likely to be slow as "large scale features are not favourable and the forecast wind pattern by the numerical models do not indicate any favourable condition for sustained rainfall over the region during the forecast period," the IMD said.> Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Narnaul (Haryana) Viratnagar, Kotputli, Rajgarh, Alwar, Dholpur, Bayana (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours.> Heavy rainfall has been predicted at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, Gujarat, the ghat areas of Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa, Coastal and South Interior Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe, IMD's evening bulletin said. > Thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi with lightning at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, Coastal & North Interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, the bulletin said. > Rajasthan may witness dust storm or thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph). > Strong winds (speed 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph) are very likely over Southwest, West central and adjoining East central Arabian Sea. Squally weather (speed 50-60 kmph) is likely over North Bay of Bengal; (speed50-60kmph) along & off Kerala-Karnataka-Goa-south Maharashtra-Gujarat coasts and Lakshadweep area. Fishermen in these areas have been advised not to venture into the seas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heavy-rainfall-thunderstorm-in-24-hours-in-these-states-check-list-101624188828129.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Shiv Sena MLA suggests CM Thackeray to 'come close to PM Modi' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A Shiv Sena MLA has a suggestion for Uddhav Thackeray: 'Better if you get closer to PM Modi'As not all seems well between the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra, a Shiv Sena MLA has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray offering a suggestion. Political turmoil in Rajasthan as independents, BSP MLAs join hands against Sachin Pilot campThe political turmoil in Rajasthan seems to be unending, as the independents and BSP-turned-Congress MLAs have joined hands against the Sachin Pilot camp, which is demanding cabinet expansion and political appointment, HT has learnt. Free Covid-19 vaccines from tomorrow, pre-registration on Co-Win not mandatoryThe next phase of India's vaccination drive in which the Central government will provide free Covid-19 vaccines to everyone above the age of 18 years will begin from June 21, Monday, marking a significant shift from its earlier 'liberalised and accelerated' vaccination policy. Taliban insists ‘genuine Islamic system’ only way to women rights. What does it mean?The Taliban on Sunday insisted that a “genuine Islamic system” was the only way to end the decades-long war in Afghanistan and ensure women’s rights in line with cultural traditions and religious rules. 'They might knock Australia off the mantle': Brad Hogg says India women's team might be 'team to beat in four years'Former Australia spinner Brad Hogg made a bold prediction for India women's Test team saying that he sees them becoming a dominant force in about four years' time. Anushka Sharma shares unseen pic from pregnancy days in Father's Day post for Virat Kohli and her dadAnushka Sharma has shared a gallery of pictures with her husband, cricketer Virat Kohli and her father, colonel (retd) Ajay Kumar Sharma to mark Father's Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-shiv-sena-mla-suggests-cm-thackeray-to-come-close-to-pm-101624188105726.html
20-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 29. Check what is allowed||The Uttarakhand government on Sunday announced the extension of Covid-19 restrictions in place to check the spread of the infection since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic. The lockdown-like restrictions will now continue till June 29, cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal announced.Informing about the decision, Uniyal also announced certain relaxations to the curfew and allowed pilgrimage to Badrinath and Kedarnath. However, this will only be restricted to locals.The state government also gave a nod to restaurants and hotels to resume dine-in services with 50% capacity. However, they will only be allowed to invite customers from 6am to 10pm. The revised guidelines will come into effect from June 22.Uniyal also informed that the bars will also be allowed to operate with 50% capacity.The local markets can also open for three days a week, while the sweet shops have been allowed to open for five days. Autos are also allowed to operate in cities. Revenue courts can also begin work, the state government said in the latest advisory.Uttarakhand announced a statewide curfew in the first week of May along with various other states in view of the explosion in daily Covid-19 cases, Since the cases are now falling steadily it has also started the unlocking process. On April 29, the state government put the yatra, which was scheduled for May 14, on hold amid a spike in Covid cases.The active cases in the state are 3,220, while the cumulative deaths and cumulative recoveries in the state were recorded to be 7026 and 328262 respectively, as per the data of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-29-check-what-is-allowed-101624185459536.html
20-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid lockdown till June 28; allows certain relaxations||The ongoing lockdown imposed in Tamil Nadu to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been extended till June 28, the state government said on Sunday. However, several relaxations have been provided as per the latest guidelines in order to begin the unlocking process.The state government has divided all districts into three categories- Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 and different guidelines have been issued for them.Tier 1:Eleven districts including Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Salem and Erode fall under Tier 1. No additional relaxations have been provided in these districts as their active cases are high and the existing Covid-19 restrictions have been retained.Tier 2:Tier 2 comprises 24 districts including Madurai, Tiruchi, Thoothukudi, Perambalur etc.> Shops selling groceries and provisions are allowed to open for more number of hours.> E-registration is needed to travel in Cabs and autos.> Private offices can function with 33% attendance.Tier 3:Tier 3 includes state capital Chennai, Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. These districts get additional relaxations other than those given to Tier 2 districts.> Public transport has been reopened in these districts. Metro services can resume with 50% capacity. E registration is not needed to travel in cabs and autos.> Government offices can function with full capacity whereas private offices can only allow 50% attendance.> Sports and outdoor training is allowed from 6am to 7pm. However, no spectators are allowed.> Shooting of films and TV serials is permitted and only 100 people are allowed who have to be tested for Covid-19.Tamil Nadu has so far logged over 2.41 million cases and 31,015 deaths till now. On Saturday, 8,183 fresh cases were reported and 180 more people succumbed to the viral disease. The total recoveries have climbed to 2,304,885 and the active cases have dropped to 78,780, according to the state health department's bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-lockdown-till-june-28-allows-certain-relaxations-101624182696414.html
20-06-2021||India||Punjab becomes second state after MP to report first case of green fungus||Punjab on Saturday reported its first case of green fungus from Jalandhar, becoming the second state after Madhya Pradesh to record the infection.According to the District Epidemiologist at Civil Hospital, Dr Paramvir Singh, this is the first confirmed case of green fungus or aspergillosis in Punjab."The patient is around 60-years in age and has suffered from the Covid-19 infection. He is under observation. There was another case before, but it was unconfirmed," Dr Singh told ANI.The epidemiologist further said, "The person diagnosed with green fungus has the same symptoms as the Black fungus.""We do not need to panic but we should take precautions," he added.Earlier on June 14, a 34-year-old patient has been airlifted from a private hospital in Indore to Mumbai's Hinduja hospital after being detected with a green fungus infection.Ahead of this, several cases of black, yellow and white fungus were reported in different parts of the country. An outbreak of black fungus cases was reported in the state after the second wave of Covid swept through the state killing thousands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-becomes-second-state-after-mp-to-report-first-case-of-green-fungus-101624181950666.html
20-06-2021||India||AEEE 2021 Phase 2 results to be declared today. All you need to know||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham will announce the results of the Amrita Engineering Entrance Examination (AEEE) Test 2021 on Sunday. The results of the AEEE 2021 can be accessed at Amrita Online Admissions Portal at the following address aoap.amrita.edu. Candidates can follow the instructions to access their results:After the completion of all phases of AEEE 2021, the admission and counselling process for candidates will start. The last phase of AEEE 2021 will begin from July 11 to July 14. The last phase i.e. Phase III will be remotely held.The last date for sending applications for Phase III is July 5. The applications for the AEEE 2021 are available at amrita.edu. Candidates who have applied for the first two phases can also apply for the upcoming phase after submitting the willingness submission process which starts at 9am Monday.The AEEE 2021 slot booking process will begin from July 7 to July 9. Mock tests will be held before the actual exam from July 8 to July 10 between 10am to 5pm. The exams for Phase III will be held from July 11 to July 14. The exams will be held in two sessions - 10am– 11.30am, 2pm – 3.30pm. Amrita University also has allowed candidates to take a retest in case they fail in the first attempt. The retest is on July 16.Amrita University will select the best score out of all the attempts in case of a candidate who has appeared in all three phases of the AEEE 2021 while preparing the merit list. Candidates will be allotted seats based on their AEEE 2021 rank.After the declaration of the results, successful candidates will register for the Amrita University’s B.Tech Centralised Seat Allotment process (CSAP). The rank/scores of PUEE Score / JEE Mains score / SAT Score / AEEE rank is needed to apply for the CSAP. The most preferred branch will be allotted according to the rank/score.Amrita University’s campuses located in Amritapuri, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and Chennai will hold the common counselling to the candidates in all B.Tech courses. Each branch on each campus has 60 seats. Amrita University has 4 campuses in Coimbatore, Amravati, Bengaluru, and Chennai which offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aeee-2021-phase-2-results-to-be-declared-today-all-you-need-to-know-101624185667580.html
20-06-2021||India||A Shiv Sena MLA has a suggestion for Uddhav Thackeray: 'Better if you get closer to PM Modi'||As not all seems well between the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra, a Shiv Sena MLA has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray offering a suggestion. "I believe it will be better if you get closer to PM Modi...if we come together once again, it will be beneficial to the party and workers," Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarmaik has written. news agency ANI reported. In his letter, he mentioned that Congress and the NCP are trying to weaken the coalition and there seems to be veiled support from the Centre, as no central agency is behind any NCP leader, he said.'Overconfidence': Shiv Sena replies to Nana Patole's 'will go solo' commentSarnaik has recently been accused in a money laundering case. "Central agencies are targeting us for no fault of our, if you come close to PM Modi, sufferings of leaders like Ravindra Waikar, Anil Parab, Pratap Sarnaik and their families will end," he wrote.Reacting to the letter, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said if the letter is authentic, then it raises an important issue that MLAs of Maha Vikash Aghadi are being harassed. "An MLA has written to the chief minister. What should I say about this? However, he has, if the letter is authentic, raised a very important issue that MLAs of Maha Vikas Aghadi are being harassed," Raut told ANI.Congress wants to go solo in MaharashtraMaharashtra Congress has recently announced that it will go solo in all forthcoming local elections starting with the Brihanmumbai Municipal election. In the next assembly election too, Congress wants to elect alone.People will beat with footwear: UddhavShiv Sena in its mouthpiece Saamana slammed Congress' "overconfidence" and said there is no point in saying such things when one does not have the majority figure on its side. It also said Sena will continue the alliance with NCP if Congress wants to go alone. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said people would beat with footwear those who only talk about contesting elections alone without offering solutions to people's problems. He, however, did not take any party's name, as he was addressing on the occasion of Shiv Sena's 55th foundation day.‘PM Modi top leader of country and BJP’: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay RautReacting to that, Nana Patole on Sunday said it is not clear whom Uddhav referred to but the three-party alliance is only for five years and is not a permanent fixture, Patole said.As Maharashtra is gradually coming out of the Covid-19 pandemic, rumours are doing the rounds that the CM post will not remain with the Sena. Uddhav Thackeray recently held a one-on-one meeting with PM Modi in Delhi. But Shiv Sena has refuted such rumours and said when three parties formed the government, they all agreed that Uddhav Thackeray will be the chief minister for five years.In 2019, the Sena and Congress, adversaries for decades, formed government in Maharashtra along with the NCP after Sena's fall-out with the BJP in 2019.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-shiv-sena-mla-has-a-suggestion-for-uddhav-thackeray-better-if-you-get-closer-to-pm-modi-101624184511703.html
20-06-2021||India||Tripura man assaulted over weight of meat dies a week later||A meat seller in Tripura died on Saturday from injuries received in an assault by one of his customers on June 12 over the weight of meat and the accused is absconding.The incident took place at Kalikapur area in West District when Samiran Das (45) was thrashed inside his meat shop with a wooden plank used as a base to cut meat by one Shimul Das, a customer. Samiran had recently switched to selling meat since he could no longer earn a living pulling a rickshaw during Covid-19 lockdown, police said.Samiran’s wife Basanti Das lodged a complaint four days after the incident on June 16, following which, a case under Section 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code IPC was registered. According to the complaint, Samiran fell sick a day after the assault and was admitted to Indira Gandhi Memorial hospital in Agartala. After three days of treatment, he was referred to Govind Ballabh Pant hospital, where he died on Saturday.“The deceased might have sustained internal head injuries due to the assault. The accused is absconding. We will register a murder case now. We hope to arrest him soon,” said Biswajit Das, officer in charge of Ramnagar police outpost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-assaulted-over-weight-of-meat-dies-a-week-later-101624184552992.html
20-06-2021||India||Free Covid-19 vaccines from tomorrow, pre-registration on Co-Win not mandatory||The next phase of India's vaccination drive in which the Central government will provide free Covid-19 vaccines to everyone above the age of 18 years will begin from June 21, Monday, marking a significant shift from its earlier 'liberalised and accelerated' vaccination policy. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on June 7, the states won't have to procure vaccines from the manufacturers. The Centre will buy 75 per cent of the vaccines and will distribute them among the states and the Union territories free of cost.Decentralised versus centralised vaccinationThe vaccination drive in India began on January 16 From January 16 to April 30, the Centre followed a policy in which it procured 100% vaccine doses from the manufacturers and provided them to states and UTs at no cost. Frontline workers and people above the age of 45 years were the target beneficiaries during this period. From May 1, the government introduced the liberalised policy under which the Centre procured 50 per cent of the vaccines while states and private hospitals procured the rest directly from the manufacturers. Explaining the shift from this policy in a month, the health ministry said, "Many states have now communicated that they are facing difficulties in managing the funding, procurement and logistics of vaccines, impacting the pace of the National Covid Vaccination Programme. It has also been noted that smaller and remoter private hospitals are also facing constraints."What will states do now?States will administer the vaccine doses given by the Centre free of cost to everyone above the age of 18 years. The priority population group will be health care workers, frontline workers, citizens with 45 years of age, and then citizens whose second dose is due, followed by citizens 18 years and above. Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, states/UTs may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule, the Centre said.Which state will get how many doses of vaccinesPopulation, Covid-19 caseload, vaccination wastage are some of the factors on which the Centre will decide the supply.What will private hospitals do?Private hospitals can procure the rest 25 per cent of the vaccine production. States/UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals so that all hospitals in the state get an equitable share. Private hospitals can be charged for the vaccines, but the Centre has capped the upper limit.Co-Win registration not mandatoryFrom tomorrow, pre-registration on Cowin.gov.in will not be mandatory as all government and private vaccination centres would provide onsite registration facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-covid-19-vaccines-from-tomorrow-pre-registration-on-co-win-not-mandatory-101624180501823.html
20-06-2021||India||Salman Khurshid slams G-23 leaders seeking reforms in Congress||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday hit out at some of the G-23 leaders who renewed their call for reforms in the party. Speaking to news agency PTI, Khurshid asked whether those who were calling for organisational polls within the Congress have got to where they are in the party in the same manner.The G-23 leaders include former Kapil Sibal, former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Milind Deora etc who have sought a major organisational revamp of the Congress.The calls for reforms and re-organisational polls come at a time when the Congress is fighting an internal crisis on several issues. Several leaders of the party defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the latest one being Jitin Prasada.Prasada, who jumped ship to the BJP on June 9 ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, faced severe backlash from his former colleagues.Salman Khurshid, who is close to the Gandhis, asserted that reforms can only be achieved by sacrificing and not by suddenly questioning something which one has taken advantage of over the years.“Reform comes when you give up what you have received...say that I need to make a sacrifice because I want some change to happen. Therefore, the first thing that I will do is to give up what I have received to make an example to people, otherwise people think you are being hypocritical,” the senior Congress leader told PTI, adding the leaders who want reforms should have spoken to other leaders too.This remark of Khurshid can be seen as an indirect attack towards his colleague Kapil Sibal, who said the party needs reforms at central and state levels in order to show it is no longer in a state of inertia.Right after Prasasda’s exit on June 9, another veteran Congressman Veerappa Moily said the party needs to undergo ‘major surgery’. Labelling Prasada as a ‘suspect’, Moily said responsibility should be given to people who are committed to the party ideology.To this, Khurshid said, “I am quite happy for the major surgery but what do you want to remove -- my liver, kidney, just somebody tell me what surgery you want to do.” He asserted that a phrase such as surgery is not the answer and one needs to get to the bottom of the problem. “We need to get to the inside, before surgery, we need to do X-rays, ultrasounds”.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salman-khurshid-slams-g-23-leaders-seeking-reforms-in-congress-101624180783004.html
20-06-2021||India||Over 3.06 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states and UTs||More than 3.06 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 24.53 lakh doses will be received by them in the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.It said that 29,10,54,050 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs) so far through the government of India's free of cost channel and the direct state procurement category.Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 26,04,19,412 doses, according to data available at 8 am on Sunday, the ministry said.It said that "3,06,34,638 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered.""Furthermore, more than 24,53,080 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," the ministry said.It said that as part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In addition, the Centre has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs.Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government for containment and management of the pandemic, along with 'test, track, treat' and Covid appropriate behaviour, the ministry said.Implementation of the liberalized and accelerated Phase-3 strategy of Covid vaccination started from May 1.Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-06-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-and-uts-101624179399806.html
20-06-2021||India||Odisha aims to vaccinate 300,000 people daily beginning Monday||Odisha health department targets to administer 300,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines daily beginning Monday with the aim to cover 30.9 million eligible residents in the shortest possible time, officials saidAll district collectors and municipal bodies have been instructed by the state health department’s additional chief secretary, PK Mohapatra, to plan at least 5 vaccination sessions in each block and notified area councils (NAC), 10 sessions in each municipality and at least 20 sessions in five specified municipal corporations so that the target of 300,000 doses can be achieved daily.“The vaccination drive for those in 18-44 years and above 45 years should be run in a campaign mode so as to completely consume the available stock within the shortest possible time,” Mohapatra said.Presently, less than 150,000 doses are administered daily on an average across the state, directly impacting the number of doses supplied by the Centre, based on its consumption and wastage rate, he added.“Districts can plan for both online and on-site sessions based on feasibility. At the same time, the beneficiaries already due for their 2nd dose shall be mobilised to ensure timely vaccination,” said Mohapatra in his letter.Since the beginning of Covid vaccination drive on January 16, Odisha has administered 9.677 million doses including 3.706 million double doses given to 1.853 million residents.Odisha has 30.9 million eligible residents, requiring 61.8 million doses for complete vaccination. However, the state has only managed to fully vaccinate nearly 0.05% of the eligible population so far. As per the available data, over 4.266 million men and 3.01m women have received at least one out of the two jabs.Though the vaccination drive picked up pace in June, officials said doubling the average daily vaccinations to 300,000 will be a challenging task.“The last time we undertook such a major vaccination drive was in 2018, when over 11.2m children in the age group of 9 months and 15 years were jabbed with Measles Rubella vaccine. We have also done oral polio vaccination in huge numbers. But never have we done vaccination at such a massive scale for a prolonged period. The Covid vaccination campaign is going to test the skills and tenacity of the health workers across the state like no other in the recent past,” said Dr Bijay Panigrahi, nodal officer of Covid vaccination in Odisha.The enormity of the challenge is underscored by the fact that 197,000 healthcare and frontline workers in the state are yet to get themselves vaccinated despite registering on the CoWIN application, prompting the government to set June 20 deadline for them.Meanwhile, Odisha on Sunday reported 3,577 new Covid cases in the previous 24 hours with 42 deaths pushing the state’s Covid death toll to 3,590. The state has 38,727 active cases, the sixth highest in the country after Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.The test positivity rate, an indicator of spread of infection, in the week ending June 20 was high in 5 districts with Bhadrak topping the list with 17% followed by Jajpur at 15.7% and Khurda at 15.5%. It was also on the rise in western Odisha’s Nuapada district (11.45), after declining for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-aims-to-vaccinate-300-000-people-daily-beginning-monday-101624179457328.html
20-06-2021||India||From Srinagar to Anantnag: All 15 stations in Kashmir now WiFi-ready, announces Railways||All 15 train stations in the Kashmir valley, from Srinagar to Anantnag to Budgam, have been integrated with the Railwire WiFi network, the Indian Railways announced in a statement on Sunday. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal made the announcement on the occasion of World Wifi Day on June 20, and said that all 15 stations in Kashmir, including Srinagar, have now become part of the "largest integrated public Wifi networks in the world"."Today, on World Wifi Day, I am delighted to announce that Srinagar and 14 stations of the Kashmir Valley have become a part of one the largest integrated public Wifi networks in the world, connecting 6,000 plus stations across the country," announced railway minister Piyush Goyal.According to the Indian Railways statement, the 15 stations in Kashmir valley which are now Wifi-ready are -- Baramula, Hamre, Pattan, Mazhom, Budgam, Srinagar, Pampore, Kakapora, Avantipura, Panzgam, Bijbehara, Anantnag, Sadura, Qazigund, and Banihal. With this step, all the stations of the Kashmir valley now have public Wifi."It is a crucial step for the Digital India mission and will go a long way in connecting the unconnected. I convey my appreciation to the team Indian Railways and RailTel, which has worked tirelessly to achieve this remarkable feat," the minister said.Before this, WiFi service in Jammu and Kashmir was only limited to the Jammu, Kathua, Budhi, Chhan Arorian, Hira Nagar, Ghagwal, Samba, Vijaypur, Bari Brahman, Jammu Tawi, Bajalta, Sangar, Manwal, Ram Nagar stations. RailTel is the official WiFi service authorised the Union ministry of railways to integrate train stations in India with high-speed internet."The Indian Railways, in association with its RailTel Corporation of India Ltd, is playing a key role in bringing high-speed Wifi to every corner of the country," Goyal said, adding, "The vision was to convert the platforms into platforms for digital inclusion. Today, the Wifi network is spread over 6,000 stations across the country and this is one of the largest integrated Wifi networks in the world."(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-srinagar-to-anantnag-all-15-stations-in-kashmir-now-wifi-ready-railways-101624173214017.html
20-06-2021||India||IRCTC introduces major changes for online railway booking. Check here||In a major relief, passengers who were booking train tickets online on the IRCTC website or the app and then cancelling it will not have to wait for two-three days to get their refund. According to a report by Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, passengers who book tickets through IRCTC’s payment gateway IRCTC-ipay, will get their refund immediately after they cancel it. IRCTC-ipay was launched in 2019 as a part of the central government’s Digital India Campaign. The IRCTC has also upgraded its website in this regard.Speaking to Livehindustan, an IRCTC spokesperson said the new arrangements will allow passengers to book tatkal and regular tickets easily apart from cancelling them. The official also added that keeping in view the increasing number of railway passengers, the IRCTC has upgraded its user interface along with the IRCTC-ipay feature because of which it is taking less time to book tickets.Here is how you can book tickets through IRCTC-ipay:> Open the IRCTC website (www.irctc.co.in)> Fill all journey related details> Select the train as per your route> Log into the website using your credentials.> Enter passenger details> Select mode of payment. Here passengers will have to choose the IRCTC ipay option> Click on Pay and Book.> Enter credit card/debit card/prepaid card/UPI details> After payment, the ticket will be immediately booked and the confirmation will be sent through an SMS and email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-introduces-major-changes-for-online-railway-booking-check-here-101624176460693.html
20-06-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates Iran's new president Ebrahim Raisi on poll victory||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated Iran's new president Ebrahim Raisi and vowed to work with him to strengthen diplomatic ties between the two countries. "Congratulations to Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted from his official handle on the social networking site.Congratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran.Raisi, the 60-year-old hardliner judge touted as an "ultraconservative champion of the poor", was named the winner of the Islamic republic's presidential election on Saturday. He is set to take over from moderate Hassan Rouhani in August. The Iranian interior ministry confirmed on Saturday that Raisi won 61.95% of the vote on a voter turnout of 48.8% - the lowest turnout for a presidential election since the 1979 revolution.Raisi got 28,933,004 votes, while former Revolutionary Guard commander Mohsen Rezaei finished third with 3,412,712 votes and was followed by moderate candidate Abdolnasswer Hemmati with 2,427,201 votes, and conservative Amir Hossein Ghazizadeh Hashemi with 999,718 votes.Critics charge the election was skewed in his favour as strong rivals were disqualified, but to his loyal supporters, he is Iran's best hope for standing up to the West and bringing relief from a deep economic crisis. Raisi is not renowned for great charisma but, as head of the judiciary, has driven a popular campaign to prosecute corrupt officials.On the other hand, Israel's recently-elected prime minister Naftali Bennett called the election of Ebrahim Raisi as Iran's president a "final wake-up call" for the world, according to reports. He pointed out that Raisi is a hardline judge who is under US sanctions for human rights abuses, noting that world powers should reconsider talks on a new Iranian nuclear deal.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-iran-s-new-president-ebrahim-raisi-on-poll-victory-101624176365273.html
20-06-2021||India||International Yoga Day: MP plans to inoculate 10 lakh people against Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday that his government will start a 'Vaccination Maha abhiyan (grand campaign)' from Monday, on the occasion on International Yoga Day. The initiative is yet another bid by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to increase the vaccination coverage in the state where daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on a downward slide.Chouhan further said that his government will attempt to inoculate 10 lakh people in a single day (on Monday) as part of the grand campaign on International Yoga Day."We have decided to start a 'Vaccination Mahaabhiyan' tomorrow, on the occasion of International Yoga Day. 7000 centres have been set up, an effort will be made to vaccinate over 10 lakh people at these centres tomorrow itself," the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 110 new cases of Covid-19 and 30 related fatalities that took the tally of infections to 7,89,174 and death toll to 8,737, according to state health department.At least 365 patients were discharged from hospitals in 24-hour span, taking the count of recoveries to 7,77,995.The toll in Bhopal stands at 972, while Indore has recorded 1,375 fatalities so far. With this, Indore has 438 active cases, while Bhopal has 851 patients undergoing treatment, an official of the health department said, adding that Madhya Pradesh now has 2,442 active cases.Of 52 districts in the state, 22 districts did not record a single new case in the last 24 hours, according to the health department.With the addition of 71,543 swab samples tested during the day, the total number of tests conducted in Madhya Pradesh has reached over 1.13 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-yoga-day-mp-plans-to-inoculate-10-lakh-people-against-covid19-101624176207907.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: UP to ease night curfew by 2 hours and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP to ease Covid-19 curfew from Monday, new guidelines issued.The Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday decided to grant two more hours of relaxation in the statewide night curfew that currently remains imposed in all its 75 districts due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Read morePatna to get 10 public transport stands under smart city project by AugustIn a bid to organise the chaotic operation of small and medium transport in the city, Patna Smart City Project Limited (PSCPL) has decided to set up intermediate public transport (IPT) stands at 10 congested traffic spots by August. Read moreInternational Yoga Day: Madhuri Dixit does Adho Mukha Svanasana to tone the coreMadhuri Dixit Nene is back with another yoga pose to inspire her followers to get on the fitness bandwagon. The actor recently began a yoga series to kickstart the week leading up to the International Day of Yoga. Read moreAlcazar base variant costlier than rivals. Hyundai betting big on featuresHyundai Motor India Limited has introduced its latest offering Alcazar SUV at a price range of ₹16.30-20 lakh (ex-showroom). The three-row seater SUV competes with rivals like Tata Safari and MG Hector Plus. Read moreFather’s Day 2021: Fevicol to Zomato to Delhi Airport: Posts celebrating the special day are super sweetFather’s Day 2021 is being celebrated today on June 20 across different parts of the world. Read moreIndia legend Sachin Tendulkar pips Kumar Sangakkara to be voted 'Greatest Men's Test Batsman' of 21st centuryThe legendary Sachin Tendulkar was voted as the greatest Test men's batsman of the 21st century by a panel of commentators and fans on Star Sports, piping former Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara, who gave the Master Blaster a close fight. Read moreJai Bajrangbali the new God? Sanjay Singh on Ayodhya, scam & AAP as BJP’s B teamAam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh speaks about alleged land scam in Ayodhya. Speaking to Hindustan Times’ Kumkum Chadha, Singh explains how and when he learned about the alleged land scam by Ram Janmbhoomi Trust. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-up-to-ease-night-curfew-by-2-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101624171756995.html
20-06-2021||India||Can't pay ₹4 lakh to kins of Covid-19 victims: Centre to SC||The Centre filed an affidavit before the Supreme Court in response to petitions seeking compensation of ₹4 lakh to family members of those who died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reports news agency ANI.The Centre filed the affidavit that it cannot pay the compensation amount to the next of kin of the deceased as it would entail a huge financial liability.The Centre, however, made clear that it had already made payments and a slew of government measures have been introduced for the needy persons.The Centre also further submitted to the apex court in its affidavit that the Union and all the state governments have spent huge amounts for needy persons, to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and that their finances are overstretched.The Centre’s affidavit came in response to a PIL seeking 'minimum standards of relief' and ex-gratia payment to Covid-19 deceased.A report in Bar and Bench said that the petition was filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepal Kansal had referred to Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, according to which, the national authority shall recommend guidelines for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected by disaster, which shall include ex-gratia assistance.The Supreme Court, earlier on May 24 had issued a notice to the Centre, on hearing petitions seeking direction to the concerned authorities to provide ex gratia compensation of ₹4 lakhs to the family members of those who have succumbed to the Covid-19 pandemic, as per the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) letter in view of Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-pay-rs-4-lakh-to-kins-of-covid-19-victims-centre-to-sc-101624166994964.html
20-06-2021||India||‘Punjab wants change’: AAP says Delhi CM Kejriwal will visit Amritsar on Monday||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced on Sunday that its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be visiting Punjab’s Amritsar city on Monday. This will be his second visit to Punjab this year, where assembly elections are due in 2022.“AAP National Convenor & Delhi CM Shri Arvind Kejriwal to visit Punjab tomorrow. Punjab wants Change!,” the AAP tweeted.Former inspector general Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh is likely to join the AAP in Kejriwal’s presence, people aware of the party’s plans told Hindustan Times.Kejriwal’s visit on Monday comes as his party suffered a massive setback after Punjab Ekta Party, led by former AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, decided to join hands with the Congress on June 17. Khaira had been a member of the Congress and switched to the AAP in 2015.ਪੰਜਾਬ ਬਦਲਾਓ ਚਾਹੁੰਦਾ ਹੈ। ਸਿਰਫ਼ ਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਹੀ ਉਮੀਦ ਹੈ।ਕੱਲ੍ਹ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤਸਰ ਵਿਖੇ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਹਾਂSpeaking to reporters on June 17, Khaira claimed the AAP is a one man show and there is nothing beyond Arvind Kejriwal. He also targeted the AAP for being undemocratic and said there was no system of internal democracy or dialogue within the party.Arvind Kejriwal had earlier visited Punjab in March this year, when the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws was at its peak. Addressing a Maha Kisan Panchayat in Moga, Kejriwal accused the Congress-led government in Punjab of not fulfilling any of the poll promises it had made before the 2017 elections.“In the run-up of the 2017 assembly polls, Capt Amarinder Singh had made several promises. But after assuming power for over four years, the chief minister is unable to deliver on announcements including debt waiver for farmers, jobs, providing smartphones and unemployment allowance,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi CM also pointed out during the kisan panchayat that his party was an alternative to both the Congress and BJP and Punjab’s public should be ready for revenge from the Congress in the upcoming elections.In the last assembly elections in 2017, the AAP was a first timer in Punjab but it still managed to win 20 seats out of the total 117. The Congress won 77 seats and formed the government in Punjab. While the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) managed to win only 18 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-punjab-on-monday-101624168417987.html
20-06-2021||India||27th price hike since May 4 makes petrol costlier by ₹6.82, diesel by ₹7.24 a litre||Petrol and diesel prices rallied again on Sunday by 29 and 28 paise a litre respectively, the 27th hike in 48 days that made a litre of petrol costlier by ₹6.82 and diesel by ₹7.24 since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Petrol in Delhi will now be priced at ₹97.22 per litre and diesel at ₹87.97 a litre. While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Both petrol and diesel prices have crossed the ₹100 mark in several cities with Rajasthan’s Ganganagar, where petrol is sold at ₹108.37 per litre and diesel at ₹101.12 a litre on Sunday, registering the highest retail prices. Mumbai, where petrol is currently sold at ₹103.36 per litre and diesel at ₹95.44 a litre, has the highest fuel rates among five metros The upward movement since May 4 saw petrol breaching the ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, including Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad and Leh. Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps. International oil prices that moved downward on Thursday, gained in the closing session of this week on Friday. Benchmark Brent crude fell by 1.76% at $73.08 per barrel on Thursday before jumping to 0.59% to close at $73.51 a barrel on Friday. Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with respective international benchmarks of previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates. Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 34.8% of petrol’s price and state taxes constitute 23.08%, according to an official data of June 1. On diesel, central taxes are over 37.24% while state taxes are about 14.64%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the Central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic. Even as international oil prices saw volatility since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude plunging to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest in these 46 days; petrol and diesel rates went up the next day by 19 and 29 paise a litre respectively. According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory. During the 66-day pause on rate hike, state-run retailers also reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting May 4. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers such as the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27th-price-hike-since-may-4-makes-petrol-costlier-by-rs-6-82-diesel-by-rs-7-24-a-litre-101624164812223.html
20-06-2021||India||Meghalaya’s vaccination drive hit by hesitancy hurdle||The progress of vaccination drive in Meghalaya has been tardy with the state ranked 31st out of the 37 states and UTs as per the Union health ministry’s data. Local officials have cited vaccine hesitancy as one of the biggest hurdles.Close to 14.6 % or 469,938 Meghalaya residents have received at least one shot of the vaccine, well below the national average of 16.2 % and the state is ranked only above West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, which is at the bottom of the pile with only 9% vaccinations done, Central government data revealed on Thursday. Lakshadweep tops the chart with 62.9% of the population vaccinated.As of 9 pm on Friday, only 74,988 residents had received two shots, adding to 149,976 doses out of the total 577,546 administered in Meghalaya so far. The state has a population of about 3.22 million.East Khasi Hills district is the worst affected with a total of 24,711 positive cases including 586 deaths and 1,583 active cases registered so far.Government officials have identified vaccine hesitancy, particularly among the elderly, as the main reason for the slow pace of vaccination.“Initially vaccines were available only for the age group 45 and above. Once it was opened up for the 18-44 years age group, it has picked up substantially,” chief secretary MS Rao said and added, “We are addressing vaccine hesitancy on priority through extensive awareness programmes by addressing various misconceptions about vaccination.”District administrations have come up with innovative initiatives to draw people to vaccination centres including conduct of Raffle Draws (a kind of lottery) by the West Khasi Hills district administration, offering those getting vaccinated a chance to win ₹10,000.Some groups like The Khasi Students’ Union have been encouraging people to get vaccinated.“We will assist the government in this aspect and sensitise people on the basic knowledge of the vaccine but it will not be done by us… we are not medical experts so we will do so through proper medical professionals,” KSU general secretary Donald Thabah said.He said the group will also show people photos to prove that their leaders had also got themselves vaccinated. “We need the vaccine, but not by coercion, force or threats, it should be totally voluntary,” Thabah added.Meghalaya principal secretary of health & family welfare department Sampath Kumar introducing any new interventions require “behavioural changes”, which happens gradually when residents are mobilised and made to see the results for greater acceptance among the communities.He added that indigenous population tends to honour popular beliefs within their communities and have a strong sense of freedom, which makes it important that the communities are taken into confidence to implement any new intervention. Initially, they were hesitant due to fear and misconceptions fed by lack of credible information on vaccination outcome.“However, after we presented the data that out of 345 deaths in EKH district, 319 were not vaccinated and 26 had only taken a single dose of the vaccine, the uptake of vaccines among people shot up to 5 times more than in the previous weeks,” a happy sounding Kumar said“Our community Covid management committees, along with active cooperation from headmen, religious and community leaders, have helped increase vaccination coverage drastically,” he added.He pointed out that Meghalaya was earlier ranked at the bottom for full immunization coverage for children programme till the year 2019. “However, in a span of only 6 months during 2020, the whole state was mobilised and the state now ranks 2nd alongside Kerala, only after Telangana,” Kumar said.Meghalaya has received 613,490 free Covid vaccine doses from the Centre since January while procuring 108,850 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India, at its own cost. Meanwhile, in a related development, 38-year old Donlad Shylla, who made disparaging and sexist remarks on Facebook against district magistrate Isawanda Laloo over her appeals to people to get vaccinated, was arrested early Sunday morning by the special cell of East Khasi Hills police.“He will be produced in court and further investigation is being made to ensure that the case reaches its logical conclusion,” said Silvester Nongtnger, East Khasi Hills superintendent of police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalayas-vaccination-drive-hit-by-hesitancy-hurdle-101624162292190.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19: States with highest and lowest number of active cases||The number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been coming down in India in the last few weeks. From a peak of 4 lakh cases in a day, the nationwide tally has dropped to around 60,000.On Sunday, India recorded 58,419 new Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 29,881,965. As many as 3,86,713 people have succumbed to the Covid infection so far, while the cumulative recoveries reached 2,87,66,009.The Union health ministry said on Saturday that the daily positivity rate in the country has dropped to 2.98 per cent. But, there are a few states where the number of active cases of the disease is still high.On Saturday, the Centre asked joined experts and courts in warning states and Union Territories not to become “complacent” about a decline in Covid-19 infections. It urged the states to ensure that protocol is followed and asked them to monitor signs of a potential spike in cases as they lift lockdown restrictions across regions.The warning comes as the number of active cases in a some states remain a cause of concern. Here's a list of those states:Maharashtra:The western state of Maharashtra has been the worst-hit by Covid-19 pandemic since it first struck India. The state has reported highest number of cases, and still leads in terms of active cases of the infection.On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 8,912 fresh Covid-19 cases and 257 fatalities, taking the tally to 59,63,420 and the toll to 1,17,356, the state health department said.According to Maharashtra health department, the state has 1,32,597 active cases of Covid-19.Karnataka:Several districts in Karnataka are seeing a significant decline in Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks, due to which the state government has relaxed the lockdown-like curbs imposed to check the spread of the disease. In an order, the government has allowed shops, hotels, clubs and restaurants in districts that have a positivity rate of less than five per cent to operate till 5pm from Monday.In the last 24 hours, as many as 5,815 new Covid-19 cases, 11,832 discharges and 161 deaths were reported in the state. There are currently 1,30,872 active cases in the state, according to state health department data.Kerala:Kerala logged 12,443 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 27,97,747, while 115 deaths pushed the toll to 11,948.Recoveries continued to outnumber fresh cases with 13,145 people being cured of the disease, taking the total number of those who have recuperated to 26,78,499. Active cases touched 1,06,861, the state health department data showed.Tamil Nadu:Tamil Nadu recorded 8,183 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which pushed the state's caseload to 24.14 lakh. Though the number of new cases have been dropping in the state, it still has 78,780 active cases of the infection.Tamil Nadu recorded its highest daily cases at 36,184 on May 21. The daily case count dropped below 10,000 on June 17.Andhra Pradesh:For the first time in more than two months, the number of daily Covid-19 fatalities in Andhra Pradesh fell below 50 as 45 people succumbed in a span of 24 hours, data released by the government showed on Saturday.The state registered 5,674 fresh cases from 1.03 lakh tests in 24 hours, at the rate of 5.5 per cent, a drastic drop from the high of 25 per cent a month ago.The number of active cases in Andhra Pradesh has come down to 65,244, according to state health department.There are also some states where the active cases have been considerably low. Here's a look at a few of them:Jharkhand:Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,44,270 on Saturday as 141 more people tested positive for the infection, while two fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 5,097, a health bulletin said.The state now has 1,811 active cases, according to Union health ministry.Nagaland:Nagaland on Saturday reported 94 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally in the state to 24,191. At least 171 people were cured of the disease during the day, taking the total number of recoveries to 21,058.Nagaland currently has 1,979 active cases.Delhi:The national capital recorded seven deaths due to Covid-19, the lowest since April 1, and 135 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Saturday.The number of active cases decreased to 2,372 on Saturday from 2,444 a day before, according to the bulletin.Madhya Pradesh:Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 110 new cases of Covid-19 and 30 casualties that raised the tally of infections to 7,89,174 and took the toll to 8,737, an official from the state health department said.The state now has 2,442 active cases.Uttarakhand:The last in the list is Uttarakhand which has 3,231 active cases of Covid-19.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The tally crossed the 2-crore mark on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-states-with-highest-and-lowest-number-of-active-cases-101624160764669.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19 cases in India drop to 58,419, lowest since March 30||India’s single-day tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped below the 60,000-mark on Sunday after 58,419 cases were reported in the previous 24 hours, taking the caseload to 29,881,965, according to the Union health ministry. Sunday’s cases are the lowest since March 30, when 56,211 people were detected Covid-19 positive.As many as 1,576 succumbed to the viral disease in the 24-hour-span and 87,619 recovered, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 386,713 and 28,766,009, respectively. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases for the 38th consecutive day.Also Read| Covid-19: States with highest and lowest number of active casesThe active cases dipped to 729,243 and constitute 2.55% of the caseload.Sunday’s case count is 2,334 less than that of Saturday’s when 60,753 infections were recorded. On the other hand, the deaths on Sunday are 71 less than that of Saturday’s when 1,647 people succumbed to the viral disease.The cumulative Covid-19 testing figures stand at 391,019,083, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Sunday, adding 1,811,446 samples were tested in the previous 24 hours.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/v03wtk45FNAs the daily Covid-19 tally in India has been coming down since May 7, when the country saw a peak of over 414,000 cases, states and Union territories (UTs) have begun easing their lockdown or lockdown-like restrictions to revive their economies.However, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday advised states and UTs to follow “calibrated” process carefully while opening up activities amid a fall in their cases.“While opening up, it would be extremely important to follow the fivefold strategy of Covid appropriate behaviour, test-track-treat and vaccination. Regular monitoring of Covid appropriate behaviour is required to prevent relapse. To reiterate, Covid appropriate behaviour includes mandatory use of masks, hand hygiene, social distancing and also proper ventilation of closed spaces,” Bhalla said in a letter to states and UTs.Also Read| ‘Monitor signs of spike’: Centre warns states against lowering guardHe also told chief secretaries of states and UTs to order all concerned authorities to ensure that Covid-19 testing rate does not fall and a close watch should be kept on early signs of a surge in active cases or higher positivity rates.Telangana, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh became the latest states who have further eased Covid-19 related restrictions. Telangana is completely lifting its lockdown from today amid an improvement in the overall situation but the state government urged residents to not lower their guard against Covid-19.In Karnataka, the lockdown-like restrictions have been eased in 16 districts including the capital city of Bengaluru. As per the new guidelines, restaurants can open at 50% capacity in these 16 districts and shops can remain open till 5pm. Government and private offices can function with 50% capacity.The Uttar Pradesh government, meanwhile, relaxed the night curfew by two hours from Monday, allowing opening of shops, malls and restaurants till 9pm on weekdays. The curfew will now be from 9pm to 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-drops-below-60-000-mark-with-58-419-new-cases-101624159888146.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chirag Paswan calls LJP national executive meet in Delhi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chirag Paswan calls LJP national executive meeting in power tussle with uncle Pashupati ParasThe Chirag Paswan led faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has called a national executive meeting in national capital Delhi on Sunday. Amid a feud with his uncle Pashupati Paras over the control of the party, Paswan has asserted that more than 90 per cent of the national executive members are with him. Read moreCovid-19 curbs in Goa extended till June 28. Check what's allowed, what's notThe Goa government on Saturday extended of restrictions imposed in the state to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till June 28. The announcement was made by chief minister Pramod Sawant. Read morePM Modi to address lead event of International Yoga Day on MondayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the lead event of the Seventh International Yoga Day on Monday. In view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the lead event of the International Yoga Day, 2021 will be a televised programme and is scheduled to start at 6.30am on all Doordarshan channels. Read moreTruck driver crashes into South Florida Pride parade; mayor says 1 killedA driver slammed into spectators Saturday evening at the start of a Pride parade in South Florida, and an official says one person was killed and another seriously injured. Read more'Funny umpiring': Sehwag reacts after catch appeal against Kohli goes to third umpire despite NZ not opting for DRSFormer India opener Virender Sehwag reacted after the on-field umpires referred a catch appeal against Virat Kohli to the third umpire despite the New Zealand players not opting for a review in the inaugural World Test Championship final at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton. Read moreAndroid's Find My Device network might be crowd-sourcedApple's Find My network is one of its most efficient services. This is what Apple uses to find lost devices including Macbooks, iPhones, iPods, etc. This is also the tech Apple uses for its recently launched Bluetooth trackers AirTags. Read moreFather’s Day 2021: Google shares sweet animated doodle for the special dayFather’s Day is a special day to thank those who are always there for us to support us and help us grow – our dads. Since morning, social media is abuzz with all sorts of posts celebrating fatherhood and paternal bonds. Read moreNeena Gupta's biggest reveals: Going 5 years without talking to Vivian Richards, Satish Kaushik's offer to marryNeena Gupta recently launched her autobiography Sach Kahun Toh and gave fans a close look at her life. The actor, who was a single mother to daughter Masaba Gupta, opened up about her first marriage, spoke about her relationship with Vivian Richards and her struggle in the film industry. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chirag-calls-ljp-national-executive-meet-in-delhi-today-101624158887745.html
20-06-2021||India||Ex-AIADMK minister M Manikandan arrested for allegedly raping Malaysian woman: Report||Former AIADMK minister M Manikandan was arrested in Bengaluru by the Chennai city police for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman, causing miscarriage as well as for criminal intimidation, news agency ANI reported on Sunday morning, citing a statement by the Tamil Nadu police. The ex-state minister was evading arrest after the Madras high court refused to grant him anticipatory bail in the case on Wednesday, noting that the charges against him were grave and he could tamper with evidence given the powerful position he held in the past.Also Read: No arrest shield for AIADMK’s ex-minister accused of rape by Malaysian nationalM Manikandan, a former minister of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in Tamil Nadu, faces allegations that he lured an actor, a Malaysian citizen, into a relationship for five years on the pretext of marriage, forced her to abort and threatened her. The 44-year-old politician has been accused of cheating, rape, causing miscarriage, hurt and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code apart from section 67 (a) of the Information Technology Act that relates to publishing sexually explicit acts online.Manikandan was allegedly introduced to the Malaysian actor in May 2017 while the latter was working with the Malaysian Tourism Development Organisation. According to the prosecution's complaints, the then state minister had offered to marry the Malaysian actor after divorcing his wife. The two even stayed together, travelling across Chennai and Delhi, the prosecution said, adding that the accused impregnated the woman thrice, forced her to abort and continued to have sexual intercourse with her in a forceful and brutal manner.Manikandan, on his part, has denied to allegations and said that the complaint against him was only filed after “several attempts for compromise” did not succeed since he didn’t accept what he described as her “extortionist demands”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exaiadmk-minister-m-manikandan-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-malaysian-woman-report-101624158901718.html
20-06-2021||India||IMD issues rainfall alert for Delhi-NCR, UP; thunderstorms likely||Rainfall alerts for Delhi and adjoining areas in the national capital region (NCR) were issued on Sunday morning by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Light to moderate intensity rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning, has been predicted by the met department in isolated regions over Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Aligarh, and surrounding regions in the next two hours."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of South, East, Northeast Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hindon AF, Indrapuram, Chapraula, Noida, Greater Noida, Dadri, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Khurja, Narora, Kasganj, Atrauli, Nazibabad, Sikander Rao, and Etah during next 2 hours," posted the India Meteorological Department at 7:41am on Sunday, issuing an alert for the aforementioned regions.Kasganj, Atrauli, Nazibabad, Sikander rao, Etah during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/ZeiY5SATleThe met department has said that light rainfall in Delhi on Sunday is likely to bring down the temperatures in the national capital. However, the mercury may continue to rise once again from next week, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting center.On Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is the official marker for the city, was 35.1°C, four degrees below what is considered normal for this time of year. The minimum temperature here was 25.3°C, three degrees below normal. It will continue to dip, according to IMD's predictions, following the light rainfall but will rise once again from next week, although staying below the 40-degree mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-rainfall-alert-for-delhi-ncr-up-thunderstorms-likely-101624155939330.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19 curbs in Goa extended till June 28. Check what's allowed, what's not||The Goa government on Saturday extended of restrictions imposed in the state to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till June 28. The announcement was made by chief minister Pramod Sawant."State Level Curfew will be extended till 7AM, 28 June 2021. Shops in Shoping malls, except cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones allowed to be open between 7 am to 3 PM. Fish market may also open," Sawant said in a Twitter post.State Level Curfew will be extended till 7AM, 28 June 2021. Shops in Shoping malls, except cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones allowed to be open between 7 am to 3 PM. Fish market may also open.Though the number of daily Covid-19 cases have gone down in Goa, like many other states, the number is still high. On Saturday, the state recorded 302 new Covid-19 cases and nine related fatalities, according to the health department. The overall tally of Covid positive cases in the state stands at 1,64,229, while 2,984 have so far died.Goa saw its positivity rate going up to 51 per cent during the second wave of the pandemic, which has now ebbed. On Friday, Sawant said the Covid-19 situation is improving in Goa and the positivity rate is nearly 8 per cent.He added that Goa has a recovery rate of approximately 95 per cent, with a death rate of nearly 6 per cent.Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Customized Crash Course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers, the chief minister said that Goa's Sai Nursing Institute, affiliated with the Skill Development Ministry and the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0 (PMKBY), will start the course soon.Sawant also mentioned that Goa has a target of training 1000 Covid warriors in the state.The chief minister had announced on Thursday that Goa will not open for tourism until the state had administered at least the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to its population in the age group of 18-44. The government has set the deadline of July 31 for the same.The current lockdown-like curbs in the state were first imposed on May 9 and have been extended a number of times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-curbs-in-goa-extended-till-june-28-check-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101624154835452.html
20-06-2021||India||PM Modi to address lead event of International Yoga Day on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the lead event of the Seventh International Yoga Day on Monday. In view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the lead event of the International Yoga Day, 2021 will be a televised programme and is scheduled to start at 6.30am on all Doordarshan channels.The event will also include an address by Minister of State for Ayush Kiren Rijiju and a live yoga demonstration by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, according to a government release.This live yoga demonstration will be further followed by messages from 15 spiritual leaders and Yoga Gurus namely - Gurudev Sri Sri Ravishankar, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, Dr HR Nagendra, Kamlesh Patel, Dr Veerendra Hegde, Dr Hamsaji Jayadeva, OP Tiwari, Swami Chidanand Saraswati, Dr Chinmay Pandey, Muni Shri Sagar Maharaj, Swami Bharat Bhushan, Dr Vishwas Mandalik, Sister BK Shivani, S Sridharan and Antoinette Rozi, the release further said.As per the United Nation's website, the theme for this year's International Yoga Day is 'Yoga for Well-Being' and how the practice of yoga can promote the holistic health of every individual.Numerous digital initiatives have been taken by the Ayush ministry, along with nearly 1,000 other stake-holding institutions, to make the practice of yoga accessible to the public, despite the restrictions imposed by Covid-19. The Indian missions in other countries are coordinating various activities in the run-up to the International Yoga Day in their respective countries.This year's event will consist of individuals participating in large numbers in the harmonious demonstration/performance of yoga at 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-lead-event-of-international-yoga-day-on-monday-101624150423470.html
20-06-2021||India||Back-to-back earthquakes rock Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur; no casualties reported||Back-to-back earthquakes were reported from the northeastern part of India on Sunday morning, as the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) notified of a series of tremors, all ranging from magnitude 3.1-3.6 on the Richter Scale, hitting two regions in Manipur Arunachal Pradesh. No casualties or damage to property, however, have yet been reported in the incidents.According to alerts issued by NCS, the first earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.1 on the Richter Scale, occurred near Arunachal Pradesh's Pangin at around 1:02am. This was followed shortly by another earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.6 on the Richter Scale, near Shirui village in Manipur's Ukrul district.According to the National Centre for Seismology, the first earthquake hit 95 kilometres north-northwest of Pangin in Arunachal Pradesh at 1:02am at a depth of 17 kilometres. The second quake hit 20 kilometres northwest of Shirui in Manipur at 1:22am at a depth of 30 kilometres.Earthquake of Magnitude:3.1, Occurred on 20-06-2021, 01:02:07 IST, Lat: 28.89 & Long: 94.79, Depth: 17 Km ,Location: 95km NNW of Pangin, Arunachal Pradesh, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/yt59fSXYZQ pic.twitter.com/tq4N2fi99XEarthquake of Magnitude:3.6, Occurred on 20-06-2021, 01:22:50 IST, Lat: 25.28 & Long: 94.30, Depth: 30 Km ,Location: 20km NW of Shirui, Manipur, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/WttKoIzits pic.twitter.com/rlAxojEqEkA bit later, around 5:41am, another mild earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.1 on the Richter Scale, was reported 62km north of Uttarkashi in Uttarakhand, at a depth of 15km, the NCS reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/backtoback-earthquakes-rock-arunachal-pradesh-manipur-no-casualties-reported-101624152223640.html
20-06-2021||India||Yoga significantly reduces psychosomatic symptoms, severe arthritis: Study||As India gears up for International Yoga Day 2021, a research paper released by an expert at All India Institute of Medical Scienses (AIIMS) has highlighted the benefits of the ancient discipline practiced by the people of the country. Dr Rima Dada, Prof Lab for Molecular Reproduction and Genetics, Department of Anatomy at AIIMS, has said in her research paper that yoga can be used as an adjunct therapy in the management of severe arthritis.Dr Dada also made an observation that practicing yoga regularly can help in reducing the psychosomatic symptoms, pain perception, disability quotient, and help in improving joint flexibility, range of motion, posture, muscle strength and coordination.The research paper titled 'Yoga impact on autoimmune arthritis' is based on a study Dr Dada conducted in collaboration with Dr Uma Kumar, Professor and Head of the Department of Rheumatology.It states that yoga tackles both the articular and extra-articular symptoms and also decrease the severity of comorbid depression. The study reads that yoga improves clinical outcome in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and decreases systemic inflammation by its beneficial effects on the psycho-neuro-immune axis and normalisation of dysregulated transcripts."The most significant finding is that rheumatoid arthritis is a very severe progressive arthritis in which there are articular as well as extra-articular symptoms which involve the lung, the heart, the brain and the skin. Yoga can be used as an adjourned therapy in the management of severe arthritis because the factor which caused articular symptoms, inflammatory cytokine when you do yoga they decrease," Dr Dada told news agency ANI.In a significant observation, the doctor found improvement in the mitochondrial integrity (after damage) by yoga."In addition to that, we found that various transcripts including expression of various genes which promoted immune homeostasis also increased and gene which was helping, which were the antioxidant gene expression went up," Dr Dada observed.The finding stressed that yoga helps in decreasing stress hormones level and various factors which help in promoting neuroplasticity level increase.Dr Dada further said that in addition to the Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), yoga can reduce the severity of the disease. It helps in the reestablishment of immunological tolerance.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-significantly-reduces-psychosomatic-symptoms-severe-arthritis-study-101624150407453.html
20-06-2021||India||Don't lecture us on democracy: India to social media firms||Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told social media platforms on Saturday not to lecture India on "freedom of speech" and "democracy". The Union minister said that if such "profit-making" companies want to make money in India, they will have to abide by the Indian Constitution and the law of the land.Addressing a lecture organised by the Symbiosis International University as part of the Symbiosis Golden Jubilee Lecture Series, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the new information technology (IT) guidelines are not related to the use of social media but deal with "misuse" and "abuse" of social media platforms. The lecture was being held on the topic of 'Social Media and Social Security and Crime Justice System Reforms: An Incomplete Agenda'.Notably, the central government recently withdrew Twitter's 'intermediary platform' status due to non-compliance with new IT rulesElaborating on the matter, the Union minister said that India's new IT laws are aimed at regulating content on social media platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp, and Twitter and make them more accountable by enabling a mechanism to swiftly remove posts on valid legal requests and share details on the originators of messages. He explained that the new rules require social media firms to appoint three officers based in the country for this purpose -- a grievance redressal officer, a compliance officer, and a nodal officer. No one is "asking for the moon" from these companies, the minister said."These are basic requirements," news agency PTI quoted Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying. "Let me reiterate emphatically that India does not need a lecture on freedom of speech and democracy from a profit-making company that stays in America. India has free and fair elections, an independent judiciary, media, civil society. Here I am talking to students and taking questions, and this is true democracy. So these profit-making companies should not lecture us on democracy," he added."When Indian companies go to the US, do they not follow Indian law?" the Union minister asked. He pointed out that it is one thing to criticise the prime minister or any of the politicians, and it is another to not obey Indian laws at all. "If you want to do business in India, you have to follow India's Constitution and India's laws," the minister, who also holds the law and justice portfolio, said bluntly, adding that these social media firms have only three months to comply with the new IT rules.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-lecture-us-on-democracy-india-to-social-media-firms-101624150810739.html
20-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan calls LJP national executive meeting in power tussle with uncle Pashupati Paras||The Chirag Paswan led faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has called a national executive meeting in national capital Delhi on Sunday. Amid a feud with his uncle Pashupati Paras over the control of the party, Paswan has asserted that more than 90 per cent of the national executive members are with him.The move is being seen as a show of strength in support of Chirag Paswan, the son of Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, after all five other MPs of the party joined Paras to divest him of key positions. A leader of the LJP said that Paswan could also use the proceedings of the meeting on Sunday to back up its case before the Election Commission.Meanwhile, the LJP faction headed by Paras on Saturday disbanded all bodies and state units affiliated with the party and announced a new national executive. With Paras as its president, all four other MPs of the faction figure in the executive while a few of those party office-bearers who switched loyalty to him from Paswan have also been inducted.Chirag Paswan's claim:Chirag Paswan met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday to present his case against Birla's decision to accept the claim of the other faction declaring Paras as the leader of the party in Lok Sabha.Before meeting Birla, a delegation led by Paswan visited the Election Commission office on Friday urging the EC to seek its view before taking a decision on any claim over the party by the other faction headed by Paras.After submitting his memorandum to the Election Commission, Paswan told reporters that he was elected party president for five years in 2019 as he rejected his uncle Paras' election in his place."The EC has assured to hear us in case of any other contrary claim," he said.Paras faction's counter:Pashupati Kumar Paras has said that his election to the top post was completely valid under the party's constitution. "According to party's constitution, Chirag Paswan is neither LJP's national president nor the Leader of the parliamentary party now. Yesterday's election was completely valid under party's constitution, of which he is not aware," he said on Friday.On Thursday, the rebel faction of the LJP elected Paras as the new party president. Chirag Paswan reacted by saying that the election was illegal as it was conducted by members of the LJP who were suspended from the party.The genesis of the crisis:The crisis in the LJP began on Sunday, when five LJP Lok Sabha members replaced Chirag Paswan with Paras, the younger brother of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. These MPs met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and handed over a letter to him seeking removal of Chirag Paswan as party chief and as the Lok Sabha Parliamentary party leader.On Monday, the Lok Sabha secretariat issued a notification recognising Paras as the parliamentary party chief. Paras blamed his nephew for the family feud.The fallout between Paras and Chirag Paswan has been attributed to a range of issues including the former's dissatisfaction with his nephew's decision to break away from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the Bihar election.LJP was formed by former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000. Paswan, a heavyweight leader in Bihar politics, passed away in October 2020.The battle over the party's ownership is now likely to be decided in the Election Commission as both groups fight for the legacy of the popular Dalit leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-feud-chirag-paswan-calls-party-s-national-executive-meet-on-sunday-101624151167717.html
20-06-2021||India||Ahead of PM Modi's Kashmir meet, Pakistan issues a warning for India||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's high-stakes meeting with political leaders of Jammu and Kashmir on June 24, Pakistan issued a warning on Saturday, saying that it will oppose any move by India to "divide" or change the demography of Kashmir. In an official statement issued by Pakistan's foreign office, the country's foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said that India must refrain from taking any "further illegal steps" in Kashmir after its actions of August 5, 2019.The statement from Pakistan came on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited as many as 14 political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir for a high-level meeting in New Delhi next Thursday, which is expected to set the road map for holding assembly elections in the Union territory. Pakistan, which has a long history of rivalry with India, is determined to oppose the Indian government's political ambitions in Jammu and Kashmir. Qureshi, the country's foreign minister, said that Pakistan strongly opposes India's actions of August 5, 2019, and had spoken at several international conventions, including the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), on the same. True peace in South Asia, he said, can only be peacefully achieved when the Kashmir issue is resolved in accordance with the relevant UNSC resolutions and the wishes of the Kashmiri people.Pakistan has even apprised the UNSC president and the UN secretary-general over India's possible moves regarding Kashmir, Shah Mahmood Qureshi said, adding that the country won't tolerate any potential move by India that seeks to divide and bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir and change the demographic structure of the Union territory.It is to be noted that relations between India and Pakistan have deteriorated ever since the Narendra Modi-led government abolished Section 370 of the Constitution, thereby ending Jammu and Kashmir's special status. India also passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, in the parliament, thereby dividing the erstwhile state into two Union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.For its part, though, India has always maintained that abrogating Section 370 is its internal matter, with which Pakistan ought not to interfere. In international forums, India has highlighted that it is capable of dealing with the dispute involving Kashmir on its own and has, in turn, pressed on Pakistan, pointing out that decent relations with the neighbouring country will only be achieved once Islamabad takes stringent steps to curb the growing menace of terrorism.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-modi-s-kashmir-meeting-pakistan-issues-a-warning-for-india-101624148284491.html
20-06-2021||India||Telangana lifts Covid-19 lockdown from today||The Telangana government has announced to completely lift lockdown in the state with effect from Sunday in view of the improvement in Covid-19 situation. The decision was taken at the state cabinet meeting held by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at his camp office Pragati Bhavan on Saturday.“The decision to lift the lockdown completely was taken after examining reports submitted by the state medical and health department officials, which said the number of Covid-19 cases in the State and the positivity rate had dropped significantly,” an official release said.The Covid-19 lockdown in Telangana has been in force since May 12 with the government giving periodical relaxations. On June 9, the state government announced a 12-hour relaxation in the lockdown from 6am to 6pm for 10 days and it will come to an end at 6am on Sunday.According to an official release from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), the cabinet has observed that the spread of the coronavirus in the state was completely under control.It said that the cabinet made a thorough review of the Covid-19 situation across the nation in general and the neighbouring states in particular and observed that the coronavirus spread was under significant control.The cabinet has directed the education department to reopen all educational institutions from July 1 in all aspects with total preparedness.The release further said that the decision to lift Covid-19 lockdown completely was taken to see that normal life and the livelihood of the common people should not be affected. The cabinet appealed to the people to cooperate with the government in containing the spread of the coronavirus.The cabinet stated that the people should not let their guards down because the lockdown was lifted. “The people should strictly follow the Covid-19 restrictions like wearing of a mask, maintenance of social distance and use of sanitisers which are compulsory,” the cabinet added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lifts-covid-19-lockdown-from-today-101624147911904.html
20-06-2021||India||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana to appear before Lakshadweep Police today||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who is facing sedition charge over her remarks against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, will appear before the police on Sunday. Sultana's plea for anticipatory bail in the case was accepted by the Kerala high court on Thursday, but she was asked to appear before the police on June 20.The single-bench of Justice Ashok Menon granted anticipatory bail to her for a week, reserving its final order.The case was registered against the filmmaker on June 10 when the Kavaratti Police booked her under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint by Lakshadweep BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji.Sultana was served a notice under Section 41A Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), and the police asked her to appear at Lakshadweep Police headquarters in Kavaratti, in connection with the case.The controversy over remarks made by Aisha Sultana:In the complaint, Haji cited a debate on a Malayalam news channels, in which Sultana called the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel a "bio-weapon". Haji said her words were in bad taste and intended to create hatred and aversion in the minds of people.During the hearing before the high court, the filmmaker's counsel said that the words "bio-weapon" were used in the context of criticising the relaxations given in the Covid protocol in the island and was made to represent the aggrieved lot."She never knew that this word can have such implications. She apologised the next day. Covid restrictions were relaxed in Lakshadweep leading to spike in cases. The words bio-weapon were used in that context," Sultana's lawyer said.But the counsel for Lakshadweep administration opposed the bail plea, asserting that Sultana made a powerful, noxious assertion against the government of India.Sedition charge:The Kavaratti Police booked Sultana under sections 124 (A) (sedition) and 153 (B) (acts against national interests) of the IPC. The complainant, Lakshadweep BJP president Haji, said that Sultana generated hatred and opposition to the Union government by falsely and with ulterior motives.Many local BJP leaders protested against the slapping of sedition charge against Sultana. Over a dozen of them quit the party in protest.However, the BJP downplayed the resignations, claiming that the party is intact in the island.Uproar against Khoda:Over the last few days, there has been an uproar against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel over the new reforms introduced by him, which many allege are against the interest of the islanders.People are protesting against the draft legislations like Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filmmaker-aisha-sultana-to-appear-before-lakshadweep-police-today-101624148194607.html
20-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to visit Washington on Friday||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:US preparing new sanctions over situation with Navalny: NSA SullivanThe United States is preparing a new package of sanctions tackling the situation with jailed Russian opposition figure Alexey Navalny, national security advisor Jake Sullivan, local media reported.Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to visit Washington on FridayAfghan President Ashraf Ghani and the lead negotiator in talks with the Taliban will be received at the White House on Friday, as the planned American military withdrawal draws closer."The visit by President Ghani and Dr. Abdullah Abdullah will highlight the enduring partnership between the United States and Afghanistan as the military drawdown continues," spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement on Sunday.Maharashtra records 9,361 fresh Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 117,961Maharashtra's total tally increased to 5,972,781 after the state recorded more than 9,000 cases in a day. As per the latest health bulletin, 9,361 people were found to be infected over the last 24 hours, while 190 succumbed to the disease.Record 12.56 lakh people vaccinated against Covid-19 in AndhraAndhra Pradesh achieved a unique feat on Sunday, vaccinating over 12.56 lakh people under the Mega Covid vaccination drive that the health authorities hope could be a record in any one province in the world. In the process, the state also crossed the one crore mark in the administration of the first dose of coronavirus vaccine.‘Undertook broad consultations’: India’s response to UN on IT rulesThe Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting undertook broad consultations in 2018 with various stakeholders before finalising the new Information Technology Rules, the government said in reply to concerns raised by the UN Special Rapporteurs. Read MoreHaryana govt extends Covid-19 restrictions for another weekHaryana government extends COVID guidelines for another week till June 28; modifies guidelines pic.twitter.com/PqV1EPWlW1Delhi reports 124 new Covid cases, 7 deathsDelhi reported 124 new Covid cases and 7 deaths over the last 24 hours. The number of active cases now stands at 2,091 and the death toll has increased to 24,914. The positivity rate has improved to 0.17%.Andhra Pradesh inoculates record number of beneficiariesAndhra Pradesh on Sunday inoculated 902,308 beneficiaries against the Covid-19 disease till 2pm, the highest ever since the beginning of the vaccination drive in the state. Officials told news agency PTI they are that the number could touch 1.2 million by the end of the drive at 6pm.Odisha aims to vaccinate 300,000 people daily beginning MondayOdisha health department targets to administer 300,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines daily beginning Monday with the aim to cover 30.9 million eligible residents in the shortest possible time, officials said Read moreCovid-19 lockdown in Tamil Nadu extended till June 28The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday decided to extend the ongoing lockdown in the state till June 28 with further relaxations, news agency ANI reported.PM Modi congratulates Iran's new prez Ebrahim Raisi on poll winCongratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated Iran's newly elected president Ebrahim Raisi on his election victory. "Congratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran," Modi tweeted. Read moreDelhi relaxes Covid curbs; Bars, public parks, gardens to reopenThe Department of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday further relaxed the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions by allowing bars, public parks and gardens to reopen. Read moreEarthquake of 2.1 magnitude jolts Delhi's Punjabi Bagh areaThe National Center for Seismology (NCS) said on Sunday that an earthquake with a magnitude of 2.1 on the Richter scale hit the Punjabi Bagh area in the national capital at 12.02 pmLJP's Chirag Paswan holds meeting with party leaders in DelhiLok Janshakti Patry (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan holds a meeting with party leaders at their office in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/cvvh4MHsXALok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan is currently holding a meeting with party leaders in the national capital, news agency ANI reported. The meeting comes amid Paswan's battle with his uncle Pashupati Paras for control over the LJP.Argentina reports first case of MucormycosisArgentina on Saturday reported its first case of Mucormycosis, also knows as black fungus, the country's health ministry said."The Ministry of Health of the Nation informs that the first notification was received by the National Health Surveillance System of a case of mucormycosis, known as "black fungus," associated with a patient from Formosa who had Covid-19," the ministry said.According to news agency ANI, the patient is a 47-year-old woman who has a history of high blood pressure and type II diabetes.'Punjab wants change': AAP says Delhi CM Kejriwal will visit Amritsar on MondayThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced on Sunday that its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be visiting Punjab’s Amritsar city on Monday. This will be his second visit to Punjab this year, where assembly elections are due in 2022. Read moreOver 291 million vaccines given to states/UTs so far, says CentreOver 29.10 cr (29,10,54,050) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far through Govt of India (free of cost channel) & through direct state procurement category. Of this, total consumption, incl wastages is 26,04,19,412 doses (as per data at 8AM today): Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/b15ekLSJ5mThe Centre said on Sunday that over 291 million vaccine doses against the Covid-19 disease have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) till now through the free of cost channel and through the direct state procurement category.Renowned Odia playback singer Tapu Mishra dies due to post-Covid complicationsRenowned Odia playback singer Tapu Mishra died on Saturday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bhubaneswar for post Covid-19 complications, news agency ANI reported.Maximum temperature in Delhi to to settle at 37 degree CelsiusThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday the maximum temperature in the national capital is likely to settle at around 37 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature was at 25.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below the season's average.Covid-19 in India: States with highest and lowest number of active casesThe number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been coming down in India in the last few weeks. From a peak of 4 lakh cases in a day, the nationwide tally has dropped to around 60,000. Read moreIndia's daily Covid-19 tally drops below 60,000-mark with 58,419 new casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped below the 60,000-mark on Sunday after 58,419 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 29,881,965, according to the Union health ministry. Sunday's cases are the lowest since March 30 this year, when 56,211 people were detected Covid-19 positive. Read moreFormer AIADMK minister arrested for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman: Tamil Nadu PoliceFormer AIADMK minister M Manikandan arrested in Bengaluru by Chennai City Police for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman, causing miscarriage as well as for criminal intimidation. He was evading arrest after Madras High Court had refused him anticipatory bail: Tamil Nadu PoliceThe Tamil Nadu Police told news agency ANI on Sunday that former AIADMK minister M Manikandan was arrested in Bengaluru by the Chennai City Police for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman. "He was evading arrest after Madras High Court had refused him anticipatory bail," the Tamil Nadu Police added. Read moreFresh hike in fuel prices pushes petrol to ₹97.22 per litre in Delhi; Patna rates near ₹100-markDelhi and Patna saw an increase in their petrol prices on Sunday due to a fresh hike in fuel prices. In Delhi, petrol is being sold at ₹97.22 per litre while in Patna, it is being sold at ₹99.28 per litre. Read moreTruck driver crashes into South Florida Pride parade; mayor says 1 killedA pickup truck driver slammed into spectators Saturday evening at the start of a Pride parade in South Florida, and an official said one person was killed and another seriously injured. Read moreDelhi-NCR to receive rainfall today, says IMDThunderstorm with light-moderate rain over isolated places of South, East, Northeast Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hindon, Indirapuram, Chapraula, Noida, Gr Noida, Dadri, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Khurja, Narora, Kasganj, Atrauli, Nazibabad, Sikandra Rao, Etah during next 2 hrs: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that thunderstorm along with light to moderate rains will take place over isolated places of South, East, Northeast Delhi during the next two hours. Read moreEmirates to resume flights connecting India, 2 other nations to Dubai from June 23: ReportDubai based airline Emirates is set to resume flights connecting India, South Africa and Nigeria to Dubai from June 23, news agency ANI reported quoting Gulf news. Earthquake of 3.1 magnitude occurred today in Arunachal PradeshEarthquake of 3.1 magnitude occurred today around 01:02:07 IST in NNW of Pangin, Arunachal Pradesh: National Center for Seismology.China reports 23 new Covid-19 cases versus 30 the day beforeChina reported 23 new confirmed Covid-19 cases in the mainland for June 19, down from 30 infections a day earlier, the country's health authority said on Sunday.Third pandemic wave hits as Brazil surpasses half million Covid deathsBrazil on Saturday became the second country after the United States to surpass 500,000 Covid-19 deaths as the South American giant grapples with a third wave of the pandemic.19-year-old arrested for killing four family members in WB's MaldaThe West Bengal Police on Saturday arrested a 19-year old for allegedly killing four members of his family and burying them in a godown in his residential compound in West Bengal's Malda district.Earthquake of 3.6 magnitude occurred in ManipurEarthquake of 3.6 magnitude occurred at 01:22 hours in NW of Shirui village, Manipur: National Center for Seismology.Cuba encouraged by early trials of homegrown Covid-19 vaccineCuba's Soberana 2 vaccine candidate has shown 62% efficacy with just two of its three doses, state-run biopharmaceutical corporation BioCubaFarma said on Saturday, citing preliminary data from late phase trials.US student missing in Russia found deadA US student who was studying in Russia was found dead early Saturday morning, according to Russia's Investigative Committee, reported American media.Brazil's Covid-19 death toll tops 500,000Over 500,000 people in Brazil have died from Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic, informed Brazilian Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga on Saturday.Hyderabad Metro to operate from 7 am to 9 pm from June 21With the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions in Telangana, the Hyderabad Metro Rail will operate from 7 am to 9 pm from June 21 onwards.94 new cases take Nagaland's Covid-19 tally to 24,191Nagaland on Saturday reported 94 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally in the state to 24,191, a health department official said.China Astronauts enter Space station, says reportThree astronauts have entered the space station that China is developing as they begin a three-month mission there, state-backed broadcaster CGTN reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-20-2021-101624145916539.html
20-06-2021||India||Govt calls for strict action against assault on doctors||The Centre on Saturday asked state governments to register cases and invoke the stringent action under the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020 against those who assault doctors and health care professionals.The letter by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla came after several incidents of attack on doctors and health care professionals were reported from different parts of the country amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“…any incident of threat or assault on doctors or healthcare professionals may dampen their morale and create a sense of insecurity amongst them. This may adversely affect the healthcare response system,” said the letter. Bhalla also asked the states to keep a close watch on any objectionable content on social media that may exacerbate such situations.On June 1, a doctor posted at a Covid Care Centre in Assam was assaulted by the relatives of a patient who succumbed to the virus. On April 26, relatives of a deceased patient vandalised the emergency ward and injured several employees of Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo hospital.“Institutional FIRs should be registered against assaulters and such cases should be fast-tracked. You may also like to invoke provisions of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, where applicable,” said the letter, and highlighted the Centre’s earlier advisories sent in this regard||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-calls-for-strict-action-against-assault-on-doctors-101624140520611.html
20-06-2021||India||Man arrested for killing sister who eloped in UP||A 22-year-old man was arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut district on Saturday on charges of killing his 16-year-old sister allegedly because she eloped with a man, police said.According to officials familiar with the matter, on June 13, the victim eloped to Mathura with a 19-year-old man from a neighbouring village, who then disappeared. Later, she approached the local police, who informed her parents in Meerut. When she returned on June 14, the accused shot her dead and fled the village, the official added.SP (rural) Keshav Mishra said that accused was arrested from Sardhana area on Saturday evening and the country-made pistols used for the murder has also been recovered.Last week, a man killed his daughter in Meerut and buried her body, weeks after she married a man against her family’s wishes. The woman’s body was later exhumed, and the autopsy revealed death by strangulation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-killing-sister-who-eloped-in-up-101624134070880.html
20-06-2021||India||‘We are not against live-in relationships’: Allahabad HC grants protection to UP couple||The Allahabad high court has observed that it is not against live-in relationship but cannot give protection when one of the live-in partners is married.The court said this on Friday while granting police protection to petitioners who were of marriageable age and wanted a live-in relationship, and subsequently got married to each other.While partly allowing the writ petition of a woman and a man of Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh, a division bench of justices Kaushal Jayendra Thaker and Dinesh Pathak observed, “We are not against the live-in relation. Earlier, we rejected a matter seeking protection by a couple who wanted to live in. The reasons were that the protection to live-in relation was sought for by the petitioners during subsistence of marriage of one of the petitioners.”The petitioners granted protection on Friday were a young couple, who wanted a live-in relationship. Their marriage was solemnised during the pendency of the writ petition.The petitioners approached the court on the apprehension that they would be harassed and would not be permitted to live in peace by their family members.While directing the police to provide protection to petitioners, the court observed, “In this case, both the petitioners are at marriageable age. They wanted to live in but subsequently they have married each other. Hence, in view of the decision of the apex court in the Gian Devi case and as per the government order dated August 31, 2019, the police shall grant them protection after verifying all the documents.”The high court on June 15 dismissed the protection plea of a live-in couple in another case, noting that the woman was already married to another man.“We fail to understand how such a petition can be allowed, permitting illegality in society,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/not-against-live-in-relationship-says-allahabad-high-court-101624133070773.html
20-06-2021||India||Gandhi documentary wins top award at New York Indian Film Festival||A documentary on Mahatma Gandhi produced by internationally-renowned South African filmmaker Anant Singh has won the Best Documentary Feature Award at the 21st New York Indian Film Festival.The film, titled ‘Ahimsa – Gandhi: The Power of the Powerless’, written and directed by Ramesh Sharma, was produced by Singh’s company Videovision to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth in 2019.Its release was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic.“We are honoured to receive the Best Documentary Feature Award from the prestigious New York Indian Film Festival. For us, the award affirms the importance of Gandhi’s teachings and his impact on freedom struggles around the world which we capture in the film. We are also delighted to be perpetuating Gandhi’s legacy through our film,” said director Ramesh Sharma.Singh said he was “delighted” to have worked with Sharma on the project.“Whilst Gandhi has a global legacy, South Africa has a special connection with the Gandhi narrative as it was here, in South Africa, that he became sensitised to issues of human rights and equality,” Singh said.“Gandhi’s influence will continue to inspire and motivate other leaders to make a change, through non-violence, for peace,” Singh added.Singh announced the completion of the documentary on June 7 last year, the date on which in 1893 Gandhi was thrown off a train at Pietermaritzburg Station in South Africa because it was reserved for whites only. The incident sparked off his lifelong fight against discrimination.In the film, a host of historians and academics from across the globe share their views on the impact that Gandhi had on the world.Also participating are descendants of Gandhi, including his granddaughter Ela Gandhi in South Africa and US-based grandsons Arun Gandhi and Rajmohan Gandhi.“This film comes at a time when the world needs to be reminded of the Mahatma’s teachings of peace and non-violence,” Singh said.“It reminds us that we need to restore human rights and dignity on a universal level,” he said.The film also features the impact that Gandhi’s teachings had on the American Black Civil Rights movement, with a number of veterans of the movement recalling the history of racism in the US.Singh added that the film highlights the impact of the Gandhian message of non-violence worldwide; how it inspired Martin Luther King Jr., John Lewis, Barack Obama and the Civil Rights Movement in the United States; the Solidarity Movement in Poland as well as Nelson Mandela and the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa.“The film speaks to the conscience of humanity as people globally grapple with intractable problems surrounding race, and as societies struggle to give the marginalised and underserved human dignity and restore fundamental human rights,” Singh said.“It deals with oppression and the denial of basic freedoms to people by those who are in positions of power and who fiercely protect their positions by inflicting violence on innocent people,” he said.The film features the song, ‘Ahimsa’ performed by U2 and AR Rahman, with the lyrics written by Bono and Rahman.The duo also announced that the film will have its United Kingdom premiere at the London Indian Film Festival on 20 June 2021 in the festival’s Extra-Ordinary Lives section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-documentary-wins-top-award-at-new-york-indian-film-festival-101624130049654.html
20-06-2021||India||India abstains from vote on UNGA’s Myanmar resolution||India on Friday abstained from voting on United Nations General Assembly resolution, rebuking Myanmar for the five-month-old military takeover, saying it doesn’t believe the resolution, tabled hastily, is conducive to “aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening democratic process” in the country.The draft resolution ‘The situation in Myanmar’ was adopted on Friday with 119 member states, including Myanmar, voting in favour, while 36 nations, including Myanmar’s neighbours — India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Laos, Nepal and Thailand abstained and so did Russia. Belarus was the only country voting against it.“This resolution was tabled... without adequate consultations with neighbours and regional countries. This is not only unhelpful but may also prove counter-productive to the efforts of the ASEAN to find a solution to the current situation in Myanmar,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told PTI.The resolution expressed “grave concern” at the February 1 coup and called upon Myanmar’s military junta to immediately and unconditionally release President Win Myint, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and other government officials, politicians and those arbitrarily detained or arrested. It also called “upon all member states to prevent the flow of arms into Myanmar”.In the explanation of the vote in the General Assembly, Tirumurti said as Myanmar’s immediate neighbour and close friend of its people, India is cognizant of the “serious impact of political instability” and the potential of its spillover beyond Myanmar’s borders. India has been calling for greater engagement with the objective of peacefully resolving all issues. “We already have such an ongoing initiative under the aegis of ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations). It is important that we extend support to the ASEAN efforts,” he said, adding, “We had engaged in a spirit of finding a constructive and pragmatic way forward and had accordingly shared our suggestions to those who piloted this resolution.”“However, we find that our views have not been reflected in the draft being considered for adoption today. We would like to reiterate that a consultative and constructive approach involving the neighbouring countries and the region, remains important as the international community strives for the peaceful resolution of the issue,” Tirumurti said.China, another neighbour of Myanmar, was among those who abstained, as did ASEAN members Brunei, Cambodia, Laos and Thailand. The rest of the member nations voted for the resolution.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-abstains-from-vote-on-unga-s-myanmar-resolution-101624129552897.html
20-06-2021||India||K’taka, Maha unite to supply water in drought-hit regions||Karnataka and Maharashtra on Saturday decided to work closely for coordination and communication regarding flood management and water supply in the drought-hit regions of both states.The decision was announced after Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa and state home minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting with Maharashtra water resource minister Jayant Patil in Bengaluru on Saturday. Following the meeting, CM Yediyurappa said both the states have agreed to share real-time data on rainfall. He also added that water would be released from reservoirs both in Krishna and Bhima basin to manage the floods.“We discussed various issues regarding flood management in Krishna and Bheema river basins. The decision was taken to have better coordination and communication between two states at ministerial level, secretaries level and the field level,” said Yediyurappa. It was resolved that a technical team will work towards getting four TMC water from Maharashtra, and in return, release water to the drought-hit areas of the western state, the chief minister said.The two states also agreed to complete the Dudhganga dam project, at the earliest, and Maharashtra will also fund it. “Maharashtra will also supply enough funds for completion of Dudhganga dam,” Patil said in the press conference.Pointing to the shortage of water during April and May in the Krishna basin region, Bommai said, since 2013, Maharashtra has been charging money for the release of water to the state.However, it has been agreed upon that Karnataka will not pay but will supply water to the drought-hit Jath taluk of Maharashtra during the rainy season. For the past three years, the state has witnessed flood in Krishna and Bhima rivers following the downpour in its catchment areas in Maharashtra.He added that if a timely warning comes from Maharashtra, Karnataka gets 48 hours to monitor the water inflow and outflow.Discharge of water from seven major dams in Sangli and Satara districts of Maharashtra -- Koyna, Warna, Dhoom, Urmodi, Kanher, Tarali and Dhom Balkwadi -- has always been a major concern for Karnataka as the Krishna river flows with a very low slope and with its drainage capacity being low, water management becomes even more crucial to prevent floods in Karnataka.Flood management becomes vital as the Krishna flowing from Maharashtra confluences with various tributaries -- Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Bhima, Tungabhadra and Musi rivers -- in Karnataka.Yediyurappa also held a video conference regarding the precautions to be taken during floods with Deputy Commissioners of 20 flood-prone districts. During the meeting, for the first time in the state, State Flood Management Action Plan 2021 has been prepared. “1,710 villages have been identified as flood-prone. Gram Panchayath level disaster management action plan has been developed, and training is imparted regarding its implementation. Taskforce, operational teams and WhatsApp groups have been created to manage flood situation. Role and responsibilities of various departments at different levels have been identified,” read a communication from the CM’s office. The government also announced that a flood forecast cell has been established at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. Material required for rescue operations has been mobilized and provided, it added. “Four NDRF teams are deployed for rescue operations to Raichur, Kodagu, Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada districts. SDRF teams consisting of more than 200 personnel are strengthened with the necessary equipment for the rescue operations. Around ₹1,000 crore fund is available with the Deputy Commissioners for disaster management,” the communication added. (With Inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-maha-unite-to-supply-water-in-drought-hit-regions-101624130069957.html
20-06-2021||India||Karnataka eases Covid curbs in 16 districts||: The Karnataka government Saturday announced new relaxations to unlock, which includes the opening of hotels and restaurants with 50% capacity, the new guideline stated.As per the new relaxations, in 16 districts, including Bengaluru city, hotel and restaurants can open at 50% capacity. The latest relaxations were announced after the positivity rate in these 16 districts dropped below 5%.The decision was taken by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, based on the positivity rate and suggestions made by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The first set of relaxations announced apply to 16 districts - Bengaluru urban, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppala, Chikkaballapur, Tumkur, Kolar, Gadaga, Raichur, Bagalakote, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramnagara, Yadagiri and Bidar. In these districts, all shops can be open till 5 pm. Dining at hotels, clubs, restaurants (excluding liquor) at 50% capacity. However, air-conditioning is not allowed. Apart from this, conducting outdoor sports without spectators is allowed. Government and private offices are permitted to work with 50% capacity. “Lodges and resorts can function only with 50 % capacity. Gyms can operate with 50% capacity (without AC facility),” read a communication from the Karnataka CM’s office. In districts with more than a 5% positivity rate, relaxations were announced on June 11, where essential services can stay open till 2 pm, and selected industries and offices are allowed to open. These districts are Hassan, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shimoga, Chamrajngagar, Chikkamagalur, Bangalore rural, Davanagere, Kodagu, Dharwad, Bellari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura. The status quo on the lockdown rules will remain in the Mysuru district, which has a positivity rate of more than 10%.Meanwhile, night curfew between 7 pm to 5 am, weekend curfew between 7 am to 5 am, and a cap on 50% seating capacity up to 50% will be applicable across the state. On Saturday, Karnataka reported 5,815 new Covid cases taking the number of active cases to 1,30,872. The state also reported 161 Covid related deaths. The total deaths due to Covid reached 33,763. Out of these, Bengaluru reported 1,263 new cases and four deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-eases-covid-curbs-in-16-districts-101624129830521.html
20-06-2021||India||60 years of Marut: A fighter jet that proved its worth in 1971 war||The armament firing sorties of this aircraft -- where the weapons on the fighter plane put to the test -- were often called the canopy firing sorties by the pilots who flew it. The vibrations during weapon firing were so strong that it resulted in the canopy of aircraft flying off mid-air. It was India’s first indigenously developed fighter aircraft- HF-24 Marut. Despite its shortcomings, the fighter plane proved its worth in the 1971 war. A ground attack aircraft, it has aerial combat kill to its name after Squadron Leader KK Bakshi shot down a Pakistani F-86 Sabre on December 7, 1971. In this war, three Marut pilots were awarded Vir Chakra for bravery. June 17 marked 60 years since the aircraft made its maiden flight. Despite the list of problem that came with indigenous production, the men who flew the aircraft and those help build have fond memories. The development of the aircraft was envisioned by the Jawaharlal Nehru and Hindustan Aircraft Limited (HAL) in the 1960s, with aeronautical engineer Kurt Tank as the lead designer. Although intended to have a top speed of Mach 2 (twice the speed of sound), the Marut could not even manage to do half that. Since its speed was limited, it was primarily used for ground attack missions, even though envisioned as a capable interceptor aircraft. Air Marshal (retd) Brijesh Jayal was in charge of taking the aircraft from HAL to the operational unit in Jamnagar for conversion of the squadron to Maruts. Referring to his logbook, the officer said that on March 19, 1967, he flew BD 842 from Bengaluru to Jamnagar via Pune, along with three other IAF pilots Karan Yadav, Pirthi Singh and Ashoka. As much as the aircraft, he thought the men who flew were exceptional too, said the retired air marshal. According to him, there were times when he was taken aback by the sheer gung-ho attitude of the operational pilots. “On one occasion, a senior flight commander and a dear friend mentioned to me that one of his pilots had reported airframe vibrations beyond a particular speed. The flight commander took the aircraft up himself and decided to explore further and flew beyond the speed. He then described to me the severity of the vibrations. When I told him that he should investigate the problem rather than first exploring possibilities on the ground, he had a hearty laugh. The flight commander was unimpressed and thought that I was far too cautious,” recalled Air Marshal Jayal. “I have done more than 150 hours on the aircraft, and I love it. Much of my experience as a test pilot with Maruts were routine. Testing is not about bravado but meticulous planning, good teamwork and a keen eye for detail and potential problems. I was fortunate in having worked with the finest in every field, including those involved in HAL.” he added. Prodyut Das, who worked on the Marut at HAL, said the Marut was an aircraft with the potential but wasn’t realised because of several reasons. “For starters, we should have aimed for simpler aircraft than looking to make Mach II fighter. Even though he had very sincere engineering, their experience was lacking. In our education, we are taught to find the correct answer and not developing the capacity to imagine something big. But of course, I believe that instead of focussing on purchasing foreign aircraft, had we given more support to the project, it could have been a bigger success,” said Das. Angad Singh, a Project Coordinator with Observer Research Foundation’s Strategic Studies Programme, said the project began as a prestige project of Prime Minister Nehru and was troubled from the start for various reasons. “We were trying to create something incredibly difficult and expensive in a country where spending money was frowned upon. The gun versus butter argument was firmly settled in favour of butter. There was no appetite for something more than the bare minimum. Considering this, it was an achievement. But at the same, the initial designs were created by a German designer not at the cutting edge of contemporary aerospace research and technology, so the design was not state of the art,” he added. But the pilots who flew have all praise for the ability of the aircraft. In 2011, a reunion of the pilots of Marut was held in Bengaluru, where pilots remembered the aircraft had remembered the fighter fondly. “The first time I saw her, I was stunned. She was beautiful, slim and sexy. When she moved, you couldn’t spot her,” said Wing Commander (retd) Brian DeMagry. Air Commodore (retd) P Ashok, another pilot, recollected how low the pilots used to fly the Maruts. “There was a pilot who flew so low that he crashed into a live high-tension wire pole. He was skilled enough to bring the plane out without a scratch, but the whole locality was in the dark for an entire day,” he said. And there were mentions about the canopy flying off as well. “During the armament firing exercise, the canopy of the plane flew off. Not once but twice, though, I managed to land it safely both times. Then on, whenever I would go for armament firing, they used to call it canopy firing exercise,” said Wing Commander (retd) M W Tilak at the reunion in 2011. However, the prolonged technical problems and the induction of the newer, more technologically advanced aircraft resulted in the aircraft retiring from service by the late 1980s. But did it pave the way to indigenisation in the defence sector? Singh thinks otherwise. “For whatever good or bad that was the Marut project, it was HAL who worked on it, and every other domestic or licence-production aviation project in the country. They were the centre of all aerospace expertise in the country but, when India decided to start the Light Combat Aircraft project, we created the Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) and kept HAL out of the design phase,” he said. Despite the aircraft not realising its true potential or resulting in better lessons for its indigenous fighter manufacturing, Marut, the spirit of the storm remains close to the heart of those who have flown it. “Everything said that about the aircraft aside, I loved the Marut,” said Air Marshal (Retd) Jayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-years-of-marut-a-fighter-jet-that-proved-its-worth-in-1971-war-101624129770008.html
20-06-2021||India||Man falls while escaping after aborted bid to steal cattle, dies 5 days later in Tripura||A 27-year-old man who received injuries five days ago when trying to flee after trying to steal cattle in North Tripura district’s Kadamtala area died on Saturday, police said.Police said that Suman Munda, 27, was suspected to be a cattle smuggler from Bangladesh. He and three others entered a house in the area early on June 14 in an attempt to steal cattle. But they were spotted by some local people who chased them. Three of the suspects escaped but Suman fell and sustained injuries.Police said he was taken to a local hospital and later referred to Dharmanagar district hospital.A case was registered against him for trying to steal cattle on June 14 by the Kadamtala police.“We suspect him to be a Bangladeshi…. will try to verify his identity from the Bangladesh authorities. If they agree, we will send the body to them or, else, his cremation will be done here”, said North Tripura district superintendent of police Bhanupada Chakraborty. A Border Security Force statement this evening said the police informed them about the case on June 14 and they have jointly visited the spot.During preliminary questioning, the suspect is reported to have told officials that he hails from Bangladesh’s Moulvibazar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-falls-while-escaping-after-aborted-bid-to-steal-cattle-dies-5-days-later-in-tripura-101624129170474.html
20-06-2021||India||No delay in fixing floor wages: Labour ministry||The Union labour ministry on Saturday said it would fix minimum wages and national floor wages as soon as an expert committee, formed to decide the rates, gives its recommendations, adding there would be no “delay” in the exercise.The fixing of the new wage benchmarks is mandated by the Code on Wages Bill passed in 2019. On June 3, the Centre announced a six-member expert committee of economists and bureaucrats to recommend the wage ceilings, but it had not stipulated a timeframe by which the panel has to submit its report.“The tenure of the expert group has been kept as three years so that even after the fixation of minimum wages and national floor wages, (the) government may seek technical inputs/advice from the expert group,” an official statement from the ministry said.According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2017-18, 45% of regular workers even in the formal sector receive less than the current minimum wages. The expert group is led by economist Ajit Mishra and is mandated to provide technical inputs and recommendations on fixation of wages to the labour ministry.While there would be different minimum wages for different categories of jobs and these will vary according to geographical zones, there will be national floor wages for each category and no zone can have a wage below this level, according to the wage code 2019.The group had held its first meeting on June 14. A second meeting is scheduled for June 29. The panel’s mandate is also to look into “international best practices on wages and evolve a scientific criteria and methodology for fixation of wage”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-delay-in-fixing-floor-wages-labour-ministry-101624128990450.html
20-06-2021||India||'Keeping a close watch on LAC', says IAF chief||The Indian armed forces were on a high alert and keeping a close watch on the situation along the border with China as the two sides looked to complete the disengagement process, Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria said on Saturday.India and China have been locked in a standoff in the Ladakh sector for over a year, and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-rank officers, but the negotiations have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers from friction points.The IAF chief said discussions were going on between the two sides for the next round of talks on the issue. “There is a proposal for the next commander-level talks and a decision will be taken soon. The first attempt is to continue with talks and do disengagement of balance friction points and follow it with de-escalation,” he said after attending the Combined Graduation Parade of the newly trained flight cadets at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on the outskirts of Hyderabad.The first round of talks took place on June 6 last year, days before the Galwan Valley clash, the first deadly skirmish between the two troops in over five decades. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead and pushed the bilateral relationship to breaking point.Bhadauria said the Indian forces were not letting their guard down and were better prepared now than last year. “The ground reality is being monitored closely in terms of current leftover locations, deployments, or any changes. We are taking all required actions on our part,” he said.The air force chief added that the IAF was undergoing a “monumental transformation” due to an evolving security challenge. “IAF is undergoing a monumental transformation. Rapid infusion of niche technologies and combat power in every facet of our operations has never been as intense as it is now. This is primarily because of the unprecedented and rapidly evolving security challenges that we face…,” he said. Bhadauria said they were committed to inducting the Rafale aircraft into the IAF by 2022.“The target [for Rafale induction] is 2022... Broadly, we are absolutely on target on the Rafale induction plan,” he said. In 2016, India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 Rafale jets at a cost ₹59,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keeping-a-close-watch-on-lac-says-iafchief-101624128329875.html
20-06-2021||India||‘Monitor signs of spike’: Centre warns against lowering guard||The central government joined experts and courts in warning states and Union Territories not to become “complacent” about a decline in Covid-19 infections, urging them to ensure that protocol is followed and asking them to monitor signs of a potential spike in cases as they lift lockdown restrictions across regions.In a letter to the states and UTs on Saturday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that while the opening up of businesses and allowing economic activities is “essential” as cases decline, states and UTs must ensure that the whole “process is carefully calibrated”.He noted that the easing of lockdown norms — which were necessitated in April-May by the devastating second wave of infections — has led to crowding in markets and other public places. It is “extremely important” to follow the five-fold strategy that includes observing Covid-appropriate behaviour, the test-track-treat approach and boosting vaccinations, the senior official said.The letter of caution comes a day after the Delhi high court took note of crowding, and violations in Covid-19 protocols in markets and public spaces across the Capital, and sounded a warning that the city will be in “great trouble” in the context of an anticipated third wave of the pandemic. The court also told the Centre and the Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers, and hold meetings with markets and vendors’ associations in this regard.India’s second and worst wave so far of infections began in March and started to ease sometime in May. At its peak, India added an average of 391,819 daily cases for the week ending May 9. It also surpassed the US — the worst-hit nation in cumulative cases — in recording the most number of infections in a single day, when it added 315,909 cases on April 21. In fact, India recorded more than US’s highest single day tally every day from April 21 to May 15. The world’s worst outbreak at the time brought the national capital to its knees, as hospitals ran out of medical oxygen and life-saving drugs and bodies piled up in crematoria. The health care infrastructure in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Odisha, too, were stretched thin in those months.As lockdown norms are withdrawn, images from across metropolises in recent days have shown large crowds gathering in markets and streets, with hundreds of people seen with virtually no social distancing and often with poor mask compliance.In Delhi, markets have been open for over two weeks, at first in a 50% arrangement before the government eased all curbs from June 14. In Mumbai, too, all shops and markets, and gymnasiums are open. Similarly, curbs have been relaxed in other cities including Kolkata and Bengaluru. On Saturday, Telangana ordered lifting of all restrictions “to full extent”.Experts have cautioned that a race to resume business activities can compromise containment efforts and trigger a third wave of the pandemic if the pace of the vaccination drive doesn’t pick up.Bhalla pointed out on Saturday that inoculations are critical to break the chain of transmission of the viral illness and all states/UTs should try to cover the most number of people under the vaccination drive.India has administered at least one dose of the vaccine to 15.5% of its entire population of 1.35 billion people so far, significantly lower than the US’s 52.7%, the UK’s 62%, Israel’s 63% and Canada’s 66%. On average, around 3.24 million jabs given daily in the last seven days. The senior official additionally asked authorities to regularly monitor any lapses in Covid-appropriate behaviour and said state/UT administrations should keep an eye out for early signs of a potential outbreak.“A system should be in place at the micro-level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself, through local containment measures as per the existing guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” the home secretary said.“We need to continue all measures to prevent transmission of the infection such as local containment till there are no cases in the country. This is how we will prevent a third wave and end the pandemic. As you know, when a disease is nearing an end, we need to intensify our efforts in order to ensure that we eliminate it. This is not the time for complacency,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital in New Delhi.The letter added: “I therefore urge you to issue directions to district and all other authorities concerned, to keep a close watch on the situation, while activities are opened in a cautious manner, and to scrupulously ensure there is no complacency in adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitor-signs-of-spike-centre-warns-against-lowering-guard-101624128269890.html
20-06-2021||India||‘Monitor signs of spike’: Centre warns states against lowering guard||The central government joined experts and courts in warning states and Union Territories not to become “complacent” about a decline in Covid-19 infections, urging them to ensure that protocol is followed and asking them to monitor signs of a potential spike in cases as they lift lockdown restrictions across regions.In a letter to the states and UTs on Saturday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that while the opening up of businesses and allowing economic activities is “essential” as cases decline, states and UTs must ensure that the whole “process is carefully calibrated”.He noted that the easing of lockdown norms — which were necessitated in April-May by the devastating second wave of infections — has led to crowding in markets and other public places. It is “extremely important” to follow the five-fold strategy that includes observing Covid-appropriate behaviour, the test-track-treat approach and boosting vaccinations, the senior official said.The letter of caution comes a day after the Delhi high court took note of crowding, and violations in Covid-19 protocols in markets and public spaces across the Capital, and sounded a warning that the city will be in “great trouble” in the context of an anticipated third wave of the pandemic. The court also told the Centre and the Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers, and hold meetings with markets and vendors’ associations in this regard.India’s second and worst wave so far of infections began in March and started to ease sometime in May. At its peak, India added an average of 3,91,819 daily cases for the week ending May 9. It also surpassed the US — the worst-hit nation in cumulative cases — in recording the most number of infections in a single day (305,062) when it recorded 315,909 cases on April 21. In fact, India recorded more than US’s highest single day tally every day from April 21 to May 15. The world’s worst outbreak at the time brought the national capital to its knees, as hospitals ran out of medical oxygen and life-saving drugs and bodies piled up in crematoria. The health care infrastructure in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Odisha, too, were stretched thin in those months.As lockdown norms are withdrawn, images from across metropolises in recent days have shown large crowds gathering in markets and streets, with hundreds of people seen with virtually no social distancing and often with poor mask compliance.In Delhi, markets have been open for over two weeks, at first in a 50% arrangement before the government eased all curbs from June 14. In Mumbai, too, all shops and markets, and gymnasiums are open since June 7. Similarly, curbs have been relaxed in other cities including Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru. On Saturday, Telangana ordered lifting of all restrictions “to full extent”.Experts have cautioned that a race to resume business activities can compromise containment efforts and trigger a third wave of the pandemic if the pace of the vaccination drive doesn’t pick up.Bhalla pointed out on Saturday that inoculations are critical to break the chain of transmission of the viral illness and all states/UTs should try to cover the most number of people under the vaccination drive.India has administered at least one dose of the vaccine to 15.5% of its entire population of 1.35 billion people so far, significantly lower than the US’s 52.7%, the UK’s 62%, Israel’s 63% and Canada’s 66%. On average, around 3.24 million jabs given daily in the last seven days.The senior official additionally asked authorities to regularly monitor any lapses in Covid-appropriate behaviour and said state/UT administrations should keep an eye out for early signs of a potential outbreak.“A system should be in place at the micro-level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself, through local containment measures as per the existing guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” the home secretary said.“I therefore urge you to issue directions to district and all other authorities concerned, to keep a close watch on the situation, while activities are opened in a cautious manner, and to scrupulously ensure there is no complacency in adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour...” the letter added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitor-signs-of-spike-centre-warns-against-lowering-guard-101624127077818.html
20-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir outfits warm to idea of all-party meet||Saturday saw frenetic behind the scenes activity in the Capital as the government laid the groundwork for a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and mainstream parties from Jammu & Kashmir on the afternoon of Thursday, June 24, the first such meeting after August 2019, when the Union government passed laws and resolutions to scrap J&K’s special status, and split the state into two Union territories.Home minister Amit Shah, along with J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, and senior officials of the home ministry have been putting together the agenda for the meeting, people familiar with the matter said on the condition of anonymity. While formal invitations had not been sent out to the parties, most confirmed having been sounded out by senior officials in the home ministry.While news of the meeting broke suddenly late on Friday, HT learns that the home ministry and the national security adviser, Ajit Doval, have been working towards it by regularly reaching out to the parties. On Saturday, Sartaj Madni, the uncle of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti was released; Mufti has also been pushing for the release of Waheed Para, the head of the party’s youth wing.Even as the parties said they would hold consultations internally to decide whether to attend the meeting, clear indications emerged that they were inclined to do so as all of them favoured the restoration of political engagement with New Delhi.The people cited above added that while delimitation will be discussed at the meeting, the larger idea is to restart the political process. It’s too early to even speak about the restoration of statehood, one of them added.The meeting comes weeks after the delimitation commission for J&K wrote to all 20 of the UT’s district commissioners seeking both quantitative and qualitative data. Set up in early 2020, and given an extension earlier this year, the commission has been tasked with delineating the boundaries of the assembly and parliamentary constituencies. It is only after this process is complete that elections can be held. And there’s hope in the Kashmir valley that the issue of the elections and the restoration of the region’s statehood are linked. Still, HT learns that the June 24 meeting is to ensure the participation of the UT’s political parties in the process. The commission is headed by retired judge Ranjana Prakash Desai.Political parties in the region that have been bitterly opposed to the state’s transformation into two UTs and the revocation of Article 370 that gave it special status, said they will consult their highest decision-making bodies to take a call on participating in the meeting.On Saturday, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla telephoned several Jammu and Kashmir politicians, to invite them to the meeting. Among those who received calls were National Conference’s Farooq and Omar Abdullah, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and CPI(M) leader, Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami.Tarigami said, “We don’t know what the agenda is or what New Delhi wants to convey. The assembly was unilaterally dissolved in 2019 and the State’s special status too was withdrawn. Delhi promised more development and jobs but all we have got since 2019 are accusations, slanderous campaigns and detentions. Dissent has also become a crime.”Tarigami is a member of the Gupkar Alliance and said he would speak to other leaders before deciding on the all-party meeting, though he added: “We have never said no to engagement.”That appears to be the general sentiment.Farooq Abdullah too indicated after a meeting of the Gupkar Alliance on June 10 that “we have not closed any doors or options… If they invite us, then we will decide at that time.” An NC leader said on Saturday that the party would hold consultations before arriving at a final decision. A Congress functionary said former J&K chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad has been informed about the development. BJP state unit chief Ravinder Raina tweeted that he has received an invitation for the meeting.The delimitation exercise is critical to the elections. So far, both the PDP and the NC have boycotted the exercise of redrawing the constituencies in the UT in accordance with the provisions of Part V of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019 and Delimitation Act, 2002 .“The delimitation commission sent out invitations to the parties to attend the meetings, but they did not send their suggestions or representatives. Now the ball is again in their court; if they attend the meeting to be chaired by the PM it will indicate a willingness to work with the centre on restoring a democratic process,” said a BJP functionary who asked not to be named.And that could well mean the start of the political process in the UT, and perhaps, an eventual restoration of statehood.“For the first time after the revocation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, the ice is breaking between the centre and J&K leadership. The government of India wants to initiate political process as they have realised without major players it’s difficult to manage J&K. Now it will bargaining for political rights and time will answer how much sincerity will be shown in this round of talks,” said Asem Mohiuddin, editor of weekly The Legitimate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-outfits-warm-to-idea-of-all-party-meet-101624126409799.html
20-06-2021||India||Zydus Cadila set to seek nod for its Covid vaccine||Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila is likely to apply for an emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D to the central drugs regulator next week, people aware of the developments said on Saturday.If approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, it will become the fourth vaccine to be cleared for use against the viral infection in India. The company has so far not released any data from its trials.Currently, the country’s vaccination programme is using the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, locally manufactured as Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and Russian vaccine Sputnik V.“We are hoping that they will apply in the near future. Most of their study is complete. They have enrolled more than 28,000 in their phase III study. We expect they will submit the results very soon,” Dr VK Paul, member (health) NITI Aayog told ANI.Once ZyCoV-D is approved, it will be the second indigenously developed vaccine to receive clearance in the country and the first DNA vaccine in the world to be authorised. So far, about 18 vaccines are in use across the world, with many using the inactivated virus technology.DNA-Plasmid based ZyCoV-D will be a three-dose vaccine and is to be administered intradermally. It can be stored at two to four degrees Celsius and does not require cold chains, making transportation to remote parts of the country easy.With the vaccine being tested even in the 12-18 year age group, the firm could seek approval for use in children as well, people aware of the developments said. So far, no vaccine has been approved for use in children in India. Bharat Biotech is also conducting trials for Covaxin in children between the ages of 6 and 18 years.Globally, only Pfizer’s vaccine is approved for use in children.An official aware of the matter told news agency PTI: “The analysis of the phase-three trial data is almost ready and the company has informed the government that it could apply for emergency use licensure for its Covid-19 vaccine next week.”The vaccine candidate has been supported by the National Biopharma Mission (NBM) under the aegis of Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a PSU under the department of biotechnology.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-set-to-seek-nod-for-its-covid-vaccine-101624123050269.html
20-06-2021||India||Man who won gold at legendary 1960 race pays tribute to his track rival Milkha Singh||In that iconic photograph from the 1960 Rome Olympics, where Milkha Singh can be seen hurtling towards the finish line, the man who has already crossed the tape and is howling up at the sky is US runner Otis Davis, who had just broken the world 400m record. Davis, now 88, lives in New Jersey. Milkha Singh’s name makes him exclaim, “Oh man, he was fast!” Here’s how the winner of that legendary race remembers his Indian rival, the favourite going into the event:Milkha was a great runner, a very fast runner. He was in the finals, and I’m telling you, I was very concerned about him.It wasn’t just because he was one of the favourites coming into the race. I saw him one time before the heats when he was just practising, and he ran a few 47s. One of the sports writers watching it said, “Boy, he is fast! He is running 47s!” I was hearing all of that. But I told myself: he is going to have to run faster than that to beat me!I had never interacted with him prior to our meeting in Rome. He just came to me before we ran and introduced himself. That’s when I got to know a little bit about him. Not only was he quick with his feet, he talked a lot too. I remember he told me, “You’re going to win, but if you don’t, then I’m going to win!” He was trying to psych me out a little, I think.Even though I hadn’t met him prior to the Olympics, I was aware about his exploits leading up to it. I was even more aware about the fact that he was definitely one of the favourites. He had run against some of the other champion runners previously, and he had done good.We ran together in the semi-final (where Milkha finished second behind Davis). It was his strength against mine. Clearly, he was ready for the race.And that race! I remember he was running outside of me. And I saw him going fast, you know, real fast. He and (South Africa’s Malcolm) Spence, the guy who finished third, were really turning it on around the curve. That’s when I made my move. I made my move right after they did. But it was them who set the pace.Everyone speaks about us (Davis and Kaufmann), but we had to keep rolling because these guys were flying!After the race, he walked up to me and congratulated me, although I can’t remember the words. Of course, I knew he was disappointed. I had a lot of respect for the man. He was a great sportsman in every sense. And he was very popular too.I didn’t get a chance to speak to him again after that Olympics. I went on a tour in Germany and then returned to the US.That was a very fast race. It broke a world record. It broke a barrier. It was the best (400m) race in Olympic history. I truly believe it was. Because it had so many fast runners. Because it had some of the best in the world. Like Milkha.As told to Rutvick Mehta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-won-gold-at-legendary-1960-race-pays-tribute-to-his-track-rival-milkha-singh-101624122989679.html
20-06-2021||India||Telangana lifts lockdown, schools reopen from July 1||Hyderabad: The Telangana government on Saturday announced the complete lifting of lockdown in the state with effect from Sunday in view of the improvement in Covid-19 situation.A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting held by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at his camp office Pragati Bhavan in the afternoon.“The decision to lift the lockdown completely was taken after examining reports submitted by the state medical and health department officials, which said the number of Covid-19 cases in the State and the positivity rate had dropped significantly,” the official release said.The lockdown in Telangana has been in force since May 12 with the government giving periodical relaxations. On June 9, the state government announced a 12-hour relaxation in the lockdown from 6 am to 6 pm for 10 days and it will come to an end at 6 am on Sunday.According to an official release from the chief minister’s office, the cabinet decided that there would be no night curfew as well. The cabinet observed that the spread of the virus in the state was completely under control. The cabinet also directed that the officials of all the departments completely lift all the regulations imposed during the lockdown.The official release said the cabinet made a thorough review of the Covid-19 situation across the country in general and the neighbouring states in particular and observed that the virus spread was under significant control.The cabinet directed that the education department reopen all educational institutions from July 1 in all aspects with total preparedness. The official release said the decision to lift the lockdown completely was taken to see that the normal life and the livelihood of the common people should not be affected. The cabinet appealed to the people to cooperate with the government in containing the spread of the virus.The cabinet made it clear that the people should not let their guard down because the lockdown was lifted. There should be no complacency in fighting against the virus. “The people should strictly follow the Covid-19 restrictions like wearing of a mask, maintenance of social distance and use of sanitisers which are compulsory,” the cabinet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lifts-lockdown-from-sunday-schools-reopen-from-july-1-101624102409932.html
20-06-2021||India||Cong Kerala chief attacks Vijayan, CM hits back||Thiruvananthapuram: The war of words between Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and opposition Congress state president K Sudhakaran escalated on Saturday as the two levelled serious allegations against each other. Sudhakaran called Vijayan a “political criminal” while denying kidnapping and other charges the chief minister made against him. He said Vijayan was accused of murder. Sudhakaran added he never carried a pistol, or a bullet, like the chief minister. He was referring to a 2007 case wherein security personnel at the Chennai airport found five live cartridges of a .38-revolver in Vijayan’s laptop case. Vijayan was questioned before he was released after he gave a written explanation that the cartridges were of his licensed revolver. Sudhakaran said Vijayan should not denigrate the position he is holding by making “cheap comments” and dared him to investigate charges against him. The two belong to Kannur and were in the same college but did not see eye to eye. On Friday, Vijayan quoted a late unnamed Congress leader telling him that Sudhakaran planned to kidnap his children. Sudhakaran rejected the allegation and asked Vijayan why did not he report such a serious issue to the police.“Raising such a weird allegation against the political opponent after many years is not fair. Why did not he file a police complaint then? He is not even revealing the name of the Congress leader who told him about this kidnap theory,” Sudhakaran said. He said he was not involved in any murder case like Vijayan. “He was one of the accused in Jan Sangh leader Vadikkal Ramakrishnan’s murder in 1969,” he said citing the copy of an old First Information Report. He said a Congress leader was injured in an attack allegedly carried out by Vijayan years ago.A Malayalam weekly carried an interview of Sudhakaran last week in which he took pot-shots at Vijayan and ridiculed his “macho man” image. He said once in college in Kannur during a brawl, he kicked and knocked down Vijayan. Sudhakaran said Vijayan’s macho image was just a media creation. He later said he told this to the reporter of the weekly off the record and it was wrongly included in the interview. On Friday, Vijayan hit out at Sudhakaran saying after he got the top Congress post in the state, the latter started fantasizing. “All are aware of Sudhakaran’s track records-- whether it is sand smuggling, benami business, and many other illegal activities... I do not know who gave him a certificate to talk about others,” he said.He said when political opponents came close to him during college days, he clapped his hands in a peculiar manner to make a deafening sound and all would flee from the scene. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called the barbs a ploy to divert attention from the tree felling case. “Trees worth several crores of rupees were plundered last year. Claims and counter-claims over a physical attack in college five decades ago is a ploy to divert attention,” said Union minister and BJP leader V Muraleedharan. He said a fresh case should be registered against Vijayan in the light of Sudhakaran’s latest disclosure about the alleged murder. Ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader A Vijayaraghavan defended Vijayan. “How can you keep quiet when a person is making such false claims. Sudhakaran is talking in the language of a street fighter,” he said. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said Vijayan should restrain from making weird claims over minor incidents that took place decades ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayansudhakaran-spat-escalates-level-serious-allegations-against-each-other-101624101869353.html
20-06-2021||India||No significant possibility of rise in deposits in swiss banks by Indians: govt||There is no “significant possibility” of an increase in undeclared incomes of Indian residents in Swiss banks, and added the government has requested Swiss authorities to provide relevant facts along with their view on this matter, the Union finance ministry said on Saturday.The central ministry was reacting to reports that funds of Indians in Swiss Banks have risen to over ₹20,700 crore at the end of 2020, a jump of over 212% from ₹6,625 crore at the end of 2019, reversing a two-year declining trend. It was also stated that this was also the highest figure of deposits in the last 13 years.“Media reports allude to the fact that the figures reported are official figures reported by banks to Swiss National Bank (SNB) and do not indicate the quantum of much debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. Further, these statistics do not include the money that Indians, NRIs [non-resident Indians] or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third–country entities,” a finance ministry statement said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-significant-possibility-of-rising-black-money-in-swiss-banks-finance-ministry-101624087650755.html
