22-06-2021||India||Hold Pak accountable, says India in rebuttal to Pak’s barbs at UNHRC meet||New Delhi: India on Tuesday called on the world community to hold Pakistan “accountable for aiding and abetting terrorism”, including its state policy of hosting dreaded and sanctioned terrorists on its territory.The demand was part of India’s response to Pakistan’s statement at the interactive dialogue on the annual report of the UN human rights chief at the 47th session of the UN Human Rights Council. New Delhi’s response was delivered by Pawan Badhe, first secretary in India’s permanent mission in Geneva.Badhe said it was regrettable that Pakistan again “misused” the UN Human Rights Council to make “unfounded and irresponsible allegations” against India. “The scourge of terrorism is the gravest violation of human rights and must be dealt with in strongest terms in all its forms and manifestations. Pakistan, as its state policy, continues to provide pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists and hosts them on its territory,” he said.“It is high time that Pakistan is held accountable for aiding and abetting terrorism,” he added.Islamabad has been making allegations against New Delhi at the UN Human Rights Council only to distract the body’s attention from the “deplorable human rights situation in Pakistan”, Badhe said.“The plight of minorities in Pakistan is evident from their shrinking size. ‘Forced conversions’ have become a daily phenomenon in Pakistan. We have seen reports of minor girls belonging to religious minorities being abducted, raped, forcibly converted and married. More than 1,000 girls, belonging to religious minorities, are forcibly converted in Pakistan every year,” he said.The systematic persecution of minorities, including Christians, Ahmadiyas, Sikhs and Hindus, through blasphemy laws, forced conversions and marriages and extra-judicial killings has become a regular phenomenon in Pakistan, he added.The religious sites of minorities in Pakistan had also been attacked and vandalised, Badhe said.“Pakistan has also become the land of enforced disappearances, extra-judicial killings and arbitrary detentions of political activists, students, journalists, human rights defenders and minorities,” he said in his response. “Pakistan has the dubious distinction of being listed as one of the most dangerous countries for practice of journalism. Journalists are threatened, intimidated, taken off air, kidnapped and in some cases killed, mainly to silence critics of the establishment, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-pak-accountable-says-india-in-rebuttal-to-pak-s-barbs-at-unhrc-meet-101624386281888.html
22-06-2021||India||At Qatar Economic Forum, Jaishankar highlights two ‘big issues’ between India and China||The onus is on China to adhere to written agreements with India on not deploying large numbers of armed troops along the border to ensure that the two countries can take forward their relationship based on mutual sensitivity, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday.Participating in a virtual dialogue at the Qatar Economic Forum, Jaishankar sought to draw a distinction between India’s participation in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad and the India-China border row. “Now the India-China border issue has pre-existed the Quad. In many ways, it’s a challenge, a problem quite independent of the Quad,” he said, referring to the grouping that also includes Australia, Japan and the US.With “close up deployments” continuing on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the two “big issues” between New Delhi and Beijing are “whether China would live up to the written commitments it has made about both countries not deploying a large armed force at the border”, and “whether we can build this relationship on the basis of mutual sensitivity, mutual respect and mutual interest”, he said.The Quad, on the other hand, brings together four countries with a common agenda that includes maritime security, connectivity and vaccines. “They have their own agenda, what I would say a set of convergence, a world view. They meet and they talk about a whole lot of things,” he said.Asked about the G7’s approach towards China – which includes cooperation on issues such as climate change, competition in trade and disagreement on matters such as human rights – Jaishankar said India shares the G7’s views on the importance of resilient and reliable supply chains. Also read: ‘Zero tolerance for terrorism...’ - India takes aim at Pakistan at UNSC debate“We feel we can also contribute to it by expanding our own manufacturing capabilities and one of the big initiatives of the Modi government is something called the PLI (production-linked incentive) scheme which is designed to attract more manufacturing into India,” he said. On issues such as open societies and democratic freedoms, there is “much stronger convergence” between India and the G7. “It is a far more issue-based relationship that we are seeing in world politics,” he remarked.Replying to a question on India’s possible participation in the G7’s Build Back Better World or B3W initiative that is aimed at countering China’s Belt and Road Initiative, Jaishankar said the country has a history of its own connectivity and infrastructure projects in 62 countries.“But what we share with the G7 is that today, it is important to have broad principles that such projects should be viable [and] transparent, they should not contribute to debt, they should be environmentally friendly,” he said. “So it is an area where we do feel that there is a lot of convergence with the G7 and we are looking forward to working with them. But as I said we have a substantial portfolio of projects we have already done in the last few years and which I expect to see us continue to do more in the coming years,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-qatar-economic-forum-jaishankar-highlights-two-big-issues-between-india-and-china-101624386160662.html
22-06-2021||India||Stalin urges 9 CMs to oppose new draft Indian Ports Bill 2021||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday wrote to his counterparts in nine coastal states asking them to object to the draft Indian Ports Bill. He wrote to the chief ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Puducherry saying that the bill dilutes the power of states.“You will agree that the present system has led to the good development of minor ports, under the states,” Stalin said in his letter. “This move of the Central government to bring a new bill will have long term adverse implications on the management of minor ports since the state governments will not have any major role anymore if the bill is passed,” he stated in his letter.The Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways has framed a new draft to modify the current management model of minor ports and a meeting of the Maritime State Development Council (MSDC) has been called with the state ministers on June 24 to discuss this bill.Stalin added that as per the existing Indian Ports Act, 1908, the powers to plan, develop, regulate and control the minor ports vests with the concerned state governments. However, the new draft bill proposes to change this and transfer many of these powers to the MSDC, which has so far been only an advisory body, he said. Stalin said that they have already taken this up with the Union ministry and they would ‘strongly oppose such steps to reduce the autonomous role of states in the regulation and management of minor ports.’“I propose that all the coastal states and Union territories should express their objection to this new draft Indian Ports Bill 2021 and take joint action to prevent any move to dilute the powers already vested with the states,” he said, requesting all states to communicate along similar similar lines during the MSDC meeting on June 24th.On June 8, Stalin wrote to chief ministers in 12 states - Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal- urging them to write to the Union finance minister and the Reserve Bank of India on the need for a moratorium on loan repayment for MSMEs and small businesses. He urged them to come together once again as the states’ collective effort in asking for vaccines to be procured centrally and distributed free of cost to states. The move led the Union government to revise its position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-urges-9-cms-to-oppose-new-draft-indian-ports-bill-2021-101624385920694.html
22-06-2021||India||4.6 magnitude earthquake hits Arunachal Pradesh's Tawang||An earthquake of 4.6 magnitude on the Richter scale hit Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh, the National Centre of Seismology said on Tuesday. According to the official statement, the quake struck the city at around 10:14pm.An earthquake of Magnitude 4.6 on the Richter scale occurred at 10:14 pm in Tawang, Arunachal Pradesh: National Center for SeismologyThis comes two days after a series of earthquakes jolted the northeastern part of India on Sunday. All quakes ranged between magnitude 3.1 and 3.6 on the Richter scale and hit two regions in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. No casualties or damage to property, however, have yet been reported in the incidents.According to alerts issued by National Centre for Seismology (NCS), the first earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.1 on the Richter Scale, occurred near Arunachal Pradesh's Pangin at around 1:02am. This was followed shortly by another earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.6 on the Richter Scale, near Shirui village in Manipur's Ukrul district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/46-magnitude-earthquake-hits-arunachal-pradesh-s-tawang-101624382646416.html
22-06-2021||India||‘Gau rakshak’ German woman living in UP alleges extortion, threat to life||German-born Friederike Irina Bruning, a recipient of India’s fourth-highest civilian honour Padma Shri, has alleged extortion and threat to life by a group of locals in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura where she runs a cow shelter, according to officials. In her complaint, the 61-year-old animal rights activist, now popularly known as Sudevi Dasi, mentioned a trespassing incident in October 2020 when the accused fought with the workers and brandished firearms. She has alleged a repeat of such an incident in December last year.“When I intervened to save one of the workers, I was hurled with abuses and given life threats by the accused. They demanded extortion money or otherwise they would assault us regularly," she claimed.Dasi said that the accused created a similar episode on May 25 even after she complained about the matter to the Mathura senior superintendent of police twice in January this year. She has alleged that they assaulted workers and broke down the CCTV cameras installed on the cow shelter premises.Superintendent of police (city) Martand Prakash Singh told news agency PTI that an FIR has been lodged and the matter is further being probed. According to officials, the FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 147 (rioting), 452 (trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt)."The local police circle officer and the sub-divisional magistrate have also been to the Radha Surabhi Gaushala on Kaunai Road in Govardhan area of Mathura where she lives and works to review the situation," PTI quoted Singh as saying.The accused in the FIR have been identified as Girdharilal Sharma, Sanjay Sharma, Kanha Sharma, Preeti Sharma, apart from six to seven unidentified persons.Dasi, who first came to India as a tourist in 1978, has been engaged in social service and has been working for animals in the Braj area in western UP for the last four decades. The Padma Shri awardee is a “gau rakshak” who tends to hundreds of cows at ‘Radha Surabhi Gaushala’ that are homeless, abandoned, sick, blind and badly injured. In 2019, the German national threatened to return her Padma Shri over denial of visa extension and then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj had to step in to resolve the matter.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gau-rakshak-german-woman-living-in-up-alleges-extortion-threat-to-life-101624378993593.html
22-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir police official dies as terrorists open fire in Srinagar||A jawan of Jammu and Kashmir Police succumbed to bullet injuries after terrorists opened fire in the Kanipora area of Srinagar on Tuesday.The jawan suffered a bullet injury after terrorists fired on him near Kanipora area. He was immediately rushed to a hospital where he died.Further details are awaited.On Monday, three LeT terrorists were neutralised including top Commander Mudasir Pandit, who was involved in the killing of three policemen and four others, in an encounter by security forces in Sopore of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district."Top LeT terrorist Mudasir Pandit who was involved in the killing of three policemen, two councillors and two civilians recently and accused of several other terror crimes was killed in Sopore encounter," IGP Kashmir told ANI. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-official-dies-as-terrorists-open-fire-in-srinagar-101624380807237.html
22-06-2021||India||Delta plus a Covid-19 'variant of concern' in India: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Tuesday declared the Delta plus mutation of the coronavirus disease a 'variant of concern.' This was announced after the Union health secretary in a joint press conference informed that the country has logged 22 cases so far, where the Delta plus variant was found in the test samples.In India, 16 of the 22 cases of Delta plus variant have been found in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra and some in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan announced in the briefing. He also said that the Delta plus variant has been found in the US, the UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, China and Russia besides India.The health ministry issued the statement after Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) informed the officials that the Delta plus mutation has a number of characteristics including increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. In the same briefing, the consortium apprised the government that it is now a 'variant of concern.'INSACOG is a consortium of 28 laboratories of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department of Biotechnology, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for whole genome sequencing in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic.INSACOG is tasked with not just the whole genome sequencing but also for giving timely inputs on appropriate Public Health Response measures to be adopted by States and UTs. INSACOG has informed that the Delta Plus Variant, currently a Variant of Concern (VOC), has the following characteristics: Increased transmissibility; Stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and Potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-variant-of-covid-19-a-variant-of-concern-in-india-govt-101624380173443.html
22-06-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman meets Infosys officials, reviews tech glitches on I-T e-filing portal||Union finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday told officials concerned to address all issues regarding the technical glitches that the new income tax e-filing portal faced "without further loss of time, improve their services, redress grievances on priority as it was impacting taxpayers adversely".Sitharaman was speaking after holding a review meet with Infosys officials over the glitch. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur, revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj, CBDT chairperson Jagannath Mohapatra and other senior ministry officials were also present at the meeting.Also Read: I-T Dept to charge higher TDS for ‘specified persons’ from July 1Infosys, the vendor which developed the new site, was represented by its chairperson Salil Parekh and chief operating officer Shri Praveen Rao along with a few other members from the company.The meeting was also attended by 10 tax professionals from across the country, including representatives of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and All India Federation of Tax Practitioners (AIFTP).The portal was launched on June 7 following which users faced technical issues on it including the long time it took while logging in, its inability to generate OTP for Aadhaar validation and non-availability of Income Tax Returns for past years on the portal.Several users complained of the issues in writing, highlighting the portal's weak user interface."Since its launch, there were numerous glitches in the functioning of the new portal. Taking note of the grievances voiced on social media by taxpayers, tax professionals and other stakeholders, the Finance Minister had also flagged the issues to the vendor M/s Infosys, calling upon them to address these concerns," a release issued by the finance ministry said."However, since the portal continued to be plagued by technical glitches causing inconvenience to taxpayers, it was decided to hold a meeting between Finance Ministry and Infosys as also other stakeholders here today. Suggestions in respect of the glitches on the portal were invited online by 18.06.2021. More than 700 emails detailing over 2,000 issues including 90 unique issues/problems in the portal were received in response to the same," the release added.The Infosys officials informed the ministers that their team had acknowledged the technical issues and it was working to fix them."...Infosys has been working to fix the technical issues noticed in the functioning of the portal and that they have augmented the resources for execution of the project on the hardware as well as the application side and that some of the issues have already been identified and fixed," the release read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-meets-infosys-officials-reviews-tech-glitches-on-i-t-e-filing-portal-101624375427467.html
22-06-2021||India||CDS says new reforms face hurdles but services in agreement on theaterisation||As the government sharpens its focus on laying the groundwork for theatre commands in the backdrop of purported internal resistance, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Tuesday said new reforms face some hurdles but the three services were in agreement on taking theaterisation forward. His remarks came during an interview to a news channel.“These hurdles are also necessary as they make us realise that more discussions are required (to iron out the details of the plan). We are taking the theaterisation plan forward with more discussions,” Rawat told India Today TV.He said the processes for the creation of theatre commands were progressing in line with the prescribed timelines for bringing about jointness among the three services.The government expects Rawat, who took charge as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve this is through the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.The CDS’s comments came a day after HT reported that while the army and the navy are in favour of theatre commands, the air force has issues over the division of its air assets, the nomenclature of commands, the leadership of theatre commands and dilution of powers of chiefs.Rawat said the armed forces - after several rounds of discussions - have done a lot of work on what kind of joint structures should be set up. “If we operate together and utilise the strengths of the three services, the synergised effort will not be the sum of three; but 1+1+1 (the three services) will equal 111,” he said, emphasising the need for integration.Experts highlighted the need for all stakeholders to cooperate to take the theaterisation forward.“There was no consensus on the appointment of the CDS for 20 years. Ultimately, the government had to decide. Similarly, when it comes to theaterisation, it is for India’s defence and security. No service should feel that they will have an upper hand or become subordinate to another service. We should all be mature enough to take India’s long-term interests into account,” said Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd).Several military reforms are being implemented by the government to make the armed forces more effective on the recommendations of the Shekatkar committee report. The committee is among the several panels that recommended the appointment of CDS and the creation of theatre commands.On Tuesday, Rawat held a meeting with the vice chiefs of the three services and senior officials from the defence, finance and home ministries to discuss all aspects related to setting up theatre commands before the proposal is sent to the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) for approval, officials familiar with the developments said.A lack of consensus on the military’s theaterisation model emerged earlier this month during a key meeting of top government officials who reviewed a draft cabinet note on the new joint structures.This led to the government setting up an expert committee last week to carry out consultations on the long-awaited military reform, as reported by HT on June 18. The panel has members of the armed forces, defence ministry and other ministries involved in the planning and implementation aspects of theaterisation.“More discussions will take place to give a push to reach an agreement on the theaterisation plan,” said one of the officials cited above.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.The key points discussed during the meeting in South Block in early June included the executing authority for theatre commands, the geographies they will control, command and control structures, budgeting and placing some paramilitary forces under the commands. Some of these issues involve the finance and home ministries.HT reported in February that India was set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command likely to be launched by May. Deliberations on the proposal are likely to take more time as all stakeholders have to be brought on board and the previous timelines may have to be revised, as previously reported by HT.Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources.The operational control of all the theatre commands will eventually come under CDS, with the service chiefs being responsible for raising, training and sustaining their forces.Rawat wears three hats — he is the permanent chairman of chiefs of staff committee (COSC), heads the department of military affairs (DMA), and is also the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.The CDS will have operational control over all the integrated commands when they are fully functional - this will be in his role as the CDS, and not as permanent chairman, COSC. This will require some restructuring in the DMA.The restructuring could involve the chief of integrated defence staff to COSC, or CISC, being appointed as the secretary of DMA in due course to allow the CDS to focus on the theatre commands, senior officials earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-gen-rawat-says-new-reforms-face-hurdles-but-services-in-agreement-on-theaterisation-101624377700947.html
22-06-2021||India||'Not a political meeting': Leaders from opposition parties gather at Pawar||Leaders of various political parties including the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Samajwadi Party (SP), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) met at Sharad Pawar's residence in Delhi on Tuesday. The meeting, organised under the banner of 'Rashtra Manch,' by TMC leader Yashwant Sinha comes amid speculations that the opposition is planning to form an alliance against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Rashtra Manch is a political action group formed in 2018 that targeted the BJP-led government's policies. Sinha is the convenor of the group. The meeting lasted for more than two hours, said Sinha, adding, "many issues were discussed during the meeting."Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) leader Nilotpal Basu, who was also part of the meeting, refused to call it a "political meeting" and said it was just an "interaction among like-minded people." "Issues like Covid management, 'attack' on institutions and unemployment were discussed at the meeting," he informed while speaking to the media after the meeting.Notably, no Congress leader participated in the meeting. On this, Majeed Memon, a senior leader of Pawar's NCP, said there "was no political exclusion." "This meeting was called by Rashtra Manch chief Yashwant Sinha and convened with the help of all founding members and workers of Rashtra Manch. This is being said that Sharad Pawar Sahab is taking a big political step and Congress has been boycotted. This is incorrect." ANI quoted Memon as saying."We have invited the leaders who subscribe to the ideology of Rashtra Manch in which leaders of all political parties could come. There is no political discrimination. I personally invited Congress members," he also said.He further asserted that "the perception that there is going to be a big opposition group excluding Congress is wrong."Meanwhile, Ghanshyam Tiwari of SP, said, "summary of today's meeting is that there is a need for preparation of an alternate vision in the country, that is strong to address issues related to the common man."The closely watched meeting by the political experts, also saw the attendance of SP's Ghanshyam Tiwari, RLD president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from AAP, Binoy Viswam from the CPI. National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah, former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Verma were also there.Other prominent personalities who arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting were Javed Akhtar and KC Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-political-meeting-leaders-from-opposition-parties-gather-at-pawar-101624375289706.html
22-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi traders' bodies ask authorities to enforce Covid measures in markets and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Crowds beyond shops not in our control’: Delhi traders’ bodies on overcrowdingThe traders’ bodies reaction comes in response to the Delhi high court taking cognizance of the violation of Covid-19 protocols across Delhi’s markets. Read more here. Ashgabat world’s most expensive city for foreign workers, Mumbai drops 18 places: ReportThe survey used New York City, ranked 14 on the list, as the base city and currency movements were measured against the US dollar. Read more here. WTC Final: 'Length did the trick' - Bangar on Indian pacers' success on day 5WTC Final: Shami then did more damage as he bowled a peach of a delivery to rattle the stumps of BJ Watling. Read more here.Rhea Chakraborty shares childhood pic and talks about 'weathering a storm': 'Who knew I would learn to fly'Rhea Chakraborty took to Instagram and shared two posts on her Instagram Stories. In one, she shared a childhood picture along with an inspiring note while another she spoke about the darkness before dawn. Read more here. Hero MotoCorp to hike prices of two-wheelers by up to ₹3,000 from July 1The entire range of Hero MotoCorp two-wheelers will see a price hike in July 2021. Read more here. Windows 10 update finally fixes bothersome taskbar visual glitches, fixes bug that slowed down gamesGood news for Windows 10 users as Microsoft finally resolves the Windows 10 taskbar’s visual glitches - it has also fixed bugs that slowed down gaming performance after installing a recent update. Read more here. Siddhant Chaturvedi defies gravity, aces inverted pigeon pose during aerial YogaGully Boy star Siddhant Chaturvedi’s latest fitness picture dares us to give a deep stretch to our hips and re-align our spine with inverted pigeon pose during aerial Yoga and here’s why girls and boys should try it too. Read more here. How to prevent 3rd Covid wave? Dr. Paul gives 4 factors for controlling outbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-traders-bodies-ask-authorities-to-enforce-covid-101624374830768.html
22-06-2021||India||Opposition leaders meet at Sharad Pawar's residence for 2.5 hours: All you need to know||Leaders of opposition parties from across the nation attended a meeting hosted at the Delhi residence of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday. The meeting of the 'Rashtra Manch' (National Forum), where several issues were discussed, lasted for two-and-a-half hours, according to Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha.Who attended the meeting?Along with TMC leader Yashwant Sinha, lyricist Javed Akhtar, Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary, former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Varma, Communist Party of India MP Binoy Viswam and the National Conference leader Omar Abdullah attended the meeting among others.Meeting to unite anti-BJP political parties?NCP leader Majeed Memon, who was also part of the meeting, refuted media speculation about Congress being boycotted from the meeting. The meeting was called by Yashwant Sinha and not Pawar, he added."It is being reported in the media that this meeting of Rashtra Manch was held by Sharad Pawar to unite anti-BJP political parties. This is totally incorrect. I want to clarify that this meeting took place at Pawar's residence but he didn't call this meeting," he said.The meeting was called by Rashtra Manch chief Yashwant Sinha and convened with the help of all founding members and workers of Rashtra Manch. This is being said that Sharad Pawar Sahab is taking a big political step and Congress has been boycotted. This is incorrect," he added.What was discussed at the meeting?The leaders discussed political developments, the farmers' protest and the economic issues faced by the country at the meeting, RLD's Jayant Chaudhary said. There were no talks about particular elections or the government, he added.Before the meeting, Pavan Varma had also clarified that there was no fixed agenda of the meeting. "We are here to discuss current issues, political developments and contemporary matters. There is no fixed agenda for the meeting, nor are we meeting to define a definitive goal. The Rashtra Manch has been meeting once in a while as an open-ended discussion forum. Today's meeting is a continuation of that. We are grateful to Sharad Pawar Ji for very kindly agreeing to host the meeting," he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-leaders-meet-at-sharad-pawar-s-residence-for-2-5-hrs-all-you-need-to-know-101624373608368.html
22-06-2021||India||Delta Plus variant: Health ministry alerts Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh||The Union health ministry on Tuesday alerted Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh governments on the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 after certain districts reported the presence of the virus in some of the samples tested from these states. It advised the authorities to strictly enforce the Covid-19 protocols and intensify containment measures in the districts where the variant has been found.“In India, 16 of the 22 cases of Delta Plus variant have been found in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon (Maharashtra) and some cases in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during the daily Covid-19 press briefing. The health ministry has advised the chief secretaries of these states to take up immediate containment measures in the districts and clusters on a priority basis. The health ministry’s advisory comes after Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Sequencing Consortia (INSACOG) found Delta Plus variant in genome sequenced samples from Ratnagiri and Jalgaon Districts of Maharashtra; Palakkad and Pathanamthitta Districts of Kerala; and Bhopal and Shivpuri districts of Madhya Pradesh.The health ministry also said that India is among the nine countries where the Delta Plus variant has been detected. It said that the variant has been detected in the US, UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, China and Russia. The health ministry said based on data received from the INSACOG so far it found that the Delta Plus variants have three main characteristics -- increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells, potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.“The states’ chief secretaries have been advised to take up immediate containment measures in the districts and clusters (as identified by INSACOG) including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, conduct widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis,” the health ministry said in a press release.“They were also advised to ensure that adequate samples of positive persons are promptly sent to the designated laboratories of INSACOG so that clinical epidemiological correlations can be made for further guidance to be provided to the states,” the release further added.The health ministry on Tuesday said that the variant has not yet been categorised as ‘variant of concern’ but it is currently accorded the ‘variant of interest’ status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-variant-health-ministry-alerts-maharashtra-kerala-madhya-pradesh-101624374443286.html
22-06-2021||India||TRP case: Mumbai Police names Arnab Goswami as accused in second chargesheet||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday named Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami as an accused in the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging case in its second chargesheet filed before a court.The chargesheet was submitted before a magistrate's court by the police's Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) probing the case.Also Read: Arnab Goswami seeks stay on investigation in 2018 abetment to suicide case"Among others, Goswami and ARG Outlier have been named as accused in the chargesheet," lawyer of the senior journalist said.Several television news channels were accused of tampering with the TRPs by the Mumbai Police in October last year. The police claimed they busted a TRP manipulation racket following a probe initiated after a complaint by TV viewership measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC).Rating agency Hansa Services Private Limited, a contractor of BARC, which functions under ministry of information and broadcasting and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police, alleging that some TV channels were manipulating their TRPs.Also Read: Maharashtra to complete probe against Republic TV in 12 weeks in TRP scamThe complainant firm said that the manipulated TRP ratings resulted in miscalculated targeted audience for the advertisers, which in turn resulted into losses of hundreds of crores of rupees because of the manipulated statistics of TRP.TRP, a tool to judge which TV programmes are viewed the most, indicates the popularity of a particular channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-case-mumbai-police-names-arnab-goswami-as-accused-in-second-chargesheet-101624371286723.html
22-06-2021||India||Renowned Carnatic vocalist Parassala B Ponnammal dies at 96||Thiruvananthapuram: Renowned Carnatic vocalist Parassala B Ponnammal who broke many glass ceilings with her mellifluous rendition, died in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday due to age-related ailments, her family said. She was 96.A recipient of many awards and honours including the Padma Shri in 2017, Ponnammal performed across the world and trained singers like KS Chitra and Omanakutty Amma during her eight-decade-long career. Her last public performance was in 2019 in Thiruvananthapuram. Some of her best renditions include compositions of Irayamman Thampi and KC Kesava Pillai.She sang at the Navaratra Mandapam in Sree Padmanabha Swami temple in Thiruvananthapuram in 2006 with the help from erstwhile Travancore royal family that was once custodian of the temple, breaking a 300-year-old tradition that barred women from performing at its Navratri celebrations.“Ponnammal teacher was the last word in Carnatic music. Her passion for music was unparalleled,” said noted Carnatic vocalist Dr Omanakutty Amma. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also condoled her death, describing her as the “symbol of a great tradition of music.”Ponnammal started learning music in 1932 when she was just eight and was the first female student in 1940 to enrol at Thiruvananthapuram’s Swathi Thirunal College of Music that opened a year earlier. It was then known as The Music Academy.The young singer, born in a Tamil Brahmin family in Parassala, a small town along Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in 1924, passed out of the academy with distinction in ‘Gana Bhushanam’ and ‘Gana Praveena’ courses. She later trained under some of the legends of Carnatic music like Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer and Papanasam Sivan.Ponnammal started her career as a music teacher in Cotton Hills Girls High School in Thiruvananthapuram and later joined Swathi Thirunal College of Music, her alma mater, as a teacher and later rose to become its principal. Later, she became the principal of the RLV College of Music and Fine Arts in Tripunithura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renowned-carnatic-vocalist-parassala-b-ponnammal-dies-at-96-101624371220154.html
22-06-2021||India||China raises new militias of Tibetan youth, deploys 1st batch in Chumbi Valley||New Delhi: China’s military has raised new militias comprising Tibetan youths in the strategic Chumbi Valley in Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) as part of enhanced efforts to recruit more Tibetans amid the standoff with India on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity citing intelligence reports.Since last year, Indian security agencies have gathered information on the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) holding recruitment drives across TAR to rope in more locals. However, these are the first reports about the raising of new Tibetan militias in the eastern segment of the LAC, the people said.At least two batches of Tibetans have been recruited for the militias; each batch comprises about 100 youths. One batch has completed its training with the PLA and has been deployed at different locations across Chumbi Valley, including Yadong, Cheema, Rinchengang or Renqinggang, PB Thang and Phari, the people said. The second batch is being trained at a PLA facility in Phari, the people said, citing intelligence reports and communications intercepts from different security agencies. The militias currently operate without uniforms or ranks, the people added.“The militias are being raised with the aim of being deployed mostly in local border areas to exploit their knowledge of the local terrain, language, demography and weather conditions,” one of the people cited above said. The militias are separate from the Special Tibetan Army Unit recently created by the PLA. Hindustan Times had first reported on the PLA’s efforts to raise its first formation comprising soldiers of Tibetan ethnicity on April 17.Indian security agencies are keeping a close watch on the development in view of the strategic location of Chumbi Valley, a 100-km protuberance of Chinese territory located between Bhutan in the east and Sikkim in the west. The valley’s location has long resulted in concerns that it could be used to launch operations to snap strategic communications links in the Siliguri Corridor. The security agencies have also learnt that Tibetans recruited into the PLA’s Special Tibetan Army Unit are taken to Buddhist monks for their blessings after completing their training.“There are no records of such a practice of taking Tibetan recruits to Tibetan monks for their blessings. This is likely a new strategy by the PLA to get some religious mileage from the newly-recruited Tibetan troops,” the person cited above said. HT had earlier reported that PLA officials from Lhasa visited Rudok town in Ngari Prefecture in the far west of TAR in the third week of February to recruit Tibetans soldiers. The officials also travelled to Zanda or Tsamda County, a border region of TAR, to select Tibetan recruits from several PLA camps for induction into the special unit. According to China’s official statistics from 2010, there were 2.1 million Han service personnel, compared to 4,300 Tibetans. More recent figures aren’t readily available.These developments have come against the backdrop of the border standoff that began in May last year and a rapid build-up of infrastructure on the Chinese side along the LAC, including airports, helipads, missile facilities and air sites. The disengagement process along the LAC has also stalled after a limited drawdown of troops, armoured formations and artillery on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February.An expert on Tibet, who declined to be named, said the PLA’s efforts appeared to be aimed at roping in more unemployed Tibetan youths and also countering India’s Special Frontier Force, a secretive unit comprising Tibetans that was used in operations near Pangong Lake last year.“Most Chinese troops are from the plains and can’t perform well at high altitudes. The Chinese also realise it is best for them to recruit young Tibetans who are unemployed. It is not just about targeting India but also about gaining the sympathy of unemployed young men,” the expert said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-raises-new-militias-of-tibetan-youth-deploys-1st-batch-in-chumbi-valley-101624371160233.html
22-06-2021||India||Result of coordinated planning: Centre on India’s highest single-day vaccination||A day after India recorded the highest single-day vaccination in the world with administration of 8.6 million vaccine doses, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the feat was achieved as a result of coordinated planning. “What happened yesterday was not sudden,” he told news agency ANI.Bhushan further said that the coordinated planning was possible because the state governments and the Centre collaborated and worked hard. “Even what is happening today is a part of that planning and what will happen in the remaining eight days of June is part of that collaborative planning,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.“Between June 1 and June 21, average daily vaccination was 34,62,841 so a jump to 88 lakh (8.6 million) when vaccines and capacity are available is possible,” Bhushan further told ANI.The health secretary added that the states and Union territories collectively demonstrated yesterday that they have the capacity to deliver a significant number of doses as long as vaccine availability and prior information are ensured.Speaking about the CoWIN app where one has to register to get Covid-19 vaccine, Bhushan said despite occasional criticism, the app has mostly received praise. “It has established itself as a very robust, all-inclusive, simple IT-based platform. Therefore, a large number of countries are interested in taking the technology and using it,” he told ANI.India on Monday launched the universal Covid-19 vaccination programme in which it will provide free vaccines to all states and Union territories for those under 18-45 category. This comes after the Centre kickstarted the revised Covid-19 immunisation policy on June 1 wherein it is procuring and supplying 75 per cent of total vaccine supplies for free to the states and Union territories.A statement issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday stated that more than 21.4 million vaccine doses are still available with the states and Union territories to be administered. Moreover, over 33,80,590 doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next three days.India on Tuesday recorded the lowest daily case count with 42,640 cases in the last 24 hours. This was the first time in over three months that the daily caseload was less than 50,000. The active case count has also declined to less than seven lakh after 79 days with 6,62,521 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/result-of-coordinated-planning-centre-on-india-s-highest-single-day-vaccination-101624369447973.html
22-06-2021||India||BJP trying to politicise Nusrat Jahan’s marriage, says TMC’s Kunal Ghosh||The BJP is trying to politicise Nusrat Jahan’s statement regarding her marriage to Nikhil Jain, Trinamool Congress general secretary Kunal Ghosh said on Tuesday. Referring to the issue as a “personal family matter”, he told ANI, “If we start looking into the personal lives of others, it can be problematic for many people belonging to many parties.”His remarks come after the Bharatiya Janata Party's lawmaker Sanghamitra Maurya made an appeal to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to take action against Nusrat Jahan. “TMC MP Nusrat Jahan in her bio (in Lok Sabha) mentioned that she is married and her husband’s name is Nikhil Jain. She took oath as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain. Now she is saying that her marriage is invalid,” Maurya, the BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Ghosh defended Jahan earlier as well by saying that the issue of her marriage is personal and has got no connection with either politics or the party. Taking to Twitter on June 10, he said that BJP’s Amit Malviya should not comment on the matter as it won’t be good for the ruling dispensation if a debate starts. Ghosh said that the TMC is busy working for the people.“TMC MP Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain’s personal life, who she is married to or who she is living in with, should not be anyone’s concern. But she is an elected representative and is on record in the Parliament that she is married to Nikhil Jain. Did she lie on the floor of the House?” Malviya tweeted.Jahan, who is TMC’s Basirhat MP, released a statement on June 9 saying her marriage to businessman Nikhil Jain in 2019 was invalid as an interfaith marriage requires validation under the Special Marriage Act in India, which did not happen. “As per the court of law, it is not a marriage, but a relationshipor a live-in relationship. Thus, the question of divorce does not arise. Our separation happened long back, but I did not speak about it as I intended to keep my private life to myself,” she added in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-trying-to-politicise-nusrat-jahan-s-marriage-says-tmc-s-kunal-ghosh-101624367605083.html
22-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep row: Kerala HC stays two orders issued by Patel||Kerala high court on Tuesday issued an interim stay on two orders issued by Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Patel had ordered closure of dairy firms in the Union Territory of Lakshadweep and also ordered to drop non-vegetarian food items from the menu. The court asked the Centre to submit a counter-affidavit and said that no further action should be taken on both the orders until a counter-affidavit is filed.The court said the PIL will be considered again next week.Over the last few weeks the Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, a former Gujarat cabinet minister, has faced stiff opposition from various quarters and even his own party over the new reforms introduced by him. Several politicians and natives of Lakshadweep allege that the reforms are against the interest of the islanders.Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 are the legislation drafted by the former Gujarat minister, all of them have drawn widespread criticism from the opposition as well as his own party. Following the announcement of the order, BJP’s Lakshadweep unit general secretary HK Mohammed Kasim on May 25 had said that locals should have been taken into confidence before announcing the measures.The Bharatiya Janata Party unit in the island also suffered a setback as 15 members resigned after a sedition case was filed against Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana. Sultana’s arrest led to BJP leader Abdul Hameed Mullipuzha and 14 others tender their resignation. The BJP leaders who resigned said that they cannot support the sedition case slapped against the filmmaker for expressing her opinion on the 'anti-people policies' of the current Lakshadweep administration. Aisha Sultana, during a news debate on a Malayalam channel alleged that the central government used Covid-19 as a "bio-weapon" against the people of Lakshadweep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-row-kerala-hc-stays-two-orders-issued-by-patel-101624368083016.html
22-06-2021||India||Kerala dowry death: 24-year-old found dead, husband taken into police custody||A 24-year-old BAMS student was found dead in her husband's house in Kollam district of Kerala, in a suspected case of suicide, police said on Tuesday.Kiran Kumar, the husband of the deceased woman identified as Vismaya has been taken into police custody on allegations by the latter's family that she was forced to take the extreme step since she was being harassed for dowry.According to the Kollam Police, the 24-year-old woman was found hanging in the bathroom of her husband's house around 3.30 am on June 21 in Sasthamcotta, Kollam district.Vismaya had married Kiran Kumar, an Assistant motor vehicle inspector in May 2020.According to her parents the couple had been battling some issues since they got married. Vismaya's family alleged that Kiran Kumar used to torture her over dowry.Once she went to Kiran's house from college hostel without informing her parents. Kiran's parents who lived with the couple said there was a fight between the two the previous night and Vismaya wanted to return to her parents home, but Kiran's parents intervened and pacified her.Around 3 am, Vismaya found hanging in the bathroom. She was found unconscious and taken into hospital.Police registered a case of unnatural death and on the basis of investigation, her husband was taken into custody.Kerala Director General of Police (DGP) Loknath Behera addressed the reporters in the matter and said that Harshitha Attaluri who is an IPS will probe the case.DGP Behera said, "The Kollam incident was a sad incident. It affects the conscience of the people of Kerala. Such situations are very rare in our society. We believe that our society is different from others and has an advanced approach. We will never leave the investigation of this case. I have directed IG Harshitha to investigate it completely.""DYSP, SP, DIG, all will involve in this case. We booked the accused and we will find out whether any relatives or friends involved in it and directed to take strict legal action against them. Moreover, women's protection is most important to us, whether it is related to domestic violence, cyber crime or others", DGP said.Vijith, Vismaya's brother told ANI, "My sister's death is murder because she was facing harassment for dowry. There were some issues between them and she had come back to home. But she never spoke about it before we came to know that she was tortured continuously."Meanwhile, Kerala Women's Commission and youth Commission have registered a suo moto case on the death. Women's Commission members had visited her house and recorded the statement of the family members.Dr Shahida Kamal, a Kerala Women Commission Member addressing mediapersons here said, "Women's Commission had registered a case as soon as we came to know about this. Have sought a detailed report from rural SP. We had already informed that we would visit her house and record statements from her parents. Commission has come here based for the received information."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-dowry-death-24-year-old-found-dead-husband-taken-into-police-custody-101624368317443.html
22-06-2021||India||Not looking to ban flash sales, e-commerce rules not final, clarifies govt||The Centre on Tuesday said it will not seek disclosure of flash sales from e-commerce players to regulate the fraudulent sale of goods and services but will take appropriate action as per the law on consumer complaints.Discount sales that benefit maximum to consumers will continue, but not fraudulent flash sales on the e-commerce platforms, the government said, adding that the etailers need not be "anxious" about the draft rules.Ban on fraudulent flash sales, mis-selling and appointment of chief compliance officer/grievance redressal officer -- are among key amendments proposed to the Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules, 2020, on which the government has sought public comments by July 6."We are not going to seek disclosure of flash sales. We are with sales that benefit maximum consumers. If someone wants to complain, there should at least be a provision," said Nidhi Khare, Additional Secretary in the Consumer Affairs Ministry.She also made it clear that the ministry "will not regulate" the trade on e-commerce platforms. And the e-commerce players need not be anxious about the proposed changes in the rules."We will take action on fraudulent flash sales if we receive any complaints or CCPA (Central Consumer Protection Authority) can take Suo moto cognizance," she said while briefing the media on this issue.Further, Khare said such fraudulent flash sales are also being evaluated in western countries because many times shell companies organise flash sales without any inventory, which is against the interest of consumers and limits fair competition."This is a step taken in time. These markets are evolving, consumer preferences are evolving. We have to keep pace with the changes so that consumers are not duped," she added.The government assured that discount sales will continue. "Such competition actually helps the business overall to bring goods at better prices to consumers. We are not against that," she said.Khare is also the chief commissioner of the CCPA.She said the consumer affairs ministry’s role is to safeguard the interest of consumers and hence the draft rules. Otherwise, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) is the main regulator.Among other amendments, the government has proposed registration of every e-commerce entity which intends to operate in India with the DPIIT.When asked why the proposed amendments do not specify a time frame for the appointment of compliance officer and grievance redressal officer, the official said: "I take note of this point. We can change 'as soon as possible' to 'effective from the date of the notification".Based on public comments from different stakeholders, the proposed amendments to the rules will further be modified, she said.The proposed changes to the rules were necessary as e-commerce business in India is evolving and more consumers are shopping online, Khare noted."Initially, marketplaces started on a premise that they were only platforms, where buyers and sellers come and do transactions. Now e-commerce is evolving and they have their own private labels.“It is because of this evolving situation, we thought we need to further strengthen. That's why we brought new features to protect consumers and encourage fair trade practices," she explained.Asked why there is no regulation on cheap discount sales offered in offline markets, Khare said: "That is not true. Today, you have features of product liability for stores and anybody can sue them. Consumers can file if their rights are infringed. So, many cases are filed in consumer courts".The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 were first notified in July last year. Their violations attract penal action under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-looking-to-ban-flash-sales-e-commerce-rules-not-final-clarifies-govt-101624366261758.html
22-06-2021||India||'BJP's silence definitely hurts', says Chirag Paswan amid LJP feud||Chirag Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader, said on Tuesday he expected the BJP to help sort things during the tussle between the 38-year-old and his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras to retain control of the outfit. "Their silence definitely hurts... My father Ram Vilas Paswan and I stood by BJP like a rock, but they're not there when I expected them in such difficult times," Chirag Paswan told PTI.Chirag Paswan also said that the relations with the Bharatiya Janata Party "cannot remain one-sided". "But if you are cornered, pushed and forced to make a decision, then the party will consider all probabilities... The LJP will have to make a decision about its political future based on who stood by it and who did not," Chirag Paswan was quoted as saying by the news agency.Chirag Paswan, the son of party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, said it was not "appropriate" for the BJP to keep quiet while the JD(U) worked to "engineer" a split in the LJP. The BJP, on its part, insists that the LJP crisis is an internal matter of the regional party.Also read | Chirag and Tejashwi: A tale of two Bihar GenNext leadersThe LJP leader also once again alleged that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) played a "visible" role in splitting his party and has had a history of doing so. Kumar, he said, never wanted a Dalit leader to gain in stature and tried to weaken his father.Chirag Paswan was removed recently as the party chief by a faction of the LJP headed by Hajipur MP Paras, prompting Paswan’s loyalists to respond by stripping five rebel parliamentarians of the LJP’s primary membership. The party, which has six MPs but no MLAs, plunged into a crisis after the five lawmakers, including Chirag's cousin, rebelled against Paswan’s leadership and chose Paras as the new leader of the parliamentary party.Paswan has said he will take out a “Ashirvad Yatra” in Hajipur on July 5 to mark the birth anniversary of his father, who died in October last year. “The march taken out from Hajipur will continue for two months, during which party members will cover all 38 districts, and it will culminate at Patna in the form of a grand rally,” Paswan said after the Sunday meeting of the LJP's national executive in New Delhi.Also read | LJP warring factions move Election Commission staking claim over partyThe two-time MP also asserted that 90 per cent of the national executive members were with him and attended the meeting. “Uncle (Paras) has acted against the party’s constitution along with rest of the MPs and hence the party suspended them all,” he said.Paras has been recognised as the LJP parliamentary party leader in the Lok Sabha. Paswan met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla last Saturday and urged him to reconsider his decision to recognise Paras as the parliamentary party leader, saying it was against the party’s constitution. He also said that the party will consider taking the legal route if his demand was not considered by the Lok Sabha Speaker.On his part, Paras dismissed the meeting as an assembly of a “rented crowd” and said it held no legitimacy. He said the Election Commission will now decide on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-bjp-s-silence-definitely-hurts-says-chirag-paswan-amid-ljp-feud-101624363618232.html
22-06-2021||India||22 cases of Delta Plus Covid-19 variant found in India: Govt||India has recorded 22 cases of the Delta plus variant of the coronavirus, the central government informed on Tuesday. Delta plus, formed by mutation in the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant, is currently a "variant of interest", and hasn’t been classified as a "variant of concern" by the Union health ministry yet, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during a press briefing.In India, 16 of the 22 cases of Delta plus variant have been found in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra and some in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, Bhushan also said. He added that the Delta plus variant has been found in the US, the UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, China and Russia besides India.Speaking on the overall situation, the government said that it is improving but stressed people must continue to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. It said there has been an almost 90 per cent decline in India's daily Covid-19 cases as compared to the highest peak reported on May 7.The country registered less than 50,000 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 91 days, taking the total tally of cases to 29,977,861, while active cases fell below 700,000 after 79 days, the Union health ministry's data on Tuesday showed. A total of 42,640 Covid-19 cases were reported in a day and the death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days.NITI Aayog VK Paul, who was also part of the conference, said that India achieved a "historic milestone" of administering more than 8.8 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in a single day on June 21. Out of this nearly 64 per cent of the jabs were given in rural areas, Paul highlighted.Of the total doses, 36.32 per cent were administered in urban areas and 63.68 per cent in rural areas, he informed. Madhya Pradesh administered the maximum number of doses on June 21, followed by Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Assam, Paul also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-found-in-india-govt-101624363197441.html
22-06-2021||India||Opposition leaders gather at Sharad Pawar’s residence ahead of meeting||Opposition leaders and eminent personalities gathered at Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar’s residence in Delhi on Monday. Visuals shared by news agency ANI showed Communist Party of India leader Vinoy Biswam, Trinamool Congress leader Yashwant Sinha, Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar, Rashtriya Lok Dal President Jayant Chaudhary and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah reach the NCP supremo’s residence for the meeting.Leaders from the Aam Aadmi Party and eminent personalities like Pawan Verma, Justice AP Singh, KTS Tulsi and Karan Thapar will also attend the meeting.“It is a platform of all secular, democratic Left forces against the most hated government which has failed. The country needs a change. The people are up for a change,” Viswam was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Shiv Sena, which is the NCP’s partner in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, said that it is not a ‘meeting of all opposition parties’. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that it is a meeting with Rashtra Manch leaders.“As per my information and from whatever conversation I had with Pawar saheb, there is a meeting of Rashtra Manch leaders today with Pawar saheb. Now it is their matter what they shall discuss in the meeting. But, I won't say that this is a meeting of all opposition parties. The SP, BSP, YSRCP, TDP and the TRS are not participating in this meeting,” the Rajya Sabha MP from Shiv Sena was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Raut also said that people come to Sharad Pawar seeking advice regarding politics, education, economy, cooperative sector or even regarding other matters.Union minister Ramdas Athawale said the attempts to build a united front will be in vain as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will remain as the number one leader in the country. “No matter how many are being formed, it does not matter. And even if it is formed, then the Congress will do the work of harming its party. Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji's leadership is very strong, even today he is the number one,” the Union minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-gather-at-sharad-pawar-s-residence-ahead-of-meeting-101624362085806.html
22-06-2021||India||'Pleasant departure from past': PM Modi praises Centre-state cooperation amid pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday praised the cooperation between the Centre and states amid the coronavirus pandemic saying that they were able to borrow significantly more in 2020-21 and raise an extra ₹1.06 lakh crore. PM Modi said, in a blog on LinkedIn, 23 states availed of additional borrowings of ₹1.06 lakh crore out of a potential ₹2.14 lakh crore."This significant increase in the availability of resources was made possible by an approach of Centre-State bhagidari. When we formulated our economic response to the Covid-19 pandemic, we wanted to ensure that our solutions do not follow a ‘one size fits all’ model," PM Modi wrote in the blog "Reforms by Conviction and Incentives"."For a federal country of continental dimensions, finding policy instruments at the national level to promote reforms by State Governments is indeed challenging. But, we had faith in the robustness of our federal polity and we moved ahead in the spirit of Centre-State bhagidari," he said.PM Modi said in May 2020, as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package, the Centre announced that state governments would be allowed enhanced borrowing for 2020-21. An extra 2 per cent of gross state domestic product (GSDP) was allowed, of which 1 per cent was made conditional on the implementation of certain economic reforms, he added.This was a nudge, which PM Modi called "rare in Indian public finance", incentivising the states to adopt progressive policies to avail additional funds. "The results of this exercise are not only encouraging but also run contrary to the notion that there are limited takers for sound economic policies," he added.Also read | As Bengal battle persists, lessons from Vajpayee-era on Centre-state tensionsThe reforms were linked to "improving the Ease of Living to the public and particularly the poor, the vulnerable, and the middle class. Secondly, they also promoted fiscal sustainability". A financial incentive of .25 per cent was attached to each reform.PM Modi wrote that the four reforms to which additional borrowings were linked had two characteristics. Each of the reforms was linked to "improving the Ease of Living to the public and particularly the poor, the vulnerable, and the middle class. Secondly, they also promoted fiscal sustainability", he said.The first reform under the One Nation One Ration Card policy required state governments to ensure that all ration cards under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) were linked with the Aadhaar numbers of all family members and that all fair price shops had electronic point of sale devices. "The main benefit from this is that migrant workers can draw their food ration from anywhere in the country," he said."The second reform, aimed at improving ease of doing business, required states to ensure that renewal of business-related licences under 7 Acts is made automatic, online and non-discretionary on mere payment of fees," he wrote.Also read | Navigating Centre-state fiscal ties"The third reform required states to notify floor rates of property tax and of water & sewerage charges, in consonance with stamp duty guideline values for property transactions and current costs respectively, in urban areas. This would enable a better quality of services to the urban poor and middle class, support better infrastructure and stimulate growth," he wrote.The fourth reform was the introduction of Direct Benefit Transfer or DBT in lieu of free electricity supply to farmers.This was a pleasant departure from the past and the Centre and states came together to roll out public-friendly reforms in a short span of time amidst the pandemic. "This was made possible due to our approach of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas. Officials who have been working on these reforms suggest that without this incentive of additional funds, the enactment of these policies would have taken years. India has seen a model of ‘reforms by stealth and compulsion’. This is a new model of ‘reforms by conviction and incentives’," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-praises-centre-state-cooperation-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101624360470786.html
22-06-2021||India||Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi acquitted in NIA case against him||President of Raijor Dal and MLA from Assam’s Sibsagar, Akhil Gogoi, was acquitted by a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here on Tuesday in one of the two cases filed against him for his alleged involvement in protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the state in December 2019. A prominent farmers’ activist, Gogoi has been under arrest since. The NIA filed two cases against him, one from Chabua police station in Dibrugarh and the other from Chandmari in Guwahati, under several sections of IPC and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPA). It is the Chabua case that Gogoi has been acquitted in even as the other case will proceed.Also Read | Assam eases restrictions in fresh Covid guidelinesThe cases pertain to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, and support to terrorist organisations, etc. “Hearing in the Chabua case is over and Akhil Gogoi and two others, Bhupen Gogoi and Jagjit Gohain, have been discharged as NIA failed to prove their guilt,” Gogoi’s advocate Krishna Gogoi told journalists. “The case against Phukan will now be heard in a Dibrugarh sessions court. Hearing in the Chandmari case is still on,” he added. Gogoi has not got bail in the Chandmari case. The activist formed Raijor Dal last year and won from the Sibsagar seat in the assembly elections held this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mla-akhil-gogoi-acquitted-in-nia-case-against-him-101624361020082.html
22-06-2021||India||Stalin says Centre's ports bill reduces states’ autonomy, asks 9 CMs to oppose||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday wrote to nine chief ministers proposing that all the coastal states and Union territories oppose the new draft Indian Ports Bill, 2021. Stalin wrote to his counterparts in Gujarat, Goa, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and the Union Territory of Puducherry seeking their support in opposition to the bill.Stalin said that the bill will have adverse implications on the management of the minor ports and also reduce the state government’s autonomy in the port’s regulation and management. The Tamil Nadu chief minister argued that under the current system ports have seen good development.“Further to this, many powers currently exercised by state governments would be taken over by the Union government. Therefore, I propose that all the coastal states and Union territories should express their objection to this new draft Indian Ports Bill 2021 and take joint action to prevent any move to dilute the powers already vested with the states,” Stalin said in his letter."You will agree that the present system has led to the good development of minor ports, under the states. This move of the Central Government to bring a new Bill will have long-term adverse implications on the management of minor ports, since the state governments will not have any major role anymore if the Bill is passed. I propose that all the coastal states and union territories should express their objection to this new draft Indian Ports Bill 2021 and take joint action to prevent any move to dilute the powers already vested with the states,” he further added.The Union ministry of ports, shipping and waterways framed the bill which modifies the management model of minor ports. The bill proposes to confer to MSDC the powers to plan, develop, regulate and control minor ports which according to the existing Indian Ports Act, 1908, lie with the state governments. The MSDC, which so far acted as an advisory body, will take control of the development of minor ports.The ports and shipping ministry will hold a meeting with the Maritime State Development Council (MSDC) and state ministers on Thursday to discuss the bill.Stalin said that the state government will pass resolutions against the Centre’s farm laws and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in the budget session of the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-says-centre-s-ports-bill-reduces-states-autonomy-asks-9-cms-to-oppose-101624357412362.html
22-06-2021||India||UK liaison officer at Indian navy facility that monitors threats in Indian Ocean||The UK on Tuesday posted a liaison officer at a key Indian Navy centre that tracks shipping and monitors threats such as maritime terrorism and piracy in regional waters, joining countries such as the US, Australia, France and Japan that have a presence at the facility. Lieutenant Commander Stephen Smith will be based full-time at the Information Fusion Centre-Indian Ocean Region (IFC-IOR) in Gurugram, serving as the UK’s international liaison officer (ILO). He will work directly with India’s armed forces and liaison officers from partner nations to enhance maritime domain awareness in the region. Smith’s induction will build on the commitment by the UK and Indian prime ministers to boost cooperation with the launch of the 2030 Roadmap in May, the British high commission said in a statement. Also Read | EU, UK slap new sanctions on entities, individuals related to Myanmar coupThe move comes weeks after the UK’s largest warship, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group embarked upon its maiden voyage that will bring it to the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. Speaking about the deployment of the British liaison officer at the information fusion centre, Admiral Tony Radakin, the UK’s chief of naval staff, said he was “excited at the opportunities this position brings us for closer UK-India collaboration and information sharing”. He added, “Coming as a natural outgrowth of the strong partnership between the Royal Navy and Indian Navy, this is a significant step up in our shared maritime domain awareness effort, and boldly underlines UK and Indian desires to work together in the Indian Ocean Region and wider Indo-Pacific.” Acting British high commissioner Jan Thompson said the UK is committed to becoming the “European country with the broadest, most integrated presence in the Indo-Pacific in support of trade, shared security and values”. The posting of the British officer at the Indian Navy centre is “another tangible step to enhance our joint capability to tackle shared challenges”, she said. The international liaison officers act as contacts between their countries and the Indian Navy for sharing information on the movement of merchant vessels and maritime threats. The US, Australia, France and Japan had earlier posted liaison officers at the IFC-IOR that was established in December 2018. The three main objectives of the IFC-IOR are confidence and capacity building among partner nations to ensure swift and accurate exchange of information on maritime security, extensive linkages to ensure comprehensive maritime domain awareness of the region, and use of hi-tech and analytic tools for maritime traffic analysis to predict emerging threats and trends. The Indian Navy took the initiative of launching the IFC-IOR because more than 75% of the global maritime trade and 50% of daily global oil consumption passes through the region, and the presence of threats such as maritime terrorism, piracy, human and contraband trafficking and illegal and unregulated fishing. The UK has contributed more than £20 million to tackle piracy in the western Indian Ocean region, and Britain’s white shipping agreement with India enables information-sharing across the region. Gavin Thompson, the defence adviser at the British high commission, described the IFC-IOR as an “excellent platform to enable closer engagement and ensure greater sharing of information on vessels of interest”. “The UK and Indian armed forces already enjoy high levels of interoperability, which will be on full display during the upcoming visit of the UK’s carrier strike group, led by one of our largest aircraft carriers, HMS Queen Elizabeth. The appointment of the UK liaison officer forms part of our enhanced maritime partnership to bolster security in the Indian Ocean,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-liaison-officer-at-indian-navy-facility-that-monitors-threats-in-indian-ocean-101624357779719.html
22-06-2021||India||Covaxin shows 77.8% efficacy in phase 3 trial data in review by SEC||Covaxin, the Bharat Biotech's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has shown efficacy of 77.8% from trial conducted on 25,800 subjects, according to reports.The efficacy rate came out on Tuesday after DGCI's subject expert committee (SEC) met and discussed the results.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe pharmaceutical firm had submitted phase 3 trial data for the vaccine to the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) over the weekend.The meeting took place before the company's 'pre-submission' meeting on Wednesday with the World Health Organization (WHO).Covaxin is one of the three vaccines which are currently being used in India. Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Russia's Sputnik V have also been administered to the Indian citizens so far.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccines losing effect against Delta variant, says WHO officialThe country is also preparing to use a local version of the Novavax vaccine, which will be produced by the SII. The vaccine was more than 90% effective in a late-stage US-based clinical trial, according to the company.The phase III data approval of Covaxin, which was developed by the Bharat Biotech in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is likely to help the firm secure an EUL (emergency use listing) from the WHO.While Covaxin was undergoing clinical trials, it was cleared for emergency use last year. It was given "restricted use in emergency situation in public interest", which raised questions and was also seen as contributing to vaccine hesitancy that marked the early stages of India's vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-shows-77-8-efficacy-in-phase-3-trial-data-in-review-by-sec-101624355106730.html
22-06-2021||India||Over 8 million Covid vaccine doses given on Day 1 of new drive||As India kicked off its universal Covid vaccination drive on Monday, 8,095,314 doses were given in states and Union Territories during the day, even as many states admitted this would be difficult to sustain.During May, more than 79 million vaccines were available for vaccination. These were ramped up to 117.8 million vaccine doses in June. These include the free supply of vaccines to states and UTs from Government of India, those directly procured by the states/UTs and those directly procured by the private hospitals.Also Read | ‘UP govt not only hiding Covid death figures, but also...,’: Akhilesh YadavWest Bengal, Maharashtra, and Andhra Pradesh did not start the drive citing shortage of vaccines. Madhya Pradesh led the drive by administering 1,542,632 doses while Karnataka gave 1,067,734 doses during the day.Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday released a white paper on the Centre’s Covid management and urged the government to prepare for the third wave of coronavirus.Releasing the document, the former Congress chief said it is clear that the management of the first and second wave of Covid-19 was “disastrous”. “There were certain reasons as to why it was disastrous, we’ve tried to point out those reasons in our white paper. This is a blueprint about how to react to the third wave which is going to come,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-million-covid-vaccine-doses-given-on-day-1-of-new-drive-101624354059363.html
22-06-2021||India||Gupkar alliance to attend PM Modi’s all-party meeting on Thursday||The constituents of an alliance formed in Jammu & Kashmir last year for the restoration of the region’s special status on Tuesday confirmed their participation in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s all-party meeting on the erstwhile state on Thursday.“All those invited will be attending the meet in New Delhi,” said National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah after a meeting the alliance held in Srinagar to formulate a strategy.Abdullah chaired the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD)’s meeting at his residence. NC and Mehbooba Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party, which is another constituent of PAGD, earlier held the meetings of their parties and authorised their chiefs to take the final call over the issue.Also Read | J&K’s daily Covid tally lowest in 83 daysAbdullah said the stand of the alliance is clear and all people were aware of their stand. He added they will put their points of view before Modi at the meeting in Delhi. “We will talk about everything as there isn’t a fixed agenda for the all-party meeting,” Abdullah said, who has been holding consultations with senior leaders of his party.Mufti said that they were always ready for dialogue. “After the consensus in the alliance, it was decided everybody invited for the meeting will go for the meeting.”Mufti said that for a conducive atmosphere, the government should have released all the political prisoners. “Many prisoners are ill in jails. So, the political prisoners should be released and those who are lodged in jails outside Kashmir should be shifted back.”Fourteen leaders have been invited for Modi’s meeting, the first such engagement with the Centre since Jammu & Kashmir was stripped of its semi-autonomous status in August 2019. The erstwhile state was also split into two Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-to-attend-pm-modi-s-all-party-meeting-on-thursday-101624349981105.html
22-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi suggests '4 pillars' to fight potential third Covid-19 wave||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday suggested “four pillars” to the central government that, he said, will help it manage a potential third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). These "pillars," Gandhi said, were developed after consultation with various experts.Also Read | 90% Covid deaths in second wave could have been avoided: Rahul GandhiRahul Gandhi’s suggestions were part of a white paper released by him to provide the Union government with "insights and information" on how to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19. Remarking that the whole country knows that a third wave is "inevitable," he added that it is also possible that there could be further waves as the virus is "continuously mutating."Also Read | Third wave of Covid-19 in India: What these 3 studies have predicted so farHere are the “four pillars” as suggested by the Congress leader:(1.) Understanding exactly what went wrong: According to Rahul Gandhi, this idea is the foundation of the white paper. The suggestion here is to set up a commission to see what went wrong so that the shortcomings could be corrected.(2.) Preparation of the third wave: This includes developing critical infrastructure, ensuring availability of oxygen, among others, Gandhi said.(3.) Economic assistance package: Remarking that coronavirus is "not just a biological phenomenon," but also an "economic and social phenomenon," he said we have to ensure that the poorest and weakest people are "provided the support that they need."(4.) Covid-19 compensation fund: Describing the fourth and final "pillar," the Congress leader said the idea here is to provide money to those who lost their loved ones due to the viral disease. "Here, we commit our support to them and tell them that we stand with you in these difficult times," Gandhi said.Various experts have projected that the third wave of Covid-19 will soon hit India. According to one group of experts, who were polled by news agency Reuters, this third wave is likely to arrive by as early as October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-suggests-4-pillars-to-fight-potential-third-covid-19-wave-101624342660124.html
22-06-2021||India||'Kejriwal busy searching for Sikh CM': Hardeep Puri's jibe on Delhi vaccination||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri lashed out at Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal for low vaccination numbers on the national capital on Monday, when India inoculated record number of people against Covid-19. Puri said Delhi has more than 11 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines, yet only 76,259 people were inoculated."On a day India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available. Why?" the civil aviation minister said on Twitter.On a day India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available. Why?Instead of focusing on health & welfare of people of Delhi, Kejriwal Ji is busy in Punjab searching for a Sikh CM face for his party.He said the Delhi chief minister busy in preparing for Punjab elections. "Instead of focusing on health & welfare of people of Delhi, Kejriwal Ji is busy in Punjab searching for a Sikh CM face for his party," said Puri. The Delhi chief minister was in Amritsar on Monday where he said that AAP's chief ministerial face for next year's Punjab Assembly election will be from the Sikh community. "One thing I can tell you is that the entire Punjab will be proud of him," Kejriwal said.Puri's tweet came in response to accusations from Kejriwal's deputy Manish Sisodia that the Centre is exporting Covid-19 vaccines at a time when thousands of Indians are dying.On Monday, Sisodia alleged that the Modi government is spending money on advertisements instead of vaccinating the people of the country. The central government is pressurising Delhi government officials to publish advertisements thanking its vaccination drive, he further in an online briefing."Instead of spending money on vaccinating citizens, the BJP is only interested in spending on advertisements on vaccines," Sisodia said. He also took a dig at the Centre, saying billboards thanking Modi will be displayed all over Delhi if it is provided 2.30 crore doses.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor hit back, accusing the AAP government of creating confusion over the ongoing vaccination drive."Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demanded freedom to buy vaccines which the central government allowed, but failing to buy vaccines in the international market, he demanded that the Centre should procure vaccines for the states," Kapoor said."It's very clear that it is the Arvind Kejriwal government that created all the confusion over vaccination drive after failing to get any vaccines on its own," he added.India administered 86,16,373 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Monday, the first day of the free vaccination drive for adults. This is the highest-ever single day vaccination in the world so far.Madhya Pradesh administered 16,73,858 vaccine doses, the highest ever among states in the country in a single day so far.On the historic feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated those who got vaccinated and lauded all frontline warriors."Today's record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight COVID-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India!" the Prime Minister tweeted.So far, 28.87 crore vaccine doses have been administered in India under the nationwide vaccination drive which began on January 16 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-busy-searching-for-sikh-cm-hardeep-puri-s-jibe-on-delhi-vaccination-101624347243867.html
22-06-2021||India||Is Covid wave 2 over? Positivity rate below 5% for 15 days, but experts say end still far||India has crossed the important milestone of a Covid positivity rate of less than 5 per cent for 15 consecutive days, conforming to the WHO’s recommended requirement for a region to reopen, but experts are wary of declaring the devastating second wave over. With 42,640 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday, the lowest in 91 days, and a positivity rate of 3.21 per cent, it would seem the present phase of the Covid-19 crisis is over and it is a good time to lift restrictions. This optimistic picture, however, must be edged with abundant caution, said several scientists, citing the emergence of new variants, the still high absolute number of cases, the many districts where positivity rate remains over 5 per cent and concerns over reliability of data. “With the current positivity rate at less than 5 per cent, India’s Covid-19 second wave is on the wane as quickly as it rushed to its peak, but the end of it may yet be far away as more transmissible new variants such as Delta plus variant are emerging,” said Naga Suresh Veerapu, associate professor at the School of Natural Sciences (SoNS), Shiv Nadar University, Delhi NCR. The Delta plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and considered one of the drivers of the second wave in the country and also in several others including the UK. The test positivity rate or TPR -- the percentage of all coronavirus tests performed that turn out to be positive -- is an important metric through which the public health system keeps tabs on the level of Covid transmission. The WHO recommends that test positivity should remain at 5 per cent or lower for 14 days before countries or regions reopen. In February this year, the country was celebrating the end of the first wave and conveniently ignored an imminent second wave, Veerapu said. “The Delta variant that emerged in March spread across the different parts of India, then cases surged to the peak yielding a second wave. The second wave conjoined with the first when the latter was at 1 per cent positivity rate,” he told PTI. Public policy expert Chandrakant Lahariya added that while cases are on the decline, the absolute number of cases are still very high. “While the national level test positivity rate has come down, there are still many districts where TPR is above 5 per cent,” the Delhi-based physician-epidemiologist and health systems expert told PTI. “Therefore, before saying that the second wave is over, I would like to wait for the TPR to come down below 5 per cent everywhere and sustain for two weeks or longer,” he said. Scientist Gautam Menon agreed with Lahariya, noting that some states such as Kerala are still seeing positivity rates over 5 per cent. He added that it is unclear whether this reflects just better testing than other states or if the situation is still to improve there. Positivity rate was 10.84 per cent in Kerala on Sunday. According to Health Ministry data on Monday, India’s total tally of Covid-19 cases is 2,99,35,221 (2.99 crore/29.9 million) while active cases reduced to 7,02,887. On Tuesday, the numbers improved further with active cases falling below 7 lakh after 79 days. The death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1,167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days. The second wave of the pandemic overwhelmed the healthcare system of the country, leaving hospitals struggling to cope with the surge in cases and critical drugs and oxygen in short supply. Infections have now slowed down and restrictions have been relaxed in most states. Agreeing that the drop in India’s cases has been quite dramatic, Menon noted, “From all we know, this is a genuine decline, both in urban and rural India.” “There is no strict definition of a ‘wave’, let alone of how and when it might be ending, but this is a good time as any to consider opening up, although with caution,” Menon, professor, Departments of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University in Haryana, told PTI. The experts also believe test positivity rates provide valuable information only if testing is broadly accessible across all regions. “Test positivity, when these tests are carried out on a random sample of the population and in sufficient quantity, is likely the best metric to dictate opening up, although we must be careful about local pockets where the level of infections have been lower than average and where the disease could still take off,” said Menon. “What we need to remember is that for a country the size of India, we need to have enough attention on the local level,” Lahariya added. He explained that Covid-19 is not just any other respiratory illness and decision-making parameters cannot be simple. “We know that there are new variants which are more transmissible. We know that human behaviour determines the spread of this virus. Therefore, it is not very relevant if we declare whether the second wave is over or not,” the public policy expert explained. “Key is, are we prepared to respond to the rise in cases? That's where the attention has to be,” Lahariya said. Widespread concerns about the accuracy of data, relating to both deaths and cases, also need to be factored in, said Menon. Though anecdotally, decline in cases appears to be true, media and other reports “suggest that deaths have been severely undercounted, sometimes by a factor of 10”. “I hope these reports will spur states to be transparent with their numbers,” he said. Lahariya said India has sub-optimally performing mechanisms for medical certification of causes of deaths (MCCD). Even before the pandemic, the causes of deaths used to be certified in only one-fourth of registered deaths. “Therefore, it is not unthinkable that even in some cases of Covid-19 deaths; deaths have not been certified correctly,” the scientist added. Veerapu said asymptomatic people and some with mild symptoms may not even turn up for testing, therefore leading to the underestimation of cases. However, he said the waning second wave provides enough opportunities to minimise the spread of the disease. “We should ramp up the vaccination drive, consolidate the health infrastructure to minimise the impact of the much anticipated third wave, and hone the public health strategies to prevent, control and respond to the third wave,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-covid-wave-2-over-positivity-rate-below-5-for-15-days-but-experts-say-end-still-far-101624347073287.html
22-06-2021||India||90% Covid deaths in second wave could have been avoided: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday that 90% of Covid-19 deaths in the second wave were “needless” because the patients could have been saved if oxygen or drugs were available. He demanded a commission to look into “what went wrong” in the government’s strategy and emphasised that a Covid-19 compensation fund must be created to help families who lost their bread-earners. Releasing a white paper on Covid-19 prepared by the Congress’ research department, Gandhi also said that “vaccination should be done on war footing”, because inoculating 60% or 70% of the population is not sufficient. “There are two types of Covid-19 deaths. Deaths that are needless in the sense those could have been saved. The other type of death is when there is high comorbidity. In the second wave, 90% deaths were needless because oxygen was not available,” Gandhi said. Also Read | India administers record 8.6mn doses on Day 1 of universal Covid vaccine drive“The PM’s tears can’t wipe off the tears of the victims. People know that oxygen could have saved their near and dear ones. But the PM didn’t take the issue seriously. He had to fight elections,” Gandhi added. India administered over 8 million vaccine doses on Monday, after the modified vaccination rules were withdrawn in favour of a centralised vaccination campaign, in which the government administered free vaccine to all. The Congress leader maintained “good work has happened yesterday [Monday]” but cautioned that vaccination has to be a process and not “a series of events”. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala added that during former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s regime, 120 million children were administered pulse polio vaccine on a single day in 2012. Reacting to the Centre’s plea in the Supreme Court that it doesn’t have money to compensate for Covid-19 deaths, Gandhi said the government must announce a compensation package for the poor. “The Centre is making ₹4 lakh crore through cess on petrol and diesel. It has taken money from the people. They can give any name they want but a compensation plan is required,” Gandhi said. An economic assistance process is also a significant part of the white paper published on Tuesday. The Congress leader said that aim of the white paper is to provide the government with suggestions so that it can be ready when the third wave of the pandemic comes. “The government should not repeat the mistakes it did in the first and second waves. It should be ready with infrastructure to tackle the third wave,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-covid-deaths-in-second-wave-could-have-been-avoided-rahul-gandhi-101624347159152.html
22-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC judge recuses himself from hearing Bengal CM's petition in Narada case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Narada case: SC judge recuses himself from hearing Bengal CM’s petitionJustice Aniruddha Bose, a Supreme Court judge, recused himself on Tuesday from hearing petitions of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and state law minister Moloy Ghatak challenging the Calcutta high court order. Read more here.Probe into oxygen shortage deaths will demoralise frontline workers: GoaAt least 75 people died over five days at the hospital when the oxygen supply ran short. The state blamed logistical issues rather than the actual shortage of oxygen for the deaths. Read more here.Centre’s NIOT to monitor sand mining in intertidal regions of A&N islandsThe Union environment ministry has issued a notification amending the Island Coastal Regulation Zone (ICRZ) notification, 2019, which could give more control to the Centre in selecting sand mining sites in the intertidal zones in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Read more here.WTC final: Sanjay Bangar, VVS Laxman give key advice to India pacers Ishant Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah against NZFormer Indian batsman Laxman expressed surprise that Bumrah was unable to change the length which can be effective in English conditions. Read more here.Hyundai Alcazar vs Hyundai Creta: The 'not so obvious' differences Hyundai Alcazar is the latest SUV from the company in India and is looking at replicating the success of Creta. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-judge-recuses-himself-from-hearing-bengal-cm-s-petition-101624346042413.html
22-06-2021||India||Probe into oxygen shortage deaths will demoralise frontline workers: Goa||Any inquiry into the deaths due to the alleged oxygen shortage at the Goa Medical College and Hospital in May would demoralise the doctors, nurses, and other frontline workers, the state government has told the high court.At least 75 people died over five days at the hospital when the oxygen supply ran short. The state blamed logistical issues rather than the actual shortage of oxygen for the deaths.“The doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, officials, and bureaucrats have worked tirelessly and with full dedication during the entire pandemic and more particularly during the second wave. Subjecting them to a judicial inquiry would be highly unjust and would have the effect of demoralising the entire workforce. Medical personnel and bureaucrats should not be subjected to such treatment in the name of PIL (public interest litigation),” advocate general Devidas Pangam told the court on Monday.Pangam said burdening the administration and the health care system with a judicial inquiry will be counterproductive, especially in the backdrop of a possible third Covid-19 wave and its preparations. “No purpose will be served by ordering such an inquiry.”Also Read | Cab fare in Goa can be more than airfare, Bombay high court told by govtOn the issue of compensation to the families who have lost their kin to Covid-19, the government argued the high court should not adjudicate on the matter as it is pending before the Supreme Court.The government on Monday also told the high court that an inquiry committee formed on the oxygen supply issue, which was to submit its report in May, has not even met even once as the panel members contracted Covid.Petitioners, including the South Goa Advocates Association, have sought better Covid management in the state and probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act. They have sought the tracing of the victims and their dependents and to determine the quantum of compensation to be individually paid.“Various persons admitted in the Government Hospitals have lost their lives only due to inadequate supply of oxygen. Some of these victims were the sole breadwinners of the family; some children have lost both their parents, etc. These victims need to be identified and their dependents/kin have to be adequately compensated depending upon their situation,” the association said in its PIL.The state government told the court that there is almost negligible scope of underreporting of Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-into-oxygen-shortage-deaths-will-demoralise-frontline-workers-goa-101624345179520.html
22-06-2021||India||Number of flights to and from Mumbai increases as Covid-19 cases dip||There has been an increase in the number of flights from and to the Mumbai airport with a decrease in Covid-19 cases. “In April end and May, the daily flights were reduced to around 150...around 350 flights are being operated now,” a Mumbai airport official said.The airport would record around 960 flights daily before the pandemic. Flight movements picked up from around 150 per day between July and December to around 670 daily from January to March.The second Covid-19 wave led to a drastic drop in air traffic as many countries banned flights to and from India.Also Read | Cargo helps pandemic-hit Indian airlines beat the bluesThe aviation industry is among the worst hit due to the pandemic. In the last financial year, domestic traffic slipped to a 10-year low at around 53.4 million passengers. In 2010-11 domestic air operators flew 53.8 million passengers, according to industry data. The international air traffic declined over 90% due to the absence of regular flights.Till February, airlines were reporting around 60-70% seat occupancy before the second Covid-19 wave hit.In March and April, airlines again began cost-cutting to deal with the financial crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-flights-to-and-from-mumbai-increases-as-covid-19-cases-dip-101624343739185.html
22-06-2021||India||PIL filed in Orissa high court over mismanagement in Covid hospitals||A public interest litigation has been filed at the Orissa high court, demanding a court-monitored probe into alleged gross mismanagement and negligence in the treatment of patients in Covid hospitals and denial of dignity to people who died of the disease during cremation.Highlighting an incident at a Covid hospital in Baripada where patients, including a woman, were seen lying naked on the floor of a washroom and bed, advocate Bibhuti Bhusan Choudhury requested the high court to direct the state government to install CCTV cameras in all Covid hospitals. Choudhury also drew the attention of the high court to the cremation of multiple Covid victims in a single pyre at a cremation ground in Bolangir district.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 tally falls to 42,640; active cases go below 700,000“The way Covid hospitals are exploiting the patients is really unfortunate and condemnable,” said the petitioner. Choudhury urged the high court for a court-monitored probe into these incidents and demanded action against the hospital authorities and other officials responsible. “These incidents should be probed under the supervision of the high court and stringent action should be taken against officials responsible. Moreover, CCTV cameras should be installed in all Covid centres so that the patients’ relatives can see how their near and dear ones are being treated,” he added.The state chief secretary, health secretary and collectors of Mayurbhanj and Bolangir have been made respondents in the petition.Gouranga Mohapatra, state convenor of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, a health NGO in Odisha, said that during the second wave, there has been gross mismanagement in Covid hospitals of the state. “First of all, there are not enough doctors to treat Covid patients in the state. The Covid-designated private hospitals, though funded by the state government, have not been up to the mark. The government just kept on issuing new guidelines and SOPs without ensuring strict observance. This led to a rise in number of deaths,” said Mohapatra.Mayurbhanj district collector Vineet Bhardwaj, who, along with other officials and a team of doctors, visited the hospital after the incident, said Covid hospitals in the district are running smoothly and the complaints of the patients and attendants have been redressed. “Such incidents should not be generalised. We are making efforts to install CCTVs in hospitals to monitor the activities and fill the gaps,” said the district collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-filed-in-orissa-high-court-over-mismanagement-in-covid-hospitals-101624343619079.html
22-06-2021||India||Assam home guard refuses bribe from drug dealers, helps recover ₹12cr contraband||A home guard in Assam has hit the headlines for refusing a “huge bribe amount” from drug dealers and helping recover three kilograms of high-quality crystal methamphetamine valued at ₹12 crore. Impressed by his “selfless and honest act”, Assam Police DGP Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta has announced a reward of ₹1 lakh to Borsing Bay, who is posted to Dillai police station in Karbi Anglong district. Police said they intercepted a truck coming from Manipur in Karbi Anglong on Monday evening and recovered three kilograms of crystal methamphetamine tablets valued at ₹12 crore. They arrested two women from Tamil Nadu and a man from Manipur in connection with the recovery. Also Read | Delhi Police invoke rarely used law to keep drug kingpin in jail“Lion’s share of credit for this drug haul goes to home guard Borsing Bay. He was offered a huge bribe amount by the accused in return for letting them go free. Sri Bay refused,” Mahanta tweeted on Monday night. “For this selfless and honest act, (Bay) will be rewarded with an amount of ₹1 lakh. Salute of home guard Bay,” he added. As per police records, there has been a big jump in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases in past 10 years in the state. From 180 cases in 2010, the police registered 1,023 cases last year. In contrast, between May 10 and June 10 this year, police registered over 400 cases and arrested more than 700 persons in connection with illegal drugs. Over 8.5kg of heroin, 2kg of brown sugar, nearly 6,000kg of marijuana, over 270,000 illegal tablets and ₹26 lakh in cash were recovered in this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-home-guard-refuses-bribe-from-drug-dealers-helps-recover-12cr-contraband-101624343259094.html
22-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi releases report on ‘mismanagement’ of Covid-19, says aim not to ‘point fingers’ at govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday released a report on what he said was the ‘mismanagement’ of coronavirus pandemic by the government and said it was not to blame the ruling dispensation. "The aim of this white paper on Covid-19 is not finger-pointing at the government but to help the nation prepare for the third wave of infection. The whole country knows that a third wave will strike," Gandhi said in a virtual press conference as he released the report.Rahul Gandhi, who has been a vocal critic of the Centre over its handling of the pandemic, also asked the government to create a financial assistance fund and demanded that a commission should be formed to loop into the lapses in tackling Covid-19 in the country. "The government must not view states as BJP states vs opposition states. Very important that bias should not come in," Gandhi added.Gandhi said that there are two types of Covid-19 death. "One is needless death or those who could have been saved. In the second wave, 90% of the deaths were needless," he stated.Commenting on India administering record 8.6 million Covid-19 doses on Day 1 of universal Covid vaccine drive, Gandhi said, "Good work has happened yesterday. But it is not a series of events, this is a process."The revised universal Covid-19 immunisation policy started on June 1, where the Centre is procuring and supplying 75% of the total vaccine supplies being produced in India for free to states for immunising all adults.The Centre also launched the universal vaccination programme against Covid-19 from Monday to provide states with free vaccines for the 18-45 category, a move that is expected to help scale up daily Covid-19 vaccination numbers.The Congress has accused the central government of suppressing Covid-19 death numbers, with Gandhi saying that the numbers do not lie. "Numbers don't lie... GOI (Government of India) does," Gandhi said on Twitter while citing a New York Times' estimate of the number of Covid-19 deaths in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-releases-report-on-mismanagement-of-covid-19-says-aim-not-to-point-fingers-at-govt-101624341057920.html
22-06-2021||India||Will Abhijit Mukherjee join TMC? His meet with Abhishek Banerjee sparks buzz||Former President Pranab Mukherjee's son and Congress leader Abhijit held a meeting with Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek on Monday evening, Hindustan Times' sister publication HT Bangla reported. The meeting was held at Abhishek Banerjee's Camac Street office.Both the sides did not reveal any details about the discussions that took place in the long meeting. But the development has given rise to fresh speculation about Abhijit Mukherjee joining the TMC. The news follows the departure of Jitin Prasad from the Congress party.Earlier this month, Mukherjee, the former MP from Jangipur, had made it clear that he is not leaving the Congress unlike his friend Jitin Prasada."I remain in the Congress and reports that I am joining Trinamool or any other party are not correct," Mukherjeehad told news agency PTI.He had said that the rumours probably arose after some of his father's former Congress colleagues "who are now in Trinamool" had come to have tea with him. "They included MP Khalilur Rahman from Jangipur, MP Abu Taher Khan from Murshidabad and TMC ministers Akhrruzzaman and Sabina Yesmin.""But, I have known them for long, as they were close to my father... to speculate that just because friends came to meet me, I will join TMC, is stretching it too far," Mukherjee had said.Mukherjee, an engineer-turned politician, won twice from Jangipur constituency.Pranab Mukherjee had won from Jangipur twice in 2004 and 2009, before becoming President of India. He started several projects in the area, including a branch of the Aligarh Muslim University in the district, an Army cantonment and a management college.Abhijit Mukherjee said he had also been involved with some of these projects as an MP, and most of his interactions with state leaders are based on these developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-abhijit-mukherjee-join-tmc-his-meet-with-abhishek-banerjee-sparks-buzz-101624342689915.html
22-06-2021||India||Nusrat Jahan's marital status questioned again, BJP leader calls for probe||Nusrat Jahan, the Trinamool Congress MP, should be investigated for her "illegal and ethical conduct" and appropriate action must be taken against her giving false information to Parliament regarding her marital status, a Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker has said. BJP MP Sanghmitra Maurya has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla demanding that the matter be referred to the ethics committee of the House.Sanghmitra Maurya, who represents Uttar Pradesh Badaun in the Lok Sabha, in her letter to Birla, attached Nusrat Jahan's profile where she has mentioned Nikhil Jain as her husband. "An appropriate action be intimated under relevant rules of Lok Sabha procedure and/ or the matter be referred to Committee on Ethics for detailed investigation for her illegal and ethical conduct," Maurya said in the letter to the Speaker on June 19, according to news agency ANI."Her media statement regarding her marital status controvert her oath for Lok Sabha membership wherein she took oath as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain. This effectively renders her membership as non-est in law," Maurya added.Also read | Nusrat Jahan cradles baby bump in first pics since pregnancy revealThe BJP leader also said that Bashirhat MP Nusrat Jahan said her name was Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain and was also dressed as a newly-wed person while taking oath on June 25, 2019. "In fact, when she was attacked by a section of Islamists for marrying a non-Muslim, sporting sindoor, MPs across party lines defended her. Her reception, as per media reports, was attended by CM Mamata Banerjee," the BJP MP wrote.Maurya told ANI that Nusrat Jahan is entitled to her personal life and nobody should encroach upon it. "She deliberately provided false information to Lok Sabha Secretariat thereby indulging in unethical, illegal and immoral conduct. She cheated her electorate by giving false information and this brings bad name to parliament and its members," Maurya alleged.Maurya is not the first BJP leader to raise questions about the marital status of actor-turned-politician Nusrat Jahan after the Trinamool leader said that her marriage with Nikhil Jain was null and void as it was held in a foreign country and it had not been registered under Indian laws.Also read | Nusrat Jahan case has no link with politics, party busy to serve people: TMCEarlier this month, BJP's Amit Malviya asked whether she lied to Parliament when she took the oath as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain. Malviya said he was raising the question as Nusrat Jahan is an elected representative and is married to Nikhil Jain, going by the record of Parliament. West Bengal BJP vice president Jay Prakash Majumdar also accused Nusrat Jahan of making "contradictory" remarks pertaining to her marital status and said the law should take its own course.Nusrat Jahan issued a statement earlier in June saying her marriage with Nikhil Jain is not legal, valid and tenable and there is no question of divorce. "Since it was an inter-faith marriage, it requires validation under the Special Marriage Act in India, which did not happen. As per the court of law, it is not a marriage, but a relationship or a live-in relationship. Thus, the question of divorce does not arise," she said.Nusrat Jahan got married to businessman Nikhil Jain in Bodrum of Turkey in 2019 after she made her political debut, winning the Lok Sabha elections in the same year.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nusrat-jahan-s-marital-status-questioned-again-bjp-leader-calls-for-probe-101624342051041.html
22-06-2021||India||India administers record 8.6mn doses on Day 1 of universal Covid vaccine drive||India on Monday administered close to 8.6 million vaccine doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day, which is the highest ever single-day number recorded in the world so far, said the Union health ministry in a statement. The revised universal Covid-19 immunisation policy kicked in on June 1, wherein the Centre is procuring and supplying 75% of the total vaccine supplies being produced in India for free to states for immunising all adults. The Centre then launched the universal vaccination programme against Covid-19 from Monday to provide states with free vaccines for the 18-45 category, a move that is expected to help scale up daily vaccination numbers.In all, close to 300 million vaccine doses have been administered across the country since the national Covid-19 immunisation drive began in the country on January 16, 2021. “This was a huge number for a single day, and even though this may not be possible to sustain daily in June because of the limited vaccine supplies, it looks likes about 5 million vaccine doses should be administered in a day,” said a senior government official aware of the developments, on condition of anonymity. Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 tally falls to 42,640; active cases go below 700,000Dr NK Arora, chairman, working group on Covid-19 vaccines, said that India should be capable of administering close to 10 million shots in a day by August, with vaccine supplies expected to improve in coming weeks. The Centre has so far distributed close to 300 million vaccine doses to states, of which nearly 270 million doses have been consumed. At least 20 million doses are still available with states to be administered, and close to 3.3 million doses are in the pipeline that will be distributed to states in the next three days, according to the Union health ministry. The government is expecting to get around 200-250 million doses per month by August as vaccine manufactures such as Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are in the process of scaling up their vaccine production capacity. India’s vaccine drive began for healthcare workers, and was later expanded to include all frontline workers on February 2, and then, everyone over the age of 60 years and people over the age of 45 with co-morbidities, on March 1. On April 1, it was expanded to include everyone over the age of 45. Then, in response to demand from states and people, the drive was opened up further, to everyone over the age of 18 years, although states were told they would have to pay for the vaccines of those between the ages of 18 and 45. Private hospitals were also allowed to offer vaccinations at capped prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-record-8-6mn-doses-on-day-1-of-universal-covid-vaccine-drive-101624340258924.html
22-06-2021||India||Bengaluru administers record 1,68,958 Covid-19 vaccine doses in a day||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has achieved a milestone of administering 1,68,958 Covid-19 vaccinations in a day, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said."1.68 lakh vaccines were administered in a day, this has been the biggest daily achievement. The previous highest achievement was on June 4, 2021, where 1.17 lakh vaccines were administered," Gupta was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He further informed that the Covid-19 vaccination campaign was conducted successfully by implementing micro plans across the city. The vaccination program was conducted in eight zones of BBMP which were further divided into different sessions at various places."Session sites were increased from an average of 300 to 528 to drive more vaccinations in the city. It includes 160 sites in urban primary health care centres and general hospitals and 368 sites in workplaces," Gupta added.The BBMP chief commissioner said that district authorities had also raised awareness among the local residents about the Covid-19 vaccine campaign through a separate door-to-door campaign. In addition, heads of factories, hotels, building owners, and others were informed about the vaccine drive."As a result, a lot more individuals were vaccinated through the campaign, while following all Covid protocols wearing masks and maintaining social distance," he added.Additionally, 8 zonal health officers and 28 Medical Health Officers (MOHs) visited the venues throughout the day to monitor the vaccination process and to support the staff on duty.Gupta informed that during the campaign, a total of 1,44,000 doses of Covishield and 43,000 doses of Covaxin were administered.India has administered 86,16,373 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Monday, the highest-ever single day vaccination in the world so far, the Union health ministry has informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-administers-record-1-68-958-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-101624337731346.html
22-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech submits Covaxin phase 3 trials data; expert panel may meet today||The subject expert committee of the central drugs standards control organisation (CDSCO) is likely to go through Bharat Biotech’s phase 3 clinical trials data of Covaxin today that the company submitted to the national drugs regulator over the weekend, people familiar with the matter said.“The required data has been submitted, and the meeting of the expert panel is likely to take place today,” said an official in the government aware of the development, on condition of anonymity.Bharat Biotech also has a pre-submission meeting scheduled with representatives of WHO (World Health Organisation) on Wednesday, June 23, for emergency use listing (EUL) of Covaxin, their vaccine against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 tally falls to 42,640; active cases go below 700,000Covaxin, India’s first make-in-India vaccine, has shown an efficacy of 78% in the final interim Phase 3 analysis, HT reported earlier. The first interim analysis result that was put out in March was based on 43 cases, of which 36 cases of Covid-19 were observed in the placebo group versus 7 cases observed in the BBV152 (Covaxin) group, resulting in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 80.6%. The second interim analysis came out in April based on accruing more than 87 symptomatic cases of Covid-19, and also showed that the efficacy against severe Covid-19 disease was 100%, with an impact on reduction in hospitalisations. The Phase 3 study enrolled 25,800 participants in 18-98 years of age, including 10% over the age of 60, with analysis conducted 14 days post second dose. Covaxin was developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology under the Indian Council of Medical Research. It was granted conditional emergency use authorisation on January 3 this year by India’s drugs regulator, Dr VG Somani, even though its efficacy data was still not out. It is one of the two vaccines against Covid-19 that are currently being used under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme. The other vaccine allowed for use is Covishield that is the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-submits-covaxin-phase-3-trials-data-expert-panel-may-meet-today-101624338278719.html
22-06-2021||India||With Sopore encounter, focus back to OGWs; police say 76 arrested this year||At least 112 terrorists and Over Ground Workers (OGWs) have been arrested in Jammu and Kashmir in the first six months of 2021, according to the police. Of this, OGWs form a major chunk with 76 of them arrested.The highest number of OGWs has been arrested in Awantipora (17), followed by Anantnag (12) and Bandipora (12), the police further said. The statistics show the pressure being faced by these supporters of terrorists who provide them with logistical support, cash and shelter.These OGWs have also been involved in bank robberies and killing of civilians, the police said. Most of them have been working for Pakistan-based terror groups, like Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), which send their operatives to create mayhem in the valley.The police released these details on Monday, after the killing of three LeT commanders, including one of the most wanted terrorists Mudasir Pandit, in Sopore. These terrorists were part of the group involved in several terror-related cases, said the police.The two aides of Pandit - Pakistan national and LeT commander Abdullah alias Asrar and Khurshid Mir - who were also killed, had more than two dozen cases registered against them.They were involved in killing of two municipal councillors and one police personnel at the municipal office in Sopore in March this year and attack on fruit merchants at Dangerpora in September, 2019, according to the police. Four civilians were injured in the 2019 attack.These attacks, which came after the Centre's move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status in August 2019, stuck fears in the hearts of apple traders. The Union territory's administration had to step in and provide security to the traders, and help them in selling their produce.There were 18 cases registered against Pandit alone, who was the Lashkar commander since June 2019. He was involved in the killing of nine security forces personnel and three local body (panchayat) members. Pandit also used to threaten and intimidate people, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said.Among the other two terrorists, four FIRs were registered against Asrar, a resident of Pakistan. He was involved in two attacks on security forces and killings of three cops, the police said. He had been a commander of the LeT since 2018.Khurshid Mir, the third terrorist eliminated on Monday, carried out two grenade attacks and was involved in the killing of five civilians. There were six FIRs registered against him, according to the police.Director General of Police J&K, Dilbagh Singh said on Monday that the operation wasn't only a big success but an important one. He also said that a "good number" of foreign militants are present in the valley, but are "lying low" and "keeping a distance".General Officer Commanding (GoC) of the Army's Kilo Force Major General H S Sahi said this was the second such instance in the valley in recent times where local militants were found to be accompanied by Pakistani ultras."This is a big network nexus that exists, which is a cause of concern. This nexus needs to be broken and destroyed so that there is no hurdle in the peace and development of Jammu and Kashmir," Major General Sahi said.The joint operation was launched by the army, Jammu and Kashmir Police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) after the attack on police in Sopore on June 12, in which two policemen and two civilians were killed.The Jammu and Kashmir Police further said that taking into account Monday's gunbattle, as many as 53 terrorists have been killed so far this year. Out of these, 45 were local and two foreigners. The police also said that 112 terrorists and Over Ground Workers (OGWs) have been arrested in the first six months of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-sopore-encounter-focus-back-to-ogws-police-say-76-arrested-this-year-101624337244780.html
22-06-2021||India||Prashant Kishor weighs in amid Sharad Pawar's plans to unite oppn||Prashant Kishor has ruled out the possibility of a third or fourth front defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party in the next Lok Sabha elections amid speculation that a national coalition will be formed by opposition parties against the BJP. Prashant Kishor said that he does not think that such a front will be able to challenge the BJP. "I don’t believe that any third or fourth front can defeat Narendra Modi so why would I be part of any such coalition. Just because 15 persons are meeting, you cannot call it a 15-party meeting," the election strategist said.Prashant Kishor was referring to the meeting called by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar of a number of opposition leaders, excluding the Congress, and civil society members at his house in Delhi on Tuesday to initiate discussions about bringing together outfits against the BJP. His comments also came after he met Sharad Pawar for the second time in a month.“I had lunch with him when I was in Mumbai recently and so today, he called me and asked me to come over for tea. It was just chit-chat and a routine meeting," he said. He also rejected speculation that he was taking on the NCP as a client. “There is no question of Pawar Sahab becoming my client because I have left this space [election strategy]as I announced on May 2,’’ said Kishor.Also read | NCP chief Pawar, TMC’s Yashwant Sinha to host Rashtra Manch meet in DelhiTuesday's meeting, to be held under the banner of Rashtra Manch, an anti-BJP platform set up in 2018, comes amid a growing rift between the Congress and its alliance partner Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra over whether to fight upcoming polls together or separately.NCP spokesperson and minister in the Maharashtra government Nawab Malik said in a series of tweets that the meeting has been called to discuss the current scenario in the country and it will be attended by National Conference leader and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha, Sanjay Singh from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and D Raja from CPI among others.Also read | Uddhav Thackeray will be chief minister for 5 years: Shiv Sena“A discussion on the current political situation and primary discussion on how to bring all the opposition parties together is likely to be discussed in the meeting to be held on Tuesday. The exercise is the first step towards the announcement made by the NCP chief that he will be working to unite the opposition parties in the country,” Malik said.Pavan Verma, Sanjay Singh, KTS Tulsi, Majeed Memon, Vandana Chavan, Ghanshyam Tiwari, Karan Thapar, Javed Akhtar, Ashutosh, SY Qureshi, Arun Kumar, KC Singh, Sanjay Jha, Sudheendra Kulkarni, Colin Gonsalves and Pritish Nandy will also attend the meeting at 4pm.Kirit Somaiya, the BJP's leader in Maharashtra, said there will be no match for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership even if all opposition parties unite against him. Sharad Pawar, he said, is building castles in the air about uniting the opposition against the BJP-led central government. "At a time when Maharashtra is going out of control, the NCP, Congress, and Shiv Sena are cursing one another, Sharad Pawar ji is having 'Mungeri Lal Ke Haseen Sapney (a pipedream)'," Somaiya said on Monday, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-weighs-in-amid-sharad-pawar-s-plans-to-unite-oppn-101624336847662.html
22-06-2021||India||Consolidation of minority votes, farm protests worry Sangh ahead of elections||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is concerned about the impact the coalescence of the minority vote, which is believed to have contributed to the Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s win in West Bengal, and the continuing protests by a section of farmers against the new farm laws will have on the upcoming state elections, people aware of the matter said.The Sangh, ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s ideological fount, distances itself from electoral politics. But its cadre plays a key role in drumming up support for the BJP. Elections are due in 2022 in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Punjab, and Gujarat.Sangh has denied holding meetings on the elections particularly in Uttar Pradesh. But people aware of the matter said there is a concern that “regional considerations in politics could override national concerns.”“The inability of the Congress government in Punjab to control the farm agitation is an example of parties opting for narrow considerations above national issues. There is also a concern about religious polarisation and the impact that it can have. In West Bengal for instance, BJP supporters and those sympathetic to the Sangh are being targeted,” said a functionary.Also Read | Yogi to lead BJP in 2022 UP polls, says AK SharmaThe consolidation of about 30% Muslim votes and the transfer of votes from the Left and the Congress is believed to have helped TMC to sweep back to power by winning 213 of the 292 seats. The BJP, which won 77 seats, has been complaining about violence against its cadre in the state since the election results were announced on May 2.The issue of post-poll violence was also raised by the Sangh, which has blamed the “radicalised” elements for the attacks. Response by the state governments to protests against central laws such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) that fast tracks citizenship to persecuted minorities from the neighbourhood is also cited as a reason for concern. “There is a clear difference in how the state governments have handled agitations. While the Congress government in Punjab has not yet managed to get the farmers to call off the agitation though their concerns have been addressed by the government, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh dealt with the anti-CAA protests swiftly,” the functionary quoted above said.The Uttar Pradesh administration attached the properties of those who allegedly damaged public property during protests against the CAA as part of the measures it took to control them.Retaining Uttar Pradesh, where the construction of the Ram Temple is underway, is also critical for the BJP and the Sangh. “The Sangh does not want a change in government to create impediments in the construction of the temple, which has been its long-pending dream,” said the functionary quoted above.In Punjab, the Sangh has been concerned by the resurgence of the separatist movement, which it believes has used the farm agitation to get a foothold in the state. The issue of religious conversion by missionaries, particularly in the border areas of the state, is another issue that has been flagged by the Sangh.Gujarat-based political analyst Hari Desai said the Sangh’s concerns are not only Muslim consolidation but the inability to consolidate the Hindu votes. “TMC did not win only because of the Muslim votes; a sizeable percentage of the Hindus voted for them too. The Sangh recognises this and therefore, you see them aggressively pushing ahead in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consolidation-of-minority-votes-farm-protests-worry-sangh-ahead-of-elections-101624336241383.html
22-06-2021||India||Over 50% workers at Parliament site vaccinated against Covid-19: Housing secy||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra on Monday said over 50 per cent of the workers engaged in the construction of the new parliament building have been vaccinated against Covid-19.Taking to Twitter, Mishra asserted the new building will be ready on schedule for parliament’s winter session in 2022 in the 75th year of India’s independence.The secretary, who had visited the site on June 19, said 16,000 MT cement and 10,000 MT reinforcement steel have been used in the construction.“On-site 2,180 and off-site workers are contributing with excitement and enthusiasm. Over 50 per cent (workers) are vaccinated and Covid appropriate behaviour is being observed strictly. Environment sensitive measures like dust control, pollution mitigation, sound barrier etc are being fully observed," Mishra tweeted.In December last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the new parliament building, which will have an area of 64,500 square metres.In the the building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members.The Lok Sabha chamber will have an option to increase its sitting capacity to 1,224 members during joint sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-50-workers-at-parliament-site-vaccinated-against-covid-19-housing-secy-101624335335256.html
22-06-2021||India||Narada case: Supreme Court to hear Mamata’s petition against CBI today||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday take up a petition by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, contending that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has made “false allegations” about her sitting in protest outside CBI’s Kolkata office after the arrest of two Trinamool Congress (TMC) ministers and another prominent MLA on May 17 in connection with the 2016 Narada sting tapes. A former party leader was also arrested the same day.The petition, which will be considered by a bench of justices Hemant Gupta and Aniruddha Bose, claimed that CBI has also tried to mislead the courts by accusing her of trying to pressure the trial judge for granting bail to her ministers and MLAs in its endeavour to get the case transferred from the trial court.The CM did not deny that she had visited the CBI office in Kolkata on May 17 after the arrest of three TMC MLAs, Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim as well as former party leader Sovan Chatterjee. The petition claimed she went there not as a CM but “as a citizen and as a person acquainted with some of accused persons and family of the accused persons”.Also Read | Centre begins action against ex-chief secy in Bengal“There is no evidence of the petitioner holding a dharna or gherao or siege outside the CBI office and are thus false allegations. The petitioner at no point made a forcible entry at the office of the CBI, rather, she cleared a three-tier system of central paramilitary security, as applicable to all persons entering the CBI office premises...when she was present at the CBI office, she abided by all directions issued by officers of the CBI,” stated her petition, filed through advocate Astha Sharma.Banerjee has also alleged that the CBI arrested the MLAs without informing the local police station prior to the arrest, and without even informing the Speaker of the West Bengal Assembly and after obtaining sanction “in a manner contrary to law.” The plea added the CBI had no material evidence or documentary proof, photographs or videos to substantiate the bald and vague allegations against her.The CM has filed the petition to assail the June 9 order of the Calcutta high court, which had refused to accept her affidavit on record while hearing the CBI’s plea for transferring the case from the trial court to itself. The agency has accused the CM and other TMC leaders of carrying out protests after arrests of the MLAS to pressure the trial court and influence the bail hearing.The MLAs arrests were followed by a series of dramatic events in which the trial court granted them bail soon after their arrests on May 17. It was, however, stayed by a division bench of the Calcutta high court within hours after the CBI filed a petition for transferring the case. Two days later, the two judges on the division bench differed with each other, resulting in a house arrest order for the MLAs till the time a larger bench could decide the matter.The CBI’s petition was then referred to a five-judge bench, which on June 9 refused to take on record affidavits by Banerjee, state law minister Moloy Ghatak and the West Bengal government, on the ground that the arguments in the case were substantially over and that they could not be allowed file their affidavits to fill the lacuna to support the accused.Contesting this order, Banerjee has attacked the high court as well. “The high court is perpetuating the illegality by imposing different standards for parties in the same case, in an arbitrary manner, and in utter disregard to the principles of equity and natural justice,” said her plea, adding the order was in disregard to the principles of natural justice.The CM’s petition further pointed out that the CBI was able to not only get an urgent listing from the high court but also a stay of the bail order on May 17 merely on the basis of an e-mail, without any notice to the concerned parties and to her despite the fact that serious allegations were levelled against her conduct.The plea also said that the arguments in the case were far from over and were ongoing even as of June 18. “The impugned order thereby attempts to foist the impression that the petitioner filed her affidavit at a belated stage, which prima facie is erroneous,” it said.Banerjee’s plea will be heard along with petitions filed by Ghatak and the state government against the June 9 order of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-sc-to-hear-mamata-banerjee-s-petition-against-cbi-today-101624335698749.html
22-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech submits Covaxin phase 3 trials data to DCGI: Reports||Bharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based drugmaker which has developed India's only indigenous shot against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Covaxin, has submitted data from phase 3 trials of the vaccine to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), according to news agency ANI.Also Read | ‘Final analysis to be public soon’: Bharat Biotech on Phase III trial data"We've received the data from phase 3 trials," ANI quoted a senior government official as saying. Also, according to reports, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) is likely to meet on Tuesday to review the phase 3 data.The reported development comes amid a controversy over data from the third stage trials of Covaxin which Bharat Biotech earlier said it would make public in June, only to announce later that the data would, in fact, be made public in July, a delay of about a month from the originally announced timeline.Also Read | Covaxin phase 3 trial results to be out in July: Bharat BiotechCovaxin is among three vaccines being used in the nationwide drive against Covid-19. It was granted approval by the DCGI in January, along with the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot which is being manufactured locally by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield. A third vaccine, Russia's Sputnik V, was granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) in April.The vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease began on January 16. However, since the beginning, doubts have been raised on Covaxin's efficacy as the vaccine was granted EUA without the completion of its third stage trials. Interim data released by Bharat Biotech in April showed that the shot was 78% effective against symptomatic disease and 100% against serious illness.Last week, Bharat Biotech refuted rumours it had submitted phase 3 data to the World Health Organization's (WHO) for the global health body's approval, calling such reports "incorrect and lacking any evidence." Reports claimed WHO would review Bharat Biotech's application on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-submits-covaxin-phase-3-trials-data-to-dcgi-reports-101624331295684.html
22-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally falls to 42,640; active cases go below 700,000||India on Tuesday recorded 42,640 cases and 1,167 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 29,977,861 and 389,302 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. Tuesday's case count has been the lowest since March 20 this year, when 40,953 cases were reported.Nearly 82,000 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours and the total recoveries have climbed to 28,926,038. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases for the 40th consecutive day.The active cases have come down to 662,521 and constitute 2.35 per cent of the caseload.Tuesday’s cases are 10,616 less than that of Monday’s when 53,256 people were detected Covid-19 positive, the lowest single day tally in more than 88 days. Meanwhile, the toll on Tuesday is 255 less than that of Monday’s when 1,422 people died.Also Read| Delta plus variant of Covid spreading in India, 3 states report casesA total of 394,072,142 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now of which 1,664,360 were tested in the last 24 hours, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The Centre on Monday began vaccinating citizens above the age of 18 free of cost at all government vaccination centres. And by 10pm, over 8 million doses had been administered, the highest in a single day since the nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16 this year. A majority of states and Union Territories (UTs) vaccinated the most people on Monday.Dr NK Arora, the chairman of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), told HT on Monday that the Centre will be prepared to vaccinate close to 10 million people per day by August.Lauding the achievement of record single-day inoculations in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that vaccines remain the strongest weapon to fight the Covid-19 disease.Also Read| 'Well done India!' PM Modi tweets as India records highest Covid-19 vaccination“Today’s record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India!” Modi tweeted on Monday.The total vaccination figures have climbed to 28,876,6201, according to the data shared by the Union health ministry. Of these, 236,681,488 have received the first dose and the remaining 52,084,713 have received both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-falls-to-42-640-active-cases-go-below-700000-101624331573642.html
22-06-2021||India||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to release white paper on Covid-19 today||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will release a white paper on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday at 11am, according to news agency ANI.This comes a day after Gandhi termed the Centre's decision of not paying an ex-gratia to kin of those who died of Covid-19 as "cruelty" and said that the compensation is just a small help for the people and the Modi government is unwilling to do that."It is impossible to evaluate life. The government's compensation is only a small help, but the Modi government is not ready to even do that. First the lack of treatment during the Covid-19 pandemic and then the false figures and on top of that the government's cruelty," he said in a tweet.Gandhi has earlier alleged that the "positivity" claims of the government in regard to number of Covid-19 cases are a PR stunt to hide the actual number of coronavirus deaths."Priority of the central government -- social media, false image. Priority of the public -- record-breaking inflation, coronavirus vaccine. What type of 'achhe din' are these," Gandhi had asked in a tweet in Hindi."'Positivity' is a PR stunt to hide the actual number of coronavirus deaths the PM's actions have caused," he added.The Congress had earlier accused the Centre of suppressing Covid-19 death numbers, with Gandhi saying that the numbers do not lie but the government does."Numbers don't lie... GOI (Government of India) does," Gandhi had said on Twitter while citing a New York Times's estimate of the number of coronavirus deaths in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-to-release-white-paper-on-covid-19-today-101624332300294.html
22-06-2021||India||Narada case: SC to hear Mamata's plea against Calcutta HC's order||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's plea challenging Calcutta high court's denial to file her affidavit in connection with the Narada sting case.A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Aniruddha Bose will be hearing the separate appeals filed by the chief minister, state law minister Moloy Ghatak and West Bengal government.The apex court earlier on June 18 had requested the high court to hear the case a day after the top court considered the appeals of the state government and Ghatak against the order.Earlier on June 9, a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court, hearing the Central Bureau of Investigation's (CBI) application for transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the special CBI court to the high court, had said it will decide later on considering the affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak on their respective roles on the day of the arrest of four leaders in connection with the case.Banerjee was made a party to the case when four Trinamool Congress ministers were arrested by the CBI and she had reached the CBI office.Last month, four TMC ministers - Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee - were arrested by the CBI in the Narada scam. The case is related to a sting operation, commonly known as Narada Sting Operation, in which these ministers were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from Sting Operator, Samuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-sc-to-hear-mamata-s-plea-against-calcutta-hc-s-order-101624330485186.html
22-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: IMD predicts partly cloudy sky for Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi weather: IMD predicts a partly cloudy skyDelhi is likely to witness partly cloudy sky on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The air quality will remain in the satisfactory category in the national capital on Tuesday. Read moreDelta plus variant of coronavirus spreading in India, 3 states report cases: ReportAs India continues to fight the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, it is also struggling to control the increasing spread of the Delta variant, which has further mutated as Delta plus. According to a report by HT’s sister publication Livehindustan, Delta plus, also known as ‘AY.1’ variant or B.1.617.2.1, is considered to be the most dangerous variant of Covid-19. Read moreUpcoming WhatsApp update will make contacting business easier on Android: Here’s how it worksWhatsApp updates usually bring useful features to the app such as the upcoming flash call feature, disappearing messages, a new Archive mode, and so on. Read moreKeerthy Suresh does yoga flow in new video, says control what goes on insideKeerthy Suresh has the perfect mantra for a healthy body and mind - yoga. The Beast actor is a keen yoga enthusiast and often posts pictures and videos of herself practising various asanas on social media. She motivates her fans to adopt a lifestyle that pushes them to achieve a fitter version of themselves. Read moreInside Rubina Dilaik-Abhinav Shukla’s long-distance anniversary celebration with video calls and cakesRubina Dilaik and Abhinav Shukla, lovingly called ‘Rubinav’ by fans, celebrated their wedding anniversary on Monday. He is currently away from her, in South Africa’s Cape Town, as he shoots for Khatron Ke Khiladi 11. Read more'ICC should think and take a decision': Gavaskar wants a 'formula' to determine WTC winners in case of a drawFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar said ICC should think of a formula to determine a winner if the India vs New Zealand World Test Championship final ends in a draw. Gavaskar’s comments came after Day 4 of the WTC final was washed out without a ball being bowled at the Rose Bowl in Southampton. Read more'Yoga didn't originate in India': After Ram birthplace, Nepal PM Oli's new claimEven as the world celebrated International Yoga Day on June 21, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli sparked yet another controversy. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-imd-predicts-partly-cloudy-sky-for-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101624328724771.html
22-06-2021||India||Scattered rain likely over entire western Himalayan region today||Scattered rain and thunderstorms are likely to affect the western Himalayan region today due to a western disturbance which is affecting the region, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Due to strengthening of moist southwesterly winds; widespread and heavy rainfall is likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Mizoram, West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days.Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over northwest Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh and a trough (area of low pressure) from northwest Rajasthan to northeast Bay of Bengal at mean sea level, widespread and heavy rainfall is likely over Bihar during the next 48 hours.The northern Limit of southwest monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar.Also Read | NGOs join hands to demand ban on cutting of trees in PunjabFurther advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab is likely to be slow as large scale features are not favourable and the forecast wind pattern by the numerical models do not indicate any favourable condition for sustained rainfall over the region during the forecast period, IMD said.“For the next four to five days we are not expecting monsoon to make onset over Delhi and its neighbouring areas. This is mainly because of the westerly wind pattern which is weakening the monsoon flow. In fact, monsoon rains may start reducing over the west coast gradually mainly because no low pressure system or depression is developing over Bay of Bengal. Parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan however are getting very good rains now because of an interaction with westerlies. Models are presently not indicating favourable conditions for monsoon advance. We will be able to inform on the onset status after five days,” RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre had said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scattered-rain-likely-over-entire-western-himalayan-region-today-101624331199100.html
22-06-2021||India||Gupkar alliance huddle at 11am today ahead of Modi’s all-party meeting||The constituents of an alliance formed in Jammu & Kashmir last year for the restoration of the region’s special status will meet in Srinagar on Tuesday to formulate a strategy for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s all-party meeting on the erstwhile state on Thursday.Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah will chair the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD)’s meeting at his residence. His National Conference (NC) and Mehbooba Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party, which is another constituent of PAGD, have earlier held the meetings of their parties and authorised their chiefs to take the final call over the issue.“The invitations have been extended to all the leaders of PAGD and everybody is likely to attend this meeting in which the alliance leaders will make a decision about the strategy,” PAGD spokesman Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said. He added a joint strategy will be adopted after consulting all the leaders of the alliance.Tarigami, a leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has also been invited to Modi’s meeting.People aware of the matter said after PAGD’s meeting, a statement is likely to be issued.Abdullah, who is among 14 leaders invited for Modi’s meeting, has been holding consultations with senior NC leaders over the first such engagement with the Centre since Jammu & Kashmir was stripped of its semi-autonomous status in August 2019. The erstwhile state was also split into two Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-to-meet-at-11am-today-ahead-of-modi-s-all-party-meeting-101624331018861.html
22-06-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh inoculates record 1.67 million people against Covid-19 in one day||Madhya Pradesh set a new record by vaccinating more than 16 lakh people against Covid-19 on Monday as part of a mega inoculation campaign launched to coincide with International Yoga Day. According to news agency ANI, 16,73,858 vaccine doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries yesterday.Announcing the ‘Vaccination Mahaabhiyan’ on Sunday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had set a target of vaccinating 10 lakh people in a day. The officials said they surpassed the target, accounting for 20 per cent of all inoculations conducted against the coronavirus disease in the country on Monday."Madhya Pradesh has topped other states in terms of vaccination. Thanks to all," Chouhan said, lauding the achievement. He added that the state government aims to inoculate as many people as possible in quick time to ward off a possible third wave and its campaign would continue.Chouhan launched the campaign in Datia, saying that vaccination is the only way to defeat the virus. He added that chances of anyone getting infected after inoculation were rare, and symptoms, in such a scenario, would be very mild and recovery really fast.The Madhya Pradesh government had set up 7,000 centres to administer vaccine doses to people. These centres were manned by 35,000 staff members. The officials said that the chief minister had ensured over 19 lakh vaccine doses were made available in the state.The government came up with innovative ideas like offering discount coupons, recharging mobile phones and a lucjy draw, to encourage people to take the jabs.Officials also said that a three-day vaccination campaign will start from July 1 to motivate people to get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19.India, meanwhile, vaccinated a record 8.5 million people on Monday, the start of the new phase of its vaccine drive - more in a single day than any country other than China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-inoculates-record-1-67-million-people-against-covid-19-in-one-day-101624329561760.html
22-06-2021||India||'EU, India committed to free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific'||The European Union (EU) and India are committed to a free, open, inclusive and rules-based order in the Indo-Pacific, underpinned by respect for territorial integrity, sovereignty and freedom of navigation and overflight, the influential grouping said on Monday.The assertion came after the EU and India carried out a joint naval drill in the Gulf of Aden on June 18-19 to improve operational interoperability and promote peace and security in the key waterways.The EU also said the two sides are keen to enhance cooperation in the maritime security sphere in the Indo-Pacific region.In January, the 27-nation EU and India launched a dialogue on maritime security and agreed to deepen two-way cooperation in this domain."The EU and India are committed to a free, open, inclusive and rules-based order in the Indo-Pacific region, underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, democracy, rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce, and peaceful resolution of disputes," the bloc said in a statement.It said both sides reaffirm the primacy of international law, including the United Nations Convention on Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).An identical statement was also issued by India's defence ministry.The EU also said the two sides are keen to enhance cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers.In April, the EU came out with a comprehensive strategy for the Indo-Pacific, listing its priorities and vision for the region that the bloc said represents the world's "economic and strategic centre of gravity".The two-day naval exercise between the Indian Navy and the European Union Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) Somalia saw the participation of a total of five warships.The EUNAVFOR is the EU's counter-piracy mission off the coast of Somalia."The exercise was based on the scenario of an anti-piracy operation. It included cross-deck helicopter landings, complex tactical evolutions at sea, live firing, a night-time joint patrol and a naval parade in the high seas off the coast of Somalia," the EU said.The Indian Navy has been providing escort to the World Food Programme-chartered vessels, coordinated by the EUNAVFOR Somalia."The EU and India intend to strengthen their operational cooperation at sea, including joint naval exercises and port calls, and to protect the sea-lanes of communication. They also intend to boost maritime domain awareness in the Indo-Pacific through mutual coordination and exchanges," the EU said."The EU and India reaffirm their interest to enhance their cooperation in the field of maritime security in the Indo-Pacific region," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eu-india-committed-to-free-open-inclusive-and-rules-based-indopacific-101624329196174.html
22-06-2021||India||Kerala woman found hanging in husband's house; dowry harassment suspected||A 24-year old Keralite woman was found hanging in her husband's house at Sasthamkotta in this south Kerala district on Monday, a day after she had sent a series of WhatsApp messages to her relatives over the alleged harassment she was suffering from him over dowry.S V Vismaya, a native of Kaithode here, was spotted hanging inside the bathroom of the house of S Kiran Kumar, her husband, a state government employee, in the morning, family sources said.An Ayurveda medical student, she had also sent photos of the wounds and beating marks on her body which she suffered during the recent severe physical torture from Kumar, they alleged.In her WhatsApp chat, which her family shared with the media, Vismaya alleged that her husband did not like the car gifted by her father as dowry and used to beat her over that.In the shocking chats, the woman also alleged that she was dragged by her hair and stamped on the face over dowry especially over the car by Kumar, a motor vehicle department employee.He used to verbally abuse her father saying that he deserved more dowry according to his stature but got only very little, the woman also charged in the chat.Her father Thrivikraman Nair said that the family had given 100 sovereigns of gold and over one acre land besides a car worth ₹10 lakh as dowry to Kumar during their wedding last year."But, he did not like the car and wanted ₹10 lakh as cash instead of it. As I said it was not possible, he used to torture my daughter. He had beaten Vismaya in front of us after coming to our home during midnight last January," an emotional Nair told a TV channel.He said his daughter would not have taken this drastic step and suspected that Kumar might have murdered her.Based on the media reports, the state Women's Commission registered a case into the incident on its own and sought a report from the police in this regard.A police officer said investigation is going on and any further action would be taken after getting the post- mortem report."The post-mortem will be done at the government medical college, Thiruvananthapuram and any action will be taken after getting the report," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-found-hanging-in-husband-s-house-dowry-harassment-suspected-101624329125148.html
22-06-2021||India||Mizoram minister announces cash reward for having maximum number of children||Mizoram Sports minister Robert Romawia Royte has announced a cash incentive of ₹1 lakh to a living parent with the highest number of children in his constituency to encourage population growth among the Mizo communities. Royte, however, did not mention the number of children.On the occasion of Father's Day on Sunday, Royte announced that he would reward a man or woman having the highest number of offspring within his Aizawl East-2 assembly constituency with a cash incentive of ₹1 lakh. The person will also get a certificate and a trophy, the minister said in a statement.Royte said that the infertility rate and the decreasing growth rate of the Mizo population has become a serious concern."Mizoram is far below the optimum number of people to attain development in various fields because of the gradual decline in its population. Low population is a serious issue and hurdle for small communities or tribes like Mizos to survive and progress," Royte said, according to news agency PTI.He further said that some churches and influential civil society organisations like the Young Mizo Association are advocating a baby boom policy to encourage population growth.This declaration came at a time when several states are advocating a population control policy.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has recently announced that his government will gradually implement a two-child policy for availing benefits under certain schemes funded by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-minister-announces-cash-reward-for-having-maximum-number-of-children-101624327499889.html
22-06-2021||India||Karnataka to resume bus services to Andhra, Telangana from today: Check details||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will restart the bus operation to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana from Tuesday, following the relaxation of Covid-19 lockdown rules. According to KSRTC, the inter-state services are scheduled to start from 6am.In the fresh Covid-19 guidelines announced on Saturday, the Karnataka government had said buses are permitted to operate with 50% seating capacity, strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour, and no travel by standing would be allowed."Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation will restart bus ops to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as per guidelines of respective States from 22nd June based on traffic density and need with 50% seating capacity," the KSRTC had said in a statement after the state government's guidelines were issued.The passengers can book tickets online at KSRTC website or through its franchisee/reservation counters. The KSRTC also mentioned a helpline number for queries - 080-26252625.It also asked all passengers to wear mask and follow Covid-19 safety protocols while travelling in the corporation buses.The KSRTC had said on Sunday that it will initially start the services with 3,000 buses from Monday.“The Government of Karnataka has issued orders relaxing the Covid-19 restrictions imposed in the state, except in Mysuru District and has permitted bus operations with 50% seating capacity,” the KSRTC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-resume-bus-services-to-andhra-telangana-from-today-check-details-101624326644883.html
22-06-2021||India||Delta plus variant of coronavirus spreading in India, 3 states report cases: Report||As India continues to fight the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, it is also struggling to control the increasing spread of the Delta variant, which has further mutated as Delta plus. According to a report by HT’s sister publication Livehindustan, Delta plus, also known as ‘AY.1’ variant or B.1.617.2.1, is considered to be the most dangerous variant of Covid-19.Three states - Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh - are reporting cases of the delta plus variant in the country.Maharashtra:State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday that the state has reported 21 cases of the Delta plus variant. Of these, nine were from Jalgaon, seven from Mumbai and one each from Sindhudurg , Thane and Palgarh districts.Tope said the Maharashtra government has taken a decision with regard to genome sequencing and has started the process of taking 100 samples from each district, adding the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s (CSIR) Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) is being involved in this process. “Since May 15, 7,500 samples have been taken in which about 21 cases of delta plus have been found,” he said.Also Read| Maharashtra reports 20 Delta+ Covid variant cases: OfficialsTope also added the vaccination status and travel history of the patients are being ascertained.Kerala:Kerala government officials told news agency PTI on Monday that presence of the Delta plus variant has been found in samples collected from Palakkad and Pathanamth districts. The officials added the authorities have taken stringent measures in these areas to prevent its further spread.In Palakkad, two people have been found infected with the variant while one case has been reported in Pathanamthitta.Also Read| Delta Plus: All you need to know about new, deadly variant of coronavirusPathanamthitta district collector Dr Narasimhugari T L Reddy said on Monday that the patient is a four-year-old boy from Kadapra panchayat. The variant was detected in a genetic study of the boy’s samples conducted at CSIR-IGIB.Madhya Pradesh:The first case of Delta plus variant in India was reported in a 65-year-old woman from Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal, who had recovered from Covid-19 under home isolation and was also administered two doses of the vaccine. Her samples were collected on May 23 and reports from the National Central for Disease Control (NCDC) on June 16 stated she tested positive for the variant.However, state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang told news agency PTI on June 17 that a woman tested positive for a ‘different variant’ and refused to give details.Also Read| Expert weighs in on immune escape potential of Delta plus Covid variantAccording to the Livehindustan report, four people were found infected with the Delta plus variant in the Shivpuri district. All four succumbed to the variant, Livehindustan said, adding they had been vaccinated against Covid-19.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry has still not classified the Delta plus variant as a ‘variant of concern’. Last week, NITI Aayog’s Dr VK Paul said the way forward is to watch for the variant’s potential presence in the country and take appropriate public health responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-variant-of-coronavirus-spreading-in-india-3-states-report-cases-101624325658563.html
22-06-2021||India||‘Father figure’: IAS officer on why he touched Telangana CM’s feet||An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Telangana has described chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao as a "father figure" after he was seen touching Rao's feet at an official function - a gesture which triggered criticism from opposition parties."Before taking up my duties as the collector of Siddipet, I took blessings from the chief minister who is a father figure to me. There is nothing to talk about. I took his blessings on the auspicious occasion of Father's Day," said Siddipet district collector Venkatrama Reddy.At an event on Sunday, Reddy was seen touching the feet of Rao, who was in Siddipet to inaugurate a newly-constructed Collectorate building.Reacting to the incident, Telangana Congress spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said the collector should not have touched Rao's feet, adding that IAS officers in the state had become "slaves and puppets". Dasoju said, " IAS officers in Telangana should not forget they are custodians of the Constitution. If the CM is like your father, you should have gone to his house to touch his feet. What message does this convey to the public?"Echoing this, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao said, "If these IAS officers have such respect towards the chief minister, they should have touched his feet privately. Such acts deteriorate the integrity, independence and professionalism of IAS officers."The BJP also took the opportunity to question Rao to slam his handling of the Covid-19 crisis in Telangana. "On the one hand, the chief minister did not announce a lockdown until forced by the high court but on the other hand he lifted the lockdown restrictions in one go, thus putting its outcome to a complete waste," said Krishna Sagar Rao.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-touches-telangana-cm-s-feet-calls-him-father-figure-after-act-triggers-furore-101624319022739.html
22-06-2021||India||Amarinder Singh vs Navjot Sidhu battle reaches Delhi: Punjab CM to meet Congress panel today||The Congress party has stepped up its efforts to end the feud between Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and party MLA Navjot Sidhu. The squabble between Singh and Sidhu has left the party leaders worried about its impact on the party’s prospects next year's state polls.Amarinder Singh reached Delhi on Monday to meet a three-member central committee of the Congress party headed by Mallikarjun Kharge today. The meeting is scheduled to take place at 11am. The chief minister is also expected to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi but there is no confirmation so far.Also Read: Poster war erupts in Patiala amid Cong infightingBoth the chief minister and Sidhu have been at loggerheads for quite some time and have gone public against each other. Sidhu's rebellion against Singh started after his exit from the state cabinet in 2019 over change in his portfolio. But the bitterness mounted in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 police firing case.In his latest attack, Sidhu told Hindustan Times in an interview that the Punjab chief minister lies every day. "He said things about my meetings (with AAP). Has he proved it? What nonsense he is talking about? Talk about issues. Why is he showing his back to issues such beadbi, loan waiver and white paper? What have you done about drugs? Give your report card."Some leaders opposed to Singh have started distancing themselves from Sidhu after his public attack. “This fight is not about individuals or positions anyone, but about key issues such as justice in sacrilege cases, action against drug cartels and cable and sand mafia and scrapping of power purchase agreements. This is our priority. We are not concerned with Capt versus Sidhu or what he (former minister) gets or does not get,” said two cabinet ministers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has also stepped in to resolve the crisis. He met Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla and Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra on Monday and is expected to meet more leaders on Tuesday.The Kharge-headed AICC panel, with Harish Rawat and former MP JP Aggarwal as its members, has already submitted its report to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, suggesting the election should be held under the charge of Singh, and Sidhu may be suitably accommodated.The party leadership wants a united Congress ahead of assembly elections. Some Congress leaders were worried that the continued squabbling may damage the Congress in assembly polls next year, an election it is otherwise expected to win on account of a weakened opposition and widespread farm protests.Punjab is crucial for Congress as it is one of the few states where the party is in power and the outcome will have an impact on the party's prospects outside the state also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-vs-navjot-sidhu-battle-reaches-delhi-cm-to-meet-congress-panel-today-101624320937275.html
22-06-2021||India||Odisha's administers over 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine: Health department||With over 3.32 lakh Covid-19 vaccines administered on Monday, the total number of Covid-19 vaccines administered in Odisha has crossed one crore mark, the state health department informed.As per a statement, 1,00,25,629 doses have been administered in the state so far, including 81,30,573 first doses. 18,95,056 persons have been fully vaccinated.As many as 3,32,717 were vaccinated on Monday, against the target of 3 lakh per day fixed by the State Government."Due to efficient and effective management of Covid-19 vaccination, Odisha has maintained a negative wastage of 3 per cent, which is one of the lowest in the country. Due to the negative wastage, we have been able to save 2.9 lakh doses of vaccines to date," the state health department said.There are currently 33,698 active cases in Odisha, according to the union home ministry. As many as 8,40,214 recoveries and 3,590 deaths have been reported in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-administers-over-1-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-health-department-101624320218334.html
22-06-2021||India||Sharad Pawar to hold meeting of opposition leaders, BJP calls it 'Mungeri Lal ke haseen sapney'||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar will chair a meeting with opposition party leaders in Delhi on Tuesday. According to his party leader Nawab Malik, Pawar will work towards uniting all the opposition parties in the country."Prominent political leaders and eminent persons from different sections of the society will attend the meeting at Pawar's residence in Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the current scenario in the country," said Malik.Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya, however, said that Pawar is harbouring a mere pipedream about uniting opposition parties against the BJP-led central government."At a time when Maharashtra is going out of control, NCP, Congress, and Shiv Sena are cursing one another, Sharad Pawar ji is having 'Mungeri Lal ke haseen sapney (a pipedream)'," Somaiya said on Monday."He is trying to get the Opposition together at a time Shiv Sena is showing them the chappal, and there is a rampant mismanagement of Covid in the state," he added.Also Watch: Sena responds to rift rumours in MVAThe BJP leader further said there will be no match for PM Narendra Modi's leadership even if the entire Opposition unites against him.Similar sentiments were echoed by political strategist Prashant Kishor who met Pawar in Delhi on Monday, the second meeting between the two leaders in 10 days. Kishor said he won't attend the 4pm discussion."I don’t believe that any third or fourth front can defeat Narendra Modi so why would I be part of any such coalition. Just because 15 persons are meeting, you cannot call it a fifteen-party meeting," said Kishor.According to NCP, those invited for Tuesday’s meeting included Yashwant Sinha, Pavan Verma, Sanjay Singh, D Raja, Farooq Abdullah, KTS Tulsi, Majeed Memon , Vandana Chavan , Ghanshyam Tiwari , Karan Thapar, Javed Akhtar , Ashutosh, SY Qureshi, Arun Kumar, KC Singh, Sanjay Jha, Sudheendra Kulkarni, Colin Gonsalves and Pritish Nandy.The meeting will be held under the banner of Rashtra Manch, an anti-BJP platform set up in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-to-hold-meeting-of-opposition-leaders-today-101624319056598.html
22-06-2021||India||Yoga a ray of hope as world fights Covid: PM Modi||When there are threats to humanity, yoga offers a holistic way of life and takes us from stress to strength and from negativity to creativity, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday while addressing the nation on the occasion of the seventh International Yoga Day.“At a time when the whole world is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, yoga remains a ray of hope,” Modi said, referring to the benefits of yoga during the Covid-19 pandemic that has wreaked havoc across the globe.He also highlighted how yoga became an important medium for self-reliance the world over, and gave people the confidence to fight the viral disease.“When I speak to frontline workers and doctors, they tell me how they have made yoga an important tool in the fight against Corona. They use it to strengthen their own bodies and for their patients as well,” he said.The PM quoted Tamil poet Thiruvalluvar who had advised to seek the root of the disease, find the reason of the illness and then ensure its treatment. “This is what yoga does. Today, medical science also focuses on healing apart from treatment and yoga helps in the healing process,” he said.He also referred to yoga as a means of finding solutions. “We are the biggest source of energy, but we do not realise this energy because of the many divisions that exist…at times, the lives of people exist in silos. The shift from silos to union is yoga, the realisation of oneness is yoga,” he said.Addressing the nation, PM Modi also announced the launch of M-Yoga application, in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO).The app, which will be available in many languages, will show videos on yoga training based on a common protocol.This will help us in making the ‘’One World, One Health’’ motto successful, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-a-ray-of-hope-as-world-fights-covid-pm-modi-101624315662664.html
22-06-2021||India||Cab fare in Goa can be more than airfare, Bombay high court told by govt||The Bombay high court at Goa on Monday declined to exempt tourist taxi operators from installing digital taxi meters but only agreed to hear them in greater detail after the Goa government strongly opposed any differential treatment to the cabs, which it said, allegedly fleece tourists and sometimes, even charge them “higher than the flight tickets” bought to reach Goa.The Cavelossim Tourist Taxi Operators Association, which petitioned the high court, argued that tourist taxi operators should not be treated on par with regular taxis that ferry people from one location to another.“There is no rationale on insisting that tourist vehicles be fitted with compulsory digital fare meters as there is no such requirement in the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, and the Rules framed thereunder of fitting compulsory fare meters to the tourist taxi vehicles,” the association told the high court.The petitioners reasoned that they do not operate as regular taxi cabs and do not use their vehicles to transport passengers and tourists from point-to-point or from taxi stands as regular cabs do but their vehicles are affiliated to hotels, travel agencies and transport contractors and the rate for transportation is fixed depending upon the type of service, degree of service, destination and travel distance.Devidas Pangam, the Goa government’s top law officer, however, told the court that the government didn’t leave any scope for any distinction between different taxi services and everyone would have to install the digital meters. “There is a serious issue of overcharging from the tourists and locals by all the motor cabs in the state of Goa. There are complaints that the charges demanded by the motor cabs are at times higher than the flight tickets. Some amount of regulation is absolutely necessary. Grant of interim relief, would virtually amount to grant of final relief at the interim stage,” the Advocate General told the Court.The bench of justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar declined a stay on the government order, ruling that “no case is made out for grant of any interim relief, save and except to observe that the compliances can be without prejudice.”The high court has also been hearing petitions filed by the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa which complained that the state government hadn’t taken steps to comply with the directions of the high court in a 2016 petition filed by them. The government subsequently had hurriedly rolled out a taxi scheme ordering that taxis will not have their licenses renewed if they do not install the meters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cab-fare-in-goa-can-be-more-than-airfare-bombay-high-court-told-by-govt-101624303841944.html
22-06-2021||India||Govt proposes stricter rules for e-commerce firms, new draft rules provide for greater liability, transparency in flash sales||New Delhi: The Union government has sought to bring substantive changes in the way e-commerce platforms, such as Amazon and Flipkart, operate, seeking public views Monday on a draft to amend the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules 2020. The draft proposes greater scrutiny of flash sales, enhanced liability of e-commerce sites, data protection for consumers and stronger grievance redressal. The draft rules, framed under the Consumer Protection Act 2020, the flagship consumer-rights law, will apply to “all models of e-commerce, including marketplace and inventory models of e-commerce”. The new draft proposes introduces an updated definition of what constitutes an e-commerce entity, cross-selling, which refers to sale of additional goods related to a purchase already made, and fall-back liability, which essentially increases the liability of e-commerce platforms. The draft rules, which will be open to public comments until July 6, defines an e-commerce entity as any person who “owns, operates or manages digital or electronic facility or platform for electronic commerce” and any “related party”, as defined under the Companies Act, 2013, but “does not include a seller offering his goods or services for sale on a marketplace e-commerce entity”. This enhances the liability of e-commerce companies for goods and services delivered on their platforms. The draft rules outlaws flash sales – instant, unannounced sales that usually accompany discounts – that are manipulated to give advantage or preferential treatment to a particular seller or a group of sellers. Clause 16 of the draft reads: “No e-commerce entity shall organize a flash sale of goods or services offered on its platform.” This clause is qualified by the definition of flash sales in the draft, which states: “’Flash sale’ means a sale organized by an e-commerce entity at significantly reduced prices, high discounts or any other such promotions or attractive offers for a predetermined period of time on selective goods and services or otherwise with an intent to draw large number of consumers provided such sales are organised by fraudulently intercepting the ordinary course of business using technological means with an intent to enable only a specified seller or group of sellers managed by such entity to sell goods or services on its platform.” “Conventional flash sales are not banned. The proposed amendments aim to bring transparency. The government has received widespread complaints of cheating and unfair trade practices on e-commerce platforms,” a senior official said. Cross-selling, which involves additional offers for other goods once a particular item has been purchased, should have “adequate disclosures” for buyers. The draft rules also seek to protect consumer data by prohibiting e-commerce firms from making “available any information pertaining to the consumer to any person other than the consumer without the express and affirmative consent of such consumer”. The draft rules also provide for a chief compliance officer. They also stipulate new obligations on e-commerce sites to share cyber-security incidents promptly with appropriate authorities. A mail to Amazon India’s corporate communications, seeking its views on the draft rules, went unanswered till the time of going to press. The government had radically overhauled the Consumer Protection Act 1986 by passing an amendment to it in 2020 to keep pace with a changing marketplace. According to a March report by financial technology firm FIS, the covid-19 pandemic has given a major boost for the country’s e-commerce market, which it said, was expected to grow 84% to reach $ 111 billion by 2024. “The key thing always is to ensure fair competition. But frequently shifting the goalposts don’t do much good. I view the new stipulations on flash sales, for instance, as part of an old mindset that deny consumers the benefit of low pricings,” said Pradeep Mehta, a consumer rights expert who was consulted by the NDA government while drafting the Consumer Protection (Amendment) Bill 2019. In July 2020, the government had notified new e-commerce rules, known as the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, as part of its amended Consumer Protection Act. As more and more Indians shop online, instances of complaints raised through the national consumer helpline (1800-11-4000) have also jumped. According to data from the consumer affairs ministry, during the April 2020-February 2021 period, consumers logged 188,262 disputes or claims related to e-commerce transactions. At 22%, this share was highest among five segments, including banking, telecom, electronic products and consumer durables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-proposes-stricter-rules-for-e-commerce-firms-new-draft-rules-provide-for-greater-liability-transparency-in-flash-sales-101624302156826.html
22-06-2021||India||Ghaziabad assault video: Police sends fresh summons to Twitter executives||Twitter’s officials have denied that they had any role to in the video of a victim of a purported hate crime going viral, and their managing director in India has offered to join the investigation over a video call, the Ghaziabad police said on Monday, while adding that it was not satisfied and has issued fresh summons.The UP police on June 17 sent a set of summons over to the social media company over a video that went viral and seemed to show a hate crime targeting a Muslim man in Ghaziabad, and was amplified as such, but which the state’s police has subsequently claimed was not a communal incident.“They said that they have no involvement in the issue and have no control over the issue of video going viral. They also said that they can connect to videoconferencing to us. However, we are not satisfied with their response and preparing to send them another notice under section 41 of CrPC,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle office of Loni, before the new summons were issued.HT has seen a copy of the summons, which cites Section 41a. The first notice was sent citing Section 160 of the criminal procedure code, which allows the police the ability to question any person who they believe may be aware of facts related to a complaint. Section 41a is to summon a party who is named in a complaint, which gives cops more authority to demand their presence.The complaint against Twitter and several journalists was lodged at Loni Border police station on June 15. The people named were booked for “promoting enmity between religions” by posting and promoting the video even as conflicting narratives of the attack emerged.The video showed a 72-year-old Muslim man being beaten up and his attackers chopping his beard. The Ghaziabad police have said the incident was not communal but a personal dispute of the victim with the suspects but the victim’s family has alleged a religion angle.Also read | Loni case: Twitter responds to UP police notice, says available for questioningIn this connection, the Ghaziabad police have already arrested local politician Ummed Pehalwan who they say, allegedly, manipulated the video for political gains.The Bombay High Court on Monday granted four weeks transit anticipatory bail to journalist Rana Ayyub, who was one of the people named. “She has been able to procure the transit anticipatory bail but the case stands, and she will have to reply if we send notices in connection with the case. In near future, we are preparing to send notices to the suspects in the case,” Sonkar added.Twitter separately said that after receiving a legal request from India’s ‘law enforcement agencies’, it restricted 50 tweets concerning the Ghaziabad incident to users in India.The news came to light after Twitter made the disclosure to the Lumen database to which it routinely discloses instances of when it has taken down content.Twitter did not respond to requests for a comment.While most of these tweets include the videos or the images of the beard chopping incident, there are also tweets where people were sharing the video of the victim seen narrating the purported attack.Pavan Duggal, a senior supreme court advocate and a cyber law expert, said that while Twitter has not complied with the new IT rules, restricting these 50 tweets is a sign of acceptance in its capacity as an intermediary under section 79 of the new IT law.“Twitter might use it to show a post facto compliance to the new IT rules’” he added.Prsanath Sugathan, another senior advocate and internet rights expert told HT, “sharing of a true incident without any hate messaging or call for violence will not fall under content that could be taken down as per the reasonable restrictions under Art.19(2).He added that there is also a question of whether these users were informed of the take down orders issued by the government. “They were to at least be allowed a chance to challenge it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-assault-video-police-sends-fresh-summons-to-twitter-executives-101624300477283.html
22-06-2021||India||Yogi to lead BJP in 2022 UP polls, says AK Sharma||The Bharatiya Janata Party will go into next year’s assembly elections with chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the helm of affairs, AK Sharma, the party’s newly-appointed vice president in Uttar Pradesh, said in a letter to UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh. The letter, sent on Sunday, was released to the media on Monday before the visiting BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh and other leaders of the party’s core committee entered a meeting with Adityanath.“In the 2022 UP polls to be held under your and chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s stewardship, the BJP would win even more seats than before,” Sharma, a retired IAS officer close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said in the letter that is seen as an attempt to stamp out speculation about friction within the party on leadership issues.Like when UP labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya spoke about fighting the 2022 elections under Adityanath’s leadership on Monday but added that the party leadership will decide on the chief minister after the election. BJP leaders rushed to explain that the minister was merely reiterating the formal procedure of newly-elected lawmakers selecting their leader after the elections.AK Sharma letter also underscored PM Modi’s continuing popularity among people in the state. “In my view, people of UP love Modiji just as much as they did in 2013-14 and this great leader’s name and patronage is enough to win elections.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-to-lead-bjp-in-2022-up-polls-says-ak-sharma-101624300476711.html
22-06-2021||India||UP Covid toll may be more than official number: Report||A report published by Suarav Das in the news website Article 14 shows that Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally could be a huge underestimate. The report’s findings are based on a comparison of the official Covid-19 tally in 24 districts of the state between July 1, 2020 and March 31, 2021, with the total excess deaths reported in the Civil Registration System (CRS) during the same period. The data on deaths was obtained through a Right To Information (RTI) application.Uttar Pradesh government, however, countered the report saying that all the Covid and non-Covid deaths in the state are being registered in a transparent manner. “The government is registering all the Covid and non-Covid deaths, the data is being regularly updated, the registration of death data is transparent in the state. The non- Covid as well as Covid deaths are being registered in all the 75 districts, the local authorities as well as birth and death registration cell has been directed to register all the births and deaths in the respective districts. The correct birth and death data is important for the welfare and development schemes,” said spokesperson and MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh.Excess death or mortality is a generalised term that refers to the total number of deaths from all causes during a crisis that is above and beyond what would have been expected under regular conditions. During the Covid-19 outbreak, this data is being used to count the number of deaths that would not have occurred had the pandemic not taken place. Information on CRS statistics for the pandemic’s period has been obtained by various news organisations to estimate the degree of undercounting of Covid-19 related mortality in official death tolls by various states. Before the latest Article 14 findings, similar estimates have been published for Andhra Pradesh (Scroll), Assam (Scroll), Karnataka (The News Minute), Madhya Pradesh (Scroll), and Tamil Nadu (The Hindu).According to the data compiled by How India Lives, the official Covid-19 deaths reported in the 24 districts , Agra, Aligarh, Amethi, Ballia, Balrampur, Bareilly, Basti, Firozabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad, Ghazipur, Jhansi, Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur Nagar, Kheri, Lucknow, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Pilibhit, Pratapgarh, Rampur, Sonbhadra and Unnao , for which Article 14 has managed to get the numbers, between July 1, 2020 and March, 31, 2021 were 4,068. The total number of deaths recorded in the CRS in these districts, according to a Right to Information reply obtained by Article 14 was 375,000. CRS shows only 178,000 deaths in these districts between July, 1 2019 and March 31, 2020. This gives an excess of 197,000 deaths in the pandemic year. While all the extra deaths cannot be ascribed to Covid-19 , this does provide a proxy of the extra mortality which could have been caused by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-covid-toll-may-be-more-than-official-number-report-101624300416732.html
22-06-2021||India||Sonia calls meeting to discuss poll results, Covid-19||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has called a meeting of senior party leaders and state unit presidents on Thursday to discuss the current political situation. The meeting will also take stock of the Congress’s Covid-19 outreach initiatives and the road forward, people aware of the developments said.This is the first meeting involving AICC general secretaries, all state in-charges and PCC presidents with Gandhi after the recent assembly elections, in which the Congress failed to win Kerala, West Bengal and Assam.“The meeting will discuss the current political situation that includes the spiraling petrol prices that has put people in great difficulties apart from contributing to rising prices. The vaccination situation and possibilities of another surge and other issues would be discussed,” said a senior leader, who did not wish to be named.Also read | Pawar to host meeting of civil society, Opposition leadersThe leader added that discussions might also veer on the aftermath of the recent assembly elections in four states and one Union Territory.Another leader said the meeting will also discuss the Congress’s Covid-19 outreach programme—launched to help people access ambulances, drugs and oxygen during the second wave. The general secretaries and the state leadership were involved in the programme and the meeting might evaluate the same in the light of any future possibilities of surge in Covid-19 cases.Apart from AICC general secretaries, state in-charges and state unit presidents will also attend the meeting through videoconferencing, the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-calls-meeting-to-discuss-poll-results-covid19-101624300357418.html
22-06-2021||India||J&K Gupkar alliance to discuss PM Modi's meeting invite today||Jammu and Kashmir’s six-party grouping, the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), will meet on Tuesday to decide on their “joint strategy” over the invitation for an all-party meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24.“Everybody (from the alliance) is likely to attend this meeting in which the alliance leadership will take a decision about the invitation,” PAGD spokesman Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said on the all-party meeting in Delhi that could possibly be the first step to starting the political process in Jammu and Kashmir.The alliance leaders will also adopt a joint strategy after holding consultations, he said. The meeting will be held on Tuesday morning at the Srinagar residence of National Conference president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah.Fourteen leaders including former chief ministers and deputy chief ministers have been invited for the meeting, besides heads of the mainstream political parties.The all-party meeting will be PM Modi’s first interaction with political parties of Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the central government abrogated the state’s special status and bifurcated it into Union Territories. The PAGD, a conglomerate of six political parties, was formed a year later, in October 2020, to fight for the restoration of Kashmir’s status pre-August 5, 2019.The PDP has already authorised party president Mehbooba Mufti to take the decision on the invitation from Delhi while National Conference president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah has convened a meeting of senior party leaders from Jammu on Wednesday. In the consultations that Farooq Abdullah has held so far, the majority view is that the NC should participate in the all party meeting and put across its stand, particularly on the revocation of Article 370 and the state’s autonomy.Besides Farooq Abdullah, the National Conference will be represented by two of the parliament members - Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi. Tarigami has also been invited as the general secretary of the CPI(M).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-gupkar-alliance-to-discuss-centre-s-meeting-invite-today-101624300356705.html
22-06-2021||India||2 labs move HC over fake testing charges at Kumbh||Two labs accused of conducting fake tests during the Mahakumbh approached the Uttarakhand high court on Monday to quash an FIR against them even as a police special investigation team (SIT) issued notices to the two facilities and the Noida-based private agency that bagged the contract for Covid testing during the holy event.The developments came four days after police booked Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs, Hisar-based Nalwa labs and Noida-based Max Corporate Services for allegedly conducting 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests during the Kumbh mela in April.Max Corporate Services – not related to the Max Healthcare Group – has already approached the high court against the FIR. HT has seen copies of all three petitions.Lalchandani Labs told the high court that it signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Max on March 10 and conducted only 12,000 rapid tests between April 1 and 26.Also read | At Kumbh, some not tested, others not given results“The labs conducted tests at nominal ₹206 per test and total bill for these tests was around ₹24.74 lakh and not crores of rupees reported by media. So there is not an iota of truth in the allegation that crores of rupees have been embezzled by the lab. The petitioners are becoming victims of a media trial”, said Vikas Bahuguna, counsel for Lalchandani Labs.Separately, Nalwa labs also filed a petition in the high court to quash the FIR and sought interim protection. The Hisar-based facility claimed that it signed a MoU with Max on March 10 but neither received any payments nor sent any technicians to conduct tests at the Kumbh.“Max Corporate Services never asked or requested to provide any technical support nor any of our technicians were called for any training,” said Parikshit Saini, counsel for Nalwa Labs. “We are a reputed firm with a 40-year history,” he added. On April 27, after allegations of fake testing surfaced, Nalwa cancelled its MoU, he claimed.But Max rejected the allegations and said it was only a service provider, not an accredited lab to conduct tests. “Max entered into contracts with two labs, which were responsible for sample collection, testing, data feeding and report generation. Our job was facilitation and coordination. We have paid ₹15 lakhs to a partner of Nalwa labs. Nalwa signed an MoU, gave authorization letter, had representatives working on site and uploaded the data from their account. We have sufficient documents to prove our case,” said a representative from Max Corporate Services.The Kumbh mela was curtailed this year but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this -- at least six million people -- congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.Allegations of fake testing surfaced last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Real-time data checking through the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal revealed fake entries on basis of mobile numbers and addresses of people who were never tested. On contacting such people, many people said they had not even visited Haridwar in April.On Thursday, the three labs were booked for negligence, spreading disease, cheating and criminal conspiracy, and under sections of the 2005 disaster management act and the 1897 epidemic diseases act.There are three separate probes looking into the allegations. One by the district administration, one by the Kumbh mela administration and a third by the police SIT.chief investigating officer of the district probe committee, Saurabh Geharwar, asked the directors of Max, Lalchandani Labs and Nalwa Labs to appear in person on June 24 for questioning. The SIT also served separate notices to the three firms to present ICMR registration, agreement letter, tender and related documents in three days. “Notice serving process is being done by SIT and all aspects are being investigated. SIT is carrying parallel investigation with every angle being probed,” said senior superintendent of police, D Senthil Aboodai Krishan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-labs-move-hc-over-fake-testing-charges-at-kumbh-101624300296798.html
22-06-2021||India||States seek more vaccines to keep new drive’s momentum||Monday’s record of 8.5 million vaccine doses administered till 10 pm will be difficult to sustain beyond a few days, several states admitted , if they do not receive more doses from the Union government, and at regular intervals, which, in turn, will depend on vaccine supplies.Based on current capacity and import details available, it is unlikely that India will have access to the 72 million doses it needs over the next nine days of June and the 248 million doses it needs in July to keep up this pace.Three states West Bengal, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh , all ruled by non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments, did not start the free-vaccines-for-all drive citing shortage of vaccines. But it was clear that both the Union government and other state governments wanted to make a success of Day 1 of the new phase of the vaccine drive.Starting Monday, the Union government will acquire and allocate vaccine doses to the states, for free. These will total around 75% of the vaccines available in India, with the remainder going to private hospitals which will continue to offer jabs for a price. Between May 1 and June 21, the states were responsible for procuring vaccines and vaccinating those in the 18-45 age group.BJP ruled states such as Haryana, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh claimed to have met the vaccination targets and said they have been assured by the Central government that there will be no shortage of vaccines to sustain inoculation of high numbers of people per day. That may be difficult given the overall supply situation.The 8.27 million shots administered is the highest ever in India, and only China has administered more vaccines in a day. Till Monday night, India had fully vaccinated 50.59 million people and partially vaccinated 182.49 million others.Most vaccine manufacturers have assured an increased supply only from August. The peak in supply may happen sometime in October.Also read | Over 8 million shots on Day 1 of new driveA senior official of the West Bengal health department said the state did not start vaccination for all from Monday and continued to only vaccinate priority groups.“We will continue to vaccinate the priority groups first. We don’t have enough vaccines. If we start universal vaccination, there will be a mismatch and the priority groups won’t get the vaccines. Unless we complete vaccinating the target groups we won’t be able to vaccinate others,” said Ajoy Chakraborty, director of health services.On Monday, the state had 1.6 million doses; it has, to date, vaccinated 4.35 million people fully and 10.64 million, partially. “We will get around a million more doses by the end of this month. The consignments are scheduled to arrive on June 24, June 26 and June 27. In July we expect to get an estimated 7 million doses. Private hospitals will get around 2 million doses,” he added.The Maharashtra government, too, decided not to start vaccinating everyone. It continued to vaccinate those over the age of 30, a drive it started on June 19, and which it will continue till it starts getting adequate stock of vaccines from the Centre, said state health minister Rajesh Tope. “We have decided not to start the drive for all above 18 years as we are not getting adequate stock. Thus, the state will continue to cover all the beneficiaries that are 30 years and above,” Tope said. The state started Monday with a stock of 1.5 million doses.Andhra Pradesh, which administered 1.3 million doses on Sunday, was left with 1.28 lakh doses on Monday. “We are expecting a supply of additional doses in a day or two. Only when we get additional supply, we can start vaccination for all,” said G Devanandam, the officer in charge of Covid-19 vaccine distribution in Andhra Pradesh.Madhya Pradesh education minister Vishwas Sarang said the state has enough doses for next three days and will receive more doses by the end of the week. “We had a stock of 1.9 million doses on Monday and this will last three days. We don’t expect any shortage of vaccines.”Officials in Assam said the state has set itself a target of administering 300,000 doses daily from Monday as part of an enhanced immunisation drive and aims to continue it for a month and vaccinate 9 million people in 30 days. Assam had a daily vaccination average of around 50,000 doses and had crossed 100,000 doses in a day only twice (both in last week). To be sure, it wasn’t immediately clear whether the state would receive 9 million vaccine doses from the Union government in the next month. Delhi, for instance, has been allocated only 1.5 million doses for the month of July.Till Sunday, Assam administered 5.35 million doses to its target population of 23.13 million people above 18 years (nearly 65% of the state’s entire population) who are eligible to get vaccinated. On Monday, 2184 vaccination centres were in operation. Assam had a stock of 7,28,000 doses of vaccine on Monday.“The Monday stock will last for two days if we continue administering 300,000 doses daily. We are expecting to get fresh stock of vaccines by Monday evening and it should help continue our drive,” said Munindra Nath Ngatey, director, (health services-family welfare).Bihar, where chief minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to complete vaccination to all eligible people by year-end, is expected to receive 4.9 million doses by June-end. “We don’t expect a shortage of vaccines to meet the CM’s target of vaccinating all by the end of December,” said a senior officer of the Bihar Health Society.Goa has around 1.30 lakh vaccine doses in stock which will last around six days at the current rate of vaccination. In Rajasthan, an official said the state has around a million doses which could last till Tuesday evening and the next lot of 500,000 doses is expected by June 24, meaning the inoculation drive will resume by June 26. Rajasthan has till date vaccinated over 21.1 million, which includes over 17.5 million with the first dose and 3.5 million with both doses . Officials in Tripura and Haryana said that they have vaccines to continue with the vaccination- for-all drive.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state met its target of vaccinating 0.6 million people on Monday and expressed confidence that it would vaccinate a million a day in July. “We have been assured of enough supply of vaccines to increase vaccinations,” a state health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-seek-more-vaccines-to-keep-new-drive-s-momentum-101624300237437.html
22-06-2021||India||Pawar to host meeting of civil society, Opposition leaders today||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar will host a meeting of Opposition leaders and civil society members at his house in Delhi on Tuesday to initiate discussions about bringing together outfits against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), his party said.The announcement of the meeting -- under the banner of Rashtra Manch, an anti-BJP platform set up in 2018 -- came hours after Pawar met political strategist Prashant Kishor in Delhi over tea, the second meeting of the two in 10 days.NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said that Tuesday’s meeting was called to hold a primary discussion on uniting opposition parties.“A discussion on the current political situation and primary discussion on how to bring all the opposition parties together is likely to be discussed in the meeting to be held on Tuesday. The exercise is the first step towards the announcement made by the NCP chief that he will be working to unite the opposition parties in the country,” Malik said.Also read | Sonia calls meeting to discuss poll results, Covid-19Kishor sought to play down the meeting and said he won’t be attending the 4pm discussion, where no senior leader of the Congress was called.”I don’t believe that any third or fourth front can defeat Narendra Modi so why would I be part of any such coalition. Just because 15 persons are meeting, you cannot call it a fifteen-party meeting,’’ said Kishor.He also rejected speculation that he was taking on the NCP as a client. “There is no question of Pawar Sahab becoming my client because I have left this space [election strategy]as I announced on May 2,’’ said Kishor. “I had lunch with him when I was in Mumbai recently and so today, he called me and asked me to come over for tea. It was just chit-chat and a routine meeting.’’Malik said those invited for Tuesday’s meeting included Yashwant Sinha, Pavan Verma, Sanjay Singh, D Raja, Farooq Abdullah, KTS Tulsi, Majeed Memon , Vandana Chavan , Ghanshyam Tiwari , Karan Thapar, Javed Akhtar , Ashutosh, SY Qureshi, Arun Kumar, KC Singh, Sanjay Jha, Sudheendra Kulkarni, Colin Gonsalves and Pritish Nandy.The meeting comes amid a growing rift between the Congress and its alliance partner Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra. The parties have differed over whether to fight upcoming polls in alliance or separately.Sinha, a member of Trinamool Congress, later tweeted that Pawar was hosting a meeting of the Rashtra Manch, a political action group floated by Sinha in 2018. “We shall have a meeting of the Rashtra Manch tomorrow at 4pm. Sri Sharad Pawar has kindly agreed to host the meeting at his place,” he said.“We haven’t met for 15 months,’’ said Sinha, ”So when our member told Pawar Saheb, he kindly invited us to have the meeting at his house. That’s all there is to it,” he addedOn Pawar’s meeting with Kishor, Malik said, “Being a strategist he (Kishor) knows the current political situation and what may happen in the coming days, which he is believed to have shared with the NCP chief. At present, Pawar saheb has only one agenda of making an alliance of opposition parties against BJP before him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-to-host-meeting-of-civil-society-opposition-leaders-101624300236832.html
22-06-2021||India||LS secretariat adds all major Indian languages in course for lawmakers||A course on select languages organized by the Lok Sabha secretariat for lawmakers and their families has expanded to include almost all major Indian languages including Sanskrit, following suggestions from MPs that their own mother tongues be included.A parliamentary bulletin issued on June 10 said Tamil, Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Telugu and Odiya and as many foreign languages would be taught online. The month-long programme planned by the Lok Sabha secretariat is aimed at providing basic understanding of the language that may come in handy when inter-parliamentary delegations visit different countries.Two officials directly familiar with the matter said many lawmakers called up the Lok Sabha secretariat to request inclusion of other Indian languages. “The issue reached the Lok Sabha Speaker’s office. It was decided to accommodate all the requests,” said one official who asked not to be named.Now, with 21 Indian and six foreign languages, the online programme starting Tuesday, will be the biggest in the history of Parliament. It has also been thrown open to MLAs across the country and parliament officials.The courses are aimed at giving some understanding of the language to the lawmakers and officials as this may come in handy when inter-parliamentary delegations visit different countries. But with inclusion of so many languages, the officials are not sure if all courses will see high attendance. The courses would be conducted by faculty from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Delhi University and Jamia Millia Islamia. This is the first such training programme in the recent history of parliament.“(Courses in) All Indian Languages under the Eighth Schedule of Indian Constitution will be organized as part of the programme”, said the revised notice. Classes in Gujarati, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu, Hindi, Sanskrit, Assamese, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Urdu, Santhali, Nepali, Meitei (Manipuri), Bodo, Dogri, Konkani, Maithili and Punjabi will be taught.The foreign language courses offered are French, German, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish. The officials cited in the first instance said Mandarin has been deliberately left out as a consequence of the recent developments in Ladakh Theatre where the armies of the two countries continue to face off. A senior Opposition MP who asked not to be named said it should have been included as “it is the most important language for 21st century from geostrategic and other perspectives. For Indians, Chinese has more value that learning Portuguese or even Spanish.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lssecretariat-adds-all-major-indian-languages-in-course-for-lawmakers-101624300176814.html
22-06-2021||India||Study: Delta variant more transmissible than others||The number of secondary infections caused by a person infected by the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of the Sars-Cov-2 increases by 97% as opposed to the virus seen first in Wuhan, a study in the United Kingdom has found. It has concluded that this variant seen first in India is far more transmissible than any other variant.The study, published in the European journal for infectious diseases, Eurosurveillance, assessed the data uploaded by 64 countries to the global Sars-CoV-2 genome sequencing database GISAID. It found that the effective reproductive number increased by 29% for the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7) first reported from the UK, 25% for the Beta variant (B.1.351) reported from South Africa, and 38% for the Gamma (P.1) variant reported first from Brazil.Of the six variants of interest, the researchers found two to show statistically significant increases in the effective reproductive number – the Kappa variant (B.1.617.1) by 48% and Eta variant (B.1.525) by 29%.But what does a 97% increase mean? “It means if the previous virus was transmitting from one person to two, the Delta variant would transmit to four people,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.He added that the effective reproductive number is based on two factors – the R0 (R-nought) or a fixed reproductive number for each virus, and population immunity. “I don’t quite understand how they calculated effective reproduction number independent of population immunity, but what they have shown is a collective upward trend of the variants across the 64 countries,” John said.The researchers found a “clear competitive advantage” of the Delta variant as compared to the Alpha, Beta and Gamma variants. The effective reproduction number of the Delta variant increased by 55% as compared to Alpha, 60% in comparison with Beta, and 34% in comparison with the Gamma variant.This was consistent with the finding of a 42% increase in the secondary attack rate (the probability of an infection occurring in a specified unit, such as household or among close contacts) of the Delta variant as per epidemiological investigations in the UK.Physicians from India have also repeatedly pointed out that the secondary attack rate was much higher during the second wave of the pandemic in April-May when almost all members of a household got the infection if one person was infected -- something that did not happen previously.The researchers have said that to control the pandemic, given the rapid spread of the Delta variant in many countries, stricter curbs will have to be imposed and for longer periods. The spread will also stretch the healthcare systems, as was seen in India during the height of the second wave where people struggled to find beds in hospitals.Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said the study is consistent with “what has already happened”. “A huge, fast second wave. This is the same as what we said in our pre-print study: that the Delta variant is up to 50% more [transmissible] than the Alpha variant, and the Alpha variant is more [transmissible] than the non-variants,” he said.The number of infections is much lower in India right now, but the Centre has asked the states and Union territories not to let their guard down.The UK researchers have said that higher transmissibility also means that the threshold for herd immunity will go up, leading to an increase in vaccination coverage targets.Dr John said population immunity in India is already significantly high after the huge second wave of infections in April-May. “I estimate that the population-level immunity is already at 80% in India. Now, vaccination should be targeted towards people with comorbidities and pregnant women to prevent deaths. Vaccination in children must also be introduced so that schools can re-open safely,” he said.However, the researchers have left a warning note. “The convergent evolution of mutations thought to be associated with higher transmissibility or immune escape highlights the fact that variants will probably continue to emerge under selective pressures. The emergence of new variants threatens the effectiveness of vaccines and require constant evaluation of available diagnostic, therapeutic, and vaccination strategies as the Covid-19 pandemic continues,” the study concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-delta-variant-more-transmissible-than-others-101624300116730.html
22-06-2021||India||NHRC to probe post-poll violence plaints as HC rejects Bengal plea||The Calcutta high court on Monday dismissed a petition by the West Bengal government seeking recall of an order directing the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe complaints of post-poll violence in the state, observing that the state administration’s progress on the issue didn’t inspire confidence.While listening to public interest litigations on post-poll violence on Friday, a five-member high court bench had ordered NHRC to set up a panel to probe allegations of displacement, physical assault, destruction of property and ransacking of offices. On Saturday, the state government filed a review petition and also asked for the order to be stayed.But the bench, headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal, refused to recall the order.”The way the state was proceeding in the matter, which required immediate action, did not inspire confidence,” observed the bench, also comprising justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar.Also read | Centre initiates disciplinary proceedings against Alapan BandyopadhyayHours after the order, NHRC set up a seven-member panel to look into complaints of post poll violence. The committee will be led by Rajiv Jain, the former Intelligence Bureau chief who assumed charge as NHRC member on June 2, a statement by the human rights body said.The panel will examine all complaints of post-poll violence received by NHRC, Bengal state legal services authority, visit affected areas and submit a report to the high court on present situation and steps to be taken to restore confidence.“The committee shall also point out the persons, prima-facie, responsible for crime and the officers who maintained calculated silence on the issue,” said the statement.In court, the bench heard out the state government but wasn't convinced. The bench, which told the state government that it could give its action-taken report on the complaints received by the NHRC, made a pointed reference to complaints of police inaction and observed that the conduct of the state did not inspire confidence of the court.The court also pointed out how the NHRC had received 541 complaints in contrast to the state’s human rights commission, which hasn’t received a single one. “After hearing learned counsels for the parties, we do not find any case is made out for recalling, modification or stay of the order passed by this court on June 18, 2021,” the five-judge bench said.The NHRC committee headed by Rajiv Jain also comprises National Commission for Minorities vice chairman Atif Rasheed, National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja and the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority Member Secretary Raju Mukherjee.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which mounted a campaign against the Mamata Banerjee government over the violence that allegedly targeted supporters of opposition parties after the May 2 verdict, called Monday’s ruling a “tight slap”.“Rape, murder, arson, every heinous crime took place and the state government denied it. Bengal’s politics of violence is established today. This is a tight slap on the face of the @MamataOfficial and the @AITCofficial govt,” tweeted Ritesh Tiwari, BJP state vice-president.TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh refused to comment on the ruling. “The BJP is making up stories to create disturbance because it could not win the elections,” he said.In proceedings before the high court and the Supreme Court – the top court is hearing a plea for compensation for the victims - the Bengal government has insisted that the government was able to control the violence that broke out before Banerjee was sworn-in on May 5. Victims of the post-poll violence, however, told the top court last week that they were still facing a “hostile attitude”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-to-probe-post-poll-violence-plaints-as-hc-rejects-bengal-plea-101624299576732.html
22-06-2021||India||At Kumbh, some not tested, others not given results||When an ambulance rolled into an akhada in Haridwar early in April to carry out Covid tests of the Kumbh Mela pilgrims assembled there, scores of seers queued up outside with their identity proofs.Over the next few hours, the ambulance staff took down their names, phone and Aadhaar numbers, but conducted no tests. “We waited and waited while the staff had meals at our bhandara. A few hours later, they drove away without testing any of us. They never provided any reason,” recounted Govind Das, a Naga sadhu at the Panch Nirmohi Ani Akhada, one of the smaller akhadas, in Haridwar.Three testing camps were held at the akhada in the first half of April. Sita Ram, a seer, said he got tested on two occasions but neither received a text confirming the test nor any results.Many of the akhada’s members had similar complaints: Sample collectors not conducting tests, not taking down their contact details and not informing them of results. Similar allegations were levelled by members of at least two other akhadas.Together, they pointed to new allegations that, in addition to fudging data about 100,000 rapid antigen tests during the Mahakumbh in April, some labs conducted no tests at all.“We will probe whether the accused private labs carried out tests in the first place. We’ll also simultaneously probe if the tests they seemed to carry out were genuine or just an eyewash,” said Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai Krishnaraj.Roughly 9.1 million people thronged the Kumbh mela this year despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Many Kumbh returnees contracted Covid and infected others in various states, said authorities. At the time, the mela administration said it was taking all possible precautions by conducting rapid tests and holding on-site testing camps.But allegations of fake testing surfaced last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests. Three firms – a Delhi-based lab, a Hisar-based lab and a Noida-based private agency – have been booked.“Testing camps were held at this akhada three times during the Kumbh Mela. Only once did they even bother to take the phone numbers of the saints they tested. If they were not going to tell us our results, we don’t know why they even kept visiting us,” said Rajender Das, president of the Panch Nirmohi Ani Akhada.At the Nirvaani Ani Akhada, which has 1,000 members, Chittaranjan Das said that two camps over a week were held in April and around 300 seers gave their swab samples, but to no avail . “The testing staff wouldn’t even ask for our phone numbers. They said they would give us our results in a day or two,” said Chittaranjan.When the results didn’t arrive, the seers confronted the sample collectors when they returned a week later. “This time they assured us that the results would surely be given the next day. The results never came,” Chittaranjan added.But other members said after the altercation, the lab staff took away two seers with them. “The seer arguing with them was told to being Covid-positive. Another saint who had shaved his head earlier in the day was also taken away on the pretext that he had come in contact with the ‘infected’ man,” said Ram Vijay, a member.The two men were sent back to the akhada less than a week later, Vijay added. For Covid patients and their contacts, two-week isolation is mandatory.At the Sri Panchayati Niranjani Akhada, which is among the biggest akhadas, seers received their results either within a couple of hours or two days.But some still reported problems. Jagat Bharti, a member, said he received a result at a camp organised by the akhada but got no results when he was tested outside. Mahant Ravinder Puri, secretary of this akhada, said one camp where 50 seers were tested here yielded no results despite a follow up. “Since we were worried about the results, we got all these 50 seers tested again at a private lab outside,” said Puri.Harbeer Singh, additional mela officer, said, “I had nothing to do with the testing process and was mainly involved with coordinating with the akhadas”.Haridwar SSP said that the SIT will visit the akhadas as part of their probe to know if the tests carried out on them were authentic.“We are carrying out the probe in a planned way. The tests that were carried out have a trail that can be used to ascertain their authenticity. We are still probing if there was malafide in the testing process, or negligence, or they were bonafide. If crime was committed, it will be caught,” said Krishnaraj.He said that the probe, which began with two private labs, will soon extend to all other labs. Shambhu Kumar Jha, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Haridwar, was unavailable for comment despite repeated phone calls, text messages and visits to his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-kumbh-some-not-tested-others-not-given-results-101624299397639.html
22-06-2021||India||Duflo, Rajan, Subramanian, Dreze, Narayan in TN’s new economic advisory panel||Tamil Nadu has constituted what is already being dubbed as a “dream team” of economists to advise chief minister MK Stalin.Governor Banwarilal Purohit made this announcement during his address at the first meeting of the 16th legislative assembly of the state on Monday. Named the “Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister” , the economists who will help chart a rapid and inclusive economic growth plan for Tamil Nadu are Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, former chief economic adviser to the Indian government Arvind Subramanian, development economist Jean Dreze, and former Union finance secretary S Narayan.The five-member team was put together by finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, who was an investment banker in the US and Singapore before he entered politics. “The chief minister was keen that we must get the best minds in the world to help us. Our priority is that growth should be inclusive,” said Rajan.“Both Professor Rajan and Dr Subramanian are Tamilians. Professor Duflo has been working with Tamil Nadu through J-PAL,” he added. Duflo and her spouse Abhijit Baneerjee with whom she shares the Nobel prize are co-founders of Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) that frames policies for poverty alleviation that are informed by scientific evidence. Narayan, also a Tamilian, is the author of “The Dravidian Years- Politics and Welfare in Tamil Nadu”.“Based on the recommendations of this Council, the government will revitalise the state’s economy and ensure that the benefits of economic growth reach all segments of society,” the governor said. “In recent years, we have seen a slowdown in Tamil Nadu’s economic growth rate. This government will make all out efforts to reverse this trend and usher in a period of rapid economic growth taking full advantage of the available limited window of the demographic dividend.”Later in the day, the government said in an order that the additional chief secretary of the finance department, S Krishnan will act as the convener of the council. The order said that the fiscal situation of the state is precarious .“In this context, the government requires expert advice from the best economists available globally, who are familiar with Tamil Nadu, its economy, society and polity, as also the trends in the Indian and global economy,” the order said.A white paper detailing the true state of the state’s finances will be released in July, so that the people of Tamil Nadu are fully informed, the Governor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duflo-rajan-subramanian-dreze-narayan-in-tamil-nadu-s-new-economic-advisory-panel-101624299336728.html
22-06-2021||India||SC questions Centre on ex-gratia payouts||The Supreme Court on Monday lamented the absence of uniform guidelines on payment of ex-gratia to the families of those who have died of Covid-19, and questioned the Union government whether there was a conscious decision taken by the Prime Minister-headed National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) against framing of the compensation scheme.The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah observed that the ad-hoc ex-gratia payments being made by the state governments were a cause of “heartburn” among the citizens since different states paid different amounts.“Where is the decision against payment of ex-gratia? Was it a conscious decision or was it not considered at all during the first and second wave of the pandemic? We cannot see any document regarding the fact that the national authority, under the honorable Prime Minister, had considered this and then a decision was taken,” the bench asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre.Also read | Over 8 million shots on Day 1 of new driveThe question came in the wake of the Union government’s affidavit stating that the ex-gratia amount of ₹4 lakh (ex-gratia is mandated under the disaster management law) cannot be paid to the families of those who have died of Covid-19 as it is beyond fiscal affordability, and the finances of central and state governments are under severe strain. The Centre maintained such payouts may have the “unfortunate consequences” of affecting the pandemic response because the central and state governments were already under severe financial burden due to reduction in tax revenues and increase in health expenses on account of the pandemic.As the bench set out to examine the affidavit on Monday, it failed to find any document in support of the Centre’s stand on not having framed a scheme for ex-gratia payments under NDMA.Senior advocate SB Upadhyay and advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, appearing for the two public interest litigations (PILs), complained that financial constraint could never be a ground to shy away from constitutional and legal obligations that the Union government has under NDMA.Mehta, on his part, tried to draw a distinction between Covid-19 and any other disaster such as floods and earthquakes. While it is mandatory under Section 12 of NDMA to frame guidelines prescribing ex-gratia as part of ‘Minimum Standards of Relief’, the S-G submitted to the court that “the peculiar and unprecedented situation” created by Covid-19 would require a situational interpretation. He said that the law will have to be interpreted like such a scheme on ex-gratia was only recommendatory and not mandatory.“Ex-gratia may not be insisted upon when the government was spending huge amounts on securing food security, hospital infrastructure, medical equipment, vaccine coverage, which equally are means for mitigating or preventing the pandemic...It is not the case of the government that we do not have money. But our focus is on managing the disaster through a multipronged approach,” said Mehta.He also read from the report of the Finance Commission for 2021-26, which allocated funds under Disaster Risk Management, to make the point that ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh for every person who loses life due to Covid-19 will alone mop up the entire allocations under state disaster relief funds.But the court told the S-G that a decision on ex-gratia under Section 12 was nonetheless essential. “The recommendations by Finance Commission cannot override statutory requirement under NDMA,” it remarked.Meanwhile, the petitioners contended that the scheme framed under Section 12 by the Union home ministry (MHA) in its letter of March 14, 2020, consciously dropped ₹4 lakh ex-gratia from the list of relief. This letter was issued at a time when the first wave of the pandemic was yet to set in.The court failed to find any document issued after March 2020 where ex-gratia payments to Covid-19 deceased was considered. Even the April 2015 MHA letter announcing the ₹4 lakh ex-gratia payout was meant to operate till 2020. The affidavit did not mention if this period was extended.The bench reserved orders on the petitions while giving the Centre three days to file written submissions on the questions raised, including whether a pan-India uniform compensation scheme for Covid-19 deaths could be fixed.Also read | Study: Delta variant more transmissible than others“Can’t there be any uniform standards for compensation? Otherwise, there will be heartburn that somebody has got, and somebody has not. If a migrant worker goes and dies elsewhere, he may be at a loss,” it told Mehta.The bench was responding to an application filed by the families of Covid-19 deceased who complained that Bihar was offering ₹4 lakh compensation from CM Relief Fund while Delhi announced ₹50,000 for Covid-19 deaths.The Centre also gave details of the ₹50-lakh insurance cover provided to nearly 2.21 million health care providers under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP). The court asked Centre to indicate if the same covered Class IV employees and crematorium workers, equally at risk for providing Covid-19 services.Referring to the government’s compulsion on registering Covid-19 deaths, the bench told Mehta that the procedure was complicated and needed to be simplified so that any person admitted with Covid-positive report was declared as a Covid-19 death.The bench said that hardships of common man must be borne by policymakers as harsh reality exists on ground. “In this country you see when morality and humanity is gone and black marketeering is happening, our priority has to be the poor, common man,” the bench said.Calling the government’s submission on financial constraints “an afterthought”, senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, “It shows that the court is rightly asking the question: did the govt at all apply its mind to the payment of ex-gratia. Absence of even consideration of the issue is a glaring omission fully reviewable by the court. The Centre’s submission on lack of money appears to be an afterthought if mind was not applied to the issue at all. The amount needed for this would be paltry compared to the huge collection under PM-Care or several cess or taxes that have been imposed by the government.”There was no response from the government on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-questions-centre-on-ex-gratia-payouts-101624299276856.html
22-06-2021||India||Over 8 million shots on Day 1 of new drive||India vaccinated a record 8.5 million people till 10pm on Monday, the start of the new phase of its vaccine drive -- more in a single day than any country other than China -- even as questions remained over whether the country can keep vaccinating at this pace through July. If it were to, the country would need 260 million doses next month, and it isn’t clear whether it will have that many.Still, Monday’s record numbers mean the new phase of its vaccine drive is off to a good start – by end of day, over 233 million Indians had received at least one shot and more than 50 million were fully vaccinated. “Today’s record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India!” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet in the evening.The country has set its sights higher. “We will be prepared to jab close to 10 million people in a single day by August,” said Dr NK Arora, chairman, working group on Covid-19 vaccines in India.That is an ambitious target, and, again, one that will depend on supplies, but Monday’s performance shows that if supplies aren’t a constraint, Indian can vaccinate a lot of people in a day.According to the latest available information, Serum Institute of India (SII) will produce 100 million doses of Covishield in July, and perhaps more from August. And, according to media reports, Bharat Biotech will continue to produce only 20-25 million doses in July, with the capacity likely to double from August. In a statement on May 28, Union health ministry said Covaxin production was being increased from 10 million doses a month in April to 60-70 million a month by July-August. The capacity is expected to reach nearly 100 million a month by September 2021, it added.It isn’t clear how many doses of Sputnik V will be available in July, and whether local production will start in August as planned (and if so, how many doses will be produced).SII and Bharat Biotech did not respond to requests for a comment. Dr Reddy’s, which has the rights to market the first 250 million doses of Sputnik V in India, said the vaccine has only had a soft launch so far, and more arrangements were being made. “All necessary supply arrangements are being executed to ensure availability of both dose components in the right quantity and at the right time at partner hospitals. Once the pilot phase is completed, Dr Reddy’s will announce the commercial launch of Sputnik,” the company said.Also read | 'Well done India!' PM Modi tweets as India records highest Covid-19 vaccinationOn Monday, almost every state in the country vaccinated the most people ever covered in one day until now, but some warned that they may not be able to keep up the pace unless supplies were replenished.“The Centre is claiming that it will inoculate every citizen for free from today (Monday). Upon enquiring about this free vaccination drive, it was confirmed that not a single dose of free vaccine has been distributed in Delhi. On top of that, only 1.5 million doses have been earmarked for Delhi for the month of July which is not enough. If we receive doses at this pace, then instead of three months, it will take approximately 15-16 more months to vaccinate everyone in Delhi,” said deputy chief minister of Delhi, Manish Sisodia.A senior official of the West Bengal health department said the state did not start vaccination for all from Monday, and continued to vaccinate only the priority groups. “We don’t have enough vaccines. If we start universal vaccination, there would be a mismatch and the priority groups won’t get the vaccines. Unless we complete vaccinating the target groups, we won’t be able to vaccinate others,” said Ajoy Chakraborty, director of health services.Officials from some other states, particularly those ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said they do not expect shortages. “We had a stock of 19 lakh doses on Monday and it would last three days. We don’t expect any shortage of vaccinations,” said Madhya Pradesh education department minister Vishwas Sarang.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said he was confident the state will meet a million vaccinations a day target for July. “We have been assured of enough supply of vaccines to increase vaccination pace,” a state health department official said.A Union government official said replenishments will be done periodically. “We have finite vaccine supplies at the moment, hence, will be distributed as per the laid down protocol. Having said that there is no shortage of vaccines, and supplies will be replenished to states from time to time,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.India’s vaccine drive began on January 16, for health care workers, expanded to include all front-line workers on February 1, and then, everyone over the age of 60 years and people over the age of 45 with co-morbidities, on March 1.On April 1, it was further expanded to include everyone over the age of 45. Then, in response to demand from states and people, the drive was opened up further, to everyone over the age of 18 years, although states were told they would have to pay for the vaccines of those between the ages of 18 and 45. Private hospitals were also allowed to offer vaccinations. However, with supplies constrained, the drive faltered. The country’s Supreme Court too termed the approach “arbitrary”, forcing a rethink.On June 7, Prime Minister Modi announced that the Centre would again be in charge of sourcing and supplying vaccines. It would, he added, buy 75% of locally available vaccines, with the remainder being reserved for private hospitals. And it would bear the cost of the entire 75%, he added.The new phase of the vaccine drive comes even as cases of Covid-19 are declining in the country, with the ebbing of the second wave. However, with most states opening up and allowing movement and activities to resume, experts fear that there could be a spike in cases – unless India vaccinates more people. Till Monday evening, 24.6% of the eligible population of 940 million people had received at least one dose of the vaccine.“I am happy to see the increased pace of vaccination. Making universal adult vaccination free has helped, along with walk in registration facility for all ages. We should utilise available stocks fully without letting hospitals hold them unused. With more vaccines likely in July-August, the pace should pick up further. We now need to step up efforts to increase coverage in rural areas,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, senior public health expert, and founder, Public Health Foundation of India.To cover more people, India needs more days like Monday. Which means it needs more vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-million-shots-on-day-1-of-new-drive-101624299216725.html
22-06-2021||India||CBSE to form panel to check Class 12 marks complaints||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will set up a committee to redress grievances of Class 12 students over the marks awarded under the tabulation scheme, and also give them the option to sit for an offline exam to improve their scores, the board told the Supreme Court on Sunday.In an affidavit filed through its counsel Rupesh Kumar, CBSE clarified that the offline exams for such candidates will be held between August 15 and September 15, subject to the easing of the Covid-19 situation.A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari will take up the affidavit on Tuesday as some petitions that have challenged the tabulation scheme of CBSE and Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) could not be listed on Monday.Last week, the two boards submitted their tabulation formulae in court. CBSE has adopted a 30:30:40 formula to evaluate Class 12 students, where 30% weightage will be given each to the Class 10 and 11 results and 40% will be on the results of pre-boards or internal assessments held in Class 12. CISCE’s assessment scheme differs from CBSE’s as it judges students mostly on their performance in Class 11 and 12.Also read | Sisodia inspects pace of construction at 4 new Delhi govt schoolsBut both these schemes were found wanting on two fronts — lack of a proper dispute resolution mechanism, and clear dates for holding optional exams.CISCE informed the court that it would want to hold the optional exams before September 1. As regards grievance redressal, it said the scheme allows candidates to submit complaints to their respective schools, which would forward them to the board within a week.The CBSE also stated in its affidavit that all disputes regarding computation of results will be referred to a committee formed by the board. This has been made part of the assessment scheme as well. In addition, the CBSE scheme provides that any candidate who wishes to appear in the optional offline examination will have the facility of registering online. As and when conditions are conducive, the board will hold physical examination limited to the main subject papers. The marks obtained in this examination will be treated as final.But parents aren’t happy. A plea filed by a parents’ association in Uttar Pradesh has asked for the holding of offline examinations and criticised the tabulation schemes of both the boards. The parents have said that there is a scope of manipulation in CBSE’s scheme as it is left to a result committee in every school to tabulate marks and send them to the board.The court has also listed for Tuesday an application filed by three private/compartment candidates who have demanded an assessment scheme like that for regular students. CBSE has said that examinations for such candidates will be held under the assessment policy for the academic year 2019-20 that it had framed last year.These candidates coming from Odisha, Tripura and Delhi have claimed to have the support of 1,149 Class 10 and 12 compartment/private candidates across the country.The same bench will also hear another petition challenging the decision of various state boards to hold Class XII examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-to-form-panel-to-check-class-12-marks-complaints-101624297898672.html
22-06-2021||India||Rajasthan’s red stone to adorn Central Vista revamp||After pink stone for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, Rajasthan will now provide its famous red stone from the Barmer-Jaisalmer region for the Central Vista, local government officials said.The Lakha red granite of the state will be used in the construction of the iconic Central Vista project. The project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the vice president, as well as new office buildings to accommodate ministry offices.Named after Lakha village, the red granite is found on the border of Jaisalmer and Barmer districts will be utilized in the construction of flooring, walkways, and pillars in the Central Vista . The sourcing has been going on for the past two months and thus far 55,000 cubic meters of stone have been sold.Lakha red granite is coveted for its unique red shade. It has a smooth texture and waves of multi-coloured microparticles on the red make this stone very eye-catching.Bhagwan Singh Bhati, an engineer with the state’s mining department in Jaisalmer said that Lakha red granite is famous for its colour. It is also exported to many other countries, he added.A major supplier of this stone, Kamal Singh Kohra, claimed that his firm, The Kohra Lakha Red Granite, is supplying around 80% of the total demand.Singh said that so far he has supplied around 600 trucks of stone which will be used in the construction of one lakh feet area. “Before transporting, the raw stone is processed here,” he said.Another mine owner, Shaukat Ali, said Lakha is a rare and high quality stone which is found only in the region Lakha. “This reddish granite is not available anywhere else in the world.”Ali added that the same stone was used in the National War Memorial near India Gate in New Delhi; his firm supplied granite that now covers 300,000 square feet at the War Memorial, he added.“It is an export quality stone and mostly used outside India. It is in high demand outside India in countries such as UAD, Turkistan, China, and Istanbul. In view of this many local mine owners have opened their branch in these countries,” said Manoj Gujar, a mine owner in Lakha.Pink sandstone from Banshi Paharpur in Bharatpur district in Rajasthan is being used in the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Recently, the Central government allowed the conversion of forest land into revenue land so that Rajasthan government can auction mines in Banshi Paharpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthans-red-stone-to-adorn-central-vista-revamp-101624297776624.html
22-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: At least 36 injured after bus overturns at Yamuna Expressway||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:At least 36 injured after bus overturns at Yamuna ExpresswayAt least 36 passengers injured after a double-decker bus overturns on the Yamuna Expressway in Mathura, news agency PTI reported citing police.Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab CM to meet Mallikarjun Kharge tomorroPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to meet Mallikarjun Kharge tomorrow. Meeting amid Sidhu's outburst against the CM.Bihar CM eases Covid restrictions from June 23As cases fall, Bihar chief minister relaxed Covid-19 restrictions in the state from June 23. Under the revised rules, government and non-government offices will function at 100% capacity, shops to open till 7 pm, night curfew will remain in force from 9 pm to 5 am. Parks and gardens to be open from 6 am to 12 noon, announced Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.Use of Russian vaccine Sputnik V delayed in Delhi: ReportRussian vaccine Sputnik V that was expected to be administered in few hospitals of Delhi has been delayed for few more days, new sagency ANI rported citing sources.Amarnath yatra cancelled for the second year in a rowAfter a meeting of various officials, the government has decided to cancel Amarnath yatra this year. This is the second year in a row that the pilgrimage was cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic.Sensex ends 230.01 points higher at 52,574.46The marker close don green note on Monday as Sensex ended 230.01 points higher at 52,574.46. In the closing session, Nifty advanced 63.15 points to 15,746.50.Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally falls to 89Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally falls to 89, lowest this year; 11 deaths recorded in 24 hours.Sharad Pawar, Prashant Kishor meet for second time in 2 weeksSharad Pawar of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Monday met in Delhi for the second time in two weeks amid buzz about a national coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Read moreFormer Punjab Police IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap joins AAPPunjab, Amritsar | Former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap joins Aam Aadmi Party, in the presence of Delhi CM and party leader Arvind Kejriwal. pic.twitter.com/Q95pfrOLbNKunwar Vijay Pratap, the former inspector general of Punjab Police joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday in the presence of party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Read moreOn Covid-19 vaccine, Ravi Shankar Prasad's appeal to Rahul GandhiUnion minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday advised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been criticising the Centre over its vaccination policy, to get himself vaccinated against Covid-19. Read moreMaharashtra sees 7,998 cases of Mucormycosis till nowTill now, there are 7,998 cases of Mucormycosis including 729 deaths in #Maharashtra. 4,398 patients are currently under treatment for the disease: State Health Department pic.twitter.com/HlbNSoHJkzThe Maharashtra health department said on Monday that there are 7,998 cases of Mucormycosis or Black Fungus of which 729 have died. As many as 4,398 patients are currently under treatment for the disease, the department added.Have to ensure mass vaccination against Covid , says MP CM ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that the state government is strengthening the health infrastructure and conducting maximum testing against the Covid-19 disease and on the other hand, the government has to ensure that mass vaccination takes place.5 killed after car collides with lorry in Kerala, say policeFive people were killed after the car in which they were travelling collided with the lorry on the Kozhikode-Palakkad highway on Monday, Police told news agency PTI. The deceased have been identified as Nazeer, Subair, Muhammed Zahir, Asainar and Thahir, all belonging to the Palakkad district.Delhi's Lodhi Garden reopens with certain limitations#COVID19 | Delhi: Lodhi Garden reopens for the public with certain limitations today "While only jogging, walking & running will be permitted in the parks, open gym or yoga will not be allowed," says New Delhi Municipal Council in a guideline pic.twitter.com/mam5DQbcRJThe Lodhi Garden in the national capital reopened for public from today as Delhi government on Sunday allowed public parks, gardens, golf clubs to resume as a part of its Covid-19 unlocking process.2 killed, 2 injured in explosion in illegal firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu's VirudhunagarTamil Nadu: An explosion took place at an illegal firecracker manufacturing factory, in Thaiyilpatti near Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district. Two dead, two injured. Rescue operations underway. pic.twitter.com/bXRXwS1vRrTwo died and two others were injured after an explosion took place at an illegal firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar district. Rescue operations are underway. Read moreMVA stand united, committed to run Maha govt for 5 yrs, says RautThe Maha Vikas Aghadi, which comprised the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) stand united and is committed to run the government in Maharashtra for five years, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut told news agency ANI on Monday. "Outsiders who want to form govt and are restless after losing power may try, but govt will continue. Attempts may be made to create cracks b/w Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena but it won't work," Raut added.Fire breaks out at shoe factory in Delhi's Udyog NagarA fire broke out at a shoe factory in Delhi's Udyog Nagar on Monday. Twenty-four fire tenders have been rushed to the spot and no casualties have been reported so far. More details are awaited. Read moreIndia's daily Covid-19 tally further declines to 53,256India continued to see a decline in its daily tally of the Covid-19 disease after 53,256 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 29,935,221. Read more9 districts account for 50% of fresh Covid-19 cases in MaharashtraEven as the number of Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 cases has reduced comparatively, a major chunk of the fresh infections is being recorded from the rural areas of nine districts. Read moreFree Covid-19 vaccination drive in India begins todayWith a view to inoculate more citizens against the Covid-19 disease, the Centre on Monday launched its campaign to administer vaccine doses to all beneficiaries above 18 years free of cost. The announcement for the same was made by Prime Minister Modi earlier where he said the Centre would take over the nationwide vaccination drive, procure 75 per cent of vaccines and give them to states and UTs for free. The Centre is also taking over the 25 per cent vaccination which was with states and UTs till now. Read more'Yoga a ray of hope amid Covid-19': PM Modi in International Yoga Day addressPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday highlighted the importance of practising yoga during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, as he addressed the lead event of International Yoga Day 2021. He also prayed for health and well-being of people around the world. Read moreIndia keen to resume vaccine exports to Bangladesh, says envoyIndia's Commissioner to Bangladesh Vikram Doraiswami said on Sunday that the country is keen to resume the exports of vaccine doses against the Covid-19 disease to Bangladesh as soon as possible, but there is no clarification on when the exports will resume. "The corona situation in India is still at a dangerous stage. So we are not yet able to say the exact time of giving vaccines to Bangladesh," Doraiswami said. Earthquake of 3.0 magnitude jolts Arunachal Pradesh's capital ItanagarEarthquake of magnitude 3.0 occurred at 06:09:41 IST, in WSW of Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh: National Center for SeismologyThe National Center for Seismology said on Monday that an earthquake of 3.6 magnitude hit West-Southwest of Itanagar city in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-21-2021-101624237581395.html
