23-06-2021||India||Amit Mitra says GST council meetings 'almost toxic', urges Nirmala Sitharaman for course correction||Stating that GST council meetings have become "almost toxic" with the erosion of trust between the Centre and states, West Bengal minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to consider a "course correction" to rebuild faith.In a letter to Sitharaman, the state's finance minister also claimed that the central government comes to GST council meetings with a "predetermined conclusion".Mitra on June 13 alleged that his voice was "muzzled" during the GST Council meeting on that day and his opposition to levy taxes on Covid essentials like vaccines, masks, PPE kits and anti-viral drug Remdesivir, was not heard."What pains me most is the fact that GST Council meetings have become acrimonious, vexing and almost toxic with erosion of mutual trust that had held fast between state and the Centre since the inception of the GST Council," he said in the letter.Many have observed a steady breakdown of the spirit of cooperative federalism and the erosion of the commitment to work out a consensus in the GST Council meetings, Mitra claimed.Mitra recalled several instances where sharp differences cropped up between the states and the Union government but then there was no "bitterness or antagonism"."But, now I am afraid that arriving at such a consensus, even for much simpler matters, has become elusive," he said.It is a dangerous time for the GST regime as the states own resources are in dire distress, the state finance minister said.The gap between projected revenue and revenue collected has ballooned to ₹2.75 lakh crore and the actual compensation due to the states for 2020-21 has reached ₹74,398 crore, he said adding that fraudulent transactions hit a peak of ₹70,000 crore, as per Nandan Nilekani's presentation to the GST council."An undercurrent has emerged in recent times that while the Chair hears the submissions of all States very patiently, indeed, there is a predetermined conclusion with which the Government of India, aided by top bureaucrats, comes to the GST council meetings," the letter read.He said that the issues were brought to her attention with utmost sincerity and frankness so that she may consider a course correction in the manner of functioning of the GST Council."I assure you that we will respond in equal measure if you bring back a consensual atmosphere that had defined the GST council since its inception," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-mitra-says-gst-council-meetings-almost-toxic-urges-nirmala-sitharaman-for-course-correction-101624470963428.html
23-06-2021||India||India seeks concerted action to tackle terror, radicalisation across Asia||India on Thursday sought concerted action to tackle terror, radicalisation, drug trafficking and organised crime across Asia, and said its vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific is aimed at ensuring the shared pursuit of progress and prosperity. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla outlined India’s position while addressing a virtual meeting of senior officials of member states of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA), a grouping established by Kazakhstan in 1992. “In Asia, we face the challenges of terrorism, radicalisation, drug trafficking and organised crime. To face these diverse challenges, we need to undertake concerted action,” he said. “India’s vision of the Indo-Pacific as a free, open and inclusive region underpinned by international law is premised on the common pursuit of progress and prosperity. In this direction, India has traditionally maintained close and friendly cooperation with regional organisations in Asia, including CICA,” he added. CICA was created to boost cooperation to promote peace, security and stability in Asia. The grouping also promotes dialogue and confidence-building across Asia. The 27 members of CICA include Afghanistan, Bangladesh, China, India, Iran, Israel, Pakistan, Russia, Sri Lanka, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. A regular meeting of CICA foreign ministers will be held this year, while the next summit of the grouping is slated for 2023. Shringla also told the meeting that India’s call for reformed multilateralism reflects contemporary geopolitical realities and is a “pressing need now more than ever before”. He said, “Multilateral institutions must be made more accountable to their membership, they must be open and welcoming to a diversity of viewpoints and cognisant of new voices, especially those from Asia.” The UN Security Council must be made more representative of developing countries to build trust and confidence in its ability to provide leadership, and India backs a multi-polar global order that respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries and works to resolve international disputes through peaceful negotiations, he said. Describing CICA as an important vehicle for advancing peace, progress and prosperity in Asia, Shringla welcomed the grouping’s recent decision to set up a new confidence-building measure on epidemiology and healthcare. “As co-coordinators of CICA confidence-building measures on transportation corridors and energy security, we are interested in contributing to CICA’s efforts,” he said. India has deputed a diplomat of the rank of second secretary to CICA, who is based in Nur-Sultan. Under the energy security track, India organised a virtual seminar on “renewable energy and energy security” on June 18. Wednesday’s meeting of senior officials discussed the growing role of Asia, the revision of the draft CICA catalogue of CBMs, and mechanisms for enhanced dialogue, including a think tank forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-concerted-action-to-tackle-terror-radicalisation-across-asia-101624470523904.html
23-06-2021||India||Assam CM misled people on Niti Aayog report, says Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi||Congress MP from Assam Gaurav Gogoi on Wednesday alleged that chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma misled people on the state’s poor performance in Niti Aayog’s sustainable development goal (SDG) report of 2020-21. “The CM claimed Assam had progressed from being in the aspirant category in 2018 to the performer category in 2020. In fact, Assam’s progress from 2019 to 2020 was of barely 2 points (55 to 57), making it the slowest overall progress among all states. Assam’s overall rank in the recent survey dropped from 23rd to 26th,” Gogoi said in Guwahati, and indicated that there were “clear cut contradictions” between what the Niti Aayog report said and the CM’s claims. “In the field of health, Assam has the lowest score of 59 among all states. It also dropped by 3 ranks from 25th to 28th place. Percentage of adolescents aged 10–19 years who are anaemic is 36.9, higher than India’s score. Assam also has the highest maternal mortality rate among all states with a score of 215, almost double of India’s score,” he added. Gogoi pointed out that in the education category, Assam has ranked 24th out of 28 states and its score has actually dipped this year from 44 to 43. Assam’s dropout rates in classes 9 and 10 are the second highest among all states. It also has one of the lowest pupil teacher ratios of 11 among all states and almost half of India’s score of 21. “The CM tried to justify Assam’s poor performance saying the data was based on the National Family Health Survey 4 (NFHS4) and not the recent NFHS survey 5. The justification does not hold because there’s no significant difference between NFHS 4 and the Phase 1 factsheet of NFHS 5,” said the MP. “Overall, Assam figures in the bottom rankings of all the essential categories of economy, healthcare, education and gender equality and there hasn’t been any significant growth since 2018. The BJP government should be honest about its shortcomings instead of misleading the people,” added Gogoi. Leaders from BJP and the CM’s office didn’t respond to calls for reactions on Gogoi’s assertions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-misled-people-on-niti-aayog-report-says-congress-mp-gaurav-gogoi-101624468543954.html
23-06-2021||India||PM Garib Kalyan Yojana: Government approves additional grain allocation till Nov 30||The Centre approved the allocation of additional foodgrain to National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries under the fourth phase of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PM-GKY) till November 30, a release issued by the Union ministry of consumer affairs read.The decision was taken during a cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.In his address to the nation on June 7, PM Modi had announced that the scheme will be extended by five months, till Diwali. The PM-GKAY was initially announced for a period of two months, May and June, with an estimated expenditure of ₹26,602 crore."An additional 204 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of foodgrains will be provided to around 80 crore NFSA beneficiaries with an estimated financial implication of up to ₹67,266 crore," the release read, adding that this additional, free-of-cost allocation of food grains, will be over and above the regular monthly food grains allocated.The allocation in terms of wheat or rice shall be decided by the Department of Food and Public Distribution, news agency ANI reported. The department may also decide on the extension of the distribution period under phases 3 and 4 of the scheme, in view of adverse weather conditions and the coronavirus pandemic.Reacting to the decision, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said that it is a "big relief" for the underprivileged. "Welcome the Cabinet decision of further extending the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana till November. Will provide free food to 800 million people- a big relief for the underprivileged in these challenging times," he tweeted.Last year, the Centre announced the scheme for all beneficiaries covered under National Food Security Act for the period of April-November. Under this, around 80 crore people were allocated an additional 5 kg of foodgrains for a period of eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-approves-extension-of-pm-garib-kalyan-yojana-from-july-2021-to-november-2021-101624455816170.html
23-06-2021||India||‘Waiting for nod from PM’: Mamata on delay in dates for bypolls in Bengal||The Election Commission of India is waiting for the Prime Minister’s instructions to hold by-elections in seven assembly seats in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said taking a swipe at the BJP-led Union government on multiple fronts on Wednesday.“I got to know that when the Prime Minister gives instructions, only then they (ECI) will announce the dates for by-polls. If it is so, then I would request the Prime Minister to give the nod,” said Banerjee. By-polls in at least seven assembly constituencies are pending including Bhawanipore in south Kolkata from where the chief minister is expected to contest.Earlier elections in two seats in Murshidabad were cancelled when the candidates died of Covid-19 in April. Later, two BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar who won the assembly polls resigned. Two other TMC legislators died after contracting the Covid-19 infection, while TMC MLA from Bhawanipore, Sovan Deb Chatterjee, resigned so that Banerjee could contest from the seat in the by-polls.“By-elections should be held as early as possible. The Covid-19 situation is under control. If the third wave comes then you can’t do anything. A week’s time for the election campaigning would be enough,” she added.Senior officials in the ECI’s office in Kolkata refused to comment on the chief minister’s statements.The daily count of Covid-19 cases had shot up from around 200 on February 26, when the eight-phase elections were announced by the poll panel to more than 27,000 on April 29 when the elections ended. Health experts linked the surge in infections to political rallies that violated all Covid-19 protocol.“I think BJP is a big disease for everybody. They were only interested in Bengal polls. Even now they want to divide Bengal. They did nothing for six to eight months and because of them we had the second wave. Even when the second wave came they did little to vaccinate citizens equally. Two weeks were lost after PM’s announcement of giving free vaccines,” she added.She also said that the Centre should immediately take steps so that Covaxin gets recognition from the World Health Organisation (WHO).“Students, who took Covaxin from private hospitals, are facing a very serious problem while going abroad to study. The Prime Minister had asked people to take this vaccine,” the chief minister added.The chief minister further said that the state government would give full support to former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, against whom the Centre has initiated disciplinary proceedings for missing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. Bandopadhyay has been given a month’s time to respond.“Our government will give full support to him. We will fight the battle. They (BJP-led Union government) are trying to show their might like a selfish giant. But law will take its own course. The officer (Bandyopadhyay) will take his own decisions and we will support him all out,” the chief minister said, while accusing the centre of behaving in an irresponsible manner.The BJP, on the other hand suggested that bypolls should be held in West Bengal only when the law and order situation in the state improved. “The post-poll violence suggests why there was a need to conduct the assembly elections in eight phases. Had it been conducted in one-phase, the death toll would have been eight-fold. The TMC is trying to score when the field is clear. BJP workers are being attacked. They are yet to return to their houses. The TMC is not allowing them to take relief material after Cyclone Yaas. We will move the EC and we hope that our voice will be heard. Elections should only be held when there is peace,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waiting-for-nod-from-pm-mamata-on-delay-in-dates-for-bypolls-in-bengal-101624466323878.html
23-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: New York woman receives hundreds of Amazon packages at her doorstep and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Woman gets hundreds of packages by mistake, Amazon initially refuses to take backAmazon was finally able to trace the original owner and told Cannan that she would have to keep the items already delivered along with over 1,000 boxes that were already in transit. Read more here.UP CM disburses ₹2,505-cr loan to boost MSMEs impacted due to Covid-19The Online Swarozgar Sangam is aimed at rebuilding the MSME sector to counter the devastation wreaked by the Covid pandemic on the sector. Read more here. 'Looks like he is playing in the back garden': Vaughan tweets on Rishabh PantWTC Final: Rishabh Pant danced down the track to pacers, tried to play the scoop shot and made batting look like an extension of a dance form on the pitch as he added 41 runs to the Indian total. Read more here. Manoj Bajpayee calls Ashlesha Thakur his favourite The Family Man co-star as she shares pics from setsAshlesha Thakur, who played Dhriti on The Family Man, recently shared a bunch of pictures from the sets of the show. Manoj Bajpayee reposted them and called her his favourite co-star. Read more here. PUBG Mobile India new avatar creates worry, forces company to act - check highlightsPUBG Mobile India and its new avatar Battlegrounds Mobile India got into a controversy that led to a social media storm, which forced the South Korean company to offer an explanation. Read more here. 'Abduction, rape, conversion': India exposes Pakistan's exploitation of women||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-new-york-woman-receives-hundreds-of-amazon-packages-101624460807398.html
23-06-2021||India||Manure hunt underway in Chhattisgarh after thieves steal 800 kg cow dung||A massive manhunt is underway in central India after a gang of robbers stole about 800 kilograms of cow dung from a village in Chhattisgarh's Korba district, police said. Villagers complained to police last week about a gang that broke into the storehouse in Dhurena village on the intervening night of June 8 and June 9 and fled with their pungent plunder estimated to be worth ₹1,600.According to assistant sub-inspector Suresh Kuma of the Dipka Police station, a case against unidentified persons was lodged on June 15 for stealing eight quintal cow dung worth ₹1,600.Local police officer Harish Tandekar told news agency AFP on Wednesday that they have questioned some suspects but no arrests have been made yet. Tandekar said that it was not clear how the suspects had been able to transport such a large amount of faeces, or why they had stolen it."Investigations are continuing and every effort is being made to find the culprits," he added.The Chhattisgarh government had earlier announced that it would purchase cow dung at about ₹ 2 per kilogram under the 'Godhan Nyay Yojna' scheme for the production of vermicompost at gauthans, making it more valuable for villagers. People of Dhurena village say that they have been collecting cow dung in exchange for some money after the scheme was announced, reported ANI.In recent years, several states have been encouraging farmers to sell cow poo for organic farming. There has also been an increased demand for cattle waste for eco-friendly products such as earthen lamps and for religious purposes. Apart from its use for such eco-friendly products and organic farming, some Hindus use the animals' dung and urine for medicines and other holy practices.In 2019, the Union government had proposed to set up Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog for the effective implementation of law and welfare schemes for cows with a corpus of ₹500 crores.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manure-hunt-underway-in-chhattisgarh-after-thieves-steal-800-kg-cow-dung-101624458659040.html
23-06-2021||India||SBI halts ATM operations in Tamil Nadu after 48 lakh||The State Bank of India (SBI) halted operations across its ATMs in Tamil Nadu after a group of four reportedly stole ₹48 lakh from several ATMs operated by the public-sector bank across the state.Tamil Nadu Police suspect the individuals involved in the looting were not from the state. The loss incurred due to the robbery would impact the bank and not the general public, Chennai city police commissioner Shankar Jiwal said.The group is said to have taken advantage of a technical flaw in the bank's ATMs. A special team has been constituted to investigate the group’s modus operandi. Police have alerted other banks but so far no there haven’t been any such complaints."A group of four reportedly stole 48-lakh from several SBI ATMs across the state. Police suspect them to be from another state. The loss has been for the bank and not the public. A special team was formed to crackdown on this modus operandi which took advantage of a technical flaw in the bank's ATMs. Police have alerted other banks but no other bank has complained so far," Jiwal told Hindustan Times. SBI chief general manager R Radhakrishna told reporters that as a preventative measure to curtail any further loss all atm machines have been disabled across the state. “As a measure to curtail further loss, we have disabled all machines which have problems. Currently, these machines will not dispense cash. The theft took place only through one type of cash deposit machine,”Jiwal also told reporters that the group targeted an automatic cash withdrawal machine and used a single card to withdraw the stolen amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sbi-halts-atm-operations-in-tamil-nadu-after-48-lakh-101624459284789.html
23-06-2021||India||Orissa high court rejects pleas seeking Rath Yatra in places other than Puri||Three weeks before the Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath begins in Puri, the Orissa High Court on Wednesday rejected five petitions seeking permission to hold the festival of Rath Yatra in Kendrapara and Bargarh districts.The petitions were filed by servitors of the Sidhha Baladevjew temple in Kendrapara district as well as the one in Bhatli area of Bargarh seeking a direction to the Odisha government to permit the festival with participation of only servitors and with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.The Odisha government earlier this month had said the Rath Yatra will be held on July 12 only in Puri keeping in mind the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court while banning it in all other places of the state. The apex court last year had permitted the Rath Yatra to be held on the condition that there is no public attendance and all entry points into Puri remain closed. It also said each of the three chariots, would be pulled by not more than 500 people who were required to test negative for Covid-19.Recently, 10 servitors engaged in the construction of chariots in Nilagiri of Balasore district were arrested for violating the Odisha government’s order. In Baripada town, known as second Srikhetra, people had staged a protest urging the state government to allow the celebrations of the annual Rath Yatra without devotees like Puri.Deba Snana Purnima-- the grand bathing festival of Lord Jagannath that marks the prelude to the Rath Yatra is all set to be held on Thursday morning at the Jagannath Temple. Only select servitors and support staff like government officials, police who have undergone RT-PCR tests and tested negative will be allowed to participate in the rituals.During the Snana Purnima, Lord Jagannath and his siblings are bathed with 108 pitchers of aromatic and herbal water following which they fall sick. They retreat for the next fortnight to a secret chamber called Anasara before reappearing during Rath Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-rejects-pleas-seeking-rath-yatra-in-places-other-than-puri-101624457263442.html
23-06-2021||India||NGO files complaint against Assam NRC coordinator Prateek Hajela||The Assam Public Works (APW), an NGO, filed a complaint to the CID against former National Register of Citizens (NRC) state coordinator Prateek Hajela and others, accusing them of “manipulating” the process to include names of illegal migrants in the updated NRC."In collaboration with some officers of migrant background, data entry operators, some minority leaders and also with some anti-national elements... to insert the names of the illegal migrants in the updated NRC,”APW said.Hajela, a 1995 batch IAS officer, was appointed by the Supreme Court to oversee the process in 2013. The apex court relieved Hajela of his duty in 2019 and transferred him to his home state of Madhya Pradesh, where he served as the commissioner of health services in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan led government."The inclusion of a very high percentage of illegal and doubtful persons' names in the NRC, leads to the suspicion that there have been manipulations in the family tree verification,” APW president Aabhijeet Sarma wrote in his complaint, reported PTI."The software for 'Family Tree Matching' was prepared by the then NRC State Coordinator in such a way that no superior officers could make any quality check," he added.Hajela who graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi was removed from his duties by the Madhya Pradesh chief minister on ground of his ‘dereliction of duty during the Covid-19 pandemic,’“Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan instructed immediate removal of Prateek Hajela from the post of commissioner, health services on his extreme carelessness towards his duties amid the Covid-19 pandemic”, said an official statement from the directorate of public relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngo-files-complaint-against-assam-nrc-coordinator-prateek-hajela-101624455809250.html
23-06-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah holds consultations with NC leaders from Jammu over meet with PM||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah held consultations with his party leaders from Jammu over the Centre's invitation to mainstream political parties in the Union territory for talks, reported news agency ANI.On Tuesday, Farooq Abdullah had announced that the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will attend the all-party meeting.Also Read: Gupkar leaders to be part of PM’s J&K meetThe delegation that visited Farooq Abdullah's home was led by NC's provincial president for Jammu Devender, Singh Rana. "Our only stand is a single J-K, to maintain its unity and integrity and respecting the wishes and aspirations of the people of J-K," Singh Rana said, adding that dialogue and inclusiveness were vital essence of a democracy.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday convened the meeting of all mainstream parties in the Valley to discuss the delimitation exercise or the process of redrawing constituencies in the union territory.Who is invited?Former Jammu and Kashmir chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mehbooba Mufti are among those invited for the meeting.Union home minister Amit Shah, national security advisor Ajit Doval, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and home secretary would also attend the meeting.What is expected to be discussed?Delimitation, statehood and assembly elections are expected to remain key issues to be discussed at the meeting, ANI reported. Though no fixed agenda has been set for the meeting, an uninhibited discussion is expected on June 24, the news agency added.This is the first high-level interaction between the Centre and political leadership from Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and the state was divided into two union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-holds-consultations-with-nc-leaders-from-jammu-over-meet-with-pm-101624454777545.html
23-06-2021||India||India has administered over 294mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 294 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Tuesday, June 22. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech submitted the Phase 3 trial data of Covaxin to the expert panel. It also said it will produce 25 million shots a month till August.Elsewhere, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi released a white paper on Covid and warned of a third wave.Meanwhile, by Tuesday 7pm, 294,042,822 vaccine doses had been given in India. In the 18-45 category, 3,281,562 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 71,655 doses were given as second dose. In all, 65,538,687 persons across the country have received their first dose and 1,424,612 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Watch | ‘Limping’ vs ‘dragging’: Day after record vaccinations, Congress-BJP fightAssam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than a million beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group. On Wednesday morning, India witnessed a rise in its daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 50,848 fresh infections were registered in the last 24 hours, data uploaded by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) at 8am showed. With this, the country’s cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has crossed 30 million-mark, reaching 30,028,709, including a related death toll of 390,660, of which 1,358 fatalities took place in the 24-hour period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-294mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101624454023539.html
23-06-2021||India||Manish Malhotra, Sabyasachi, Ritu Kumar summoned by ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday summoned fashion designers Manish Malhotra, Sabyasachi and Ritu Kumar in connection with a money laundering case.The top designers were summoned by the national agency in connection with its probe against Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira. They have been asked to report to the ED headquarters in New Delhi on Thursday and Friday.The probe agency wants clarifications from them regarding a few cash payments they received, officials familiar with the developments said.In March 2021, the ED had raided Khaira's properties in connection with a 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case, against which the MLA had moved Punjab and Haryana high court. Following the raids, ED had claimed that in about 12 years, Rs4.86 crore were deposited in his bank accounts but his declared income to the income tax department stood at Rs99 lakh.The ED had also moved before the agency’s adjudicating authority on April 4, seeking its permission to open Khaira's electronic devices, including his phones, against which the MLA filed a fresh plea in the court.The authority had then issued show-cause notice to Khaira on April 12, asking him why the agency should not be allowed to examine his electronic devices. In response, Khaira said the act would amount to a breach of privacy.(More details are awaited)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-malhotra-sabyasachi-ritu-kumar-summoned-by-ed-101624451727187.html
23-06-2021||India||Telangana caps cost of Covid-19 tests, treatment at private labs and hospitals||Telangana government on Tuesday capped the price of tests and treatment related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in private laboratories and hospitals across the state.In a fresh order, the Telangana government said that a PPE kit cannot be charged more than ₹273 while a high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) test has been capped at ₹1,995, Interleukin-6 test at ₹1,300, digital X-Ray at ₹300, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) test at ₹140 and C-reactive protein (CRP) test at ₹500, among others.As per the order, the minimum charge of an ambulance with basic life support system cannot exceed ₹2,000, with a cap on per kilometre charge at ₹75. Ambulance equipped with an advanced life support system has been fixed at ₹125 per kilometer with a minimum charge of ₹3,000.However, no change has been made in the daily treatment costs during hospitalisation after the same was introduced in June last year. Accordingly, charges for routine ward isolation continue to be at ₹4,000 per day, ICU without ventilator at ₹7,500 per day, and ICU with ventilator at ₹9,000 per day.Of 55,442 total number of available beds in Telangana, as many as 49,558 vacant, official data of the department of health, medical and family welfare showed. Among the vacant beds, 20,811 are in general wards while 18,922 and 9,825 are equipped with oxygen support and without it, respectively, the data added.This comes after the Chandigarh administration last month slashed the rates of Covid-19 tests after the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Currently, an RT-PCR test costs ₹450 and a rapid antigen test costs ₹350 in the Union territory. Earlier, the tests were priced at ₹900 and ₹500, respectively.Telangana on Tuesday reported 1,175 new Covid-19 cases, down from 1,197 on Monday, thereby taking the cumulative tally to 6,15, 574, the state health bulletin data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-covid-19-tests-treatment-cap-private-labs-hospitals-101624449333033.html
23-06-2021||India||Nusrat Jahan should resign or TMC should sack her, says Dilip Ghosh||West Bengal BJP president on Wednesday raked up the controversy over Nusrat Jahan's marital status and said the Trinamool Congress should sack her or she should resign as an MP because she has shamed the Indian culture by applying sindoor and then denying her marriage. "Nusrat Jahan is a woman MP. She has shamed the Indian culture by applying sindoor, addressing a man as her husband and inviting the CM to her 'boubhat' (reception) and now she says she is not married," Dilip Ghosh told news agency ANI.This comes a day after Uttar Pradesh BJP MP Sanghamitra Maurya wrote to Lok Sabha speaker, demanding the Lower House to disqualify Nusrat Jahan for giving a false affidavit regarding her marital status in Parliament.On June 9, the Trinamool MP issued a statement revealing her marital discord with Nikhil Jain. In her statement, she said that since the wedding took place in Turkey under Turkish marriage regulation and was never registered in India, her marriage with Nikhil Jain was not valid in India. She has been living separately from her husband since last year, Nusrat clarified and brought charges of financial irregularities against Nikhil Jain and his family.Nusrat and Nikhil got married in 2019 after Nusrat Jahan won the Lok Sabha election from Basirhat. Though the wedding took place in Turkey, a reception was held in Kolkata which chief minister Mamata Banerjee attended. Trinamool versus BJP over Nusrat JahanNusrat Jahan's relationship with Nikhil became political fodder after BJP's Amit Malviya first questioned the veracity of Nusrat's Parliament record as she is shown as married in the records. Nusrat also took her oath as the MP as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain — Jain being Nikhil's surname. After Malviya, BJP MP Sanghamitra Maurya raised questions as in her letter to the Lok Speaker, she wrote, "Her media statement regarding her marital status controvert her oath for Lok Sabha membership wherein she took oath as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi Jain. This effectively renders her membership as non-est in law."The Trinamool Congress did not take the criticisms seriously and denied to comment on this issue saying this is Nusrat's personal matter. Nusrat too has not addressed these criticisms. In the first week of June, as she made the announcement, she took a break from the social media, but now the actor-turned-politician is back on Instagram and Twitter. On Instagram, she posted her recent photos where she can be seen with her baby bump. Speculations over her pregnancy about which Nikhil Jain claimed to be in dark triggered the entire controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nusrat-jahan-should-resign-or-tmc-should-sack-her-says-dilip-ghosh-101624450132337.html
23-06-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav asks Chirag Paswan to join RJD-led alliance in Bihar||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, on Wednesday asked Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan to join the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led alliance in the state.“It is for Chirag... to choose whether to stay with those propounding Bunch of Thoughts (a book written by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s second chief MS Golwalkar) or with forces, who believe in the principles of B R Ambedkar, who framed the Constitution, “ Tejashwi said.Tejashwi’s comments came days after five of the six LJP leaders rebelled against Paswan and staked claim over the party. Paswan has petitioned the Election Commission of India to recognise his faction as the real LJP.Also Read | ‘BJP’s silence hurts me; have faith in PM’: Chirag PaswanPaswan’s uncle Pasupati Kumar Paras has been appointed the national president of the LJP’s rebel group. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has recognised Paras as LJP’s leader in Parliament’s lower House.Yadav took a dig at chief minister Nitish Kumar and said everybody knows who masterminded the LJP rebellion.“The chief minister pleads ignorance about LJP split. He is one who purportedly knows nothing. The petrol prices have gone up. Unemployment is rampant. But Kumar is only busy clinging to power through politics of manipulation. Had he given more time to development the state would have progressed,” said Yadav when asked about Kumar’s statement that he was not aware of the LJP split.Ruling Janata Dal (United) leader Neeraj Kumar hit back, calling Yadav “more a Twitter leader”. He added Yadav has no moral right to question the chief minister’s commitment to development. “Chief minister Kumar has devoted his entire life to the development of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-yadav-asks-chirag-paswan-to-join-rjd-led-alliance-in-bihar-101624450483423.html
23-06-2021||India||Soon-to-be-wed couples only want vaccinated guests to be present at their wedding||Ever since the pandemic hit us, sanitisers, masks and RT-PCR tests became essential at wedding celebrations. And now there’s a new addition. Soon-to​-be-wed couples want vaccinated guests only at their wedding and are sending out invites asking friends and relatives to timely plan inoculation.Simran Ahuja, 32, an IT professional who is getting married in New Delhi in November this year sent out save-the-date invites with the message, ‘Get your shot before we tie our knot.” She says, “We’ll be shifting to a hotel where we are hosting our ceremonies and we’ll have senior citizens staying with us so we can’t be taking any risk. Therefore, we have asked those wanting to join us for the celebration to plan both the vaccine shots accordingly. This will help us create a safe environment.”Another groom-to-be Akash Lal Bhardwaj, 30, an engineer from Noida who plans to have an intimate wedding affair says, “Only vaccinated guests are allowed to the wedding and we have decided to mention this on our wedding invites, too.” For his engagement ceremony last year, Bhardwaj took the creative route as well with e-vites that stated, “Be a superhero, wear your mask.”Marriages scheduled in the coming months follow the same protocol. Wedding planner Akshay Chopra from Designer Events Inc. says, “For July weddings and even with restricted number of guests, at least one shot has become mandatory as hosts and the couple wants to make it a safe zone for everyone to attending.”Some planners are already getting requests for year-end marriages to make arrangements and check vaccination certificates of guests beforehand arriving for destination weddings. “For November weddings, especially destination weddings in India, families are extremely particular about wanting only vaccinated vendors and guests. It’s becoming almost like a mandate now on save-the-date invites,” says wedding planner Kaveri Vij from Designer Events Inc.Moreover, some are going the extra mile by tying up with hospitals, setting vaccination booths and booking slots for guests to get the jab. “We have partnered with few hospitals in metropolitan areas and have sent out timelines to guests to get the first vaccine latest by August end for a wedding to be attended in November,” says, luxury wedding planner, Manvir Singh, founder and managing director, Shanqh Luxury Events.Singh who is also gearing up internation destination weddings being planned from November 2021 to March 2022 also adds, “For a person to be able to travel internationally, they’ll in any case have to get vaccinated and also show negative Covid-19 certificates on arrival at the airport and hotels.” Apart from the guests at the weddings, vendors are also getting teams inoculated to be able to sail through the peak season smoothly. “Clients want wedding planners and vendors to be vaccinated prior to their work on the big day. Having said that, the RT-PCR test is still required [at hotels and while travelling], so it’s not like someone who has been vaccinated doesn’t have to undergo it,” says Namha Malhotra, founder, Castles & Coasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soontobewed-couples-only-want-vaccinated-guests-to-be-present-at-their-wedding-101624450303127.html
23-06-2021||India||Delta Plus in India: 40 cases, 1st specimen found in April sample | What we know so far||The Centre on Wednesday confirmed 40 cases of Delta Plus variant in the country, a day after it alerted Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala about the new variant. Variants are natural for mRNA viruses as these viruses are prone to errors in their replication. Owing to such errors, the virus acquire a new character. On June 16, the Union health ministry for the first time mentioned the name of this variant as a variant of interest. Within a week, the status has been changed to a variant of concern. The Centre also made additional info about the variant public on Wednesday.1. States in India: Delta Plus has been found in three states, which have already been asked to tighten their containment measures. The areas where the Delta Plus variant has been found include Ratnagiri and Jalgaon of Maharashtra, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta of Kerala and Bhopal and Shivpuri of Madhya Pradesh.2. 1st Delta Plus case in Karnataka: Mysuru reported the first Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in Karnataka.3. Goa-Maharashtra border under watch: The Goa government on Wednesday decided to increase surveillance along the Maharashtra border as Maharashtra has already reported over 20 Delta Plus cases.4. Where did Delta Plus come from? Delta Plus is a variant of Delta which, as India said, was observed in Europe in March. But it has been notified and brought into the public domain on June 13, two days after Public Health England mentioned the variant on its bulletin. It said that the new variant was present in six genomes from India as of June 7.5. More damaging for lungs? According to government data, Delta Plus has a characteristic of a stronger binding to receptors of lung cells. The variant is more transmissible and can potentially reduce in monoclonal antibody response therapy.6. Delta Plus was present in India in April: According to the statement released by the Centre on Wednesday, the sample in which India's first Delta Plus was found was collected on April 5 in Maharashtra.7. Can Delta Plus infection be resisted? There is no specific weapon to resist the infection of any Covid-19 variant. Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination remain the two pillars of fighting the pandemic — be it any variant. No variant can pierce the mask, Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog (health) member has said.8. Antibody resistance: Delta Plus is known to be resistant to monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy, but that does not mean it has more virulence than Delta, the Cente has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-in-india-40-cases-1st-specimen-found-in-april-sample-what-we-know-so-far-101624448444003.html
23-06-2021||India||50 tumultuous days of Mamata Banerjee’s government 3.0||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal, which swept the assembly polls for the third consecutive time in May, will complete 50 days in power on June 24.While the battle for the state witnessed a high-pitched election campaign, the first six weeks following the TMC’s victory were as turbulent politically, with allegations of post-poll violence, the arrest of TMC ministers in the Narada scam, the controversy around cyclone Yaas and the sudden retirement of state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. West Bengal has witnessed dramatic political developments in this period, and political experts say this is just a trailer of what lies ahead in the run-up to 2024 for the eastern state.Here’s a look at the tumultuous first 50 days of Mamata Banerjee 3.0:The arrest of TMC leadersOn May 17, less than a fortnight after Banerjee took oath as chief minister (CM), sleuths from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested two ministers, a legislator and a former mayor in connection with the Narada sting operation case, in which the leaders were allegedly seen accepting bribes.The incident prompted Banerjee to hold a dharna at the CBI office demanding that the agency also arrest her. This, while state law minister, Moloy Ghatak, led a 3,000-strong crowd of supporters to the lower court.However, this backfired as the CBI cited these incidents to tell the court how influential the accused are. While they are out on interim bail, a five-judge bench is still hearing the bail plea.The TMC alleged that this was the work of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which, after a humiliating defeat in the assembly elections in the state, had grown vindictive. The BJP said that the law was simply taking its course.Post-poll violence deepens divisionsIncidents of post-poll violence erupted soon after the results. On May 6, one day after taking oath, Banerjee said that at least 16 persons were killed in post-poll violence.The Union ministry of home affairs was quick to send a four-member team to assess the situation and sought a report from the Governor.Also Read | Now, SC judge recuses from hearing pleas in Narada caseThis left the TMC government seething. “The BJP is not able to digest the defeat in the assembly polls. I would appeal to them to accept the people’s mandate and allow us to work to tackle the Covid situation. We are not interested to quarrel with you now,” Banerjee said at the time.The BJP, however, continued to sharpen its attack with allegations of political violence, even as Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took a tour of some of the alleged trouble-torn areas. He even went to Assam where some people were believed to have taken shelter to escape violence.“With a heavy heart, I am constrained to observe your continued silence and inaction over post-poll retributive bloodshed, violation of human rights, outrageous assault on the dignity of women, wanton destruction of property, perpetuation of untold miseries on political opponents... worst since independence... and it ill augurs for democracy,” Dhankhar wrote in a letter to Banerjee in June.Meanwhile, the Calcutta high court directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to examine cases of human rights violations. Families of victims of post-poll violence have also moved the Supreme Court.“Our workers are being murdered and thousands of them still can’t return home because of the violence. The court can see this, central agencies can see this, people can see this but the TMC government can’t see this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.The return of the turncoatsEven though more than two dozen legislators abandoned the TMC ahead of the assembly elections to join the BJP, the former got a shot in the arm after Mukul Roy, BJP’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC on June 11. He had earlier left the TMC to join the BJP in 2017.After Roy’s return, the BJP filed a petition before the assembly Speaker, seeking his disqualification under the anti-defection law.But Roy — a legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district — is not alone. Senior leaders of the Bengal ruling party have said that several former TMC leaders, who had sided with the BJP, are prepared to return to the TMC.Also Read | Bengal forms 10-member expert committee to tackle possible third Covid wave“We are the largest party in the world and there is a democracy in the party. We are not a family-centric party. We have some ideologies which run the party. If someone feels stifled here and feels would be able to serve the people by moving to another party, then BJP respects it,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s vice-president in West Bengal.TMC chief, Banerjee, however, asserted that the party will not accept all the turncoats who are willing to return.“Those who had betrayed the party ahead of the elections to strengthen the BJP and had bitterly attacked the TMC party during campaigns will not be taken back. Mukul never attacked the TMC. There are, however, some leaders who may have gone with Mukul and may want to come back. The party will take a decision on this,” said Banerjee.Other defectors such as Sonali Guha, Dipendu Biswas and Sarala Murmu have openly said that they want to return to the party. They even sent apologies to Banerjee, while others have sent “feelers” by criticising the BJP.All eyes on 2024Banerjee is now setting her eyes on the TMC playing a bigger role on the national stage. Poll strategist Prashant Kishor, credited for his earlier role in the BJP’s Lok Sabha win in 2014 as well as the TMC’s 2021 assembly election win, has officially quit the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC). Despite this, Banerjee has renewed her contract with the firm.The CM’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, seen as the driving force behind the party’s national expansion plan, has announced that the TMC will set up units in other states with the sole purpose of winning elections and putting up a formidable front against the BJP.Also Read | NIA to probe links between Maoists of Bihar, Bengal, JharkhandFor the record, the TMC projected Banerjee as the next prime minister before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but stitching together an alliance of regional forces to defeat the BJP proved to be unsuccessful.Meanwhile, Sharad Pawar of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Kishor met twice in two weeks amid buzz about a national coalition against the BJP. The TMC also went for a major rejig by activating a younger, more versatile leadership and eradicating centralism in the ranks of the 23-year-old party.Centre-state relations take a hit Centre-state relations took a nosedive after CM Banerjee and the state’s chief secretary Alapan Banerjee skipped a review meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take stock of the damages caused by cyclone Yaas, even though they met Modi for a few minutes to hand over a report of the damage on his arrival in the state.Alapan Banerjee, who was to retire on May 31, was given an extension of three months and was asked by the Centre to report to Delhi. The state, however, refused to release him calling the Centre’s order “unprecedented” and “unilateral.” The chief secretary retired on May 31 and was appointed as special adviser to the CM.However, the battle had only just begun. The Centre sent a show-cause notice to Alapan Banerjee on May 31, insisting that his decision to miss the meeting convened by Modi was a violation of the Disaster Management Act 2005. Banerjee responded to it.Also Read | Centre begins action against ex-chief secy of BengalOn June 21, following up on its show-cause notice, the Centre warned of major penalty proceedings against him. Banerjee has to respond within 30 days.CM Mamata Banerjee, soon after coming to power, raised allegations of the Centre depriving West Bengal. She had even sent a barrage of letters to the Centre almost every day.“No breathing space to the ruling party” The BJP, which had suffered a blow in the elections, decided to go on the political offensive too. This became clear when the party’s president in the state, Dilip Ghosh, said that they won’t give any breathing space to the ruling party.Ghosh said, “We have 75 seats in the assembly. We will not allow any breathing space to the ruling party in the assembly even as protests would continue outside. The TMC won so many seats but there was no victory rally. It is because the people don’t want to be a part of their sins.”.If the first 50 days are any indication, the Bengal election result has only sparked the next round of political confrontation between the national and regional, Centre and the state, and the BJP and TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-tumultuous-days-of-mamata-banerjee-s-government-30-101624448444462.html
23-06-2021||India||Kerala on high alert as 3 villages report cases of Delta Plus variant||Nearly three villages in Kerala have been put under lockdown after a genome sequencing study detected the presence of the highly infectious Delta Plus variant in some Covid-19 patients. Experts have warned that the new variant is very infectious, displays strong binding to receptors of lung cells and affects monoclonal anti-bodies rapidly. The detection of the new variant occurred at a time when cases have dipped and the government has just started opening up several sectors that were under lockdown for more than 40 days. One case was reported from Pathanamitta and two others from Palakkad district. “In Pathanamitta it was found in a four-year-old boy in Kadapra village and he’s tested negative now. We have cordoned off the area and all residents are undergoing RT-PCR tests. We have examined the travel history of the family and it seems mutation might have taken place locally,” said district medical officer Dr A L Sheeja. She said many patients from the area were earlier infected with Delta variant and mutation might have taken place locally. ALSO READ | Delta plus a Covid-19 ‘variant of concern’ in India: Health ministryIn Palakkad, the variant was detected in two women in their 50s and both of them tested negative later. Palakkad DMO K P Reetha said their primary contacts tested negative and a massive testing drive was going on in the area. District collector Mrunami Joshi said two villages Parali and Pariyari will be closed for a week and all residents will have to undergo RT-PCR tests. India is among ten countries where the Delta Plus variant has been found so far. There are over 40 cases of the new variant in the country, which has been tagged as a “variant of concern” by the Union health ministry. The states which have so far reported cases of the Delta Plus variant include Maharashtra with nearly 21 people infected, Kerala and pockets of Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.The Centre has advised the chief secretaries of these states to take up immediate containment measures in the districts where the new variant has been found, including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage of the local population on a priority basis.Very little is known about the virus currently. Head of the national experts group on vaccination and Niti Aayog member VK Paul said on Tuesday that the affected states have been sent advisories and asked to step up vigil. According to experts, the new variant is a mutant version of the B. 1.617. strain but there is little evidence on how virulent the strain is. After some preliminary studies in Maharashtra, experts found that the transmission rate was extremely high and the new strain reduces monoclonal antibody response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-on-high-alert-as-3-villages-report-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-101624448443332.html
23-06-2021||India||WhatsApp, Facebook widely used for news, trust in television low: Report||Online platforms like WhatsApp, YouTube, and Facebook are widely used for news consumption in India, according to an annual report by Reuters Institute. According to the global survey, India has emerged as one of the strongest mobile focussed markets, with 73% of users accessing news through smartphones and only 37% using computers.The reason behind the relatively greater use of smartphones than computers for news consumption is because many of the 600 million active internet users access the internet only through mobile phones, aided by low data charges and cheap devices, as per the survey. More than half of the respondents said they use WhatsApp and YouTube for news consumption.About 59% of the respondents, mainly English-speaking online users in India, used television for news while 82% of them said they consume news through online platforms, including social media. The report noted that the increased dependency on social media platforms for news consumption has also caused “serious problems with misinformation and hate speech.”“Facebook is seen as the main channel for spreading false information almost everywhere but messaging apps like WhatsApp are seen as a bigger problem in parts of the Global South such as Brazil and Indonesia,” Nic Newman, senior research associate, Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism, said in the report.Also Read | HC refuses to stay CCI notice to Facebook, WhatsApp in privacy policy matterWhile television remains the most popular news source overall, print brands are more trusted than television which, according to the Digital News Report 2021, are “far more polarised and sensational in their coverage.” Citing the recent Television Rating Point (TRP) case, the report suggested that Republic TV has lower trust scores than legacy print and television brands despite its popularity.“Respondents are generally more affluent, younger, have higher levels of formal education, and are more likely to live in cities than the wider Indian population. Findings should not be taken to be nationally representative,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-facebook-widely-used-for-news-trust-in-television-low-report-101624446993188.html
23-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ramdev moves SC over FIRs against him for remarks on allopathy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ramdev moves Supreme Court over cases filed against him for his remarks on allopathyYoga guru Ramdev on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging multiple first information reports (FIRs) against him for his comments on efficacy of allopathy in treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read MoreOn TRIPS waiver, Jaishankar says Covid is a calamity that requires 'last resort'As Portuguese foreign minister Augusto Santos Silva on Wednesday said that Europe is philosophically against waiving intellectual property rights and this should be the last resort, foreign minister S Jaishankar said the pandemic has presented a situation that needs this "last resort". Read MoreMumbai woman jumps off 12th-floor after pushing son, neighbour heldA woman in Mumbai died of suicide after jumping off her apartment on 12th floor of a highrise along with her 10-year-old son on Monday. Read MoreIND vs NZ: Shami reveals interesting change brought in by Indian bowlers for WTC finalThe World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand is headed for an exciting finish despite several delays due to rain. Read MorePoleburnt: Kriti Kharbanda is exhausted after returning to pole dancing sessionsKriti Kharbanda may not be the biggest fan of complex workout regimes and boring gym equipment, but the Pagalpanti actor makes sure she keeps fit while doing things she loves. Read MoreWhen Karan Johar watched in awkward silence as Kangana Ranaut blasted hosts on reality show. WatchKangana Ranaut and Karan Johar reunited for the first time after their infamous Koffee with Karan showdown on the sets of India's Next Superstars, a reality show on which Karan was one of the judges. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ramdev-moves-sc-over-firs-against-him-for-remarks-on-allopathy-and-all-the-latest-news-101624445942039.html
23-06-2021||India||Dawood Ibrahim's brother Iqbal Kaskar arrested by NCB in drug peddling case||Underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's brother Iqbal Kaskar was on Wednesday arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug peddling case, according to news agency ANI.According to the probe agency, it obtained some important clues in relation to the underworld don linked with the terror funding during the investigation of a drugs case."During questioning of the accused in the matter, some links were found related to Dawood Ibrahim's brother Iqbal Kaskar. Kaskar has been taken into custody," NCB said.Iqbal Kaskar is currently lodged in Thane jail. In September 2017, the Anti-Extortion Cell (AEC) of Thane Police had arrested Kaskar on the charges of extortion. He was boooked under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The arrest was made after a builder complained against Kaskar for allegedly extorting money from him since 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawood-ibrahim-s-brother-iqbal-kaskar-arrested-by-ncb-in-drug-peddling-case-101624446699700.html
23-06-2021||India||UK high court rejects Nirav Modi's extradition plea||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered in April by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in the High Court here.The appeal was before a High Court judge for a decision “on the papers” submitted for the appeal to determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the Home Secretary’s decision or the Westminster Magistrates Court February ruling in favour of Nirav Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering.A High Court official confirmed that the permission to appeal was "rejected on paper" on Tuesday, which leaves the 50-year-old jeweller with a chance to make his case at a brief oral hearing in the High Court with a renewed “leave to appeal” application for a judge to determine if it can proceed to a full appeal hearing.Also Read: ED gives banks ₹9,371 crore assets seized from Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi Under the legal guidelines, Nirav Modi as an appellant has five business days to apply for such an oral consideration, giving him time until next week.If a renewal application is made, it will be listed before a High Court judge for a hearing. It is understood that Nirav Modi plans to make such an application.“We are waiting to see if they do apply for permission to appeal. If they are allowed to appeal then we would contest any appeal proceedings on behalf of the GOI (government of India),” the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which appears in court on behalf of the Indian authorities, said last month.Meanwhile, Nirav Modi remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest over two years ago on 19 March 2019.In his ruling in February, District Judge Sam Goozee concluded that the diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts and that the bars to extradition under UK law do not apply in his case.As part of a very comprehensive judgment, the judge concluded that he was satisfied that there is evidence upon which Nirav Modi could be convicted in relation to the conspiracy to defraud the PNB.Also Read: 'Woman in question part of team that abducted Mehul Choksi', claims his lawyer“A prima facie case is established,” he said, in relation to all counts of charges brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) – including money laundering, intimidation of witnesses and disappearance of evidence.The court had also accepted that while Nirav Modi's mental health had deteriorated due to the lengthy incarceration in a London prison, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, his risk of suicide did not meet the high threshold to conclude that it would be "unjust or oppressive" to extradite him.Nirav Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added to the CBI case.As witnessed in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya – who remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” matter, believed to relate to an asylum request, is resolved – there is still some way to go before Nirav Modi can be moved from Wandsworth Prison in London to Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and face trial in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-high-court-rejects-nirav-modi-s-extradition-plea-101624445614753.html
23-06-2021||India||Bar council proposal to set up university of legal education in Goa approved||Goa will play host to the International University of Legal Education as well as a bench of the International Arbitration Centre with the state Cabinet approving a proposal by the Bar Council of India (BCI).Addressing a press conference, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who chaired a meeting of the Cabinet on Wednesday, said that the institute will be funded and run by the Bar Council of India; Goa only has to locate and identify a stretch of land to host the institute. “We have approved a proposal to set up the International University of Legal Education and Research (run by) the Bar Council of India. All expenses are being borne by the Bar Council of India, not us. It will also be run by the Bar Council of India. We only have to give them the land free of cost,” Sawant said. Also Read | BJP MLA files ₹5 crore defamation suit against singer in GoaThe state government has also granted its approval to set up a unit of the International Arbitration Centre that will also be associated with the law university. “Right now there is no International Arbitration Centre in India, there’s only one in Singapore. The second International Arbitration Centre will be set up in Goa. It will also be run by the Bar Council,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bar-council-proposal-to-set-up-university-of-legal-education-in-goa-approved-101624445562969.html
23-06-2021||India||On TRIPS waiver, Jaishankar says Covid is a calamity that requires 'last resort'||As Portuguese foreign minister Augusto Santos Silva on Wednesday said that Europe is philosophically against waiving intellectual property rights and this should be the last resort, foreign minister S Jaishankar said the pandemic has presented a situation that needs this "last resort". Both the ministers took part in an online session organised by the Observer Research Foundation on the "Future of India-EU relations".The Portuguese minister said that the European Union is deliberating the waiver proposal brought by India and South Africa and the EU is also waiting for a proposal from the United States. "Waiving IPR is a last resort kind of solution. We are discussing it. There are different views and we are still waiting for a proposal from the US, which said it would back a temporary IPR waiver. But no concrete proposal has been presented before the EU in the right framework," the minister said.Patent waiver proposal on Covid vaccines gets widespread support at G7: MEAReplying to the minister Jaishankar said that Europe is key in this proposal as many supply channels go through Europe. "When India and South Africa brought up the proposal, we were speaking for the larger global interest. We believe others too share that thinking," Jaishankar said.On ChinaThe two foreign ministers spoke elaborately on China where Augusto Santos Silva mentioned that China is a challenge and not a threat but on human rights issues, the EU considers India, not China, as its partner. Europe can't be silent on China squeezing domestic space in Hong Kong, its aggression in the South China Sea, its relations with Taiwan, or what China is doing in Xinjiang. But it is also a partner as without China the global targets of the Paris Agreement will not be fulfilled, Portugal foreign minister said.A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposal"We come from very different places and India shares its border with China. I have my military which is right up there in the border. I think my situation is very different from Europe," Jaishankar said.On India-EU tiesJaishankar also thanked the Portugal foreign minister for the remarkable six months of India-EU ties."We had a very important virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all the EU leaders. We made some important decisions. One is the resumption of negotiations on the Trade and Investment agreement," Jaishankar said adding that it was not a capricious or purely diplomatic decision. "A lot of work went into it. We reached a stage, where we felt confident to do so," Jaishankar said.What is TRIPS waiver? TRIPS is a global agreement covering all member nations under the World Trade Organization. It is an agreement on patent, intellectual property rights etc. India and South Africa sought a waiver so that procuring vaccines and drugs made by developed countries become easy for developing countries. The European Union has so far opposed the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-trips-waiver-jaishankar-says-covid-is-a-calamity-that-requires-last-resort-101624443642790.html
23-06-2021||India||TRP scam and Arnab Goswami: Here is what 2nd supplementary chargesheet says||The criminal intelligence unit of the Mumbai police crime branch on Tuesday named seven more persons, including Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV and Republic Bharat news channels, as an accused in a 1,912-page second supplementary charge sheet in the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case.Of the seven new accused, five are connected to the Republic TV group. Shiva Subramanyam, Priya Mukherji, Shivendra Muldhekar and Ranjit Waltkar are the other four besides Goswami. The remaining two are linked to Maha Movie channel. Total 22 people are now accused in the case.All you need to know about the case:A complaint was registered in the Kandivli police station on October 6 last year based on the complaint lodged by representatives of Hansa Research Group, a contractor employed by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), a joint industry company set up to manage television audience measurement systems.The complaint was registered against some of their relationship managers for allegedly manipulating TV ratings and helping some channels to artificially augment their ratings. The complainant accused certain TV channels of rigging TRP via some of their relationship managers.According to the police, the Times Now channel's ratings were reduced and the ratings of the Republic channel were artificially increased by the accused due to which Times Now suffered a loss of ₹432 crore. Additional evidence has been submitted against Goswami and other accused in the second supplementary charge sheet, said police.Police claimed that some of the households with BARC Bar-o-Meters for measuring TRP were bribed by Republic TV and others Hansa Research Group’s relationship managers, who were directly in touch with the households.The first charge sheet against the 12 accused was filed on November 24, 2020, after the case was transferred to the CIU and the first supplementary charge sheet against three more accused on January 11 this year.The CIU officers said that the investigation revealed three modes of manipulation of TRPs--inducing the panel homes with Barc-o-Meters, paying money to watch certain TV channels for a particular amount of time, dual LCN.A case has already been made out against the representatives of all the channels involved in TRP manipulation - Box Cinema, Fast Marathi, Mahamovie, Republic TV and Republic Bharat, the police officers said.Police recovered a long WhatsApp chat between Goswami, who is the accused no.19 in the case and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta, during the course of the investigation. Gupta and Goswami were in constant touch for the benefit of the news channel and the former BARC CEO has even shared confidential information with Goswami.The crime branch claimed that during the investigation Goswami answered a list of questions mailed to him and had allegedly accepted that the recovered chats were his conversation with the former BARC CEO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-scam-and-arnab-goswami-here-is-what-2nd-supplementary-chagesheet-says-101624437963067.html
23-06-2021||India||Ramdev moves Supreme Court over cases filed against him for his remarks on allopathy||Yoga guru Ramdev on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging multiple first information reports (FIRs) against him for his comments on efficacy of allopathy in treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He has also sought protection from 'coercive actions' in the FIRs lodged by Indian Medical Association's Patna and Raipur wings.Ramdev had stirred controversy with his remarks that he was enjoying the dual protection of yoga and Ayurveda and that is why he didn’t opt for vaccination. He also claimed that the fatalities caused by Covid-19 showed that allopathy was not 100% effective.“For decades, I have been practicing yoga-Ayurveda doses so I didn’t feel the need to get vaccinated. Over 100 crore people of India as well as in foreign countries are in reach of these ancient therapies. In the coming time, Ayurveda will be globally accepted. A section of society is deliberately ignoring or deeming it inferior in comparison to allopathy,” Ramdev said.It all started when a video of the yoga guru surfaced last month, in which he was seen calling allopathy a ‘stupid science’ and alleging that thousands of doctors had died despite taking the Covid-19 vaccine. As calls for his arrest over the remarks were made, he challenged them and said "even their baap (father) cannot arrest Swami Ramdev". He later retracted those comments following the IMA and Union health minister’s objections. The IMA have, however, said they would drop the cases against him only if he withdrew his comments against allopathy in entirety.In what seemed like a damage control move, Ramdev described doctors as "God's envoys on earth" and said that he would soon get the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-challenges-in-supreme-court-cases-filed-against-him-over-his-remarks-on-allopathy-101624439505382.html
23-06-2021||India||Jharkhand's Gulshan Lohar lost both his arms; gets Covid-19 jab in thigh||Jharkhand's Gulshan Lohar has no hands, but that never stopped Gulshan from learning computer. Then why should it stop him from getting vaccinated against Covid-19? According to reports, Gulshan went to a healthcare centre on Tuesday to get vaccinated. Covid-19 vaccines are generally administered in the arm muscle. But Gulshan said he can take the vaccine in his thigh muscle. After getting the jab, he reported no side effects, reports said.The existing vaccines against Covid-19 are to be administered through muscles as they are intramuscular vaccines. One nasal vaccine, which is believed to make vaccination hassle-free, is on its way.According to experts, there is a reason why the arm's deltoid muscle makes a good location for Covid-19 vaccines. Muscle tissues contain immune cells which carry the message (antigen or blueprint for producing antigen) to lymph nodes located just under the armpit. From deltoid muscle, they don't have to travel long. But if the vaccine is injected into the thigh muscle, it coordinated with the lymph nodes on the groin. Hence, it is not a challenge to get vaccinated in the thigh. But as it's inconvenient, Covid-19 vaccines are administered in the arm.From June 21, India has entered a new phase of vaccination in which the Centre is procuring 75 per cent of the vaccines from the manufacturers and distributing them among the states. On the very first day, India achieved record-breaking vaccination numbers with all states putting up the maximum efforts.The vaccination drive in India began on January 16 with healthcare workers. In the following phases, frontline workers, people above the age of 45 and then the population above the age of 18 were brought under the ambit of vaccination coverage. In rural areas, vaccine hesitancy is an issue that the administration is fighting as people are doubtful about the vaccine. In such a scenario, Gulshan Lohar's example is being seen as an exemplary one — to many.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhands-gulshan-lohar-lost-both-his-arms-gets-covid-19-jab-in-thigh-101624440517448.html
23-06-2021||India||Puducherry CM submits list of Cabinet members to L-G||Puducherry chief minister N Rangasamy on Wednesday submitted the list of his Cabinet ministers to Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, months after the election results were announced on May 2. The All Indian NR Congress (AINRC)-led alliance, in which the BJP is a key constituent, won the elections in the Union Territory following the collapse of the then Congress-led regime earlier this year in February. The delay in Cabinet formation was caused by multiple factors and more recently, by infighting in the BJP as supporters of all the six elected MLAs were lobbying for Cabinet posts. “The list has five ministers--three from AINRC and two from the BJP,” said a senior AINRC leader not wishing to be quoted. Also Read | Odisha to reduce syllabus for class 9 and 10 by 30% for 2021-22 sessionFormer Congress heavyweight, A Namassivayam who moved to the BJP, is likely to be one of the ministers. His exit had led to a spate of resignations from the Congress. Though the BJP drew a blank in the 2016 assembly elections, it was the Congress turncoats who aided the party in winning six out of the nine seats they contested this time.Besides Namassivayam, senior BJP leader Sai Saravanan Kumar, who was elected from Oussudu, a reserved constituency for scheduled castes, is also likely to be inducted in the Cabinet.Initially the process was delayed as chief minister N Rangaswamy was down with Covid-19, a day after he took oath on May 7. The newly elected MLAs were sworn in almost three weeks later, on May 26. Later, negotiations were hard between the AINRC and BJP over the number of Cabinet berths. BJP MLA ‘Embalam’ R Selvam was elected unopposed to the Speaker’s post on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cm-submits-list-of-cabinet-members-to-lg-101624440222789.html
23-06-2021||India||Rajesh Tope says officials asked to closely monitor Delta Plus variant in Maha||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that he has directed officials to closely monitor the Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 causing Covid-19 disease, and that information about these cases should be collected and recorded for study. “We are taking 100 samples from every district,” ANI quoted him as saying.India has reported as many as 40 cases of Delta Plus variant, ANI reported on Wednesday citing government sources. “As of now among the samples sequenced (45,000+) in India, this variant has been observed sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh with around 40 cases identified so far and no significant increase in prevalence,” a statement by the government read.Retrospective analysis of samples revealed the first occurrence of the Delta Plus variant from a sample collected from Maharashtra on April 5 this year, the statement further read.The Centre has advised Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh for strengthening surveillance and appropriate public health measures. “Currently, the number of such Delta Plus variants in India are only few but the distribution or detection in various states during past two + months indicate that [it] is already present in some states and [they] may need to enhance their public health response by focusing on surveillance, enhanced testing, quick contact-tracing and priority vaccination,” the official statement added.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare, in a statement, called Delta Plus a “variant of concern” (VoC). The ministry cited an analysis by a consortium of genomic sequencing labs that purportedly found the mutated virus to spread more readily. Addressing a press conference earlier that day, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had called Delta Plus a “variant of interest” (VoI), implying that it is being studied.This comes after India achieved the highest single-day vaccination against coronavirus on Monday with 8.6 million vaccine doses administered across all states and Union territories. Speaking to the media, Bhushan on Tuesday said that the achievement was “not sudden” but a result of “coordinated planning”.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 8,473 new Covid-19 cases, over 2,000 more than Monday, state health bulletin data showed. Following this, the overall tally of the state climbed up to 5,987,521, the bulletin added.Meanwhile, India on Wednesday reported a surge in daily caseload with 50,848 new cases in the last 24 hours, up from 42,640 cases on the preceding day. Tuesday’s daily case count was the lowest since March 30 when 40,953 fresh cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajesh-tope-says-officials-asked-to-closely-monitor-delta-plus-variant-in-maha-101624438967090.html
23-06-2021||India||After nine years, over 900 teachers in Tripura to be regularised||Almost nine years after their appointment, a total of 938 science teachers in Tripura have been regularised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government, making the beneficiary teachers eligible for salary arrears since 2017 at a cost of nearly ₹50 crore to the government. “Their five years tenure was completed in 2017, but they were not made regular as the previous government didn’t leave any regular post in the Kept-in-Abeyance category. Our government has approved their regularisation and has created regular posts kept in abeyance,” state law minister Ratan Lal Nath said on Tuesday. These teachers were appointed in 2012 on fixed pay scale during the erstwhile Left Front government in the state. Following their regularisation, their salaries will also stand revised. “Now, these science teachers get a salary of ₹20,475 a month and after they become regulars, their salary will be hiked to ₹33,853 a month including all benefits,” said the minister. The state has also introduced New Promotion Policy, 2021, under which employees will get a one-time promotion on an adhoc basis. “If any scheduled tribe, scheduled caste and general candidates are deprived of their promotion, we will give them promotion after creating supernumerary posts”, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-nine-years-over-900-teachers-in-tripura-to-be-regularised-101624436562695.html
23-06-2021||India||Flying to Dubai from India? Here are the guidelines you should follow||Emirates airline will on Wednesday resume flights between the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and India as announced recently by the UAE-based airline. The announcement came after authorities in Dubai, on June 19, eased travel curbs for passengers from three countries, including India.Also Read: Dubai eases travel curbs for fully vaccinated Indian travellersFollowing the easing of travel norms, Emirates had said in a statement, “We welcome the latest protocols and measures announced by Dubai’s Supreme Committee and Disaster Management to allow the safe resumption of passenger travel from South Africa, Nigeria and India to Dubai onwards. We will resume carrying passengers from South Africa, Nigeria and India in accordance with these protocols from June 23 onwards.” The UAE first suspended air travel to and from India in April as the latter battled a devastating second wave of Covid-19; the ban was later extended till July 6.Here are the guidelines you need to follow if flying from India to Dubai:(1.) Passengers with a valid e-residence visa, who have received two jabs of the Covid-19 vaccines approved in the UAE, will be allowed in Dubai. The following four vaccines have been approved in the UAE: Sinopharm, Pfizer-BioNTech E, Sputnik V and Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot.(2.) All the passengers flying to Dubai from India need to show a negative RT-PCR report from a test conduct 48 hours before departure. Also, only QR-coded negative PCR test reports will be accepted.(3.) Additionally, passengers flying to Dubai will have to take another Covid-19 test – a rapid PCR one – four hours before departure. They will have to undergo further RT-PCR testing upon arrival.(4.) Passengers from India will undergo institutional quarantine till their RT-PCR test report is out, likely within 24 hours of the test.Dubai airport’s Terminal 1 will reopen on Thursday after a 15-month closure. Flights were operated through Terminal 2 and Terminal 3 last year amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flying-to-dubai-from-india-here-are-the-guidelines-you-need-to-know-101624435657065.html
23-06-2021||India||What is the difference between Covid's Delta and Delta Plus variants?||Delta and Delta Plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus have emerged as new threats to India's fight against the ongoing pandemic which witnessed several milestones of success with new infections nosediving and the number of vaccinations going up. Delta, first detected in India, is a global concern while Delta Plus — with 40 cases in India — requires more research. Delta Plus is a variant of Delta.Difference between Delta and Delta PlusDelta (B.1.617.2) was first detected in India. It is a variant of concern and a variant of interest.As Delta Plus (B.1.617.2.1/(AY.1) is a variant of Delta, it is also treated as a variant of concern. But the properties of the variant detected in India (AY.1) are still being investigated. According to India's Covid genome sequencing consortium, AY.1 cases have mostly reported from nine countries of Europe, Asia and America.Also Read | Delta, Delta Plus: Which vaccines are effective against Covid-19 new variantsThe two is differentiated by the K417N mutation in Spike protein which Delta Plus variants have.While Delta was first reported in India, Delta plus first reported by Public Health England on its June 11 bulletin. It said that the new variant was present in six genomes from India as of June 7.How many Delta and Delta Plus cases are there across the world?Delta has rapidly spread in the United Kingdom and reports said that Delta variant is responsible for 99 per cent of the UK's cases. In the UK itself, the number has surpassed 33,000 in a week. This variant is spreading to other countries as well.According to the Centre, as of June 18, 205 Delta Plus cases were detected worldwide, with the USA and the UK reporting more than half of the known cases.What is Ay.2 another variant of Delta?There are other Delta Plus variants with other mutations. Ay.1 has been found as the most common, but another mutant AY.2 has also been found in the United States. This has not been found in India yet.Is Delta Plus more transmissible, virulent than Delta?Delta variant of coronavirus has been held responsible for the second wave of the pandemic in India. Several other countries too consider Delta as the factor behind a sudden surge of cases. Experts in India have said Delta Plus, already detected in Maharashtra, can be the reason behind the third wave.Delta Plus resists monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy in which artificial antibodies are produced in the body. But India's expert committee has confirmed that resistance to this does not mean that this variant is more virulent.Delta Plus was already present in IndiaThe government on Wednesday clarified that after Public Health England reported Delta Plus on June 11, experts conducted a retrospective analysis of samples and found Delta Plus in a sample collected on April 5.The government has said that the number of Delta Plus variants in India are very few but the variant is already present in some states for the last two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-difference-between-covid-s-delta-variant-and-delta-plus-variant-101624435169704.html
23-06-2021||India||Rajasthan all set to get its 4th tiger reserve||Rajasthan is all set to get its fourth tiger reserve in Bundi as the state government has received the go-ahead for it from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), officials aware of the matter said on Wednesday.Chief wildlife warden Mohan Lal Meena said the NTCA’s technical committee has approved the proposal for converting Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary in Bundi, which is spread across 1,071 square km, into a tiger reserve. He added the state will soon issue a notification in this regard.Officials said a 302 square km area in the proposed tiger sanctuary will be left as critical habitat for big cats and the rest of the area will be the buffer zoneThe Rajasthan government last year first announced the plan to develop the Bundi sanctuary as a tiger reserve to provide a second habitat to Ranthambore tigers and to boost tourism.Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in Sawai Madhopur, Alwar’s Sariska Tiger Reserve, and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in Kota have over 100 big cats.A second forest official said NTCA is now expected to send a committee to review the Bundi sanctuary. He added the population of big cats at the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve is increasing and they need more space. This space crunch would get resolved by upgrading the Bundi sanctuary, which was earlier a natural habitat of tigers.Meena said tigers from Ranthambore could be translocated to the new sanctuary after NTCA’s approval.Officials also hope to connect Ranthambore to Ramgarh and Mukundra.“To strengthen the prey base, the state has already approved shifting of chital (spotted deer) from Ghana Bird Sanctuary (Karauli) to Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve, Keoladeo National Park, and Ramgarh Vishdhari,” said Meena.A third official said the fourth proposed sanctuary has been known as a breeding place for tigers. As per a 1985 census, there were nine tigers there. At least three cats have strayed out of Ranthambore to Ramgarh since 2013. This shows that tigers are migrating there naturally, the third official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-all-set-to-get-its-4th-tiger-reserve-101624434822697.html
23-06-2021||India||IMD lists 5 hottest and coldest places in India. Check details||India is popular for scorching heat in the summer and now that the season is here mercury levels in several parts of the country are on a constant rise. Summer in India usually starts in March and continues till September. The heat is often accompanied by power cuts and water scarcity.Also read: Widespread, heavy rain likely over east and northeast India during next 5 daysAs per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), these places are the hottest on June 23:Churu currently is the hottest place in the country with a maximum temperature of 42.1 degrees Celsius.Followed by Pilani, again in Rajasthan with a maximum temperature of 41.7 degrees Celsius.Sawai Madhopur is at third with mercury there reaching 41.6 degrees Celsius.Agra in Uttar Pradesh is also among the top five with 41.2 degrees its maximum temperature.Alwar in Rajasthan is also among the top five hottest places in India with its maximum temperature at 41.1 degrees Celsius.The IMD data showed these places as the coldest in India on June 23:Leh is at the top with a minimum temperature of 6.7 degrees Celsius.Pahalgam in Jammu and Kashmir is at second with a minimum temperature of 7.2 degrees Celsius.Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir is chilling with a minimum temperature of 9.5 degrees Celsius.Followed by Kupwara in the Union territory with a low of 11.2 degrees Celsius.Kalpa in Himachal Pradesh has a minimum temperature of 11.6 degrees Celsius.The IMD has also projected that the monsoon will elude Delhi for another week. Delhi is also facing scorching heat on Wednesday with a maximum temperature of 40.5 degrees Celsius. Progress pertaining to monsoon is also unlikely in parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab, according to the Met department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-lists-5-hottest-and-coldest-places-in-india-check-details-101624431789839.html
23-06-2021||India||Minister Dharmendra Pradhan now blames Congress for petrol, diesel prices hike||Union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday linked the recent fuel price hike with the Congres rule and, citing economists, the minister said that the Congress had left oil bonds worth crores for repayment, which is why the current Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has to pay both its interest and principal price. “This is also a big reason for the rise in fuel prices,” he told news agency ANI.Pradhan further said that there has been a hike in crude oil price in the international market. “One of the main reasons behind the rise in fuel prices in India is that we have to import 80 per cent of the oil we consume,” he added to ANI.His remarks come after petrol and diesel prices in the country witnessed the 28th surge in 50 days on Tuesday after remaining unchanged for a day. The fuel prices were increased by 25 to 28 paise per litre at 6am on Tuesday. Following this recent surge, a litre of petrol in Mumbai – where prices are at the highest among the metros, is priced at ₹103.63, while the same quantity of diesel is priced at ₹95.72. The prices of one litre of petrol and diesel were ₹103.36 and ₹95.44, respectively. In Delhi, petrol and diesel are priced at ₹97.50 per litre and ₹88.23 per litre, respectively.In Kolkata, fuel prices are one of the lowest among the metros, with petrol priced at ₹97.38 per litre and diesel priced at ₹91.08 per litre. In Chennai, petrol now costs ₹98.65 per litre while diesel costs ₹92.83 per litre.A few days before, the minister said that the price could not be brought down because the government was saving money to spend on welfare schemes. "I accept that current fuel prices are problematic for people but be it central/state government, over ₹35,000 crore is being spent on vaccines in a year. In such dire times, we are saving money to spend on welfare schemes," Pradhan said.According to the latest price hikes, petrol now costs over ₹100 per litre in at least eight states and Union territories, including Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Maharashtra.Fuel prices remain most expensive in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar where petrol costs ₹108.67 per litre and diesel is priced at ₹101.4 per litre.Notably, Congress staged a nationwide protest earlier this month against the increasing fuel prices. “Due to wrong policies of the Centre, inflation has become uncontrollable in the country and the prices of all essential commodities, including petrol, diesel and cooking gas, are increasing at an unprecedented rate,” Congress president in Rajasthan, Govind Singh Dotasra said.Petrol and diesel prices have been seeing hikes since May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-dharmendra-pradhan-now-blames-congress-for-petrol-diesel-prices-hike-101624431576427.html
23-06-2021||India||Nitish Kumar may meet PM Modi today amid buzz around cabinet reshuffle||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is expected to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday amidst speculations around expansion of the Union cabinet and long-awaited Janata Dal (United) representation in it. Other issues like Bihar’s battle with the Covid-19 pandemic and floods are also likely to be addressed in the talks.Kumar arrived in the national capital on Tuesday. He, however, downplayed the reports linking his visit to the possible cabinet expansion. "I have no reaction to this. It is their internal matter," the JD(U) leader said, adding that he is in Delhi for eye checkup.Kumar said the expansion of cabinet is the privilege of the prime minister, and there is no issue over it.The JD(U) had decided to stay out of the Union Cabinet in 2019, when Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government began its second term. Kumar had decided against having a symbolic representation in the cabinet with just one minister and demanded that it would have been better had all NDA allies got proportional representation.The JD(U) has 16 Lok Sabha members, but the BJP had offered it just one berth.This time, there is expectation that the JD(U) will get more berths, considering the growing expectation within the party and BJP not in a position to upset its crucial ally at this stage.JD(U) president RCP Singh has already said that the party should get respectable representation in the Union cabinet and that the party should be consulted in this regard. “JD-U is part of the NDA and the allies should get respect in a coalition,” he had said just a few days ago.There is also the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) factor. Kumar may not prefer Chirag Paswan, who has been openly critical of the Bihar chief minister. The JD(U) leader is still upset with Paswan for reducing his party to third position in Bihar polls by fielding candidates against it.A senior JD(U) leader told Hindustan Times on condition of anonymity that the party is expecting a better share as the BJP would like the infighting within the LJP to settle before inducting anyone from the party.This wil be Kumar's second meeting with PM Modi after he took over as chief minister last year. Kumar had last met the Prime Minister in February this year, when he had backed the farm laws, describing them in the interest of farmers in the face of protests by the farmers’ bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-expected-to-meet-pm-modi-today-amid-buzz-around-cabinet-reshuffle-101624431615178.html
23-06-2021||India||Odisha to reduce syllabus for class 9 and 10 by 30% for 2021-22 session||The syllabus for classes 9 and 10 in Odisha will be reduced by 30% this year due to the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, minister for school and mass education Samir Ranjan Dash said on Wednesday.“Online classes are currently underway in the state due to the Covid-19 situation. However, it is not possible for each and every student to avail online education. Hence, we have decided to reduce the syllabus,” said Dash.Last year too, the Odisha government reduced the syllabus for classes 1-10 by 30% following the closure of schools and suspension of classes due to Covid-19 outbreak. The government also promoted all the students up to class 9 and also of class 11 since holding examinations was not possible due to the threat of infection.From Monday, the state government started online teaching through YouTube for classes 1-8 in eight select districts and for classes 9 and 10 in all the districts. However, due to lack of digital connectivity, less than 1/3 of the total students are able to take part in the online classes, as per initial official estimates.Dash added that a decision regarding reopening of schools in Odisha was yet to be taken while the second wave of the disease shows signs of abating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-reduce-syllabus-for-class-9-and-10-by-30-for-2021-22-session-101624431822653.html
23-06-2021||India||Former Haryana CM OP Chautala completes sentence in JBT case: Lawyer||Sentence of former Chief Minister of Haryana Chaudhary Om Prakash Chautala has been completed in the JBT case, informed his Lawyer Amit Sahni.According to Chautala's Advocate, Tihar Jail Authority has communicated that the Government of GNCT of Delhi has passed an order regarding special remission of 6 months to convicts who are sentenced for 10 years and have already completed 9 years and 6 months of custody including regular remission."It has been a battle to seek justice for OP Chautala. We had to approach the Delhi High Court on multiple occasions for his release. The Delhi High Court has reprimanded the Delhi government for not considering his early release despite fulfilling all parameters," Sahni told ANI.Tihar Jail Authority informed the lawyer that the convict, Om Prakash Chautala, has completed his sentence and he is eligible for special remission."...The said convict will be finally released whenever he formally surrender before the jail Authority as he is currently on Parole due to the COVID-19 situation," the Tihar Jail Authority said.Earlier, Lawyer Amit Sahni had approached Delhi High Court for the directions to release the petitioner, OP Chautala, by granting special remission in light of Special Remission Notification issued by the Government of India, as the Petitioner has already undergone the prescribed sentence awarded under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.His lawyers had submitted that the Petitioner is aged about 83 years old and as per the disability certificate issued by the Dr RML Hospital, New Delhi on April 25, 2013, the petitioner is suffering from 60 per cent permanent disability of Residual Paralysis of both lower limbs and left upper limb.Chautala was serving a 10-year jail term in the teachers' recruitment scam which took place in Haryana during his tenure as the state's chief minister. The jail term was awarded by a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-haryana-cm-op-chautala-completes-sentence-in-jbt-case-lawyer-101624431116716.html
23-06-2021||India||HC refuses to stay CCI notice to Facebook, WhatsApp in privacy policy matter||The Delhi High Court has refused to stay the Competition Commission of India (CCI) notice asking Facebook and WhatsApp to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app’s new privacy policy.A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said an application seeking stay of further steps in the investigation already stands filed in which notice was issued to the Director General of CCI in which no interim relief was given by the division bench on May 6 and is listed for consideration on July 9.“We also find that there is substantial overlap, in fact near identity, as between the prayers made in… (earlier application) and those made in the present application. For the foregoing reason, we do not consider it appropriate to stay the operation of impugned notice dated June 8, at this stage,” the bench said in its order passed on June 21 and made available on Wednesday.The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy.The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-cci-notice-to-facebook-whatsapp-in-privacy-policy-matter-101624430385353.html
23-06-2021||India||Zydus Cadila to seek emergency approval for its Covid vaccine: All you need to know||Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila may approach drugs regulator DCGI for emergency approval of its Covid-19 vaccine Zycov-D. If approved, it will be the world's first DNA-based vaccine and the number of available vaccines in the country will rise to four.So far, India is administering Serum Institute's Coveshield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Russia's Sputnik V."The analysis of the phase-three trial data is almost ready and the company has informed the government that it could apply for emergency use licensure for its Covid-19 vaccine next week," PTI quoted an official as saying.Also read: India could get Covid vaccine for kids, Zydus Cadila set to seek nod for ZyCoV-DAll you need to know about Zycov-D:The second indigenous vaccine after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is a three-dose vaccine. According to Zydus Cadila, the three doses of Zycov-D are to be administered at day 0, day 28 and day 56. However, the company is also working on a two-dose vaccine.The data made availabe by the company shows that the vaccine candidate can be stored at temperature between two to eight degrees Celsius for long term and 25 degrees Celsius for the short term.This vaccine carries the genetic code for that part of a virus that triggers the immune system of the body. Like Pfizer and Moderna's vaccines use m-RNA to increase immunity, in the same way, it uses plasmid-DNA. The plasmid is a small DNA molecule present in human cells. This DNA is different from the common chromosome and is commonly found in bacterial cells and has the ability to replicate independently. m-RNA, also called messenger RNA, is said to enter the body and give messages to create antibodies against the coronavirus.The plasmid-DNA is converted into a viral protein when it enters the body, developing an immune response to the virus, stopping the virus from multiplication. If the virus mutates, the vaccine can be changed in a few weeks.The jab is also being tested on children in the age group of 12-18 years, apart from adults, according to Zydus.ZyCoV-D is said to be administered through a needle-free injection system (NFIS). Usually, in an NFIS, a jet of fluid is accelerated to the high speed that provides it significant penetrating power through a fine diameter nozzle when placed against the skin. Sharvil Patel, managing director of Cadila Healthcare, said that the vaccine might have higher acceptance among children scared of needles, according to a report in Business Standard.The Indian vaccine producer claimed to produce over 240 million doses in a year. The preparation of the company is such that the vaccine will be launched in the market just a few days after approval. The company plans to manufacture 20 million vaccines every month. The company will make 10 million does in the first month, after this, the production will be doubled, according to a report in Dainik Bhaskar.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-to-seek-emergency-approval-for-its-covid-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know-101624427514740.html
23-06-2021||India||World’s first genetically modified rubber planted in Guwahati||The world’s first genetically modified (GM) rubber plant was planted on the outskirts of Guwahati, Assam, on Tuesday. Developed at the Kerala-based Rubber Research Institute of India (RRII), the sapling was planted by Rubber Board chairman and executive director KN Raghavan at the board’s farm in Sarutari near Guwahati. The GM rubber plant, the first of its kind developed exclusively for the northeast, is expected to thrive in the climatic conditions of the region. Also Read | Genetic Engineering: Tech that can alter living beingsThe plant, which has additional copies of gene MnSOD (manganese containing superoxide dismutase) in it, is expected to revolutionise natural rubber production in India. Raghavan said the plant is expected to tide over severe cold conditions during winters, a major factor affecting the growth of young plants as natural rubber is a native of warm humid Amazon forests and is not naturally suited for cold conditions in the northeast. Commercial planting would be taken up later, depending on the results of the experiments conducted at the farm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worlds-first-genetically-modified-rubber-planted-in-guwahati-101624429542403.html
23-06-2021||India||ED gives banks ₹9,371 crore assets seized from Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday transferred assets worth ₹8,441 crore to banks who suffered losses due to frauds by Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The three fugitives cheated the public sector banks of ₹22,586 crore, out of which 80.45% ( ₹18,170 crore) has been attached/seized by the ED, the agency said in a release.With the latest transfer, assets worth ₹9,371 crore have been handed over to the banks so far, which amounts to 40% of their losses, the agency said. These include assets worth ₹329.67 crore that were confiscated, the agency further said.ED not only attached/ seized assets worth of Rs. 18,170.02 crore (80.45% of total loss to banks) in case of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi under the PMLA but also transferred a part of attached/ seized assets of Rs. 9371.17 Crore to the PSBs andCentral Government.The ED said that it unearthed the money trail by exposing a web of domestic and international transactions and stashing of assets abroad. The investigation revealed that the three accused used dummy entities controlled by them for rotation and siphoning off the funds provided by the banks, it said.The agency also said that extradition requests have been sent to countries where the three accused are living. While Mallya and Modi live in London (the UK), Choksi chose Antigua and Barbuda after running away from India.Mallya has been denied permission to file appeal in the UK Supreme Court, which has made his extradition to India almost final. While Modi's extradition to India has also been cleared, Choksi is fighting a legal battle in Antigua to stop the court from sending him to India.Mallya and Modi have been declared fugitive economic offenders by PMLA court in India, which looks after cases of money laundering.While Mallya is accused of defrauding a consortium of banks of over ₹9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, both Modi and his uncle Choksi are wanted in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud worth ₹14,500 crore.Modi was arrested on March 19, 2019, and was lodged at London's Wandsworth Prison. From the prison, he appeared on the hearings via video link as the case went on for years. Once extradited, Modi will be kept at Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail, which kept a special cell ready for him at barrack 12. If lodged in this barrack, earlier prepared for Vijay Mallya, Modi is likely to get three square meters of personal space, where a cotton mat, pillow, bedsheet and blanket will be provided, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-cheated-by-mallya-modi-and-choksi-get-rs-9-371-crore-from-ed-101624428568557.html
23-06-2021||India||IndiGo launches special discount on its flights for vaccinated customers||In a first, IndiGo, India’s largest airline by market share, has launched a special discount on its flights for vaccinated customers from Wednesday. Passengers who have been administered either one or both the Covid-19 vaccine doses, will be given discount of up to 10% on the base fare while booking. IndiGo is the first airline to roll out this offer in India.The airline said this offer is only available to vaccinated passengers aged 18 years and above, who are located in India at the time of booking and have already received a Covid-19 vaccine in the country. “Passengers who have availed the offer at the time of booking shall be required to furnish a valid Covid-19 vaccination certificate, issued by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. Alternately, they can display their vaccination status on the Aarogya Setu mobile application at the airport check-in counter/boarding gate,” said the airline spokesperson.Also Read | Domestic air traffic plunges 63% in May: DGCASanjay Kumar, chief strategy & revenue officer, IndiGo said, “Being the largest airline in the country, we feel it is our responsibility to contribute to the national vaccination drive, by encouraging more people towards this common goal. This offer will not only strengthen their resolve towards vaccination, but also ensure that they can travel safely at affordable fares with IndiGo. We are committed to offer an on-time, hassle-free travel experience to our customers, on-board our lean, clean flying machine”.Limited inventory is available under the offer and therefore, discounts will be provided subject to availability of inventory. The offer is currently available only on IndiGo website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-launches-special-discount-on-its-flights-for-vaccinated-customers-101624429422475.html
23-06-2021||India||BJP MLA files ₹5 crore defamation suit against singer in Goa||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Clafacio Dias has filed a ₹5 crore defamation suit against singer Alison Gomes, saying the lyrics of a song by the latter deeply demean his reputation.The song titled “dongui (hypocrite) MLA” does not name Dias but alleges illegalities including illegal land development and amassing of wealth. The song was uploaded on YouTube and quickly became popular. It got over 120,000 views within a few days.Dias first filed a police complaint accusing the singer of hurting religious sentiments and forced Gomes to apply for anticipatory bail. Gomes was granted bail before the lawmaker filed the civil defamation suit.Also Read | Tourism activities can resume only after everyone gets Covid-19 vaccine: Goa CMDias said he was forced to file the suit as Gomes accused him of destroying shrines--particularly crosses, prominent symbols of Catholicism in the state-- and then rebuilding them to show himself as the community’s saviour.“I do not mind singers, or theatre actors accusing me of corruption, or of amassing wealth or of indulging in illegalities. Such accusations are common against politicians... But he has said I break the shrines, so I have an excuse to repair them the following morning,” Dias said.Gomes said he has the freedom of speech and accused Dias of targeting him because “his misdeeds were being exposed”.“He did not want his misdeeds to be exposed. In the song, I said the dongui (hypocrite) MLA of Curtorim. I did not take anyone’s name. This is an attempt to stifle one’s freedom of speech. After making the complaint, he sent the police to my home to search my house,” said Gomes. “He said I was hurting religious sentiments. I have sung about only what has been reported in the media. I have all the proof. He can go ahead with whatever case he has.”Elvis Gomes, a former convener of the Aam Aadmi Party in Goa, said the lawmaker should understand that criticism from the stage is nothing new in the state. “It has been going on for years and it is considered as one of the powerful ways to give vent to the voice of the people. If a tiatrist (Goan theatre personality) or a singer from a stage says something, he can always counter it with his viewpoint either through the same medium or a press conference.”Elvis Gomes said the important question is whether police should be used against artists or anybody for that matter. “The MLA needs to understand that criticism from the public is the hallmark of democracy. I think they have become too sensitive because of the mistakes they are committing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-files-rs-5-crore-defamation-suit-against-singer-in-goa-101624429062299.html
23-06-2021||India||Cases of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus rise to 40: Govt||India has reported a total of 40 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) due to the Delta Plus variant till now, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday citing sources from the central government.Also Read: Which vaccine are effective against Delta, Delta Plus Covid-19 variants"India reports 40 cases of the Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus. Most of the cases are from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. It is still a variant of interest," the government sources were quoted as saying. Till Tuesday, the number was 22.Also Read: Govt tags Delta+ as a ‘variant of concern’On Tuesday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) had, in a statement, called Delta Plus a "variant of concern" (VoC). In declaring so, the ministry cited an analysis by a consortium of genomic sequencing labs that purportedly found the mutated virus to spread more readily. Earlier that day, addressing a press conference, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had called Delta Plus a "variant of interest" (VoI), which denotes that the variant is being studied.Also Read: Govt says Delta Plus a variant of concern, identifies 3 characteristicsIn its statement, the ministry had also noted it alerted the states where the said variant has been found. "Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh have been advised that the public health response measures, while broadly remaining the same, have to be more focused and effective. Chief secretaries have thus been advised to take up immediate containment measures in various districts and clusters," the statement said.Also Read: Delta Plus variant: Health ministry alerts Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya PradeshDelta Plus is a mutation of the Delta Covid-19 variant, or the B1.617.2 strain, which was first detected in India. Scientifically, Delta Plus is denoted as AY.1 variant, and, in the study cited by MoHFW statement, was found to affect the lungs "more strongly" and possibly reduce the ability of antibodies to neutralise it.Also Read: Delta Plus variant traced in 9 countries; UK, US, Japan, China on listAnother variant that was first detected in India is Kappa, which is denoted as B1.617.1 strain. However, it is the Delta variant which is believed to be behind the second Covid-19 wave, which swept the country in April-May, and was at its peak during the two months. In the second wave, which has since subsided, the country registered record new Covid-19 days on several days, as well as daily fatalities due to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-delta-plus-variant-of-coronavirus-rise-to-40-says-government-101624424380180.html
23-06-2021||India||KCR says he took only two medicines against Covid-19, blames media for 'hype'||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao considers media has panicked people unnecessarily over Covid-19 as he himself contracted the disease and recovered just after taking two medicines — one paracetamol and antibiotic medicine. Addressing a recent public meeting in Warangal, KCR said he was given a Vitamin D tablet too, but he recovered within a week."As prescribed by a doctor, I used paracetamol and antibiotic medicines and was able to recover from COVID within a week. Media is trying to spread misinformation and create fear among people, KCR said, urging media to not sensationalise health issues.On black fungus, white fungus infections during Covid-19 recovery, on the greater risk of children contracting the infection in the possible third wave, the chief minister again asked whether Covid told all these to media and blamed media for inflating the fear.According to reports, he also recounted a story of a sorcerer who asked cholera why it was destroying so many lives. Cholera told the sorcerer that it killed 50 people while the rest died from panic. The same is the situation with Covid, the chief minister said.Telangana which recorded 1,175 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and 10 deaths from the infection at present has no restrictions as the government has lifted all lockdown-like curbs and said that the decision has been taken in consultation with medical experts.In April, the chief minister tested positive after he reported mild symptoms like uneasiness. He quarantined at his farmhouse and a team of doctors was deployed to monitor his health. At that time, he was attending election meetings for the Nagarjunasagar by-election.Covid-19 infection can come with mild, moderate and severe symptoms. Experts have reiterated that while mild and many moderate cases can be treated at home, severe cases need hospitalisation. Many factors, including comorbidity issues, immunity determine how the virus will affect an individual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-says-he-took-only-two-medicines-against-covid-19-blames-media-for-hype-101624426976861.html
23-06-2021||India||7th Pay Commission: DA benefits to central govt employees from July 1. Calculate salary hike||7th pay commission: The Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) benefit of near 52 lakh central government employees and around 60 lakh central government pensioners will be restored from July 1.The payment of DA of central government employees has not been revised since January 2020.The employees will be getting their DA arrears for the period between January 1, 2020 to January 1, 2021 in three instalments based on calculation according to the 7th pay commission.According to Shiv Gopal Mishra, Secretary (Staff Side), National Council of JCM, Central Government employees should check their respective 7th pay commission salary matrix while calculating their salaries and pensions."To know how much monthly salary will grow post-DA restoration, a central government employee is advised to check one's monthly basic salary, which is decided by the 7th pay commission pay matrix. After checking out their monthly basic salary, they are advised to check their existing DA. Currently, it's 17 per cent. Post-DA restoration, the DA will go up to 28 per cent. So, monthly DA will go up by 11 per cent. So, the DA allowance per month of a central government employee will go up to 11% of their basic salary from July 2021," he added.He further said that the same formula is applied while deciding the dearness relief (DR) benefit of a central government pensioner.7th pay commission DA calculatorKeeping the 7th pay commission salary calculation, if a central government employee's monthly basic pay is ₹20,000, then its monthly DA will go up to 28% of ₹20,000. This means a rise in monthly DA will be 11% of ₹20,000 or ₹2,200. Similarly, other central government employees who have different monthly basic salary mentioned in their 7th CPC pay matrix can check how much their salary will go up after the DA restoration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/da-benefits-to-central-govt-employees-from-july-1-how-to-calculate-101624424416881.html
23-06-2021||India||Amid Delta variant spread, Nipah virus antibodies in bats concern experts||While the threat of the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) looms large, scientists from the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) have found the deadly Nipah virus antibodies in two species of bats in Maharashtra for the first time, according to reports. The Nipah virus-carrying bats have found in Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra, according to NIV scientists.Nipah virus is on the watchlist of the World Health Organisation (WHO)'s top 10 pathogens list. First identified in Malayasia in 1998-99 during an encephalitis-like outbreak among pigs and pig-handlers, the outbreak of the virus has occurred in countries like Bangladesh, Malaysia, India, and Singapore.Also read| Delta, Delta Plus: Which vaccine are effective against Covid-19 new variantsThe study's lead investigator Dr Pragta Yadav said that none of the bat species in Maharashtra has earlier shown any exposure to the virus, according to media reports.The death rate among the infected in documents outbreaks between 1998 to 2018 was 40 per cent to 70 per cent, according to the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).India has seen four outbreaks of the virus infection so far. The first instance of the infection was reported in West Bengal's Siliguri in 2001, the second incident was reported from Bengal's Nadia in 2007. The third outbreak was reported in 2018 in Kerala's Kozhikode when 18 people died of the infection. Another wave of Nipah virus was seen in Kerala in 2019.The NIV report also said that antibodies of Nipah virus were found in Dhubri district of Assam and Cooch Behar of West Bengal.The viral infection does not have treatment currently and its limited to supportive care, including rest, hydration and treatment of symptoms, as per the CDC.Symptoms from the viral infection usually occur in 4-14 days of exposure. CDC says that symptoms may include fever, headache, cough, sore throat, difficulty in breathing, vomiting, while severe symptoms may include disorientation, drowsiness, or confusion, seizures, coma and brain swelling (encephalitis).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-delta-variant-spread-nipah-virus-antibodies-in-bats-concern-experts-101624424177676.html
23-06-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh govt transfers 43 IAS officers including 3 deputy commissioners||The Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday transferred as many as 43 IAS officers in a major reshuffle. Among the transferred civil servants are deputy commissioners of three districts, including Sirmaur, Mandi, and Lahaul and Spiti.Several senior-most officers have also been transferred, including Subhasish Panda from the 1997 batch, principal secretary (public works department), who will now also hold the position of principal secretary (tourism and civil aviation) to the Himachal Pradesh government; Devesh Kumar from the 1998 batch, secretary to the chief minister, who will now additionally hold the post of managing director, Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, and Vinay Singh from the 2001 batch, special secretary to the chief minister, and Public Works Department, who will now hold the post of director, Ayurveda.Besides, Rakesh Kumar from the 2007 batch, secretary to the governor, will continue to be in charge of the post. He has been transferred as director, Public Finance-cum-Public Enterprises-cum -Special Secretary (Finance), director, Treasuries, Accounts and Lotteries, and special secretary (Agriculture) to the state government. Kumar will however continue to hold the post of state project director, Zero Budget Natural Farming, Department of Agriculture, Himachal Pradesh.Three sub-divisional officers from the 2017 batch, including Zaffar Iqbal from Mandi district, Shivam Pratap Singh, and Kiran Bhadana from Chamba district, have also been transferred. They will now hold the posts of additional deputy commissioner-cum-project director, District Rural Development Agency of Solan, Kullu and Shimla, respectively.The transfers and postings will be implemented with immediate effect, the official notification stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-govt-transfers-43-ias-officers-including-3-deputy-commissioners-101624420626802.html
23-06-2021||India||Doctors report increase in new cases of diabetes during Covid-19 pandemic||Doctors have reported a definite increase in the number of diabetes cases during the pandemic; and they blame the viral infection itself, the use of steroids in the treatment, and the sedentary lifestyle during the pandemic. The doctors say that many patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) come to hospitals with severe diabetic crisis just like that of childhood or type 1 diabetes. “Many Covid-19 patients initially show type 1 diabetes-like symptoms – extremely high sugar levels, ketoacidosis (a complication where blood turns acidic because of excess ketones produced), and need insulin injections. But, these are not true cases of type 1 diabetes as we have seen that they convert to normal type 2 diabetes, dependent on oral medicines three or four weeks after the infection,” said Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis-CDOC Centre for Diabetes, Metabolic Diseases and Endocrinology. He said seven of every 10 new diabetes patients who consulted him last month had been infected with Covid-19. This happens in around 5% of the hospitalised Covid-19 patients, he said. Also Read | Covaxin likely to be approved for children by Sept: Dr Randeep GuleriaType 1 diabetes, which is usually diagnosed in childhood (hence the name), happens because the body stops producing the glucose-digesting hormone insulin. Type 2 diabetes, on the other hand, happens because the body’s cells become resistant to the insulin produced. Dr Misra added, “The diabetes could be triggered by the stress to the body during the Covid-19 infection. Now, there is also a discussion of Covid-19 directly affecting the beta cells in the pancreas as they have the ACE II receptors used by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.” Dr M Ashraf Ganie, professor of endocrinology at Sher E Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Srinagar, said, “The new onset of diabetes can be because of two reasons – stress due to the infection (cytokine storm is also known to make the body insulin-resistant), or the infection destroying the beta cells in the pancreas as shown by lab studies. It’s too premature to say what is happening.” “We need to follow up with patients and administer a beta cell panel test to see what is happening. We might get results in couple of months.The sheer number of people who had Covid-19 since last year would speed up the diabetes epidemic,” said Dr Ganie. Theoretically, those who are predisposed to diabetes, such as the obese and those with family history, might not return to their baseline blood sugar levels before Covid-19 , he said. Just after the April-May deluge of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, 90% of the new diabetes patients coming to Dr Misra’s clinics were those who got it after being administered steroids for the treatment of moderate and severe Covid-19. Last year, he had seen an increase in diabetes because of the sedentary lifestyle of the people due to the lockdown resulting in on average 2 to 4kg weight gain. This year, he said, people have adapted and have either been exercising at home or stepping out for walks. “The high numbers are also because many people who were unaware of their diabetic status got diagnosed when they reached hospitals with Covid-19. Around 30% of the diabetics with Covid-19 were unaware that they had the condition,” said Dr Misra. Will the people with new onset of diabetes after Covid-19 become lifelong diabetics? The doctors do not know for sure, yet. “The use of corticosteroids leads to blood glucose levels to shoot up not only in diabetics but even those without history. But, we will need long-term follow-up data to see whether this is hyperglycaemia (high sugar levels) after the infection or whether it converts into diabetes. Various infections like mumps and measles are known to trigger diabetes due to the stress on the body. But now people are talking about Covid-19 directly impacting pancreas, leading to diabetes,” said Dr Ambrish Mithal, chairman, department of endocrinology and diabetes, Max Healthcare. What is encouraging is that he has seen most of his patients return to their baseline blood sugar levels before Covid-19 within few weeks. “We are tracking some of the patients who haven’t. We have to see how much of this goes on to become permanent diabetes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-report-increase-in-new-cases-of-diabetes-during-covid-19-pandemic-101624425822134.html
23-06-2021||India||Four Jharkhand Congress legislators in Delhi to meet central leaders||Jharkhand Congress legislator Irfan Ansari, who is in Delhi along with three other lawmakers, has said they were scheduled to meet top party leader KC Venugopal in the national capital on Wednesday.The development assumes significance as Ansari has been one of most vocal voices for a change in the state Congress leadership based on the principle of one person, one post.Also Read | NIA to probe links between Maoists of Bihar, Bengal, JharkhandThe legislators said they would also discuss other issues related to the government in the state. “There are other issues like appointments of party workers to boards, corporations, and 20-point programme committees in the state. The Jharkhand state unit has not been expanded for a very long time. The views of legislators need to be taken up in deciding on these issues,” Ansari said.The Congress, which is a part of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-led government in the state, has 18 lawmakers in the 81-member assembly.Jharkhand Congress chief and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who met central leaders in Delhi over the weekend, has ruled out any change at this stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-jharkhand-congress-legislators-in-delhi-to-meet-central-leaders-101624424982120.html
23-06-2021||India||Bengal forms 10-member expert committee to tackle possible third Covid wave||West Bengal has set up a 10-member expert committee comprising doctors from state-run hospitals to tackle a possible third Covid-19 wave. The committee would supervise and monitor the evolving situation and suggest suitable interventions for effective management.“In view of the purported third wave of Covid-19, there is an immediate need to undertake all precautionary steps to prepare the health system in handling potential situations, especially regarding paediatric Covid cases. It has been felt imperative to constitute an expert committee to supervise and monitor the evolving situation and suggest suitable interventions for effective management of Covid-19 third wave,” a health department order said.The daily count of Covid-19 cases during the first wave hit a peak of 4,157 on October 22. During the second wave, the daily cases peaked on May 14 with 20,846 infections.Also Read | Covaxin likely to be approved for children by Sept: Dr Randeep GuleriaThe state government has started earmarking beds in hospitals to treat children aged up to 12 in case the third wave of Covid-19 hits. “Many scientists are of the opinion that children may be affected more in number during the next wave of Covid-19. The state government has planned to protect the children by escalating inpatient Covid facilities for the younger group,” said an earlier order.An official said that as children, with mild to moderate symptoms, would have to be kept alongside their mothers, around 10,000 general beds would be earmarked.“We are expecting the numbers to touch baseline level by June-end or early July. We do not know when exactly the third wave would come. But going by the experiences of some other countries like the UK and Canada, we expect that it may hit sometimes around October-November,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-forms-10-member-expert-committee-to-tackle-possible-third-covid-wave-101624424562404.html
23-06-2021||India||Covaxin likely to be approved for children by Sept: Dr Randeep Guleria||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that Bharat Biotech International Limited's anti-Covid-19 shot, Covaxin, is likely to be approved for children by September.Also Read | Bharat Biotech likely to attend pre-submission meeting with WHO for Covaxin emergency use listing"After the completion of the second and third phase of trials of Covaxin for children, the trial data would be made available by September and the vaccine itself is likely to be approved in the same month," Dr Guleria told India Today. He added that the Pfizer-BioNTech shot, if approved in India, could be another alternative for children to be vaccinated with.Also Read | Pfizer CEO says Covid-19 vaccine in final stages of approval in IndiaAs several experts have projected that a potential third Covid-19 wave will be particularly hard-hitting on children, Covaxin is being trialled in children, aged between 2 and 17, at AIIMS Delhi and Patna. On May 12, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted Bharat Biotech permission to conduct phase 2 and 3 trials for children.Also Read | AIIMS Delhi to begin recruiting children between 6 and 12 years for Covaxin trialDr Guleria, however, disagreed that children will be particularly impacted by a potential third wave, saying there is "no reason to believe this theory." This is in line with a recent AIIMS-World Health Organization (WHO) report which stated that the third wave "may not hit children disproportionately."Also Read | Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero surveyThe senior doctor also called upon policy makers to consider reopening schools, though he also said it should be ensured that educational institutes do not become "super spreaders." Dr Guleria suggested that this could be achieved by opening schools on alternate days in containment zones, and making children follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-likely-to-be-approved-for-children-by-september-says-dr-randeep-guleria-101624417567334.html
23-06-2021||India||Delta, Delta Plus: Which vaccines are effective against these Covid-19 new variants||The World Health Organization has recently expressed concerns that the Delta variant of Covid-19, the variant first detected in India, is reducing the efficacy of the existing Covid-19 vaccines in the world. A new mutant of the variant has already been found in India, in Maharashtra's Jalgaon and Ratnagiri, following which the health ministry has asked Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh to be exercise caution.Covid-19 variants have emerged as a cause of concern across the world as experts deliberate on the effectiveness of the vaccines to prevent the infection by the variants.Covaxin and CovishieldBharat Biotech's Covaxin and Serum Institute of India's Covishield are effective against the Delta variant, the health ministry has recently said. "Both the vaccines being administered in India, Covishield and Covaxin, (Sputnik joined later) are effective against Delta. But to what extent and what is the proportion of antibody titers produced by these vaccines will be shared soon," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said.Sputnik VThe Russia-made vaccine, which became a part of India's vaccination drive, is effective against all variants of Covid known today, Gamaleya Centre head Alexander Gintsburg has said. "Antibodies developed after vaccination with Sputnik V protect from all variants of COVID known today, starting from the UK variant to the so-called Delta variant, first detected in India," he said. Sputnik has claimed better protection against new variants and that is why its marketer Russian Direct Investment Fund has proposed a booster shot to other vaccine makers, which will be the third shot after the regular two doses of vaccines."Antibodies developed after vaccination with #SputnikV protect from all variants of COVID known today, starting from the UK variant to the so-called Delta variant, first detected in India" - Head of the Gamaleya Center academician Alexander Gintsburg. pic.twitter.com/upaornSbEGPfizerPfizer which is finalising the agreement in India to supply its vaccines is also known to be effective to some extent against Delta variants. But the protection is against hospitalisation; the jury is still out over whether it can protect against the infection. A recent analysis by Public Health England has recently revealed that Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines offer high protection of over 90 per cent against hospitalisation from the Delta variant.Not much is known about the effectiveness of vaccines against Delta Plus as it is only an emerging variant. It has been found that Delta Plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for covid-19, which was recently authorised in India. But this does not tell anything about its response to Covid-19 vaccines yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-delta-plus-which-vaccine-are-effective-against-covid-19-new-variants-101624422921159.html
23-06-2021||India||Odisha students go to school to attend YouTube classes due to low internet speed||The schools in Odisha are closed due to Covid pandemic but students of Upper Primary school in Ankadeli area of Lamtaput block of Koraput district have no option but to go to the school to attend the classes streamed on YouTube due to lack of internet speed at home.“I had to come to school as my mobile is not able to stream the YouTube classes. We also need a big data pack. We have broadband [connection] at school which is good enough to watch YouTube classes being streamed live,” said Payal Majhi, a student of class 9. She is among the many students who were carrying their mobile phones to school to be able to join the online classes since Monday.The state government kicked-off online YouTube live streaming of lessons for classes 1-10 from Monday since schools have been closed for months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Earlier this month, the school education authority asked all district education officers and district project coordinators to make necessary arrangements to ensure smooth and successful implementation of the programme.The online teaching for classes 1-8 is being held in only 8 districts, sessions for classes 9-10 are being organised in all the 30 districts. The classes are being streamed from 9 am to 10 am for class 1 to 3 students, 9 am to 10.30 am for class 4 to 8 and 10.45 am to 1 pm for classes 9 and 10. The class are currently scheduled till July 2, but are likely to be extended as there is uncertainty over reopening of the schools.Koraput district education officer Ramachandra Nahak admitted that network connectivity was an issue in several blocks like Narayanpatna, Bandhugaon, Lamtaput and Boipariguda. “We can do little about improving network connectivity,” he said.The state has a great digital divide with the school and mass education minister Sameer Dash admitting that of the 6 million students, just about 2.2 million or roughly 33% could attend the online classes last year.As per Odisha Economic Survey, 2018-19, report, more than 20% of the 51,311 villages in the state did not have mobile phone connectivity. The internet subscription in rural areas stood at 16 per 100 where as in urban areas it was 83.3 per 100.Retired professor Sushil Dutta, who funds the education of several kids in Mayurbhanj district, said the YouTube live streaming was a good intentioned but unworkable idea. “Whole [of] Odisha is not a city. There are thousands of schools at extremely remote locations, where kids or parents can’t dream of having a phone or TV,” he said.Odisha Secondary School Teachers’ Association said the idea was too expensive.“Students of class9 and 10 will remain on-line for around six-eight hours a day for which a big data pack is required for uninterrupted internet connectivity. Where would they (students and guardians) get money to recharge data packs during the pandemic times?,” asked OSSTA general secretary Prakash Chandra Mohanty.Mohanty said classes through television were cost effective and better than the other modes of teaching during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-students-travel-to-school-to-attend-youtube-classes-in-absence-of-internet-connectivity-101624422882493.html
23-06-2021||India||India's new Covid-19 cases and deaths rise to 50,848 and 1,358; tally tops 30 million||India witnessed a rise in its daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 50,848 fresh infections were registered in the last 24 hours, data uploaded by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) at 8am on Wednesday showed. With this, the country’s cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has crossed 30 million-mark, reaching 30,028,709, including a related death toll of 390,660, of which 1,358 fatalities took place in the 24-hour period.On Tuesday, the health ministry reported 42,640 new cases and 1,167 deaths due to the viral disease from the preceding 24 hours. This was the lowest single-day rise in cases since March 30, when the cumulative tally increased by 40,953 new cases.Latest vaccination numbers witnessed a dip as nearly 5.4 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered, as against a record 8.6 million on June 21.Latest vaccination numbers witnessed a dip as nearly 5.4 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered, as against a record 8.6 million on June 21. With this, 294,639,511 vaccine doses have been administered in the country thus far.Also Read: At 5.4 million doses, Day 2 of Covid-19 vaccination drive records declineMeanwhile, data shared by the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) showed 1,901,056 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, as against 1,664,360 on June 20. A total of 395,973,198 samples have been tested till now, the ICMR dashboard showed.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/uirOyEkdEeWith the second Covid-19 wave declining, experts have projected a third wave of infections in the near future. Concerns have also been raised over a new variant of the virus, called Delta plus, cases of which have been detected in several parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-new-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-rise-to-50-848-and-1-358-tally-tops-30-million-101624415638420.html
23-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Elderly people can resume their normal lives, says health ministry||In a major development, the Union health ministry has said that elderly people without comorbidities, who are fully vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), can resume their normal lives. They can go for walks also but need to avoid crowded places, the ministry said. However, they are required to continue taking precautions like wearing masks, it added."The elderly can resume normal lives if fully vaccinated and without comorbidities but they also need to take precautions like wearing masks, avoid crowds," Niti Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul said while responding to a question during a press conference on Tuesday.Also read: What leads to formation of Covid-19 wave? Govt expert lists 4 elements"They can go for walks outdoors too but not to crowded places...still they would need to take precautions," Dr Paul further said.This came after India achieved a "historic milestone" of administering over 8.8 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in a single day on June 21. Interestingly, nearly 64 per cent of the vaccine doses were administered in rural areas, the government said on Tuesday.Paul credited "synchronised, well-orchestrated, converged approach" between the Centre and the state governments for the feat."What happened yesterday was not sudden, it was result of coordinated planning in which state governments and Union government collaborated and worked very hard and what is happening today is part of that planning and what will happen in remaining eight days of June are part of that collaborative planning," Paul said.Madhya Pradesh administered maximum number of doses on June 21, followed by Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Assam, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, reported PTI.Around 92 per cent of the vaccination were obtained in government Covid vaccination centres (CVC) and 7.80 per cent at private CVCs.Also read: Maha achieves its highest single-day Covid vaccination with over 550,000 jabsMeanwhile, India's cumulative Covid vaccination coverage was over 290 million as per the 7pm provisional report on Tuesday. More than 4.8 million vaccine doses were administered as per the report on June 22, the Union health ministry said.Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than one million beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18-44 years for the first dose of vaccine, the health ministry said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-elderly-people-can-resume-their-normal-lives-says-health-ministry-101624418465709.html
23-06-2021||India||New ethanol targets reshape India’s food policy||The Union government has prepared a blueprint to enable it to rapidly scale up ethanol blending to cut costly oil imports, reworking the country’s food policy that will focus on sucking out excess food stocks to produce fuel. Officials say this would achieve multiple goals, while some experts suggested the country ought to move cautiously, balancing its food-security needs.On June 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the advancing of the target year for 20% ethanol-blending by five years to 2025. The Union food ministry has prepared a blueprint towards achieving this goal, which HT has reviewed in the form of a presentation.“The new ethanol-blending targets will fuel an agricultural turnaround, result in better farm incomes and save precious foreign exchange while cutting down on unsustainable fossil fuels,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Hunger, drought, disease: UN climate report reveals dire health threatsMixing petrol with ethanol, which is made from molasses, a byproduct of sugar, will help lessen the amount of oil India imports. Ethanol can also be produced from rice and maize. India is the third-largest oil consumer in the world after the US and China. Its crude oil import bill was well over $100 billion in 2018-19 and 2019-20.The plan shows the trajectory of a gradual increase in the quantity of sugar to be shifted towards ethanol. The country will also sell grains, such as rice and maize, held by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for the purpose, setting a nominal price for the current year at ₹2000 a quintal (100 kgs) for rice. At that price, millers can produce cheaper ethanol at ₹56.87 a litre.In January, the Union government notified a modified scheme to incentivise ethanol production in the country, which allows sugar mills cheaper loans to set up ethanol-blending factories. Such ethanol projects would be viable because oil-marketing companies would be assured buyers for the next 10 years under the scheme, according to the official.India has seen a surplus production of sugar since 2010-11, except in 2016-17, when drought cut output. In a normal sugar season, about 32-33 million tonne of sweetener is produced, making India the second-largest producer. India is also the largest consumer of sugar globally at 26-27 million tonne.“It is a welcome step as it will have multiple benefits. Countries such as France, Denmark and the US have already made large gains from biofuels,” said PK Joshi, the president of the Agricultural Economics Research Association, New Delhi.Food security experts point to a cautionary tale. Developments in the West show there has been fierce competition between food and fuel crops for land, which is fixed in supply. The current spell of high edible oil prices is partly due to high demand from the biofuel industry, according to an FAO analysis this month.“If we are going to increase cash crop, which is for fuel, not food, the transition may create a certain tension. There is always a fine line. You can say this is right and wrong. Moving judiciously is the answer,” said Samrat Sengupta, an energy expert at the Centre for Science and Environment, New Delhi.Sengupta welcomed the move saying: “Renewables have at last moved to the centre of the political agenda.”In 2020-21, an estimated 3% of the ethanol blending programme was grain-based, mainly through federal stocks. According to the food ministry, two million tonne sugar (or 6 % of total) would be diverted to ethanol in the current season, going up to 6 million tonne (or 18%) by 2025.Excess sugar stocks have affected the ability of millers to pay farmers, a long-standing issue. Official data show that millers owed farmers an amount totalling ₹22,900 crore for cane purchased till March 1.“We are shocked to see FCI food grains being used to make ethanol and hand sanitisers when there is so much hunger in the country,” said Dipa Sinha, a food security expert who teaches at Ambedkar University, New Delhi. India ranked 94 out of 107 nations according to the Global Hunger Index 2020, which found a serious level of hunger, whose definition covers malnutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-ethanol-targets-reshape-india-s-food-policy-101624419942244.html
23-06-2021||India||J&K police release footage of firing on cop to identify militants||Jammu and Kashmir police have released CCTV footage of two terrorists shooting police inspector Pervaiz Ahmad at Nowgam on the outskirts of Srinagar on Tuesday evening, while he was going to offer evening prayers. Ahmad was the fourth cop to be killed by terrorists in the union territory in the last two weeks.In the video clip, two men carrying pistols are seen firing at the officer who is walking on the roadside from point blank range. He was shifted to hospital where he succumbed to injuries. He was targeted in front of a mosque at around 8pm, police said.“Preliminary investigation revealed that two terrorists fired upon a police inspector Parvez Ahmad Dar from pistols while he was going to offer Maghrib Prayers. In this terror incident, he sustained grievous bullet injuries and was shifted to nearby hospital for treatment, where he succumbed to his injuries,” inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said.He said that identification of the two terrorists seen in the CCTV footage is being done. “Identification is being done. Suspects are being questioned. ...Officers continue to work to establish the circumstances which lead to this terror crime,” he added.Pervaiz Ahmad was posted with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing of the J&K police. The officer is survived by a wife and two young children.This was the second attack on policemen in the city in the past six days and the third in the union territory in the last 12 days.On June 17, Javaid Ahmad was killed in firing by suspected militants near his home at Saidapora in Srinagar. He had been working as a personal security officer of a retired judge for the last 3 years and was at home on leave, unarmed, when fired upon, police had said.On June 12, two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others were injured, when militants opened fire targeting security forces in Sopore town of Baramulla district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-releases-footage-of-firing-on-cop-in-srinagar-to-identify-militants-101624419642426.html
23-06-2021||India||India, US to carry out two-day mega naval drill in Indian Ocean from today||Indian Naval Ships (INS) Kochi and Teg, along with P-8I and MiG-29K aircraft, will participate in a Passage Exercise with USS Ronald Reagan during its transit through Indian Ocean Region, the defence ministry said on Tuesday. The two-day exercise will begin on Wednesday, which officials said reflects the growing operational cooperation between the two navies.According to the ministry, the warships, along with aircraft from Indian Navy and Indian Air Force, will be engaged in joint multi-domain operations with the carrier strike group comprising Nimitz class aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan, Arleigh Burke class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey and Ticonderoga class guided missile cruiser USS Shiloh.A carrier strike group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number of destroyers, frigates and other ships.High tempo operations during the two-day exercise will include advanced air defence exercises, cross deck helicopter operations and anti-submarine exercises. The participating forces will endeavour to hone their war-fighting skills and enhance their interoperability as an integrated force to promote peace, security and stability in the maritime domain, said officials.Indian Navy and US Navy regularly undertake a host of bilateral and multilateral exercises which underscore the shared values as partner navies, in ensuring commitment to an open, inclusive and a rule-based international order.The air force said that the assets to be part of the exercise would include Jaguars and Su-30 MKI fighters, AWACS (Airborne Warning and Control System) and air-to-air refueller aircraft.In a statement, it said the US carrier strike group is expected to field F-18 fighters and E-2C Hawkeye aircraft, adding that the exercise will be carried out south of Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-to-carry-out-two-day-mega-naval-drill-in-indian-ocean-from-today-101624419234730.html
23-06-2021||India||India, US to carry out joint drills in Indian Ocean from today||The Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Indian Navy will on Wednesday kick off two-day drills with the US Navy in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) amid China’s attempts to expand its presence in the strategic region, officials familiar with the matter said. The exercise will also involve the US Navy’s Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group (CSG).The IAF will take part in the exercise with its Jaguar fighters, Sukhoi-30 MKIs, Phalcon AWACS (airborne warning and control system) aircraft, Netra AEW&C (airborne early warning and control) aircraft, and Il-78 mid-air refuellers. The US Navy’s air assets will include F-18 jets and E-2C Hawkeye AEW&C aircraft, the officials said.Indian warships INS Kochi and Teg along with P-8I submarine hunter planes and MiG-29K aircraft are also taking part in the exercise.Also Read | China raises new militias of Tibetan youth, deploys 1st batch in Chumbi ValleyThe exercise comes a week after defence minister Rajnath Singh called for “an open and inclusive order” in the Indo-Pacific region, including the South China Sea, with respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. Singh reiterated New Delhi’s support to freedom of navigation, over-flight and unimpeded commerce for all in international waters in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.IAF spokesperson Wing Commander Ashish Moghe said the IAF has extensive experience in maritime operations in the IOR. “This has been consolidated over the years by the conduct of exercises from the country’s island territories…This engagement with the US CSG offers one more opportunity to undertake joint operations in the maritime domain with a friendly foreign power.”He said the exercise will focus on multiple areas including enhancing aspects of interoperability, nuances of international integrated maritime search and rescue operations, and exchange of best practices in the maritime airpower domain.The navy said in a statement that the Indian warships along with aircraft from the Indian Navy and IAF will be engaged in joint multi-domain operations with the CSG comprising Nimitz-class aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan, Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer USS Halsey and Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Shiloh. “High tempo operations during the exercise will include advanced air defence exercises, cross-deck helicopter operations, and anti-submarine exercises. The participating forces will endeavour to hone their war-fighting skills and enhance their interoperability as an integrated force to promote peace, security, and stability in the maritime domain.”The Indian Navy is carrying out round-the-clock surveillance in the IOR, which, it believes, China will inevitably try to enter in its quest to become a global power, just as it has laid claim to large portions of the disputed South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-to-carry-out-joint-drills-in-indian-ocean-101624419162278.html
23-06-2021||India||What leads to formation of Covid-19 wave? Govt expert lists 4 elements||Amid concerns over a possible third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, a government expert has listed the factors or elements that lead to the formation of a wave. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul, while addressing a press conference on Tuesday, said there are four such elements.The first, according to the health expert, is behaviour of the virus which has the capacity and ability to spread. Then, a susceptible host which the virus keeps looking for to survive.Dr Paul said transmissibility is also one of the leading factors. The virus can become smart enough where it mutates and becomes more transmissible, he said. The fourth element is opportunity, "which we give to the virus to infect" said Dr Paul. "If we sit and eat together, crowd, sit in closed areas without masks, then the virus gets more opportunities to spread. A call to do what is in our hands," he added.Dr Paul said that out of the four, two elements - susceptibility and opportunities for infection "are totally under our control", whereas the other two - behaviour of the virus and transmissibility cannot be predicted or controlled.Speaking on the overall Covid-19 pandemic situation in the nation, Dr Paul said there is a consistent improvement but stressed that people must continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid crowds and parties. He also stressed on increasing the uptake of vaccination.The Niti Aayog member also mentioned that the coronavirus is suppressed at present due to discipline and restrictions prevalent in many states, and if restrictions are eased and schools opened, then it gets opportunities to infect.This comes as the health officials are rallying to prepare for the Covid-19 third wave, predicted by many researchers and doctors.A group of medical experts surveyed by news agency Reuters has projected that India’s next Covid-19 wave would arrive by October, adding that though this third wave would be handled better than the second wave, the Covid-19 pandemic would remain a public health concern for at least one more year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-leads-to-formation-of-covid-19-wave-govt-expert-lists-4-elements-101624416949384.html
23-06-2021||India||BSF kills Pakistani smuggler in Kathua, recovers 27 packs of heroin worth ₹135cr||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday morning shot dead a Pakistani smuggler and recovered 27 packets of heroin from his possession along the 200km-long Indo-Pak international border in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district. BSF Jammu frontier DIG SPS Sandhu said, “Around 2.45am, alert BSF jawans observed suspicious movement near Pansar border outpost of the BSF in Hiranagar sector. The challenged the intruder, who ignored repeated warnings of the BSF personnel. Eventually, the jawans opened fire and killed him on the spot.”Also Read | 1,300 Indian SIM cards sent to China in last 2 years: Arrested Chinese national“We have recovered 27 packets of heroin from the possession of the slain Pakistani smuggler. The consignment was part of Pakistan’s narco-terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir,” he added. Sandhu added, “Without the support of our counterparts (Pakistan Rangers), such movements on the border are not possible.” “The attempt was made from the same area where a trans-border tunnel was detected on January 23 this year,” he said. An official statement released by the BSF said, “The approximate value of this narcotics consignment is about ₹135 crore. Narco-terrorism angle can... not be ruled out in this case.”Searches in the area have begun. On January 23, a tunnel to Pakistan was detected in the area. The tunnel appeared to be six to eight years old. It was a 150-175m-long trans-border tunnel dug 30 feet beneath the ground with a diameter of two or three feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-kills-pakistani-smuggler-in-kathua-finds-27-packs-of-heroin-on-body-101624418621856.html
23-06-2021||India||Maha achieves its highest single-day Covid vaccination with over 550,000 jabs||Maharashtra on Tuesday achieved its highest single-day Covid-19 vaccination figure of 552,921 jabs after the state opened the drive for all adults. The state was allowing vaccinations for only those above 30 years of age on Monday.“Maharashtra is leading the nation, in terms of vaccinations, as it has administered more than 28,697,948 doses till date,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. The previous highest single-day vaccination figure was 534,372 doses on April 26. Meanwhile, for a second consecutive day, more than 100,000 doses were administered in Mumbai, despite the drive not being for all above 18 years of age. The civic body said 18+ will also be included in vaccination in the city from today.Also Read | Poorest countries out of jabs: WHOAlso on Tuesday, the state recorded 8,470 new Covid-19 cases, including 568 in Mumbai. The city witnessed 10 deaths, taking its toll to 15,315. There were 216,861 tests done on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked was 9,043.Maharashtra’s tally of active cases currently stands at 123,340, while the total number of deaths has reached 118,795. Mumbai has 18,432 active infections, followed by Pune at 16,955.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-achieves-its-highest-single-day-covid-vaccination-with-over-550-000-jabs-101624418261994.html
23-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Monsoon to evade Delhi for another week, says IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon to evade Delhi for another week, says IMDDelhi will have to wait another week before monsoon can officially hit the national Capital, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Read moreCongress leader accuses Odisha district collector of taking bribe to manipulate tender processA senior Odisha Congress leader has alleged several irregularities in the tender process to award seven stone quarries for mining in Malkangiri district and accused the district collector of taking a bribe of ₹1 crore for awarding the rights to a favoured bidder.﻿ Read moreBharat Biotech likely to attend pre-submission meeting with WHO for Covaxin emergency use listingBharat Biotech, manufacturer of India's homegrown vaccine against Covid-19 Covaxin, may attend a pre-submission meeting with World Health Organization on Wednesday, a step that will push the vaccine producer closer to WHO emergency use listing (EUL). Read more'Lot of credit for Ross Taylor wicket should be given to Kohli’: VVS Laxman lauds Virat’s ‘fantastic captaincy’After two washed-out days, one incomplete and one almost-complete day, the World Test Championship (WTC) final between Virat Kohli's India and Kane Williamson-led New Zealand came to life on Day 5 when the Indian bowlers, in particular the pacers, wreaked havoc. Read moreMadhuri Dixit in backless kurti and sharara set is a beauty in black, see picsMadhuri Dixit is a legend celebrated equally for her iconic roles in the Indian film industry and dancing prowess. Apart from that, the actor has also won hearts with her timeless sartorial picks that carry a classic appeal. Read moreiRobot Roomba i3+ robotic vacuum cleaner review: Does the job wellIf the past year has taught us anything it is that cleaning the house is not an easy task. At least not on a daily basis. And while we may have embraced the change with moderate enthusiasm at the beginning of the pandemic last year, the feeling sure didn’t last long. To make cleaning easier and affordable, iRobot launched the Roomba i3 series robotic vacuum cleaners in India earlier this year. Read moreMinissha Lamba says she was cheated on when she was dating an actor, calls her ex ‘a big flirt’Actor Minissha Lamba revealed that she was cheated on when she was in a relationship with an actor but chalked it up to his flirtatious nature, rather than his profession. Read moreNasa’s incredible post showing Sun in different wavelengths of light goes viralAre you someone who often finds yourself searching for different content related to the Earth, the Moon, the Sun, and far far beyond? Then this tweet by NASA may just be tailor-made for you. Read moreWatch | ‘If internal peace is disrupted…’: Bipin Rawat on LoC ceasefire, LAC activities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-monsoon-to-evade-delhi-for-another-week-says-imd-and-all-the-latest-news-101624416778188.html
23-06-2021||India||Congress leader alleges Odisha district collector took bribe to award tender||A senior Odisha Congress leader has alleged several irregularities in the tender process to award seven stone quarries for mining in Malkangiri district and accused the district collector of taking a bribe of ₹1 crore for awarding the rights to a favoured bidder. He has sought the officer’s suspension and a probe into the matter. The collector has however rejected the allegations.Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee working president Pradeep Majhi has alleged that the district collector, Yeddula Vijay, kept and manipulated tender applications at his home against the rules to help a businessman. He also claimed that the collector also erred in inviting the tenders for stone quarries at his office by bypassing the tehsildar, who was the competent authorities to deal with it. He also alleged that the district treasury confirmed that the collector didn’t deposit the tenders on time on March 20 as was claimed in an RTI reply by his office.“However, a second RTI filed with [the] district treasury said the sealed tender boxes were kept in the district treasury on March 23 at about 1.40 PM. We suspect that the tender boxes were taken to the residence of the district collector and kept there between March 20 and 23, when he opened the sealed boxes and manipulated the tender papers in favour of the businessman, enabling him to win all 7 stone quarries,” alleged Majhi.Majhi alleged that Venugopal was given ₹1 crore, while the minimum guaranteed quantity (MGQ) of the allocated seven stone mines was worth ₹2.38 crore.“The collector took ₹1 crore as bribe and a luxury SUV worth ₹19 lakh to allocate the stone quarries. That vehicle is being used as his official vehicle without a valid contract carriage permit. The finance department has issued clear instruction that district collectors can hire SUVs only with valid contract carriage permits. But the district collector of Malkangiri is using a vehicle which does not have a valid contract carriage permit. This is a clear violation of govt guidelines,” he alleged.Majhi demanded that the district collector be suspended, the tender was quashed and the process be probed.However, Malkangiri collector has rubbished the allegations levelled by the Congress leader and claimed that the tendering process was above board. “The tender has been done as per the procedure. I took the tender boxes home because of security concerns at the office. I hired a vehicle after my car broke down,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-accuses-odisha-district-collector-of-taking-bribe-to-manipulate-tender-process-101624416881839.html
23-06-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain likely over east and northeast India during next 5 days||Monsoon rains will be subdued over northwest, central and peninsular India but pick up over east and northeast India during the next seven days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday.Under the influence of lower level wind convergence of monsoonal easterly and southeasterly winds, widespread rainfall is very likely over north Odisha, West Bengal, Sikkim, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Bihar during the next five days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely in these states.Due to strengthening of moist southwesterly winds; fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is likely over northeast India during the next five days. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Assam, Meghalaya during the next five days; over Tripura, Mizoram on June 22 and 23; over Arunachal Pradesh on June 25.Also Read | Delhi’s air quality likely to deteriorate marginally from WednesdayModerate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning very likely over east Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar during the next 24 hours. This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors.The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar.Further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab is likely to be slow as large scale features are not favourable and the forecast wind pattern by the numerical models do not indicate any favourable condition for sustained rainfall over the region during next one week, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-likely-over-east-and-northeast-india-during-next-5-days-101624416402421.html
23-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech likely to attend pre-submission meeting with WHO for Covaxin emergency use listing||Bharat Biotech, manufacturer of India's homegrown vaccine against Covid-19 Covaxin, may attend a pre-submission meeting with World Health Organization on Wednesday, a step that will push the vaccine producer closer to WHO emergency use listing (EUL). As per the WHO, the vaccine manufacturer will have an opportunity to submit a summary on the overall quality of the shot.In a major boost to the Hyderabad-based firm, the WHO on June 18 accepted its Expression of Interest (EoI) for Covaxin and scheduled a pre-submission meeting for Wednesday.Also read: Covaxin submits Phase 3 data to expert panel, claims 78% efficacyLast month, Bharat Biotech said that it expects approval for its Covid vaccine from the health organisation for emergency use listing during July to September.EUL is the procedure to streamline the process by which new of unlicensed products can be used during public health emergencies like the coronavirus pandemic, according to the WHO.The pre-submission meetings do not require the manufacturer to submit a detailed report about the jab but provide an opportunity for advice and guidance before the submission of a medicines dossier. It also offers an opportunity for the applicant to meet WHO medicine assessors who will be involved in assessing their product, as per the organization."The pre-submission meeting does not include a detailed review of data or full study reports. However, an essential aspect of the meeting is the submission (at least two weeks in advance of the pre-submission meeting) of a completed QOS-PD (Quality overall summary product dossiers)," WHO explained the process of the pre-scheduled meeting, PTI reported.Bharat Biotech has conveyed to the Centre, as per previous reports, that it has already submitted 90 per cent of the documents to WHO for the getting EUL for Covaxin. The company said that it expects to submit the remaining documents by June.Meanwhile, an expert panel of the country's central drugs authority reviewed and accepted the phase 3 trial data of Covaxin on Tuesday. "The required data was submitted by the company, and the subject expert committee went though it today. The experts were satisfied with the results presented, and the vaccine efficacy is confirmed at 77.8%," said an official in the government aware of the development, on condition of anonymity.The firm had submitted the results of its phase-3 trial efficacy data of Covaxin to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-to-attend-pre-submission-meeting-with-who-for-covaxin-emergency-use-listing-101624412984562.html
23-06-2021||India||Covid-19 curbs eased in Bihar from today: What's allowed, what's not||Amid a decline in Covid-19 infections, Bihar will ease curbs from today, allowing offices -- both government and private -- to function with full attendance.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday announced partial relaxations of lockdown curbs from June 23 to July 6. The decision was made after holding a Covid-19 review meeting.Complete lockdown in the state was imposed on May 5 after the state witnessed a surge in Covid-19 infections.Bihar, one of the worst-hit states in the nation, has been reporting a decline in daily Covid-19 cases.Here's what's allowed and not allowed in the latest guidelines:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-curbs-eased-in-bihar-from-today-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101624412425055.html
23-06-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh accused of 'slowing down' Covid-19 vaccine drive to achieve record high||The Madhya Pradesh government has been accused of "slowing down" its Covid-19 vaccination drive to ensure vaccination of a large number of people on June 21, the first day of the new phase of the nationwide inoculation drive.Citing numbers from the Centre's own CoWin vaccination platform, publications like The Lallantop and Scroll have reported that only 692 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in Madhya Pradesh on June 20, which included 627 and 65 first and second doses respectively.In the days leading up to June 20, the state's per day vaccination figures were put at 124,226 on June 17; 14,862 on June 18; 22,006 on June 19; and, finally, 692 on June 20. A record 1.6 million beneficiaries in the state received the jab on June 21.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh creates record, 1.64 mn people vaccinated in a dayMadhya Pradesh medical education minister Vishwas Sarang, has, however, denied charges of "slowing down" vaccination drive. "We ran a mega vaccination drive on June 21. Hence, it is obvious that so many vaccine doses were given on the day. We undertook a target of one million jabs, and administered more than 1.6 million doses. On June 21 itself, we had 2.3 million jabs, so why would we save jabs from the last few days?" Sarang was quoted as saying.After more than 8.6 million doses were given on June 21, the vaccination drive slowed down slightly on June 22, with nearly 5.4 million doses being administered on the day. Data available with Hindustan Times shows 68,370 jabs were administered in Madhya Pradesh till 11pm on June 22, a decline of 96% from a day ago.Also Read: At 5.4 million doses, Day 2 of Covid-19 vaccination drive records declineThe new vaccine policy was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on June 7. Under the new policy, everyone above the age of 18 is eligible for a shot, and the Centre is procuring and supplying to states 75% of the total vaccines being produced to India for free, to ensure vaccination of all adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-accused-of-slowing-down-covid-19-vaccine-drive-to-achieve-record-high-101624410390904.html
23-06-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Elephant found dead in Raigarh district||A carcass of an elephant was found in a farm at Dharamjaigarh forest division of Raigarh district in Chhattisgarh on Tuesday. Forest officials said the exact reason behind the elephant’s death was yet to be ascertained.“We have found a carcass on Tuesday at a farm of one Mehtar Singh in Banhar village of Dharamjaigarh forest division. During preliminary investigation, we have not found any reason behind the death and things will [be] clear after [the] post-mortem, which is going on,” said BS Sarote, sub divisional officer of Dharamjaigarh forest division.On March 29 this year, an elephant calf was found dead in the same forest division. In 2020, between June and October, 15 elephant deaths were reported in the state in separate incidents due to various reasons.North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in the coal rich forest lands in Surguja and nearby regions. Several incidents of human-elephant conflicts have surfaced in the last few years here, records show.In the last decade, the state has recorded an increase in its wildlife population including that of elephants, whose numbers rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-carcass-of-a-wild-elephant-found-in-raigarh-district-101624413161777.html
23-06-2021||India||Reforms under Aatmanirbhar Bharat improved ease of living, writes PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written a blog on LinkedIn, mentioning how four reforms, brought about as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package in May 2020 to mitigate the effect of Covid-19, were linked to improving the ease of living to the public, particularly the poor. the vulnerable and the middle class.The four reforms, PM Modi wrote, also promoted fiscal sustainability.(1.) One Nation One Ration Card: This first reform required state governments to ensure that all ration cards in the state under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) were seeded with Aadhaar numbers of all family members, wrote Prime Minister Modi. The main benefit from this, according to the PM, is that migrant workers can draw their food ration from anywhere in the country. Another financial benefit from this is the elimination of bogus cards and duplicated numbers.Seventeen states completed this reform and were thus granted additional borrowings amounting to ₹37,600 crore.(2.) Improving ease of doing business: This second reform, wrote PM Modi, required states to ensure renewal of business-related licenses is made automatic, online and non-discretionary on mere payment of fees. Another requirement was to implement a computerised random inspection system to reduce harassment and corruption. This reform, covering 19 laws, is most beneficial to small and medium businesses, and also promotes an improved investment climate, greater investment and faster growth.Twenty states completed this reform and got additional borrowings worth ₹39,521 crore.(3.) Notifying floor rates of property tax, water and sewage charges: PM Modi wrote that this third reform was to enable better quality of services to the urban poor, middle class, as well as to support better infrastructure and to stimulate growth. He added that this reform would benefit poor living in urban areas the most, and also help municipal staff who often face delay in payment of wages.Eleven states which completed this reform were granted additional borrowings of ₹15,957 crore.(4.) Direct Benefit transfer (DBT): This fourth and final reform has 0.15% of gross domestic product (GDP) linked to it, wrote Prime Minister Modi. He added that the addition of a component for reduction in technical and commercial losses, and another for reducing the gap between revenues and costs, improved the finances of distribution companies, promoted conservation of water and energy and improved service quality.From this, 23 states got additional borrowings of ₹1.06 lakh crores out of a possible ₹2.14 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reforms-under-aatmanirbhar-bharat-improved-ease-of-living-writes-pm-modi-101624405750184.html
23-06-2021||India||Pak using drones to infiltrate weapons, drugs to disturb internal peace: Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat has said that ceasefire is holding along the Line of Control (LoC) so far but the internal peace process is being disrupted by Pakistan by "infiltration of weapons and drugs using drones"."Ceasefire so far along LoC is holding, which is a positive sign. At the same time, we're also witnessing infiltration of weapons and ammunition, using drones. It doesn't augur well for peace as these drugs and weapons are meant to disrupt the internal peace process," Rawat told news agency ANI.Asserting that India wants peace in the entire Jammu and Kashmir region, Rawat said, "If the internal peace process is disrupted, then we can't really say that the ceasefire is holding. The ceasefire doesn't mean that you ceasefire along borders, but you at the same time create trouble in the hinterland."India and Pakistan had in February agreed to a strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the LoC and all other sectors.Speaking on theaterisation of forces, Rawat said that the process is going on well and it is making satisfactory progress."Amongst the three services, we have been able to resolve most of the issues. There is a better understanding that if the three services integrate, they can bring about jointness and carry out transformation. Then I think, we will ensure better efficiency and utilisation of our existing services. I think we'll be better prepared for combat in the future," he said.He added that the final structure will only be decided after the initial organisation is created."Of course, we have to look at the land-based theatres which will be Eastern and Western Theatres...How the final structure will evolve will only happen after we have created the initial organisation and it will take some time...There is a requirement for one agency to control and ensure that air management doesn't lead to fratricide. Then we have a large border along the coastline and high sea in the Indian Ocean Region. We need to ensure that we have one organisation looking after that," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-using-drones-to-infiltrate-weapons-drugs-to-disturb-internal-peace-rawat-101624407497341.html
23-06-2021||India||Indore hospital reports 49 cases of black fungus in 40 days||The Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital (MYH) in Madhya Pradesh's Indore has reported 49 deaths due to mucormycosis or black fungus infection in the past 40 days, a senior official from the facility has said.The hospital, attached to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College had 614 black fungus patients, of which 283 have been discharged and 49 have died, most having been brought to the hospital from different parts of the state in the late stage, Dean Dr Sanjay Dixit told news agency PTI.The first black fungus patient was admitted in this hospital on May 13, MYH Superintendent Pramendra Thakur said.Several states including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have declared it a 'notifiable' disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, thereby making it mandatory to report every black fungus case to the state government.Black fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection. People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other types of skin trauma, as per the Union health ministry.Here's all the latest updates on black fungus:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-hospital-reports-49-cases-of-black-fungus-in-40-days-101624406138503.html
23-06-2021||India||Pakistan providing pension to terrorists, must be held accountable: India||Pakistan continues to provide pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists and hosts them on its territory as its state policy, India said on Tuesday. It also said that the neighbouring country should be held "accountable for aiding and abetting terrorism".The remarks were made by Pawankumar Badhe, first Secretary, Indian Permanent Mission in Geneva at the 47th Session of the United Nations Human Right Council (UNHRC). Exercising India's right to reply following Pakistan's remarks, Badhe highlighted the systematic persecution of minorities in Pakistan through draconian blasphemy laws, forced conversions and marriages and extrajudicial killings."The scourge of terrorism is the gravest violation of human rights and must be dealt with in strongest terms in all its forms and manifestations," he said.The remarks came after Khalil Hashmi, permanent representative of Pakistan to the UN in Geneva, tried to raise the Kashmir issue at the interactive dialogue on the annual report of the high commissioner.Badhe accused Islamabad of distracting the Council's attention from the "deplorable human rights situation in Pakistan".Also Read: 'China one of the greatest friends’, Imran Khan says on Uighur Muslims genocide"Forced conversions have become a daily phenomenon in Pakistan. We have seen reports of minor girls belonging to religious minorities being abducted, raped, forcibly converted and married. More than 1,000 girls, belonging to religious minorities, are forcibly converted in Pakistan every year," the Indian official said."Journalists are threatened, intimidated, taken off air, kidnapped and in some cases killed, mainly to silence critics of the Establishment. While families of victims continue to struggle for justice, the perpetrators of these acts have enjoyed complete impunity," Badhe added.This comes days after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan sought the intervention of the US to settle the Kashmir issue with India, during an interview with the news programme Axios on HBO.Khan acknowledged he hasn’t spoken to US President Joe Biden since the latter assumed office in January and said he would raise the issue of Kashmir if there was a meeting between the two leaders.In the past, India has ruled out intervention or mediation on the Kashmir issue by any third party. New Delhi has also maintained that the region is an integral part of India, in the wake of statements from Islamabad opposing any possible changes in Jammu and Kashmir. India said such moves amounted to interference in the country’s internal matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-providing-pension-to-terrorists-must-be-held-accountable-india-101624407217871.html
23-06-2021||India||Govt says Delta Plus a variant of concern, identifies 3 characteristics||The Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus has been declared by India as the one of concern, as more than two dozen cases have been detected in three states. This is the mutated version of the Delta variant, first found in India.The Union health ministry advised Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh on the presence of the Delta Plus variant, which has been pegged as 'variant of concern' in certain districts of these states.Union health secretary communicated to these three states that this variant has been found in genome sequenced samples from Ratnagiri and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta districts of Kerala, and Bhopal and Shivpuri district of Madhya Pradesh.Here are the latest on the Delta Plus variant:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-delta-plus-a-variant-of-concern-identifies-3-characteristics-101624405991131.html
23-06-2021||India||Arrested intruder says China trying to hack defence ministry websites: Official||The Chinese national who was arrested recently in West Bengal's Malda district informed his interrogators that several agencies of his country are trying to hack various websites of the central government including those under the Ministry of Defence, sources in the Special Task Force (STF) probing his case said on Tuesday.They have targeted a Bengaluru-based company which is associated with the ministry and the BSNL, Han Junwe who was intercepted while trying to illegally enter the country through the India-Bangladesh border has told the sleuths.A couple of aerospace companies are also among the targets of the agencies, an STF officer told PTI on condition of anonymity."He has said that the Chinese are trying to take a sneak peek into India's defence system and hence they are trying to hack the websites of the Indian Defence Ministry," the officer said.The STF is trying to find out Junwe's connection with these agencies and the role he is playing in India, the officer said.The sleuths are still trying to unlock the sophisticated mobile phone and the laptop seized from the Chinese national who was arrested on June 12."Where he was heading to is still not known. We suspect that someone was waiting somewhere to guide him to Kaliachak in Malda district," the officer said.The STF is also also trying to find out whether or not he had any connection with the banned Maoist outfits."He may have some role in providing financial assistance to the Maoists," the IPS officer said.The 35-year-old man believed to be a resident of Hubei in China was arrested by the BSF earlier this month.The BSF had said on June 11 that Junwe told the investigators that he and his associates have smuggled as many as 1,300 Indian SIM cards into their country by hiding them in undergarments.These SIM cards were allegedly used to hack accounts and carry out financial frauds.The BSF had said that Junwe used the India-Bangladesh border to enter the country as he failed to get an Indian visa after his business partner Sun Jiang was arrested by the Lucknow Anti-Terrorism Squad in a case of fraud recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-intruder-says-china-trying-to-hack-defence-ministry-websites-official-101624405729228.html
23-06-2021||NA||Breaking news updates: Maharashtra sees another jump in its daily Covid-19 count; records 10,066 fresh cases, 163 deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra records 10,066 cases of Covid-19, 163 deathsMaharashtra recorded 10,066 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state-wide tally to 59,97,587. 163 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 1,19,303.First case of delta variant recorded in JammuJammu recorded its first case of the delta variant of Covid-19 on Wednesday, reported news agency ANI. The infected individual who was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital has reportedly recovered.Delta variant to account for 90% of new cases in Europe, says AFPAFP said on Wednesday that the Delta variant of Covid-19, first recorded in India, will account for 90% of the new cases in Europe by August. The news agency was citing an European Union agency.Manish Malhotra, Sabyasachi, Ritu Kumar summoned by EDFashion designers Manish Malhotra, Sabyasachi, Ritu Kumar have been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case. The three designers have been asked to report on Thursday and Friday at the agency's headquarter in New Delhi. Officials familiar with the developments said ED wants some clarifications from them regarding certain cash payments they received.Nepal to resume domestic and international flight operationsNepal is all set to resume domestic flight operations from July 1, and international flights June 24, reported ANI.Russia fires warning shots against British navy ship in Black Sea: Russian agencies, says AFPRussia has fired warning shots at a British navy ship on the Black Sea, reported AFP on Wednesday.Singapore reduces quarantine period for people from high risk countriesSingapore is reducing the duration of quarantine for people from high-risk regions to 14 days from the earlier 21 days, reported Bloomberg. The Singaporean government said it has found no evidence that virus variants of concern come with longer incubation periods.Maharashtra government announces two-day Assembly sessionThe Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra announced a two-day assembly session on July 5 and July 6, reported ANI.Encounter underway in J&K's ShopianAn encounter led by the police and security forces is currently underway at Shirmal area of Shopian, reported ANI. More details awaited.Nirav Modi's appeal against extradition to India refused by UK high courtUK High Court refused fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi's application to appeal against his extradition to India, reported ANI.Delhi records 134 cases of Covid-19, 8 deaths; positivity rate at 1.45%Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain told reporters that the national capital recorded 134 cases of Covid-19, 8 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate in the capital now stands at 1.45%.FIR registered against former Assam NRC coordinator Prateek Hajela and associatesA first information report has been registered against former National Register of Citizen (NRC) coordinator Prateek Hajela and his close associates "for alleged manipulations in the Family Tree Verification", a process used to update the NRC list. Abhijeet Sarma, president, Assam Public Works told news agency ANI.ASHA workers call of strike after Maharashtra govt agrees to meet demandsThe Maharashtra health department said that ASHA workers called off their strike after the state government agreed to increase their salary by ₹1,000 and give additional ₹500 as Covid allowance, to be implemented from July 1.Health ministry asks states detected with Delta Plus variant to take immediate containment measuresUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Wednesday wrote to chief secretaries of Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Maharashtra, and urged them to take up immediate containment measures in the districts where Delta Plus variant of Covid-19, categorized as a 'Variant of Concern', has been detected.4 injured in a blast in Lahore’s Johar Town areaAt least four people were injured in an explosion today in Lahore’s Johar Town area. Injured persons shifted to a local hospital. The nature of the blast is being ascertained, ANI quoted Pakistan media as reporting.Directed officials to closely monitor cases of Delta Plus variant: Maha health ministerMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that officials have been directed to closely monitor cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19. "Information about these cases should be collected and recorded for study. We are taking 100 samples from every district," ANI quoted Tope as saying. Punjab Congress committee president, FM meet Rahul GandhiPunjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jhakar and Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Wednesday.Over 290 million Covid vaccine doses administered so far: Health ministry#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ India’s #COVID19 Vaccination Coverage crosses the landmark of 29 Cr (29,46,39,511).➡️ More than 54 lakh vaccine doses administered in last 24 hours.https://t.co/3bANqk70xD pic.twitter.com/uUl4OmbeH3Maharashtra govt hospital nurses go on 2-day strikeMaharashtra Govt hospital nurses on 48-hr strike over various pending demands incl promotion & COVID allowanceNurses from 24 dists incl 1300 nurses of Mumbai's JJ Hospital participating.If our demands aren't met,then, we'll go for indefinite strike:Pres,Maharashtra Nurses Assoc pic.twitter.com/SXr3BuvluB40 Covid-19 cases due to Delta plus variant detected in India till nowIndia has reported 40 cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19, ANI quoted government sources as saying. Most of the cases are from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. It is still a variant of interest, the official said.'His mentality is Talibani': MP CM hits out at Cong leader Digvijaya SinghMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday lashed out at Congress leader Digvijaya Singh over his tweet quoting a media report that 'Indian officials silently visit to meet Taliban leaders'. Chouhan in response to the tweet said Singh's mentality is Talibani."His (Digvijaya Singh) mentality is Talibani," ANI quoted Chouhan as saying.India reports 50,848 new Covid-19 cases, takes tally to 30 millionIndia on Wednesday reported 50,848 new Covid-19 cases and 1,358 deaths, as per the Union health ministry.Layer of toxic foam floats on Yamuna river in Delhi#WATCH | A layer of toxic foam seen floating on the surface of river YamunaMorning visuals from Delhi's Kalindi Kunj pic.twitter.com/yrKJPiR6wwPM Modi wishes best to athletes ahead of Tokyo 2020 OlympicsToday, on Olympic Day, I appreciate all those who have represented India in various Olympics over the years. Our nation is proud of their contributions to sports and their efforts towards motivating other athletes."In a few weeks, @Tokyo2020 begins. Wishing the very best to our contingent, which consists of our finest athletes," the PM also tweeted.Sydney imposes new curbs to contain Delta variant outbreakThe outbreak of the Delta variant of Covid-19 in Australia's Sydney moves the authorities to impose new restrictions like compulsory mask-wearing at all indoor venues such as workplaces and shops.US VP Kamala Harris casts vote to confirm Kiran Ahuja as OPM headUS Vice President Kamala Harris has cast her tie-breaking vote in the divided Senate to confirm the nomination of Indian-American Kiran Ahuja as Office of Personnel Management head. The OPM is a federal agency responsible to manage more than two million civil servants of the United States.Earthquake of magnitude 4.5 hits PakistanEarthquake of magnitude 4.5 occurred today around 06:39:14 IST in 146km WSW of Islamabad, Pakistan(Pic courtesy: National Center for Seismology) pic.twitter.com/BfmlQFPHJ8Thailand reports new daily record of 51 Covid-19 deathsThailand reported on Wednesday a new daily record of 51 Covid-19 fatalities, bringing total deaths to 1,744 since the pandemic started last year.Mizoram reported 4,124 total active cases of Covid-19Mizoram reported 4,124 total active cases of Covid-19, 103 recoveries and 1 death, yesterday.Total cases in the state at 17,979 and recovery rate at 76.59%.Hunger, drought, disease: UN climate report reveals dire health threatsHunger, drought and disease will afflict tens of millions more people within decades, according to a draft UN assessment that lays bare the dire human health consequences of a warming planet.China reports 24 new Covid-19 cases vs 25 a day earlierChina on Wednesday reported 24 new coronavirus cases in the mainland for June 22, compared with 25 cases a day earlier, the health authority said.Covid-19 alert issued for Australia-New Zealand flightsPassengers on two flights between Australia and New Zealand have been ordered to immediately isolate and undergo Covid-19 testing after authorities traced a traveller who tested positive in Sydney after visiting Wellington.Kerala govt moots helpline for dowry harassment after woman tortured to death by husbandKerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has promised a 24-hour helpline to report any dowry harassment case in view of a suspected case of suicide by a 24-year-old woman from Kollam district, after being allegedly tortured for dowry by her husband.Swedish court upholds ban on tech giant HuaweiA Swedish court has upheld a ban on Chinese telecoms giant Huawei Technologies selling 5G equipment in the country, following Stockholm's decision to bar the company in October last year.India e-commerce rules cast cloud over Amazon, Walmart and local rivalsNew Indian e-commerce rules will raise costs for all online retailers but particularly Amazon and Walmart's Flipkart as they may have to review their business structures, senior industry sources told Reuters.Lawmaker from Imran Khan's party questions own govt's federal budgetMajor (Retd.) Tahir Sadiq, a lawmaker from Prime Minister Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), raised questions on his own government's federal budget, asking how will the ruling party overcome the ₹3 trillion deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-23-2021-101624405099822.html
23-06-2021||India||Uphaar case: Police file fresh charge sheet||Sushil Ansal, who was convicted in the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire which killed 59 people, allegedly defrauded authorities by concealing information about criminal cases pending against him while getting his passport renewed, the Delhi Police informed a court in a charge sheet filed against him.In its eight-page charge sheet filed before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma, the police said that Ansal misled the authorities on oath that he has not been convicted in any criminal proceedings.The police said that regarding the passport issued in 2013 to Ansal, “it is found that an affidavit under Tatkaal scheme required specific deposition by the applicant to the effect that there were no criminal proceedings pending against the applicant in any court or that she/he has not been convicted...”“In 2013, this affidavit was filed by the accused Sushil Ansal along with his application and he has on oath misled the government authority (RPO) that he has not been convicted in any criminal proceedings,” said the charge sheet, filed in February this year, but which has come to public knowledge only now.The matter has been adjourned for January 31, 2022.Police also said that a supplementary charge sheet will be filed in the case soon, along with sanctions from the authorities concerned to prosecute Ansal.The case was lodged on the direction of the Delhi high court while hearing a petition by Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy chairperson Neelam Krishnamoorthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uphaar-case-police-file-fresh-charge-sheet-101624397258289.html
23-06-2021||India||Now, SC judge recuses from hearing pleas in Narada case||Supreme Court judge justice Aniruddha Bose recused himself on Tuesday from hearing a case involving the West Bengal government, withdrawing from a matter on the appeals of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the state’s law minister Moloy Ghatak linked to the Narada tapes case.In less than a week, two Supreme Court judges hailing from Kolkata have now withdrawn themselves from two politically sensitive cases involving the state government. On June 18, justice Indira Banerjee expressed “personal difficulties” in taking up a clutch of petitions related to post-poll violence in the state. Judges are not obligated to give reasons while opting out of hearing cases.On Tuesday, three petitions were listed for hearing before a bench of justices Hemant Gupta and Bose to consider appeals by Banerjee, Ghatak and the state against a Calcutta high court order of June 9. The HC refused to accept their affidavits in opposition to the Central Bureau of Investigation’s petition to transfer the Narada case.The case pertains to a sting operation, allegedly showing Trinamool Congress leaders accepting bribes. The TMC leaders have denied the charges.The batch of cases was called out in the apex court on Tuesday and Justice Gupta passed the order releasing it from the bench. The order said the matters needed to be listed before another bench, of which justice Bose is not a member. It also requested Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana to assign the cases to a different bench.“These matters will be listed before some other bench. Justice Bose has some reservations in hearing them,” justice Gupta told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented CBI.Justice Bose, who did not specify the reason behind his recusal, completed his education in Kolkata before he began practising there as a lawyer in 1985 and was elevated as a judge to the Calcutta high court in 2004. He became a judge in the Supreme Court in May 2019.In 2015, when a Constitution bench struck down the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC), one of the members of the bench, justice Kurian Joseph penned down a separate judgment to hold that judges must disclose reasons when they decide not to hear a case.Another judge on the NJAC bench, justice Madan B Lokur also said that questions over recusal were quite significant and it was time that some procedural and substantive rules were framed in this regard.Former CJI KG Balakrishnan said: “It is up to the judges to decide whether they want to give reasons for recusal or not. There may be some embarrassing situations or facts that they may not be interested in explaining... Somebody could have a personal relationship with a party or some judge could have appeared as lawyers for someone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-sc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-pleas-in-narada-case-101624394256927.html
23-06-2021||India||‘BJP’s silence hurts me; have faith in PM’: Chirag Paswan||President of the Lok Janshakti Party and Lok Sabha MP from Jamui in Bihar, Chirag Paswan is caught in a family feud with his uncle Pashupati Paras and cousin Prince Raj over the control of the party. A former NDA ally, his relations with the Bharatiya Janata Party also came under a cloud after he attacked the other ally, the Janata Dal United and Bihar chief Minister Nitish Kumar. In an interview to HT he said he feels hurt by the BJP not supporting him and will look for alternatives if pushed to do so. Edited excerpts:Were you blindsided by what you uncle and cousin did?Yes, while I was fighting with outsiders, I did not know that I will have to fight insiders as well. And there was no way for me to know this was building up because on September 27, 2020, just 11 days before my father’s death Paras wrote a letter that there are reports of some party members taking part in antiparty activities and his name has also been dragged into this, which he thinks is a conspiracy by the opposition. He extended support to the party president.What do you think is responsible for this rift?This is a betrayal. This is a betrayal of not just me but the party as well. Throughout his life my father took his brothers along, but I have been left alone by them. I will have no one by my side when I observe the first anniversary of my father’s death. I know that people from the JDU are involved in this but it’s my own people who have betrayed me.How did you feel when Paras refused to meet you?I was very sad. I was most upset when I saw how sad this made my mother. I saw her sitting and crying alone. She spent all her life keeping the family together and they used to treat her well, but after my father‘s death they did not speak to us, nor do they visit. And when my mother found out about what was happening, she called up everyone from the driver to the office staff attempting to speak to them (uncle and cousin). I was put on an antibiotic drip, but when I saw her, alone and shattered, that is when I lost it all. Soon after my father’s death, they stopped talking to us, only my cousin used to talk.What do you say to the allegations that you were running the party in a very autocratic manner.Had I been autocratic why would 95% of the party members stand by me. I don’t know what was offered—money or power—to these people who are speaking against me.In hindsight do you think breaking away from the NDA and attacking Nitish Kumar was unwise?Not at all. Rather if I were to redo it, I would have done it exactly the way I’ve done it. And why shouldn’t I. My father’s and my politics, our party’s policies have been against Nitish Kumar. Ever since my father formed the party in 2000, our fight has been against Kumar. Whether it was the 2005 (state) elections or the 2009 general elections we always contested against the JDU. Even the 2015 (state) election we contested as opponents. The only exception was the 2019 general election, when Kumar overnight became a part of the NDA alliance, and we were helpless since we had to contest elections together. Even then my father was uncomfortable about the idea of working together with Kumar. Because throughout Kumar has tried to pull him down, destroy his party and finish him politically. And this is not the first time he has tried to break our party.In 2005, he tried to break away our MLAs and district presidents. Then again, he tried to poach our MLCs. Even now we had one elected legislator (from Maithani), they took him too. And now he has tried to break my party as well as my family. The whole concept of Dalit and Mahadalit was created to finish my father‘s politics.In 2014 our alliance was with Bharatiya Janata Party not the JDU. And that time Kumar had snapped ties with the BJP and raised questions on Narendra Modi’s claim to premiership. On many issues the Nitish Kumar government did not support the Modi government, whereas we have been steadfastly standing with the BJP and supporting them even on issue such as the Citizenship Amendment Act CAA and the (proposed) national population register (NRC). Now if the home ministry wants to implement NRC in Bihar what will they do, because the Bihar assembly has passed a resolution against it.Do you feel the BJP did not address your concerns.I told them very categorically right before the assembly elections began (about my concerns)….I had a meeting at the residence of BJP president JP Nadda, where the BJP organisational general secretary BL Santhosh and home minister Amit Shah were also present that there are two points that I cannot negotiate on. One was the number of seats that they were offering me; they were giving us only 15 whereas we wanted at least six seats per MP. The second issue was that I did not believe that Nitish Kumar had any policy that could bring about development in Bihar. I do not agree with his Saat Nishchay scheme. I said we should have a common minimum programme because that is how coalition governments work. He overlooked the vision document that my father had drafted when he was hospitalised. I even told the BJP president that they should not work on his agenda.I don’t know if BJP understood my concerns or not but I was very clear. And my father’s last words to me were no matter what do not align with Nitish; contest alone otherwise he will try to finish you as he tried to do with me. And the support that I got from people in Bihar is the reason why I contested elections alone.Do you feel the BJP has left you on your own?I am hurt. My father and I stood by the BJP when nobody was there with them. And today when I need them, I expect their support. I still have faith in the Prime Minister. He is the only reason why we joined the NDA, especially me. I forced my father to join the NDA because of him. But if I am pushed and cornered then I am left with no option but to look out for alternatives.So is the Mahagathbandhan the other alternative?That is for my party to decide. If we are pushed away, then my party and I will sit together and decide on the next step.Have they reached out to you?That is a general practice. When such things happen then the opposition tends to reach out. I have a lot of friends in the opposition too. My father was a very friendly person he was liked by people across party lines. Same goes with me. We are in touch but on a personal level nothing official. But then yes, pushed beyond a point we will have to think about the future course.Has anybody in the BJP tried to reach out to you?Not yet. And their (BJP's) silence hurts me. Like I said, I still have faith in my PM. I did expect that he will intervene and mediate and try to solve the problem. Everyone from the opposition has reached out to me. I do have friends in the BJP, on the personal level I have spoken to several people and even ministers. But officially, my expectations were not met. My father stood with the PM till his last breath. I have stood by him in every decision. When you needed me, I was with you, today when I need you, if you don’t support me and keep cornering me then I will have to look for alternatives.You are talking about the party taking a decision but right now the party is in trouble. There are two groups fighting for control. How will you scotch the differences?I don’t know how I’m going to do that, but I am very proud that my party has stood by me. A party is not only about MPs and MLAs; they all come and go. And this is not happening just to my party it has happened to parties across the world. This is the reason why we have rules and regulations because elected members come and go or change affiliation. Today, we have six members in Lok Sabha, and these were not there in 2014.These people cannot discuss the future of the party, that is based on the organisational structure and the soul of the party is the Constitution. I’m happy the whole organisational set up strongly stands with me. We have a minimum of 75 national executive members of which 66 are with me and have given sworn affidavits. Of all the state presidents only the ones from Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi and not with me, the rest support to me.Have you approached the election commission with these supporting affidavits to stake claim to the party symbol?Yes, we have. We told them we have terminated these people from the party and if anyone stakes claim they should inform us. They (Paras and others) told the EC, that a new president was appointed because after the passing away of Ram Vilas Paswan, the LJP did not have an election. What they are forgetting is that the election was conducted in 2019 when my father resigned as president on health grounds and because he had ministerial responsibility. And as per our constitution, the president has a term of 5 years, unless he passes away or resigns. I was elected president on November 5, 2019, and four days later the EC was informed. Incidentally, the main proposer for my election was Pashupati Paras and Suraj Bhan Singh seconded it.I have told the Lok Sangh speaker Om Birla the same thing. MPs cannot decide the leader of the party, it is the call of the party leadership. He is yet to get back to me.I am ready for a long fight. I am ready to go to court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-silence-hurts-me-have-faith-in-pm-chirag-paswan-101624393525980.html
23-06-2021||India||Fully vaccinated elderly can restart activities in restricted manner: Govt||Cautioning general public, especially elderly citizens, against the imminent third Covid-19 wave, the Centre on Tuesday said that “fully vaccinated” senior citizens can “restart restricted activities”.“In general, if fully vaccinated, and taking necessary precautions, people can lead normal lives. However, people have to be careful that they don’t visit crowded areas, maintain social distancing, wear a mask, and observe hand hygiene. If all these measures are strictly adhered to, and there is no comorbidity, then elderly can also lead normal lives to some extent. Yes, of course, they can go for a walk; but no, they can’t go to markets like Sarojini Nagar during festival season as that is high risk situation. So, in a calibrated and reasonable way, elderly can restart restricted activities...,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fully-vaccinated-elderly-can-restart-activities-in-restricted-manner-govt-101624392005872.html
23-06-2021||India||‘Won’t settle for statehood, Art 370 must be restored’: Mehbooba Mufti||Mehbooba Mufti, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and the last serving chief minister of the state of Jammu & Kashmir before its special status was nullified in August 2019 and it was split into two Union territories, spoke to Harinder Baweja on her decision to attend the all-party meeting in Delhi on June 24. Edited excerpts:You have decided to attend the all-party meeting. What makes you trust Prime Minister Narendra Modi again?Mr Narendra Modi is not just an individual. He is the Prime Minister of the country, and I am putting my faith in the post of the Prime Minister. Our special status was given to us by the Constitution of India, not by Pakistan or China or the United Nations, or an individual.You were incarcerated for over a year, and even denied a passport. What do you think New Delhi will be willing to offer?We have been invited for talks. I don’t know what is on their plate. I can tell you that we, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), are very clear about our agenda. What happened in August 2019 is unacceptable. Article 370, which gave the state its special status, was unconstitutionally removed. It was a bridge that also connected us emotionally to the rest of India. We will not settle for less. We want Article 370 to be restored. We are fighting within the Indian Constitution, of which 370 was a part. Jammu & Kashmir was referred to as the crown of India. Delhi should have been proud of this crown, but they’ve dismantled it because it was a Muslim-majority area.Also read | Gupkar leaders to be part of PM’s J&K meetThe Modi government has said time and again that there is no question of restoring Article 370. Are you willing to settle for statehood?Nothing is cast in stone. [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee and other tall leaders, like Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Patel, understood the importance of Article 370. The BJP’s (Bharatiya Janata Party’s) manifesto cannot rule this country, the Constitution will. We will not settle for anything other than the restoration of Article 370.Will you contest an election if polls are held?I am very clear that I will not fight an election till Article 370 and 35A are restored. That is final. My party, the PDP, will contest, but I will not; not till I can also hold the flag of Jammu & Kashmir again.Your constituents will be watching closely. What would you say to those who see you and other mainstream politicians as traitors? All of you were blamed after the special status was withdrawn in August 2019.Mainstream politicians are seen as Delhi’s agents. It is a bitter pill I have learnt to swallow. Always remember that the mainstream parties in J&K held the Tricolour for the last 70 years — not out of fear of being called anti-nationals, but out of their conviction. My father, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, had a political vision not only for J&K but also for the country, and he believed dialogue was the way to break the cycle of bloodshed.The Centre promised development, jobs and a violence-free Kashmir but some youth are still picking up the gun. Do you think they should be engaged with as well?Where are the jobs? All sections need to be engaged. There is so much suppression here. As soon as you open your mouth, we are booked under the Public Safety Act. If the government can travel to Doha to engage with the Taliban, why can’t it talk to its own people? In Kashmir, even the common person is treated like a terrorist. So many people are still under detention. Elsewhere, prisoners have been given relief because of Covid, but not here. Why these double standards?You were dumped by the BJP in June 2018. What is the least you expect from the all-party meeting?There is no question of least. The Gupkar alliance was set up to fight for the restoration of Article 370. We will continue this fight.What happened in August 2019 is completely unacceptable and should be reversed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-settle-for-statehood-art-370-must-be-restored-mehbooba-mufti-101624390871470.html
23-06-2021||India||Won’t settle for statehood, want restoration of Article 370: Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday stressed that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an alliance of mainstream parties in Kashmir, will press for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status at a key all-party meeting, and not just settle for the restoration of the region’s full statehood.The remarks by Mufti, PAGD vice-chairperson and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief, came two days before the meeting in Delhi to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“What happened in August 2019 is unacceptable. Article 370, which gave the state its special status, was unconstitutionally removed. We will not settle for less. We want Article 370 to be restored,” Mufti said in an interview to HT, referring to the Centre’s controversial decision to strip Jammu & Kashmir of its special status under Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019, and split the erstwhile state into two Union territories.“We are fighting within the Indian Constitution, of which 370 was a part,” she said. “Our special status was given to us by the Constitution of India, not by Pakistan or China or the UN, or an individual,” she added.The meeting between Modi and mainstream parties from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24 is the first such meeting after August 2019. In the past, the Union government has said it was open to restoring Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood but ruled out reinstating Article 370When asked if PAGD will accept if full statehood is restored, Mufti said the alliance will not settle for anything less than full restoration of Article 370. “Nothing is cast in stone. [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee and other tall leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Patel understood the importance of Article 370. The BJP’s (Bharatiya Janata Party) manifesto cannot rule this country, the Constitution will. We will not settle for anything less,” she said.Mufti, the last serving chief minister of the erstwhile state whose alliance with the BJP broke in 2018, also reiterated her commitment to not fight the elections unless the changes of August 5, 2019, were rolled back.“I will not fight an election till Article 370 and 35A are restored... My party, the PDP, will contest, but I will not,” she said. Article 35A empowered the state legislature to define permanent residents and bestow special privileges to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-settle-for-statehood-want-restoration-of-article-370-mehbooba-mufti-101624389993533.html
23-06-2021||India||Pfizer CEO says Covid-19 vaccine in final stages of approval in India||US pharmaceutical major Pfizer's CEO Albert Bourla on Tuesday said the company is in the "final stages" of getting approval for its Covid-19 vaccine in India.Bourla held discussion with Medanta Chairperson Dr Naresh Trehan over vaccine doses for children in India."I hope we will finalise an agreement with the government very soon," Bourla said while speaking at the 15th Annual BioPharma and Healthcare Virtual Summit of USA India Chamber of Commerce."We need to get first approval for a vaccine in India that we do not have yet and then to sign an agreement to send doses of our vaccines to India," he said. "We have donated critical care life medicines to India," he further added.According to the Indian government sources, a discussion with the company is still underway and seems to be resolved soon. The US pharma giant has indicated that it will provide around five crore vaccine doses to India.Pfizer's demand for the indemnity is a key condition for the supply of its doses in India.Indemnity provides protection to vaccine manufacturers against legal proceedings and costs of compensation for severe side effects among those who received the shots.Pfizer has obtained indemnity in several countries where its vaccine is already in use, including the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-ceo-says-covid-19-vaccine-in-final-stages-of-approval-in-india-101624387936614.html
23-06-2021||India||Outrage over alleged dowry-related deaths of 2 Kerala women, husbands in custody||The deaths of two women in Kerala related to alleged dowry harassment in two days have provoked outrage and prompted calls for changes in the law to prevent such incidents. A 24-year-old woman was found dead in Kollam on Monday. Another woman allegedly died after she set herself ablaze on Tuesday in Thiruvananthapuram. In the Kollam case, the husband was booked under Sections 498 (domestic violence) and 306 (abetment to suicide). of the IPC. In the second case, arrest was not formally recorded so far.State police chief Loknath Behra has constituted a special investigation team under IG Harshita Attaluri to probe the cases. Police said they were waiting for post-mortem reports for both cases and will interrogate the in-laws as well. In the Kollam woman case, her parents said she was continuously harassed over the car gifted during the marriage. In the video chat just before her death, she sent photos of injury marks and scars allegedly inflicted by the husband over this. They said he told the daughter that he was entitled to a luxury car, and the one gifted by her parents was only worth ₹10 lakh. He also complained frequently about the low mileage of the vehicle. Parents said during the marriage last year, they gifted their daughter over 100 sovereigns of gold, one-acre land, a car, among other things. “He did not like the car I gifted and always used to argue with my daughter over this. When he came here last time, he sought ₹10 lakh, which I refused. His torture aggravated after this,” the victim’s father, also a leader of Communist Party of India in Kollam district, lamented. He said hanging marks were not there on the body of his daughter. In another case, a 24-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide after setting herself on fire in Vizinjam. Her husband was later detained by the police. Her parents said he used to harass their daughter for dowry. The father said when the husband came home on Monday to pick his wife, he was carrying a bottle of diesel. When he asked about this, the husband reportedly told him that it was for the ants. He alleged his daughter would never commit suicide, and she was set on fire while she was sleeping. She was married off last year.“Both incidents are heart-rending. It is sad despite a good education and economic background many are succumbing to the dowry menace. We need stricter provisions to curb this,” said state women commission member Shahida Kamal. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and animal husbandry and dairy development minister Chinchu Rani called on the bereaved family on Tuesday. “Both incidents are shocking. We have to ensure such ugly incidents will not recur,” said PCC president K Sudhakaran in his post. “Both cases cause real pain. Attitude towards women remains unchanged. Educated and empowered, they should have severed their relations and led a life without them rather than embracing death like this,” wrote public health activist Dr Shimna Azeez in her Facebook post. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has condemned both incidents. “Such incidents are a setback to the progressive society of the state. We will ensure proper punishment to perpetrators,” he said. Later the state police released two toll-free numbers to help women to register such complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outrage-over-alleged-dowry-related-deaths-of-2-kerala-women-husbands-in-custody-101624388380121.html
23-06-2021||India||HC orders inspection at Renault-Nissan unit, sets July 3 deadline||Chennai: The Madras high court on Tuesday directed automobile major Renault Nissan’s manufacturing facility to strictly enforce Covid-19 guidelines, as recommended by the Directorate of Industrial Safety, by July 3. The court also directed that a team of the Directorate of Industrial Safety inspect the manufacturing unit on the same day and submit a report. The first bench, comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, passed the order in the case filed by the workers’ union of Renault against the management. In the previous hearing, the management had appealed to the court that a level-playing field be ensured so that the same standards should apply to all automobile manufacturing units without singling out the Renault-Nissan because of its more vociferous workers. The court had then directed officials of the Directorate of Industrial Safety to visit the automobile manufacturing units on the outskirts of Chennai and ensure that uniform guidelines were imposed. Hyundai Motor India Limited, also represented in the case, submitted that its workers have no grievance. The court observed that the main bone of contention between the management and the workers of Renault-Nissan has been the maintenance of a pitch ratio in the assembly lines. The pitch ratio would ensure that after every third car there would be a gap for a fourth car, so that the workmen can get some breathing time and social distancing can be ensured. “What the workmen seem to want is that the workload should be reduced to ensure that distancing norms are maintained,” the court said in its orders. After its previous inspection at the facility, the directorate recommended nine uniform guidelines on June 18, so that social distancing can be practised. The management submitted that they already follow most of the recommended guidelines and that steps are being taken to adhere to the remaining by July 3. “During such time when the inspecting team visits the manufacturing facility of Renault-Nissan on July 3, 2021, such team will be entitled to interact with the members of the workmen’s union or the individual workmen for the purpose of assessing whether the guidelines are being adhered to,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-orders-inspection-at-renault-nissan-unit-sets-july-3-deadline-101624388320207.html
23-06-2021||India||Stalin urges coastal states’ CMs to reject new ports bill||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin Tuesday wrote to his counterparts in nine coastal states asking them to object to the draft Indian Ports Bill. He wrote to chief ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Puducherry, saying that it dilutes the power of states.“You will agree that the present system has led to the good development of minor ports, under the states,” Stalin said in his letter. “This move of the Central government to bring a new Bill will have long term adverse implications on the management of minor ports since the state governments will not have any major role anymore if the bill is passed.”The ministry of ports, shipping and waterways has framed a new draft to modify the current management model of minor ports, and a meeting of the Maritime State Development Council (MSDC) has been called with the state ministers on June 24 to discuss this bill. Stalin added that as per the existing Indian Ports Act, 1908, the powers to plan, develop, regulate and control the minor ports vests with the state government. However, the new draft bill proposes to change this and transfer many of these powers to MSDC, which has, so far, been only an advisory body, he said. Stalin said that they have already taken this up with the Union ministry and would ‘strongly oppose such steps to reduce the autonomous role of states in the regulation and management of minor ports.’“I propose that all the coastal states and union territories should express their objection to this new draft, the Indian Ports Bill 2021, and take a joint action to prevent any move to dilute the powers already vested with the states,” he said, requesting all states to communicate along similar lines during the MSDC meeting on June 24.Stalin had previously, on June 8, written to chief ministers in 12 states -- Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal --, urging them to write to the Union finance minister and the Reserve Bank of India on the need for a moratorium on loan repayment for MSMEs and small businesses. He urged them to come together once again as the states’ collective effort in asking for vaccines to be procured centrally and distributed free of cost to states led to the Union government revising its position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-urges-coastal-states-cms-to-reject-new-ports-bill-101624388260095.html
23-06-2021||India||Why India can shed its population obsession||That population control is crucial for making India a prosperous nation is an entrenched stereotype. To be sure, India is not the only country which has embraced this idea. China, currently the world’s second largest economy and a one-party state since 1949, enforced a one-child norm in the 1980s. That it was not a democracy, helped in imposing such a policy. Four decades later, the same state is now encouraging couples to have three children (more on this later).Modern capitalism, as we know it, has developed in relatively less densely populated regions of Western Europe and North America (with the exception of Japan). It is no wonder that low population was seen as a virtue for economic growth. It is only recently that densely populated countries with very large populations such as China and India have placed themselves among the world’s largest economies. The world is yet to come to terms with this economic churning.What makes population control an even more vexed issue in India is the religious polarisation around it. The bogey of population explosion is often used (directly or indirectly) to politically target Muslims, the largest religious minority group in the country. For example, while stressing on the need for controlling population to reduce poverty, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma recently asked stakeholders of the minority community to speak to the members to work towards effective population control measures.Following Assam, now Uttar Pradesh is talking about introducing a two-child norm for entitlement to government benefits. “Population is nearing an explosive stage. It is causing other issues too — related to hospitals, foodgrains, houses, or employment. We believe that there should be a check on population. Population control is different from family planning,” Uttar Pradesh Law Commission chairman, Aditya Nath Mittal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Mittal further said that his statements are not targeted towards any community nor does he want to challenge human rights’ of citizens. “We don’t want to give a message in Uttar Pradesh that we are against any particular religion or anyone’s human rights. We just want to see to it that the government resources and facilities are available to those who are helping in and contributing towards population control,” Mittal further added.Here are nine charts which show why India should stop obsessing about population growth and linking it to religion.India’s population growth peaked long time ago India will overtake China as the most populous country by 2025 or perhaps sooner. However, this should not be inferred to assume that India is undergoing a proverbial population explosion. Population statistics show that India’s population growth peaked decades ago and it is already on a downward trajectory. According to the United Nation’s population projections, India’s population will increase by a multiple of 1.09 between 2021 and 2031. This number was 1.25 between 1981 and 1991. From 2060 onwards, India’s population will start falling, which happens when fertility rate falls below replacement levels. By 2100, which is as far as UN population projections go to, India’s population will be 1.45 billion after having peaked at 1.65 billion in 2059 (See Chart 1).A high population is not necessarily a bad thing for the economy What the proponents of the high-population-is-bad-for-the-economy theory do not realise is that an economy needs workers to contribute to output growth. So, a low population, which means fewer workers, also means a scarcity of productive hands in the economy. This actually generates headwinds, rather than tailwinds for economic growth. An increasing share of older people in its popualtion, thanks to its one-child policy, is what has forced China to abandon the old policy and encourage couple to have more children.A simple comparison of India and China brings out this point clearly. The ratio of per capita GDP of China and India is much higher than the ratio of per worker GDP of the two countries. This means that if India were able to gainfully employ more people, it would actually help to bridge its economic gap with China. That labour force participation of women is significantly lower in India than China is an obvious area which needs to be acted upon in this regard (see Chart 2).India needs to focus on exploiting its demographic dividend rather than worry about it India is poised at a unique moment in history, where it can exploit its demographic advantage to realise its economic goals. According to the government’s population projections, 53.6% of India’s population in 2021 is under the age of 29. More than a quarter of India’s population is 14 years or younger. This young cohort can become extremely productive or unproductive depending on the skill sets it acquires.We are nowhere close to guaranteeing the best possible opportunities to young Indians. For example, an HT analysis of the latest All India Survey on Higher Education data found that India’s higher education sector is mired in deep structural inequalities. Our policy makers will do well to focus on exploiting India’s demographic dividend rather than worrying about it (Chart 3).Fertility rates are higher among the poor and uneducated women The macro numbers on India’s population do not mean that a high number of children is not a problem . The evidence at hand, from the 2015-16 (latest available all-India data) findings of National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) points to what is well established in the theory of demographic transition. Total fertility rates (TFR) are higher among the poor and they come down as incomes increase. TFR is the average number of children a woman bears in her lifetime. Education of women also plays a role, both in case of fertility rates as well as age of mother at the time of birth of first child. This clearly shows that any policy which seeks to exclude families with more than two children from government welfare programmes will end up hurting the poor, who need such help the most (See Chart 4 and 5).Patriarchy driven preference for a male child is an important driver of higher fertility rates To be sure, India’s entrenched cultural beliefs -- patriarchy is among the strongest of them -- also plays a role in driving up fertility rates. According to the 2015-16 NFHS findings, the desire to have a third child was strongly influenced by whether or not one of the two existing children was a son. 89% women and 92% men with two children did not want a third child if they had two living sons. This number came down to 63% and 64% for men and women with two children but no living son. Such preference is believed to have had an adverse effect on the sex ratio of the population through practices such as female foeticide etc. Many studies have shown that this attitude tend to be higher in the relatively well-off, especially in northern states (See Chart 6).Muslims do have higher fertility rates, but they are a minority when it comes to total families with more than two children There is an element of truth to the assertion that Muslims tend to have higher fertility rates in India. While some of this can be explained by their relative socio-economic backwardness, an HT analysis using NFHS data had found that Muslims have a higher share of married women with more than two children than Hindus, even in same education and wealth cohorts.Perhaps, it is this fact, which encourages a mixing of political rhetoric around population control and religion. However, what the proponents of such politics do not realise is the fact that in case the government were to formulate any policies which exclude families with more than two-children, 83% of the affected families would be Hindus. Not only is such a policy regressive; it will hurt the ‘have-nots’ more than the ‘haves’, it will also fail to achieve its communal design as more Hindus will suffer than Muslims (See Chart 7 and 8).Total fertility rate differential for Muslims and the Hindu-Muslim TFR ratio has been falling While Muslims to have a higher fertility rate than Hindus, the former are not an outlier when it comes to the trend of falling TFR. Data from successive rounds of NFHS clearly prove this point. TFR for Hindus and Muslims was 3.3 and 4.41 in the first round of NFHS which was conducted in 1992-93. It has come down to 2.13 and 2.62 respectively in the fourth round which was conducted in 2015-16. This means that TFR has fallen by 40.6% for Muslims during this period, more than 35.5% decline for Hindus. Even the ratio of Muslim-Hindu TFR has come down from 1.34 in 1992-93 to 1.23 in 2015-16. We now have fifth round of NFHS data from 2019-20 for some states. Assam is one of them. It shows that the trend of falling TFR among Muslims and Hindus continues to hold. The TFR for Hindus was 1.8 and 1.6 in the 2015-16 and 2019-20 NFHS rounds. These numbers were 2.9 and 2.4 respectively for Muslims (See Chart 9).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-india-can-shed-its-population-obsession-101624388140227.html
23-06-2021||India||PM hails India’s new model of ‘reforms by conviction, incentives’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India adopted a new model of “reforms by conviction and incentives” to successfully implement several long-term welfare measures while encouraging states to raise ₹1.06 lakh crore additional money in 2020-21 when the world was facing severe resource crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic.This significant increase in availability of resources was made possible by an approach of Centre-state ‘bhagidari’ (partnership), Modi said in a post titled ‘Reforms by Conviction and Incentives’ posted on Linkedin.“In this backdrop of financial crunch seen across the world, do you know that Indian states were able to borrow significantly more in 2020-21? It would perhaps pleasantly surprise you that states were able to raise an extra ₹1.06 lakh crores,” he wroteReferring to the government’s economic stimulus plan announced in May last year to protect lives and expeditiously revive the pandemic-ravaged economy, he said: “When we formulated our economic response to the Covid-19 pandemic, we wanted to ensure that our solutions do not follow a ‘one-size-fits-all’ model.”In order to protect lives, India imposed a 68-day national lockdown from March 25, 2020, which saw the economy plunging into technical recession (negative growth for two subsequent quarters). This led to a 24.4% contraction of the economy in the first quarter, and 7.3% contraction in the second quarter of 2020-21. The ₹20.97 lakh crore stimulus package , Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative) , was announced by the government in May. The economy expanded by 0.5% in the third quarter and 1.6% in the fourth quarter ended March 31.Modi said the stimulus package announced in May 2020 enhanced borrowing limit of states by an additional 2% of gross state domestic product (GSDP), of which 1% was made conditional on the implementation of four broad economic reforms. Under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, states are required to keep their fiscal deficit at 3% of GSDP.“This nudge for reform is rare in Indian public finance. This was a nudge, incentivising the states to adopt progressive policies to avail additional funds. The results of this exercise are not only encouraging but also run contrary to the notion that there are limited takers for sound economic policies,” PM Modi wrote in the blog.As part of the stimulus, on May 17, 2020 the Centre allowed states to borrow additional 2% of the GSDP, amounting to ₹4,27,300 crore.Explaining the purpose behind the conditional extra borrowing, PM said: “The four reforms to which additional borrowings were linked (with 0.25% of GDP tied to each one) had two characteristics. Firstly, each of the reforms was linked to improving the Ease of Living of the public and particularly the poor, the vulnerable, and the middle class. Secondly, they also promoted fiscal sustainability.”The first reform , ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ policy was to ensure that “migrant workers can draw their food ration from anywhere in the country,” he added, pointing out that 17 states completed this reform to access additional borrowings of ₹37,600 crore.Talking about the second reform related to improving ease of doing business, PM Modi said: “This reform (covering 19 laws) is of particular help to micro and small enterprises, who suffer the most from the burden of the ‘inspector raj’. It also promotes an improved investment climate, greater investment and faster growth.” This was availed by 20 states with additional borrowing of ₹39,521 crore.The third one was based on recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission and other experts who propounded sound property taxation. ; 11 states completed these reforms to borrow ₹15,957 crore , he said.The fourth condition was to introduce direct benefit transfer (DBT) of power subsidy to farmers. “This improves the finances of distribution companies, promotes conservation of water and energy and improves service quality through better financial and technical performance,” the PM said. At least one of the three components were implemented by 13 states, while 6 states implemented the DBT component to get additional borrowing space of ₹13,201 crore, he said.“Overall, 23 states availed of additional borrowings of ₹1.06 lakh crores out of a potential of ₹2.14 lakh crores. As a result, the aggregate borrowing permission granted to states for 2020-21 (conditional and unconditional) was 4.5% of the initially estimated GSDP,” he said.Modi said this was a “unique experience” for a large nation like India. “We have often seen that for various reasons, schemes and reforms remain un-operational often for years. This was a pleasant departure from the past where the Centre & States came together to roll out public friendly reforms in a short span of time amidst the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-hails-india-s-new-model-of-reforms-by-conviction-incentives-101624388080110.html
23-06-2021||India||Arnab named in new TRP case charge sheet||Mumbai crime branch on Tuesday filed its second supplementary charge-sheet in the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case, naming seven more people including Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV and R Bharat news channels among the accused.The 1,912-page charge-sheet filed by crime branch’s criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU) also names four others connected the Republic TV group, Shiva Subramanyam, Priya Mukherji, Shivendra Muldhekar and Ranjit Waltkar apart from two persons connected to Maha Movie channel - Amit Dave and Sanjay Verma.The Mumbai police started investigating the case in October last year on a complaint by Hansa Research Group, a contractor employed by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), a joint industry company set up by stakeholders to manage television audience measurement systems.It was alleged that some channels have manipulated the TV ratings. TRP is measured by recording viewership data at sample households and is considered crucial for attracting advertisers.Police claimed that some of the households, where BARC Bar-o-Meters were installed for measuring TRP, were bribed by Republic TV and a few other channels through Hansa Research Group’s relationship managers who were directly in touch with the households, for illegally enhancing their TRP.In the charge-sheet filed on Tuesday, investigators have annexed long WhatsApp chats between Goswami, named as accused no. 19 in the case, and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta, which were allegedly recovered during the course of investigation. Police claimed that Gupta and Goswami were in constant touch for the news channel’s benefit and Dasgupta shared huge confidential information of BARC with Goswami.There was no statement by Republic TV on Tuesday. The channel has, however, denied on several occasions that it had gamed the system to boost its ratings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-named-in-new-trp-case-charge-sheet-101624388021230.html
23-06-2021||India||Congress white paper warns of Covid-19 third wave||The Congress party, in a white paper on the Covid19 pandemic has sought free, universal vaccination for all Indians in the shortest possible time frame and compensation for those who died after contracting the viral disease, claimed that nine of every 10 deaths in the brutal second wave of the pandemic in India were avoidable, and blamed the Modi government for its failure to handle the pandemic. The document, released by Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked the government to invoke compulsory licensing provisions under the Patents Act 1970 to ramp up domestic vaccine production.The paper, prepared by the party’s research cell also asked for a minimum income support scheme for the poor and most vulnerable, wage subsidies to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and more funds for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.Releasing the paper, Gandhi said 90% of Covid19 deaths in the second wave were “needless” as they could have been saved if oxygen or drugs were available, and demanded a commission to look into “what went wrong” in the government’s strategy .In a series of tweets, Union minister Smriti Irani hit back asking Gandhi to introspect. “Where did second wave start?ruled states. Which states had huge percentage of India’s cases and deaths? Congress ruled states”She also said Congress-ruled states have higher case fatality rates and recorded high positivity rates during the second wave. “Who demanded decentralization (in vaccine sourcing) & then did a U-turn? Congress. Which states did the worst in terms of vaccination yesterday even as the country created a world record? Congress ruled states.” Irani tweeted.Her reference is to the high vaccination numbers registered by BJP-ruled states on Monday, the start of a new phase of the vaccine drive. Madhya Pradesh, for instance, administered 1.7 million doses. However, the state administered only 68,370 till 10pm on Tuesday. Overall, doses administered from from around 8.5 lakh; till 9 pm, India had administered 5.4 million doses on Tuesday.. As for deaths, reports based on the government’s own data from the Civil Registration System have shown that many states, including some ruled by the BJP such as Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Assam and Madhya Pradesh, but also others such as Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have seen a huge number of excess deaths in 2020 and 2021, a spike that can be explained only by Covid.Interestingly, the government has, in separate affidavits filed in the Supreme Court already weighed in on two of the demands raised in the white paper: it has said it does not make sense to take the compulsory licence route with vaccines, and, more recently, over the weekend, said that the ₹4 lakh compensation as mandated under the national disaster management law will not be paid to the families of those who died from Covid-19. “The Centre is making 4 lakh crore through cess on petrol and diesel. It has taken money from the people. They can give any name they want but a compensation plan is required,” Gandhi said.In his comments while releasing the document, Gandhi also targetted the Prime Minister, and said he was busy campaigning during the second wave of the pandemic.Gandhi acknowledged India’s feat of administering 8.5 million doses on Monday as “good work” but cautioned that vaccination is a process, not a series of events. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala quickly added that Manmohan Singh government had administered pulse polio doses to 120 million children on a single day in 2012. To be sure , a comparison of the two is out of place given the significant complexities involved in administering Covid vaccines.The Congress leader maintained the White Paper is aimed at giving suggestions to the government to keep itself ready for any possible third wave and that “the government should not repeat the mistakes”.The document labelled the vaccination campaign as “ad-hoc, short-sighted, unscientific, and inequitable” and alleged that the Union government “did not intend to vaccinate all Indians.” It further accused the government of “ignoring multiple warnings to the contrary, and thereby committed the critical error of not placing sufficient orders in advance, cascading to the vaccine shortages.”“Among the major impact of policy failures was that India was forced to break away from its 17-year-long tradition of not accepting foreign aid to deal with domestic crises. The Union government then delayed the distribution of the foreign aid it received and is yet to make public the details of donations,” the White Paper added.India has never stopped accepting foreign aid, as pointed out in an article in this paper by academics Manjari Chatterjee Miller and Vidhu Priya Mukundan. After 2004, “the terms of receiving aid” changed, they pointed out, and aid was “requested on a long-term basis, accepted only from G8 countries, from donors who would agree to give more than $25 million per year, or accepted by the state governments rather than the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-white-paper-warns-of-third-wave-101624388020706.html
23-06-2021||India||Police quiz Badal over 2015 firing, ex-CM objects to questions by non-SIT member||Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Tuesday objected to his questioning by Punjab’s former state director (prosecution) Vijay Singla, saying he was not a part of a Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing case.Singla had accompanied the three SIT members, additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav, who heads the probe team, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Aggarwal, and DIG Faridkot Surjit Singh, as a legal expert attached to the SIT, government officials said.There was high drama when Singla posed the first question to the five-time former CM, said an SAD leader aware of the developments, who didn’t wish to be named.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch raised strong objections to Singla’s presence, which led to the former official leaving the room, the leader added.When contacted, Singla said he did not ask any question to the former CM, and was stopped by the SAD chief Sukhbir Badal and others before entering the room where Badal was sitting.“SIT has hired me as legal expert through a proper government orders. I accompanied SIT on the request of the SIT head, who wanted me to be there in case of any legal assistance,” he said.A senior government official clarified that Singla was attached with the SIT through an order dated May 19, as per orders by the Punjab Government orders dated May 7 that said: “The SIT may seek assistance of experts for the purpose of the investigation.”Badal was the chief minister when incidents of the desecration of a religious text and police firing at people protesting against it took place in Faridkot in 2015.The Punjab government had formed the SIT, led by Additional Director General of Police L K Yadav, to probe the Kotkapura police firing incident following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policequiz-badal-over-2015-firing-ex-cm-objects-to-questions-by-non-sit-member-101624388020132.html
23-06-2021||India||Mathura temple case: Hindus offer alternative land for mosque||Petitioners in the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi case awaiting hearing in a court of Mathura, have offered the opposing parties representing Muslims one-and-a-half times more land some distance away from the Braj area where the temple and mosque that are subject of the legal dispute are currently located and urged them to give up their claim on the land.This offer has been made by the petitioners quoting the 2019 judgement by the Supreme Court in the Ram Janmabhoomi case where the court ruled in favour of the Hindu parties but asked the government to provide land to the Muslims for a mosque, in return. According to the petitioners, the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and the management committee of Shahi Masjid, EIdgah) should accept the offer to resolve the matter amicably.One of the petitioners, Mahendra Pratap Singh, an advocate, moved an application to this effect in the court of civil judge (senior division) at Mathura on Tuesday. He is also the president of Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi Mukti Andolan Samiti and claims that his organisation will make the land available to Muslims, if they accept the offer.The court of civil judge (senior division) in Mathura has fixed July 5 as the next date of hearing.Tanveer Ahmed, Secretary and counsel for Shahi Masjid Idgah in Mathura denied that copy of applications made by petitioners on Tuesday has been provided to them.‘No copy of such an application was handed over to us. We will examine the averments made therein after receiving the copy’ said Tanveer Ahmed.‘The Supreme Court, in its judgment in the Ram Janmabhoomi case of Ayodhya, stated that Babri structure was built after bringing down the Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya over the same land. The court passed the order holding the disputed place as that owned by ‘Ramlala’ and in lieu of it, Muslims were provided land to have their place of worship across river Saryu in Ayodhya” stated Singh in his application.“Similarly, in order to get the matter amicably resolved before the court, we have made an offer to the opposite parties (UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and management committee of Shahi Masjid Eidgah) to give up their claim on the land originally belonging to the temple where the Eidgah was built. And in lieu thereof, they (Muslims) would be offered land more than one and a half times anywhere beyond 84 kos of Braj” stated the petitioner. Kos is a measure of distance, approximately 3000 metres.A suit was filed on December 23 last year on behalf of deity Bhagwan Keshav Dev (Lord Krishna) seeking removal of the Shahi Eidgah (mosque), adjacent the Shri Krishna temple complex in Mathura, and transfer of 13.37-acre land to the deity.Ahmed said that the suit itself has been challenged. “In fact there is an application moved by us which is pending for disposal. We have challenged the maintainability of the suit in Court at Mathura. Instead of letting that application to be disposed of, petitioners are filing baseless applications, one after another to mislead the Court. The suit is not legally maintainable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-temple-case-hindus-offer-alternative-land-for-mosque-101624387960121.html
23-06-2021||India||Rashtra Manch meets at Pawar’s home, calls for ‘alternative vision’||Prominent Opposition leaders and civil society members assembled at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s residence in Delhi on Tuesday and discussed issues of fuel price rise, unemployment and the need for creating an alternative vision for India.But the discussions at the two-hour meeting didn’t mention the formation of a third front to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) because no Congress leaders attended the meeting, said leaders present at the event.“The broader purpose of the meeting was to discuss people-centric issues. Attendees stressed on the need for an alternative vision for the country and a team will be formed to realise that vision,” said Samajwadi Party leader Ghanshyam Tiwari .The meeting was called by Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha on behalf of Rashtra Manch, an anti-BJP platform that he co-founded in 2018, Three leaders of the Congress were invited for the event but none showed up, and Pawar made it clear that no discussion of a third front could take place without involving them, said leaders who attended the meeting.“Narendra Modi wasn’t mentioned even once, nor was a third front,” said former Rajya Sabha member Pavan Varma. “There can be no discussion of a third front without the Congress. Mr Pawar felt that the forum should be broadened with the inclusion of other parties and personalities.”The meeting sparked political speculation on Monday as it was announced soon after Pawar met election strategist Prashant Kishor. Kishor denied the two events were linked, but NCP’s Nawab Malik declared that the meeting reflected how Pawar will be working to unite Opposition parties.“Yashwant ji said this meeting was taking place in a restrictive pandemic environment, that’s why many leaders like Manish Tewari, who usually attend all meetings, didn’t turn up,” said Tiwari, also a founding member of Rashtra Manch.Apart from Tiwari, the meeting was attended by National Conference’s Omar Abdullah, Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary, NCP’s Praful Patel, Aam Aadmi Party’s Sushil Gupta, Communist Party of India’s Binoy Viswam and Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s Nilotpal Basu. They discussed issues such as fuel price rise, unemployment and the need for social stability and harmony in the country.Another attendee said on the condition of anonymity that Kashmir also figured in the discussion but not in detail. “It was a general discussion about how to improve the state of the nation,” he said.When asked if there was any mention of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as a potential prime ministerial candidate for the third front, Tiwari said no individual leaders were discussed.The meeting was also attended by civil society members, including former Delhi high court chief justice AP Shah, former ambassador K C Singh and lyricist Javed Akhtar. Neither the Congress nor the BJP reacted to the meeting.NCP leader Majid Menon said it was not a meeting for forming an anti-BJP front or a non-Congress front. “It was not an anti-BJP political front meeting called by Sharad Pawar. It was a meeting of Rashtriya Manch held at his residence. Like-minded individuals or people with the same ideology attended the meeting and there were several apolitical personalities present in the meeting,” Menon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtra-manch-meets-at-pawar-s-home-calls-for-alternative-vision-101624387904074.html
23-06-2021||India||Kashmir police inspector on way home after evening prayers shot dead||SRINAGAR: A Jammu and Kashmir police officer was killed in a suspected militant attack on the outskirts of Srinagar.The officer, Inspector Parvaiz Ahmad Dar, worked with the criminal investigation department (CID) wing of the police. He was shot near his house in Nowgam when he was returning home after offering evening prayers.He was taken to the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital in the old city but died before reaching the hospital.“A CID police inspector was brought dead to the hospital. He had multiple bullet wounds in his abdomen,” said SHMS medical superintendent Dr Kanwarjit Singh.Lt Governor Manoj Sinha condemned the brutal killing. “His supreme sacrifice won’t go in vain, terrorists will be punished for the act,” he said.I strongly condemn the brutal killing of Inspector Shri Parvaiz Ahmad Dar of J&K Police outside mosque in Nowgam by terrorists. His supreme sacrifice won't go in vain, terrorists will be punished for the act. My heartfelt condolences to the family of martyr.This is the second attack on policemen in the city in six days.On June 17, a cop was killed in a suspected militant attack in old city Srinagar on Thursday. Javaid Ahmad was shot dead by suspected militants near his home at Saidapora in Srinagar.Javaid had been working as a personal security officer of a retired judge for the last three years. He was on leave and unarmed when he was attacked, the police had said.We lost a brave colleague Inspector Parvaiz in a cowardly terror attack in Srinagar while he was on way home after offering prayers in mosque. An ever smiling brilliant officer, he will be missed badly. RIP buddy. pic.twitter.com/XYym1Pj4enOn June 12, two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others injured when militants opened fire targeting security forces in Sopore. The attack had happened on a Sopore police station team which was on Covid-19 duty. J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh blamed the Sopore attack on the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-police-inspector-on-way-home-after-evening-prayers-shot-dead-101624387902599.html
23-06-2021||India||Monthly output of 25mn doses to continue till Aug: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech will continue to produce 25 million doses of its Covaxin vaccine till at least August this year, but hopes to be producing 60-70 million doses by the end of the year, a senior executive said in an interview -- numbers that will guide the speed and spread of India’s vaccine programme, which hopes to vaccinate 940 million people, the entire population aged 18 years or older, by the end of the year.“The current production capacity is 25 million doses per month and this is likely to be maintained till August-September this year, after which more supplies will happen. In next two month we will be starting production in two of our facilities in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, and Bengaluru, Karnataka. These facilities are being repurposed and the production is likely to start in next two months,” said a company executive, Bharat Biotech International Ltd.The executiveadded that starting July, Bharat Biotech will sell 25% of its production to private hospitals, as against the 10% it does now. And the company is hoping to get a better price from the government, than the ₹157.50 it currents does per dose. the price per dose for private hospitals is ₹1200.“There are future orders that central government is discussing with us; we are looking at requesting for a better price. It is not just the cost of vaccine but also distribution cost of supplies to states that we have to take care of that increases the overall cost, which is there needs to be better price. For the private market we don’t see any changes for now,” the executive said.Also read | Covaxin submits Phase 3 data to expert panel, claims 78% efficacyThe government has so far bought 85 million doses of Covaxin (10 through the PM Cares Fund and 75 directly), and placed advance orders (paying 30%) for an additional 190 million doses.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is one of the three vaccines currently in use in India. The others are Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, made by Serum Institute of India, and Sputnik V, the Russian vaccine currently being imported by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which will also market the doses locally made by a clutch of Indian companies starting August. SII makes around 100 million doses of Covishield a month. India is expected to import around 18 million doses of Sputnik V till the end of July, after which domestic manufacturing is expected to kick in. It isn’t known how many doses will be made, although Russian Direct Investment Fund, which manages the commercial aspect of Sputnik V has said 850 million doses will be produced by local tie-ups in a year, with the production likely to start at around July-August .Explaining the production scale-up the executive said: “We actually see annualized production, and it is going to reach 800 million mark by the end of this year. We have initiated technology transfer with three institutions through department of biotechnology, and these companies are also preparing their facilities for the purpose, especially setting up a bio safety level- 3 laboratory, and should start production in some time.”The three are Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Indian Immunologicals Ltd, Hyderabad, and Bharat Immunologicals & Biologicals Ltd, Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh.He also added that the manufacture of Covaxin takes anywhere between 90 to 120 days for a batch, and that, as a result, there is no scope for any ad hoc changes to be made to supply plans. Exports, he said, are not on the horizon yet. “Our doses are committed well in advance; there is no possibility of making sudden changes. Same goes for exporting as government has clearly indicated that priority is Indian citizens. Even though the list of countries that have requested for vaccine doses is piling up continuously but exports will depend only on government approvals.”At least eight countries have requested Bharat Biotech for Covaxin supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monthly-output-of-25mn-doses-to-continue-till-aug-bharat-biotech-101624387840098.html
23-06-2021||India||Govt tags Delta+ as a ‘variant of concern’||The “Delta Plus” is a variant of concern (VOC) in India, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, citing an analysis by a consortium of genomic sequencing labs that has purportedly found the mutated virus to spread more readily, affect the lungs more strongly, and possibly reduce the ability of some antibodies to neutralise it.The Delta Plus, scientifically known as the AY.1 variant , appears to be a further evolution of the Delta variant (or B.1.617.2, which was first seen in India) with a particular mutation known as K417N, which has separately demonstrated properties that could make it more resistant to vaccines as well as immunity from a past infection.The government has now alerted the states where the VOC has been found. “The Union health ministry has advised Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh that the public health response measures, while broadly remaining the same, have to become more focused and effective. Chief secretaries have been advised to take up immediate containment measures in the districts and clusters (as identified by Insacog) including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis,” the health ministry said in a statement.Also read | At 5.4mn doses, Day 2 of vaccination drive records declineThe statement came within hours of Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan saying at press briefing that AY.1 was a variant of interest -- a classification used when a variant is being studied. Bhushan said Delta Plus was found in nine countries and that in India, there were 22 cases.“In India, 16 samples have been found in Ranagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra. Some cases have been seen in Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Today, Union health ministry has sent them an advisory to advise them on how to address this,” he said.At present, there are four VOCs recognised by the World Health Organization (WHO): Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. Each of these has a unique constellation of mutations that separately or collectively make the virus more transmissible, virulent or resistant. The Delta variant is the first that is believed to do all three.Delta Plus is the addition of a mutation identified as K417N, which has also been found in the Beta variant. Beta, or B.1.351 seen first in South Africa, is regarded as one of the most resistant variants of the coronavirus till now.The health ministry statement said an analysis by Insacog showed Delta Plus “has the following characteristics: increased transmissibility; stronger binding to receptors of lung cells; potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response”.The statement did not give more details about the analysis but suggests the authorities may now be moving with abundant caution, especially since India’s government drew criticism for not spotting the Delta variant on time.Of the six districts identified by the government on Tuesday, Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta in Kerala, and Bhopal and Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh , the trajectory of cases in Ratnagiri has been more or less flat, with new cases reducing by 5% over the last two weeks. In case of the others, this reduction is in the high double digits.Over the course of the coming weeks, a number of indicators will help determine the nature of the threat Delta Plus poses. These are indicators India has missed in the past, most recently with the Delta variant.Also read | Positivity rates at two private labs 450 times lower than average during Kumbh melaCASE NUMBERSThe Delta variant began driving up case numbers in Maharashtra in late February, which the trajectory becoming particularly sharp in the second week of March. By March 17, cases in the rest of the country began tracking a similar path as Maharashtra.HOSPITALISATION RATESTypically, only a small proportion of positive cases require hospitalisation. An analysis by Public Health England of infection and hospital admission rates in the UK, particularly in areas where the Delta variant took hold, showed the risk of hospitalisation doubled as compared to the Alpha variant.Authorities across India in general, and those in districts identified as Delta Plus-affected by the government in particular, will need to keep a close watch on hospitalisation rates, which is one of the first proxies for virulence.BREAKTHROUGH INFECTIONSStates will need to leverage the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) test reporting mechanism to track new infections and whether these include people who have already been infected or vaccinated previously . The PHE study cited above has, for instance, shown that a VOC like the Delta could lead to a sharp drop in protection among people who have just one dose of vaccine.“The interpretation should be based on sequence data and biological data both. Clinical correlation is important, and backed by lab data to show why we see what we see in people,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, physician-scientist, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Most crucially, India will need to improve its genome surveillance infrastructure -- a stand also taken by Anurag Agrawal, the head of CSIR Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology (IGIB) and one of the key officials of Insacog.In a column for medical journal Nature published on June 1, Agrawal said: “India urgently needs to intensify sequencing of unusual outbreaks, reinfections and cases in which vaccinated people become infected, while maintaining ‘sentry sequencing’ of a constant number of representative samples nation-wide.”The country did not do this in the case of the Delta variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tags-delta-as-a-variant-of-concern-101624387780698.html
23-06-2021||India||Punjab CM meets Cong panel amid infighting||Amid growing tension in the ruling Congress, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met for almost three hours with the three-member committee set up to end dissidence in the party’s state unit ahead of next year’s assembly polls even as some ministers and MLAs conveyed to former party president Rahul Gandhi their strong displeasure over former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s spate of interviews bad-mouthing SinghSingh met the committee headed by Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge at the latter’s Parliament House office in Delhi. The committee which also has general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as members discussed with him the implementation status of the 2017 poll manifesto of the party, a change in the party organisation in the state, and preparations for the coming elections, said a committee member who asked not to be named.This person added that the panel specifically asked the chief minister about the pending poll promises, including action against the Badals in the sacrilege and police firing cases. Singh did specifically brief the members about the status of probe into sacrilege and police firing cases, the chief minister’s aides said.“The committee members were informed that the special investigation team report in the Kotkapura firing incident was quashed by the court and the new SIT had already made quick progress,” they added.Between June and October 2015, three incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib took place in Faridkot district, leading to huge resentment and protests in the state. On October 14, 2015, two protesters were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan. The same day, police also opened fire on protesters in Kotkpaura. Amarinder had promised strict action against those responsible for sacrilege and police firing. On April 9 this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the investigation carried out by the state police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case. The state government has constituted a new SIT in accordance with the court order.The CM’s meeting with the central panel, their second in less than three week, came on the day the SIT questioned SAD leader Parkash Singh Badal, who was the chief minister at the time of the 2015 police firing, for two hours in the case.Meanwhile, Rahul Gandhi had one-to-one meetings with about a dozen party leaders from the state, including six ministers, during which some of them conveyed to him their displeasure over Sidhu’s statements targeting the chief minister. At least four leaders, including two ministers, said the Amritsar East MLA’s actions would damage the party in the state. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, who raised the issue with both Rahul and Kharge, said that several leaders have informed the high command about his (Sidhu’s) statements and that notice has been taken. “There is discontent over this. The CM has been appointed by Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji. This kind of things coming from someone who was in the cabinet is unfortunate and not acceptable,” he said. Sidhu has publicly attacked the CM in the press, accusing him of colluding with Badals.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa are likely to meet Gandhi on Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said.HT has also learnt that the panel is expected to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday to update her about the issues. However, the problem between the chief minister and cricketer-turned-politician may have got exacerbated with both taking a ‘maximalist’ position, according to one person who didn’t want to be identified.The CM told committee members that they should make a fair assessment about what each person brought to the table. While he was willing to go along with whatever the party decided, he wanted them to see the troubles Sidhu was stirring with his public outbursts against the CM. The CM’s side seemed to be upset that Sidhu drew his support from Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi.“The problem is we need both CM and Sidhu so we have to work it out,” said the leader quoted above.A second person that HT spoke to confirmed that Sidhu was adamant on the PCC chief post. However, the party doesn’t think that it would be the right fit for him as it is more of a behind-the-scenes role, that involved taking everyone along.Sidhu seemed less interested in accepting deputy CM post now that there was just months left before elections, the person added.The other issue, said a leader, was the choice of deputy chief ministers or PCC chiefs. Both Sidhu and the CM are from Patiala and the central leadership is looking for another deputy CM candidate that would balance out regional representation.The discussions with the CM were also about the roll out of Dalit- oriented schemes as they form 30% of the population in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-meets-cong-panel-amid-infighting-101624387780128.html
23-06-2021||India||At 5.4 million doses, Day 2 of Covid-19 vaccination drive records decline||Nearly 5.4 million people were administered Covid-19 vaccine doses across the country till 11pm on Tuesday – the second day of the new phase of its vaccination drive – as the country’s inoculation numbers dropped from the previous day, but remained significantly higher than what has been the pace of the drive thus far.On Monday, India’s latest round of vaccinations had started with a record 8.5 million doses administered — more in a day than any country other than China. Despite the drop on Tuesday, it was the third highest daily figures since the start of the country’s inoculation drive on January 16, but daily numbers fluctuated heavily across states.Madhya Pradesh, which recorded 1.7 million vaccinations on Monday, saw only 68,370 doses administered till 10pm on Tuesday – a drop of 96% between the two days. In Haryana, there was a 75% drop in daily vaccination numbers on Tuesday (128,979 doses administered till 10pm), compared to 511,882 Monday, data showed.To be sure, numbers from states are sometimes updated overnight on the Co-WIN dashboard, either due to data lag or to factor in walk-ins.Questions remain over whether India will be able to maintain the pace of vaccination in the coming weeks and months, particularly with respect to what appears to be a limited supply of shots available in the pipeline. The central government has set a target of administering 80 million doses between June 21 and June 30. In July, the Centre has set a target of administering 248 million doses.Senior health ministry officials credited the increase in rate of vaccination on Monday and Tuesday to greater co-ordination between the Centre and states. “We have demonstrated in the past that we have the capacity to administer far greater numbers of vaccines in a day, particularly if you see the example of the polio drive... This time, we have used that know-how for better collaboration. Since states knew the quantum of vaccines that was going to come to them in advance, they were able to execute it more efficiently,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday.State data compiled from Co-WIN dashboard, however, showed that daily vaccination numbers on Tuesday dropped in 12 states, primarily those that had seen record turnout on Monday, such as Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Bihar, among others.Explaining the drop in numbers before Monday, MP’s state immunisation officer Santosh Shukla said, “We have fixed Tuesday and Friday for general immunisation and Sunday is a ‘no vaccination day’. This order has been released in March but in some districts, immunisation is being done due to availability of vaccines.”On Sunday, a day before the mega vaccination drive, the state had reported only 4,098 vaccinations. On Saturday, this number was 24,700, and on Friday it was 11,742. Vaccination numbers drop nearly throughout the country over weekends.In Karnataka, the number of vaccinations fell from Monday’s 1.15 million to 446,780 till 10pm on Tuesday – a drop of 61%. On Sunday, the state had issued 68,172 shots. The state health department officials said Monday’s numbers showed that they can conduct mass vaccinations – a feat they aim to repeat in coming days, provided enough vaccines are there. The pace also slowed down in Andhra Pradesh and Bihar on Tuesday with 34% and 29% fewer shots administered on Tuesday, the data showed.Also read | Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine effective against Delta variant found in IndiaThe drive in other states such as Maharashtra, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh picked up pace on Tuesday to somewhat compensate for a large proportion of losses from Monday’s numbers.Maharashtra saw the largest increase in numbers – a rise of 45% from the 394,794 doses administered on Monday to 574,365 till 10pm on Tuesday, according to Co-WIN dashboard. It was followed by Punjab (24% increase from Monday), Himachal Pradesh (23% rise) and Chhattisgarh (22% up).Uttar Pradesh showed a 15% increase in daily vaccination on Tuesday as the state administered 844,174 doses till 10pm – the highest in the country on Tuesday in absolute numbers.Most of north-eastern states were able to maintain the vaccination momentum by inoculating 19% more people as they did on Monday. The numbers in Assam dropped 27%, according to Co-WIN data.Several states said they were expecting more vaccines to be delivered over the next few days which would help them maintain momentum.“The state received 250,000 doses of Covishield on Tuesday morning and we are expecting another lot of 90,000 doses in the evening,” said Munindra Nath Ngatey, Assam’s director health services.In Rajasthan, where 420,697 people were vaccinated on Tuesday against 474,868 on Monday, state officials said vaccination had to be halted in several districts due to shortage. State health minister Raghu Sharma in a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has urged to increase the vaccine allocation to 15 million doses from 6.5 million for the month of July.Health ministry officials, during Tuesday’s Covid-19 press briefing, emphasised on a focus on increasing rural vaccinations. “Around 63.7% of doses administered on Monday were in villages and 36% in urban areas... This makes it clear that a rural outreach is possible in the inoculation drive. We are fully hopeful and confident that it is completely possible for us to better cover rural areas,” Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said.(with inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-5-4mn-doses-day-2-of-vaccination-drive-records-decline-101624387720712.html
23-06-2021||India||Kerala HC stays two policies as Lakshadweep row rages||The Kerala high court on Tuesday stayed operation of two recent regulations issued by Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel that ordered dairy farms to close and excluded meat products from the midday meals in the island’s schools.A bench of chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly ordered that the administration will not take any action on the two rules for now and told the Union government and the island administration to file a detailed affidavit in two weeks.The high court’s reprieve on a petition filed by lawyer Ajmal Ahmad is the first for the island residents who have been protesting changes in rules ordered by the Lakshadweep administrator for more than a month.Ajmal Ahmed argued that the new set of regulations were intended to change the food habits of the islanders and create the foundation for imposing the ban on cow slaughter. Besides, the order to shut the local dairy farms will end up promoting dairy products from Gujarat.He also said the administration was planning to handover the midday meal scheme to a Bengaluru-based NGO called ‘Akshaya Patra’ to ensure that children only were given vegetarian means at school.At one point, the court asked the island administration why it was tampering with the age-old food habits of people. But the administration insisted that the dairy farms run by the animal husbandry department were closed down as there were no proper cold storage facilities on the island and the farms were not financially viable.Former Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac welcomed the interim stay.“It is the first major setback to the autocratic administrator. His controversial other decisions will also be challenged in the court,” Thomas Issac said in a tweet.Three more petitions are already pending before the high court against the rules pushed through by the administration after Praful Khoda Patel, a former minister from Gujarat who was appointed administrator of the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, was assigned additional charge of Lakshadweep too.Residents of the archipelago have been protesting some of Patel’s decisions including the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) that proposes to develop the islands as a major tourist destination, a proposal to notify the Goonda Act and a plan to ban cow slaughter. Patel’s critics in the islands argue that these steps will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belong to the protected scheduled tribe category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-stays-two-policies-as-lakshadweep-row-rages-101624387720149.html
23-06-2021||India||New Delhi targets Pak at UNSC Afghanistan debate||India on Tuesday targetted Pakistan for impeding efforts to improve security and development in Afghanistan, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar calling for zero tolerance for cross-border terrorism and full transit rights for the war-torn country.Jaishankar didn’t name Pakistan in his statement at a UN Security Council debate on the UN assistance mission in Afghanistan, but there was little doubt which country he was referring to his remarks.While calling for a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire to end a surge in violence, including attacks on women, minorities and civil society activists, Jaishankar said India would welcome any move towards a genuine political settlement in Afghanistan.“For enduring peace in Afghanistan, terrorist safe havens and sanctuaries must be dismantled immediately and terrorist supply chains disrupted. There needs to be zero tolerance for terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including its cross-border one,” he said, in an apparent reference to Pakistan.“It is equally important to ensure that the territory of Afghanistan is not used by terrorist groups to threaten or attack any other country. Those providing material and financial support to terrorist entities must be held accountable,” he added.Durable peace in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said, requires “a genuine double peace” or peace within and around the country. The world community, he added, must deliver on its commitments to Afghanistan to ensure development and reconstruction.“For Afghanistan’s economic development, it is important to have unhindered access to the high seas. The international community should work towards the removal of artificial transit barriers imposed on Afghanistan and ensure full transit rights guaranteed to Afghanistan under bilateral and multilateral transit agreements without any hindrance,” he said.Pakistan has barred the movement of Indian goods through its territory to Afghanistan while allowing Afghan exports to India, despite strong objections from the government in Kabul over the years. To overcome such transit and transport-related problems, India has launched several air trade corridors between Afghan and Indian cities and developed Iran’s Chabahar port as an alternate access point to Afghanistan.New Delhi’s growing concerns over a recent surge in violence across Afghanistan, largely blamed on the Taliban, also figured in Jaishankar’s comments. He noted the UN secretary-general’s latest report on the situation in Afghanistan had made it clear the intra-Afghan talks hadn’t resulted in a reduction of violence.“On the contrary, violence has only increased, especially after May 1. The country has been witnessing targeted attacks on religious and ethnic minorities, girl students, Afghan security forces, ulemas, women occupying positions of responsibility, journalists, civil rights activists and the youth,” he said.“It is, therefore, crucial that the international community and in particular, this council, presses for a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire to ensure immediate reduction in violence and protection of civilian rights,” he added.India has backed all efforts to accelerate dialogue between the Afghan government and the Taliban, but if the peace process is to be successful, it is “necessary to ensure that the negotiating parties continue to engage in good faith, eschew the path to find a military solution, and fully commit towards reaching a political solution”, Jaishankar said.“I would like to reiterate our support for an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process. Any political settlement in Afghanistan must ensure that the gains of the last two decades are protected and not reversed,” he said, adding the constitutional and democratic framework must be preserved.Jaishankar also highlighted India’s recent steps to support Afghanistan during the transition period, including more than 550 community development projects covering all 34 provinces, a MoU for building the Shahtoot Dam to provide drinking water to Kabul, and the supply of 75,000 tonnes of wheat through Chabahar port to ensure food security amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-targets-pak-at-unsc-afghanistan-debate-101624387420735.html
23-06-2021||India||Monsoon unlikely to hit Delhi this month, may weaken in 7 days: IMD||The south-west monsoon is unlikely to hit Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, and some parts of Rajasthan till the end of the month, the Indian weather office said on Tuesday, further pushing back the expected arrival of the seasonal rains, which, just around 10 days ago, looked set to make an entry in the Capital almost a fortnight early, by June 15. Now, it will almost keep to the schedule it usually does, year after year.The India Meteorological Department also added that a weak monsoon phase is commencing over central, Peninsular and northwest India during next seven days owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions. Still, almost all parts of the country have so far received excess rainfall. Till Monday, the country as a whole received 37% more rain than it usually does in June; there was a 76% excess in northwest India, 58% in central India, 24% over the southern peninsula, and 13% in east and northeast India.The reason for the delay, according to IMD is a trough (an elongated area of low pressure) in the westerlies that have been persisting for the past 10 days. Normally, westerlies are weak in June as easterly monsoon winds pick up but this year, the trough in westerlies has been oscillating over northwest India, weakening the flow of the monsoon. Then, the mid latitude westerlies have strengthened again as a western disturbance (a cyclone originating in the mediterranean region) approached the Western Himalayan region on Monday.Scientists said such strengthening of mid latitude westerlies is uncommon in June. “There were two anti-cyclones, one over Afghanistan and another north of Myanmar. There was a trough running from Jammu and Kashmir up to parts of Rajasthan which was oscillating but very slightly. The trough was persisting for ten days. In the next four to five days we do not expect any change in conditions because mid-latitude westerlies have strengthened further. This is the main reason why the monsoon is not able to progress beyond certain parts of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. We cannot say when the monsoon will arrive in Delhi immediately. It will take time,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Normally two or three western disturbances impact the Western Himalayan region in June but their impact is limited to northern regions of Jammu and Kashmir. The mid latitude westerlies are impacting the entire northwest India this time.The monsoon has so far covered most parts of the country except parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. But IMD said further progress of monsoon is unlikely in the next seven days. The northern limit monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar.There are other why the monsoon is likely to weaken over the coming week, apart from the trough in the westerlies.The Madden-Julian oscillation’s (MJO) location and amplitude strongly modulates the intensity of tropical convection and features such as low pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean. It is currently lying in Phase 1 (east Africa) with amplitude greater than 1 which is not favourable for enhancing the convection over north Indian Ocean region and hence monsoon rainfall activities, IMD said in a statement. MJO is an oceanic-atmospheric phenomenon which causes intra-seasonal variability in weather features.Weather models also indicate that the mid latitude westerlies will be sweeping over north India in the coming week. A western disturbance is lying as a cyclonic circulation over north Pakistan and adjoining Jammu & Kashmir and a there is a trough in mid- and upper-tropospheric levels. These are not favourable for enhancing monsoon activity over central India and the plains of northwest India.Winds over eastern and central parts of Arabian Sea have also weakened and are currently blowing at about 10-20 knots along the west coast. Such weak monsoonal winds are likely to prevail during the next seven days. The models also show a low probability of low pressure systems forming over core monsoon areas as well as over the north Bay of Bengal till June 30.“Sometimes such variations happen when instead of monsoon winds, westerlies start dominating. The timing is very important because such large-scale feature variations can slowdown progress of monsoon. Rains in east and northeast India will continue because contribution of moisture and convection from Bay of Bengal is still active. We will update as soon as monsoon starts strengthening again,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre, IMD.The normal date of monsoon onset over Delhi is June 27. This year, however, the onset is likely to be delayed. Earlier this month, IMD forecast that monsoon would set over Delhi June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-unlikely-to-hit-delhi-this-month-may-weaken-in-7-days-imd-101624387360834.html
23-06-2021||India||Theaterisation will overcome hurdles: Rawat||As the government sharpens it focus on laying the groundwork for theatre commands in the backdrop of internal resistance, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Tuesday said the new reforms do face some hurdles, but that the three services were in agreement on taking theaterisation forward.“These hurdles are also necessary as they make us realise that more discussions are required (to iron out the details of the plan). We are taking the theaterisation plan forward with more discussions,” Rawat told India Today TV.He said the processes for the creation of theatre commands were progressing in line with the prescribed timelines for bringing about jointness among the three services.The government expects Rawat, who took charge as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, to bring about so-called jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.The CDS’s comments came a day after HT reported that while the army and navy were in favour of theatre commands, the air force had issues over division of its air assets, nomenclature of commands, leadership of theatre commands and dilution of powers of the service chiefs.Rawat said the armed forces , after several rounds of discussions , have done a lot of work on what kind of joint structures should be set up. “If we operate together and utilise the strengths of the three services, the synergised effort will not be the sum of three; but 1+1+1 (the three services) will equal 111,” he said.Experts highlighted the need for all stakeholders to cooperate to take theaterisation forward.“There was no consensus on the appointment of CDS for 20 years. Ultimately, the government had to take a decision. Similarly, when it comes to theaterisation, it is for India’s defence and security. No service should feel that they will have an upper hand or become subordinate to another service. We should all be mature enough to take India’s long-term interests into account,” said Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd).On Tuesday, Rawat held a meeting with the vice chiefs of the three services and senior officials from the defence, finance and home ministries to discuss all aspects related to setting up theatre commands before the proposal is sent to the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) for approval, officials familiar with the developments said.A lack of consensus on the military’s theaterisation model emerged earlier this month during a key meeting of top government officials who reviewed a draft cabinet note on the new joint structures. This led to the government setting up an expert committee last week to carry out consultations on the long-awaited military reform.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them. Most significant military powers including the US have moved to theatre commands which synergise the working of the three services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theaterisation-will-overcome-hurdlesrawat-101624387360132.html
23-06-2021||India||0.03%: Positivity rates at two private labs 450 times lower than average during Kumbh mela||Two private labs in the dock for allegedly conducting fake Covid-19 antigen tests during the Mahakumbh in April reported positivity rates of 0.03% during the holy event, roughly 450 times lower than the average positivity rate in Uttarakhand at the time, official data accessed by HT showed on Tuesday.The data also showed that apart from the two facilities – Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs – named in the FIR last week, a number of other private labs also reported very low positivity rates.In all, 11 labs were contracted by the mela authorities to conduct Covid-19 tests during Kumbh but only two were named in police complaints. Positivity rates are a ratio of the number of Covid-positive results to number of tests conducted, and are a measure of disease outbreak severity in an area.Data from the mela administration showed that the 11 labs carried out 207,000 antigen tests between April 1 and 30 and reported an overall positivity rate of 0.49%.For reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests – considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing and more reliable than rapid tests – the labs carried out 44,278 tests and reported a positivity rate of 2.82%.In all, private labs carried out 251,000 Covid-19 tests during the mela and found 2,273 infections at a positivity rate of 0.90%. At the time, the average test positivity rate in Haridwar was 4%, and that of Uttarakhand was 13.7%.Roughly 9.1 million devotees took the holy dip this year and six million of this was in April, coinciding with a devastating surge in infections across the country.Data showed that Nalwa Labs carried out roughly half – 104,000 – of all antigen tests and reported 0.033% positivity. Lalchandani Labs carried out 13,992 antigen tests and reported 0.028% positivity.Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar, who is monitoring a three-member probe into the allegations, said the low numbers should have raised eyebrows. “Prima facie it was suspicious that a single lab carried out over 1 lakh tests in less than a month when other labs were nowhere close,” he said.When it came to RT-PCR, Nalwa carried out 5,782 tests and detected 29 infected cases, a positivity rate of 0.50%. Lalchandani Labs didn’t conduct any RT-PCR tests.The data pointed out that a number of private labs not named in the FIRs also reported low positivity rates.For example, two labs detected just one positive case throughout the month and reported antigen positivity rates of 0.064% and 0.087%. Roughly 93% of all rapid tests conducted at the mela were done by six labs that reported a combined positivity rate of 0.23%. The highest antigen positivity rate of 12.69%was reported by a Delhi-based lab that carried out 1,426 tests and found 181 infections.Ravishankar said that the low positivity rates were likely missed by officials because the focus was on carrying out as many tests as possible to ensure no infected people were visiting the mela. “It could be possible that no one noticed it (the unusually low positivity rate) because we were just coming from a time when cases were still low. Also, antigen tests usually report few positives,” he said.For RT-PCR tests, a Meerut-based lab reported the lowest positivity rate of 0.1% after carrying out 2,894 tests and finding only three infections. Overall, 44,278 RT-PCR tests were carried out by private labs and 1,250 people were found to be positive at a rate of 2.82%.Allegations of fake testing surfaced at the Kumbh last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests. Three firms – Lalchandani Lab, Nalwa Lab and Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services – were booked last week.At present, three separate probes are looking at the allegations: one by the police, one by the district administration and one by the mela administration.Police said their investigation – which is currently looking at the two labs -- will expand to probe all tests carried out by private labs. “Our aim is to find the truth about these tests. We are beginning our probe with the two labs mentioned in the FIR, and will expand our investigation to all the private labs,” said Senthil Avoodai Krishnaraj, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Haridwar.Ravishankar said that the probe could expand as well. “It could be due to wrong testing methodology or any other errors, but no lab has been given a clean chit. Right now we have begun with the two labs, but will move to probe other labs as well, if needed,” said the officer.A mela administration officer, who did not want to be identified, said that errors could be because of the short period in which these testing camps had to be set up at the borders and in mela premises.Mela health officer Arjun Sengar cited the ongoing probe to refuse comment. Harbeer Singh, additional mela officer, said, “The issue is under probe and it is not appropriate for me to comment on it. But the probe is happening at multiple levels and action will be taken if any loophole emerges.”Nalwa Labs and Lalchandani Labs have rejected the allegations and approached the Uttarakhand high court to quash the FIR. Max Corporate Services also moved the high court, arguing that it was a service provider and only labs were authorised to conduct testing and uploading results on the government portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/003-positivity-rates-at-two-private-labs-450-times-lower-than-average-during-kumbh-mela-101624387301579.html
23-06-2021||India||Gupkar leaders to be part of PM’s J&K meet||A five-party alliance of mainstream parties in Kashmir decided on Tuesday to attend an all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the first such political outreach by the Centre since it controversially stripped the region of its special status two years ago.Leaders of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration ( PAGD), set up to demand restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status, met at the residence of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah in Srinagar and decided to attend the meeting in Delhi on Thursday.The decision was unanimous, and the Centre didn’t impose any conditions for the 14 invited politicians, said leaders who attended the discussion.“We received an invitation from the PM and we are going in that meeting. We are going to put forward our point of view before the Prime Minister and home minister,” said Abdullah, National Conference (NC) patriarch and PAGD chairperson. “All those invited will be attending the meet in New Delhi,” he added.Asked about the PAGD’s stand, Abdullah said, “Whatever our stand was, is still there and will be there.” In a separate meeting, the Congress also decided to attend the all-party event.Former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, who is also vice-chairperson of PAGD, said she was already ready for dialogue, and indicated that PAGD will push for restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status and full statehood.“We will talk about the agenda for which this people’s alliance was formed. What has been snatched away, we will talk about that and how they have erred. It was illegal and constitutional and without restoring it you can’t improve the situation and bring peace in Jammu & Kashmir,” she said.PAGD spokesman and CPI(M) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said all leaders will advocate for what was “taken away from us”. “We are not seeking stars or moon but the constitutional guarantees taken away from us,” he said.Anantnag MP Hasnain Masoodi said the Centre hadn’t imposed any conditions on participation in the meeting. “We see this meeting as an opportunity to present our point of view,” he said.The meeting signals the restarting of political engagement between mainstream Kashmiri parties and the Centre, which in August 2019 voided Articles 370 and 35A that bestowed special status to Jammu and Kashmir and privileges to its residents, and split the state into two Union territories. All mainstream political leaders were detained, internet and phone connections were snapped and curfew-like restrictions were imposed in the Valley for months.When the leaders were released in 2020, they came together as PAGD and adopted a resolution to demand the region’s full statehood and special status. Current PAGD members include the NC, PDP, CPI(M), J&K Awami National Conference, and the J&K People’s Movement.Politicians in the Valley remain bitterly opposed to J&K’s bifurcation and revocation of Article 370. In the past, PAGD members have clashed with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which backed the scrapping of special status.News of the meeting broke last Friday but months of backchannel talks between the Union home ministry and national security adviser Ajit Doval with mainstream politicians in the Valley paved the way for the event, said people aware of developments. On Saturday, Union home secretary AK Bhalla called all members personally to extend an invitation for the June 24 meeting. The meeting has no fixed agenda but is likely to discuss restoration of statehood, delimitation and fresh elections, added the people quoted above.According to members who attended the two-hour-long discussions at Abdullah’s residence on Tuesday, the decision to participate in the all-party meeting was unanimous. “There were no dissenting voices. Everyone agreed that dialogue is the way forward,” one member who was a part of the meeting said on the condition of anonymity. Mufti initially suggested that Abdullah should represent the PAGD but later it was decided that all invited leaders should attend the meeting.Tarigami said the outreach vindicated the PAGD’s stand. “There is clearly a realisation in Delhi that they have not been able to move forward on their own in the last two years since Article 370 was revoked,” he said. In local-body elections held last year, the PAGD had swept Kashmir, winning 110 of the 278 seats contested in the Valley.“The PM invited us and we will express ourselves in clear terms. Our historic state was downgraded without any consultation with us. Delhi is not mandated to destroy the foundation of the Constitution,” said Tarigami.Mufti said that for a conducive atmosphere, the government should release all political prisoners in the Valley. “Many prisoners are ill in jails. So, the political prisoners should be released and those who are lodged in jails outside Kashmir should be shifted back to Srinagar .”Masoodi said the leaders will press the Centre to undo the decisions of August 2019. “We don’t know what will be the response from the other side but we are hopeful that there is understanding in New Delhi that things need to be changed in J&K,” he said.Separately, the Congress also decided to attend the all-party meeting with its Kashmir unit leader GA Mir asserting that the restoration of full statehood will be its “priority number one”. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and attended by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, and senior leaders Karan Singh, P Chidambaram, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Rajni Patil, Mir and Tariq Hameed Karra.“Congress will keep restoration of full statehood on priority number one irrespective of the agenda of the meeting,” said Mir.The meeting comes weeks after the delimitation commission for J&K wrote to all 20 UT’s district commissioners seeking both quantitative and qualitative data. Set up in early 2020, and given an extension earlier this year, the commission was tasked with delineating the boundaries of the assembly and parliamentary constituencies. It is only after this process is complete that assembly elections can be held for the first time in seven years.So far, both the PDP and the NC have boycotted the exercise of redrawing the constituencies in the UT in accordance with the provisions of Part V of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 and Delimitation Act, 2002.The meeting also sparked protests in the Hindu-majority Jammu region with some leaders accusing the Centre of pandering to Kashmiri politicians. “In this meet, Jammu has been given a negligible share but Kashmiri leaders who talk about separatism and separatists are invited,” said former state minister and Panthers Party chief Harsh Dev Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-leaders-to-be-part-of-pm-s-j-k-meet-101624387240693.html
23-06-2021||India||Covaxin submits Phase 3 data to expert panel, claims 78% efficacy||Covaxin, the coronavirus vaccine by Bharat Biotech, has shown a 77.8% efficacy in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 in large scale clinical trials, according to the data shared with Indian drug regulators who analysed the findings, an official aware of the matter said on Tuesday.The efficacy rate is similar to interim trial analyses, but the company is yet to release data regarding the multiple analyses it has carried out at different points in time. The trial was carried out in 25,800 volunteers and the latest data set was submitted to the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) over the weekend.“The required data was submitted by the company, and the subject expert committee went though it today. The experts were satisfied with the results presented, and the vaccine efficacy is confirmed at 77.8%,” said an official in the government aware of the development, on condition of anonymity.The vaccine was approved for emergency use in the Indian population in January, and the Hyderabad-based company had then said it would release phase III data by March. The release has since been pushed back on several occasions.Also read | Bharat Biotech to hold Covaxin pre-submission meeting with WHO next WednesdayThere were no delays in the company releasing its Phase 3 trial data, and that the progress was as per schedule, a company executive, Bharat Biotech, said.“Regulators want a minimum of two months data after the last trial participant is jabbed for efficacy analysis. The last participant in the trial of 25,800 participants was jabbed around mid-May; therefore the analysis will take its time. Hundreds of people are on job to analyse 2-3 lakh data sheets and some 50 lakh data points. We already have 9 papers published in top notch peer-reviewed publications; we have been totally transparent with our data,” the executive added.Clinicians said the efficacy results disclosed on Tuesday were encouraging. “No vaccine is going to be 100% effective but then for respiratory diseases it is anyway not possible to have 100% efficacy. Anything above 60% is good enough for a vaccine against a respiratory infection,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonology and sleep medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.However, Bharat Biotech is yet to release the data from any of the interim analyses of the clinical trials. Concerns over lack of data trace back to January when the vaccine was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India under what it then said was in “clinical trial mode”. At the time, the company was yet to determine the efficacy rate.The first analysis -- based on 43 cases -- came in March, when it reported an 81% efficacy. This number came to about 78% in the second interim analysis, the results of which was disclosed on April 21 based on infections in 87 people.The Hyderabad-based company is also expected to hold a “pre-submission” meeting this week with the World Health Organization on Wednesday for emergency use listing of its vaccine. A WHO listing will help the vaccine being recognized by more agencies and countries, and potentially help the validity of vaccine certificates of people who got the dose.Clinical trials of Covaxin are also being carried out in children and have had a huge response. At present, participants in the 6-12 years age category are being recruited. The company has approval to conduct trial in children between 2 and 18 years.“We are unable to handle all the requests that are coming from parents, and even doctors, who want their children to receive the shot as part of the trial,” said the company executive.Covaxin is one of the three vaccines which are currently being used in India. The vaccine is based on an inactivated virus platform, and its efficacy rate may be among the best in vaccines that use the same technique. China uses two vaccines on the same platform – made by Sinopharm and Sinovac. The Sinovac vaccine has been approved by the WHO but officials in China have since expressed concerns that its efficacy rate – between 51%-67% -- may be too low.Even vaccines with lower efficacy rates, however, are believed to offer significant protection from hospitalisation and death.Covaxin accounts for a little over 10% of the close to 290 million doses of coronavirus vaccines delivered in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-submits-phase-3-data-to-expert-panel-claims-78-efficacy-101624387240127.html
23-06-2021||India||CBSE Class 12 evaluation scheme ‘fair’ and ‘reasonable’: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that the new Class XII evaluation schemes proposed by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) are “fair”, “reasonable” and in the larger interest of students.A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, while dismissing three separate petitions on the matter, said, “We find no reason to interfere with the CBSE, CISCE schemes as there are other students supporting this. We find it fair and reasonable as it takes into account all sets of students and is in the larger public interest.”The three pleas were filed by a parents’ body from Uttar Pradesh, one Anshul Gupta, and a set of candidates appearing for compartment/patrachar examinations conducted by CBSE. The first two asked the court to prevail upon the boards to revisit their decision to cancel the Class XII examinations as they said the proposed tabulation scheme is discriminatory and open to manipulation by schools.Last week, the court cleared the tabulation formulae submitted by the two boards. CBSE proposed a 30:30:40 formula based on a student’s performance in classes X, XI, and XII, followed by rationalization based on the school’s past performance in board exams. CISCE based its formula largely on the performance of students in classes XI and XII.The court observed on Tuesday that any attempt to reverse the decision of the boards will create uncertainty in the minds of students. “The situation is so dynamic that any uncertainty will affect the psyche of students and their ability to prepare for future exams,” the court said.The petition filed by Anshul Gupta argued that if students could appear physically for professional exams such as NEET, CLAT, etc, they should be able to appear for Class XII exams too. “Can you take responsibility if they are exposed to the disease?” the bench asked Gupta, pointing out that nearly 14.5 lakh students will take the CBSE examination.The Centre, represented by attorney general K K Venugopal, told the court that it is not safe to hold the examinations during the pandemic as it’s important to protect the lives of children.Also read | CBSE to form panel to check Class 12 marks complaintsThe second petition filed by UP Parents’ Association argued that the boards could have provided the students the choice of taking the optional exams right in the beginning so that they didn’t have to wait until August-September as those are the months when college and university admissions happen.The court was not in favour of giving students this choice. “Students will not be able to make an intelligent choice to appear for the examination if given a choice at the beginning,” the bench said, adding that while the students can estimate their scores based on how they performed in the past examinations, they could in no way know how their schools’ performance would reflect on their final scores.The Centre also assured the court that the University Grants Commission has been directed to communicate to all higher educational institutions not to begin admissions until the final results are announced.The court, however, noted variations in the schemes proposed by both boards. CISCE will not analyse a school’s performance in calculating a student’s marks. CISCE schools have already submitted the raw marks with the board while CBSE has left it to the results committee in each school to tabulate the results.The court asked CBSE to put in place some mechanism to cross-check marks. The Centre assured the court that the system has in-built checks, and CBSE’s tabulation policy provides “best of both the worlds” to the students who can sit for improvement exams if they are not satisfied with their scores.The third petition challenged CBSE’s plan to hold offline exams for compartment/patrachar candidates and asked for a tabulation scheme like the one for regular candidates.“It is not possible for us to adopt a second-guess approach,” the bench said in its order, noting that in such matters, decisions have to be taken for 20 lakh students and cannot depend on individual perceptions of the petitioners.It also asked the compartment candidates to take the offline exams between August 15 and September 15, as suggested by CBSE.SC to Andhra: If there is one death, state will be held responsible The Supreme Court on Tuesday told the Andhra Pradesh government that its decision to hold Class XII board examinations was fraught with danger and the state will be held accountable should a single life be lost because of it.Hearing a petition filed by a group of parents demanding the cancellation of state board exams, the apex court found that of the states that are yet to make up their minds on cancelling examinations, Andhra was the only one to actually want to hold the exams.Advocate Mahfooz A Nazki, appearing for Andhra Pradesh, submitted that the state was confident about holding the exams and will take a call on it by the first week of July.The bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari then said, “If there is even one fatality, we will make the state responsible.”The court directed the state to file an affidavit by Wednesday and posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday. That day the court will hear another petition filed by some parents challenging Kerala’s decision to hold Class XI examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-class-12-evaluation-scheme-fair-and-reasonable-sc-101624385200027.html
23-06-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to increase Covaxin supply to pvt sector from 10% to 25%||More private hospitals could offer Covaxin from July as Bharat Biotech will be supplying up to 25% of the total production volume of its Covid-19 vaccine to the private sector next month. Currently, it supplies 10% of the total production volume, said a top company representative.The price at which the vaccine is sold to the government is also likely to be revised. The company has requested the government to look at revising the price of the vaccine per dose for the government sector. It has said the current price of ₹150 per dose seems to be non-competitive and not sustainable in the long run.The rate at which the vaccine doses are sold to the private sector may not change.Also Read | Fake Covid shots given at unauthorised vaccination camps in Mumbai: Police“Since January, we were supplying less than 10% to the private sector, and now the government has told us that we can increase it up to 25% for future deals. From next month, we will look at revising the distribution pattern, and...it is going to move towards 25%,” said a company executive, Bharat Biotech International Ltd.The executive is a part of the product development team in Bharat Biotech.The Covaxin price for the private sector currently is ₹1,200 per vaccine dose.“There are future orders that the central government is discussing with us. We are looking at requesting a better price. It is not just the cost of vaccines but also the distribution cost of supplies to states that we have to take care of... that increases the overall cost... there needs to be a better price. For the private market, we don’t see any changes for now,” he said.Covaxin is one of the two Covid-19 vaccines currently approved for use under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme.As of now, the company is producing close to 25 million vaccine doses monthly and is looking at stepwise scaling up of production in the next four to five months.“The current production capacity is 25 million doses per month, and this is likely to be maintained till August-September this year, after which more supplies will happen. In the next two months, we will be starting production at two of our facilities in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, and Bengaluru, Karnataka. These facilities are being re-purposed and the production is likely to start in the next two months,” the executive said.The company is looking at an increase to 60-70 million doses per month by November-December.“We actually see annualized production, and it is going to reach 800 million mark by the end of this year. We have initiated technology transfer with three institutions through the department of biotechnology, and these companies are also preparing their facilities for the purpose, especially setting up a bio-safety level-3 laboratory, and should start production in some time,” the executive said.According to the company, it takes anywhere between 90 to 120 days for producing a batch.Therefore, there is no scope for any ad hoc changes to be made in the supply chain. The company said the scope of exporting doses is currently not on the horizon. “Our doses are committed well in advance; there is no possibility of making sudden changes. The same goes for exporting as the government has clearly indicated that priority is Indian citizens. Even though the list of countries that have requested vaccine doses is piling up continuously, but exports will depend only on government approvals,” the executive added.At least eight countries have requested Bharat Biotech for Covaxin supplies.As for the delay in phase 3 trials, the executive said there was no delay as due processes were being followed as per the set protocol.“Regulators want a minimum of two months data after the last trial participant is jabbed for efficacy analysis. The last participant in the trial of 25,800 participants was jabbed around mid-May. Therefore, the analysis will take its time. Hundreds of people are on job to analyse two-three lakh data sheets and some 50 lakh data points. We already have nine papers published in top-notch peer-reviewed publications. We have been totally transparent with our data,” he added.The Covaxin trial among children has also met with a huge response. At present recruitment of participants is happening in the 6-12 years category while the company has the approval to conduct trials in children aged between two and 18.“We are unable to handle all the requests that are coming from parents, and even doctors, who want their children to receive the shot as part of the trial,” the executive said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-to-increase-covaxin-supply-to-pvt-sector-from-10-to-25-101624366720104.html
23-06-2021||India||‘Centre needs to improve relation with states, be receptive to feedback’||Tamil Nadu finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan said the Union government is less receptive to feedback and should take the responsibility to improve relations with states. In a conversation with Divya Chandrababu, the minister also spoke about how Tamil Nadu constituted a dream team of economists, including Nobel laureate Esther Duflo and former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan. Edited excerpts:How did the committee come about?The chief minister was very keen that we should get the best minds in the world to help us. We wanted the composition to reflect our priorities as a party, as a (Dravidian) movement and a government that focuses on the poor and the oppressed rather than just for growth sake. Our high priority is that growth should be inclusive. So, we were keen to get people who had a track record of doing that. If you look at both professor Rajan and Dr Subramanian, they are Tamilians -- they have a natural affinity. Professor Duflo has been working with Tamil Nadu through J-PAL (Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab) long before she was a Nobel laureate, so she had an interest. Mr Narayan is a long-term Tamil Nadu cadre (officer). He has decades of experience (working) in Delhi and was former economic advisor to (late) Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Jean Dreze was very important to us because of his work with the MNREGA. Professor Dreze and professor Dulfo wanted to think about which way they could add value and the structure. So, we designed it to be very informal, result-oriented and input effectuation. It is an active group of highly committed, sophisticated individuals who will be proactive and help guide us in our actions on a continuous and ongoing basis.Two of the members, Rajan and Subramanian, have worked with the Centre. Would you say that their exit worked to Tamil Nadu’s advantage?None of these people, I think, are less than patriotic, and I do not think that they would have said a no to us unless there was a contractual constraint or a conflict of interest. When we invited them, we did not tell them who the other was. I guess they must have had that faith in us. Dr Rajan was pleasantly surprised when he saw the rest of the names. Now, they feel that diversity adds to enrichment.Do you think the Centre’s political economy is influenced by RSS moorings?Whatever philosophy, policy, approach or strategy you take, the outcome determines whether it has been right or wrong. The Union government does not show great receptiveness either for original input or there is not enough quantitative and qualitative feedback to figure out how we can adapt after an execution. We are at a stage where it is impossible either from a capital investment perspective or from a domestic demand perspective to be 100% self-contained and achieve the growth rate, employment and uplift of society that we all aspire to have. What they are doing now is not working. Even before Covid-19 was on the radar, we saw a decline in growth for several quarters.In that case, would you have any advice on the economy and GST?Given, I am six weeks into the job, I am not qualified to do that. On GST, I have been clear. In my maiden attendance, I put out an extensive 12-page document on my recommendations and suggestions. The implementation and design of GST leaves a lot to be desired and needs a lot of fixes. The relationship between the Union and the states was being atrophied by continuing differences in the discussions. It is time for the Union government to be more proactive in having cordial relationships with states because they have greater power, financial clout, resources, authority and everything in the relationship. I felt that the relationship as it stands right now is less than ideal.What do you think of the Centre revising its policy on vaccination drive?The Union government still has a lot of flexibility in the vaccines it approves, sources and whether it chooses to do monopoly procurement, which I have long advocated. We were always of the opinion that when there is only an oligopoly of producers, why should multiple buyers go and bang their heads against the wall? It is illogical. If they do a better job, and I think they can, then they can allocate enough for us. Had we been allocated all the vaccines we had asked for then, we (Tamil Nadu) would be able to reach 100% adult vaccination by the end of the year.And we are still facing a vaccine shortage...Again, I do not want to sound political, but clearly, it is a time for reflection. How did we find ourselves in this situation? If anybody had thought through the science, the only way to get back to normal was 100% vaccination. The only way to get the economy back to normal is 100% vaccination.What can be done to reduce fuel prices?We have prioritised what is both macroeconomically and to our conscience and our philosophy the right priority. We cannot, at this point, cut the state taxes for three reasons. On principle, when the Union government keeps increasing taxes and cuts our share of the Union taxes collected on fuel, it is not appropriate that we allow them to do so and for us to cut taxes. We did not commit that we would have cut the day we came (to power). We understand the benefit of cutting a regressive tax on the people. Since it is an input cost, it is potentially inflationary. Then there is a third component, which is that the financial situation we are in today. We cannot fix ten years’ worth of problems or seven years decline in one day. We found ourselves amid a second wave Corona pandemic.In your assessment, what led to Tamil Nadu’s current financial distress?The fundamental problem is that the state somehow started losing its revenue as a percentage of GSDP. When you consider revenue as a percentage of GSDP, now you have a unconfounded, relatively unbiased indicator. As a percentage of GSDP, the state’s own revenues used to be between 10 and 11.5% for much of the period between 2003 and 2014, which started dropping dramatically. Pre-Covid, they were already at 7.5%, and after Covid-19, they have fallen even worse. So, the biggest problem is you are not collecting revenue. The secondary problem is the Union’s drop in return of our tax money to us. Tamil Nadu contributes 10% to 12% of total revenue the Centre makes in direct and indirect taxes. We have lost ₹20,000 crore revenue from the Union and ₹70,000 crore worth of revenue that we should be self-generating.What are your plans to break out of this vicious cycle and to increase revenue for the state?There is a steady-state plan, and there is a short-term plan. The steady-state plan is to find a way to get back to 10.5-11% on your own in revenues. The first thing we are figuring out right now is from what channels were we getting it from for 10 years. The second point is, then how do we get that back to where it used to be for ten years without any problem, either politically or socially? The next stage is to look at the new ways to generate revenue from which we had not before. And then you need to borrow the 3% of your GSDP that is allowed under the FRA Act of Tamil Nadu, and invest that wholly into growth, infrastructure for industrial estates, for ports, airports, or drinking water systems for people, to increase the quality of life, and so on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-stalin-was-keen-that-we-should-get-the-best-minds-in-world-to-help-us-101624363359875.html
23-06-2021||NA||Breaking News: Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases soar to 8,470||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Pimpri Chinchwad vaccination centre to be closed on WednesdayVaccination will not happen in Pimpri Chinchwad tomorrow as workers of vaccination centres will be given weekly off, says Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases soar to 8,470, new deaths at 188Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 increased by 8,473 on Tuesday. The overall number of infection now stands at 5,987,521.Delta Plus a 'Variant of Concern' in India: Health ministryIndian health ministry declared Delta Plus variant of coronavirus, a 'Variant of Concern' in India.Maharashtra vaccinates 5.52 lakh people against Covid-195.52 lakh people vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra today, informs state health department.Sitharaman asks Infosys to resolve all issues with new income tax portalFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asked Infosys to address all issues (in new Income Tax Portal) in a meeting today. "Without further loss of time, improve their services, redress grievances on priority as it was impacting taxpayers adversely," said the finance ministry.China raises new militias of Tibetan youth, deploys 1st batch in Chumbi ValleyChina’s military has raised new militias comprising Tibetan youths in the strategic Chumbi Valley in Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) as part of enhanced efforts to recruit more Tibetans amid the standoff with India on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity citing intelligence reports. Read more3,709 fresh cases, 139 deaths in KarnatakaKarnataka on Tuesday reported 3,709 new cases, 8111 discharges and 139 deaths. The number of active cases in the state is at 1,18,592. While the death stands at 34,164.Congress to participate in all-party meeting in J&KCongress to participate in the scheduled meeting of all parties of Jammu and Kashmir on June 24. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Congress President Sonia Gandhi today, Ravinder Sharma, Chief spokesperson, Jammu & Kashmir Congress announced.Delhi reports 134 fresh cases of Covid-19Delhi reports 134 new Covid-19 cases, 467 recoveries and 8 deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases in the city now stands at 1,918. The death toll is at 24,933.'BJP's silence definitely hurts', says Chirag Paswan amid LJP feudChirag Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader, said on Tuesday he expected the BJP to help sort things during the tussle between the 38-year-old and his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras to retain control of the outfit. Read MoreTaliban capture Afghanistan's main Tajikistan border crossingThe Taliban captured Afghanistan's main border crossing with Tajikistan, an Afghan provincial official and army officer said Tuesday, with some security forces abandoning their posts and fleeing across the frontier.DCGI likely to give clearance to Covaxin today: ReportBharat Biotech's Covaxin is likely to get clearance from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Tuesday, news agency reported quoting sources.Completely possible for us to cover rural areas: Dr VK PaulMore than half of the doses administered over the last few weeks were inoculated in rural areas, which makes it clear that rural outreach is possible. We are fully hopeful and confident that it's completely possible for us to cover rural areas, said Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member.Rural coverage of vaccines remarkably emphasized: Health ministryRural coverage of vaccines has been remarkably emphasized, says Union health ministry in a statement on Tuesday. In a press briefing, VK Paul said, "63.7% of the total vaccine doses administered on Monday were in villages and 36% in urban areas."ITBP shuts Covid centre in DelhiIndo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Tuesday closed its Covid centre in Delhi's Chhawla area due to no admission of patients since last few days. Quarantine centre for jawans will remain active, news agency ANI reported.Covaxin shows 77.8% efficacy in phase 3 trial data: ReportCovaxin shows 77.8 % efficacy in phase 3 trial data in review by subject expert committee (SEC), news agency ANI reported citing sources.Not looking to ban flash sales on e-commerce sites, says CentreThe Consumer affairs ministry clarified on Tuesday that the Centre is not looking to ban flash sales on Flipkart, Amazon and other such sites, adding the e-commerce rules are not final. A flash sale is an instant, unannounced sales event that offers huge discounts for a limited period of time.90% personnel of Haryana Police administered first Covid vaccine doseHaryana Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadav said on Tuesday that 90 per cent of the state's police personnel have received the first dose of the vaccine against the Covid-19 disease. The vaccination drive for them started on February 4. "So far, 53,924 officers and jawans have got the first anti-Covid shot and more than 38,988 have received both doses," Yadava said in a statement.Jharkhand records 122 new Covid -19 cases, 1 more deathJharkhand's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 344,665 on Tuesday after 122 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin. Only one person succumbed to the viral during this period, taking the state's toll to 5,100.Farooq Abdullah, 2 others to attend PM Modi's all-party meet on J&KFormer Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah announced on Tuesday that he along with Mehbooba Mufti and Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami will be attending Prime Minister Narendra Modi's all party meeting on J&K on June 24.Narada case: SC judge recuses himself from hearing Bengal CM’s petitionJustice Aniruddha Bose, a Supreme Court judge, recused himself on Tuesday from hearing petitions of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and state law minister Moloy Ghatak challenging the Calcutta high court order to deny them from filing an affidavit in connection with the 2016 Narada sting case. Read more5 cases of Delta plus variant reported in MP till nowSo far five cases of the Delta Plus variant (of #COVID19) have been reported in Madhya Pradesh. Four out of five people who got the vaccine are healthy. One has died: Madhya Pradesh Health Minister, Prabhuram Choudhary pic.twitter.com/1znzOTtE0rMadhya Pradesh health minister Prabhuram Choudhary said on Tuesday that the state has so far recorded five cases of the Delta plus variant of the Covid-19 disease.Rahul Gandhi releases white paper on mismanagement of CovidCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday released a white paper on the mismanagement of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and said the aim of this report is not to point fingers at the government. Read moreMinimum temperature in Delhi risesResidents of the national capital woke up to a warm morning on Tuesday as the minimum temperature settled at 32.6 degrees Celsius. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature is like to settle around 38 degrees Celsius.Sensex surges 326 points to record high of 52,901; Nifty opens at 15,847Sensex surges 326.27 pts to lifetime intra-day record of 52,900.73 in opening session; Nifty rallies 100.30 pts to 15,846.80.India's daily Covid-19 tally falls to 42,640; active cases go below 700,000India on Tuesday recorded 42,640 cases and 1,167 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 29,977,861 and 389,302 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. Read moreCong leader Rahul Gandhi to release white paper on Covid at 11amCongress leader Rahul Gandhi will hold a press conference today at 11am where he will release a white paper on Covid-19.Petrol and diesel rates hiked after one-day pauseOil marketing companies (OMCs) on Tuesday hiked fuel prices across the country, a day after keeping the rates unchanged. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 25-28 paise per litre at 6am on the day. Read moreDelta plus variant of coronavirus spreading in India, 3 states report casesAs India continues to fight the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, it is also struggling to control the increasing spread of the Delta variant, which has further mutated as Delta plus. Read moreMadhya Pradesh administers over 1.67 million Covid vaccines in last 24 hrsAs the central began a mega vaccination drive from Monday, where doses are being administered to people above 18 years free of cost, Madhya Pradesh administered a record total of 1,673,858 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that Madhya Pradesh had topped all other states in terms of Covid-19 vaccination. Himachal Pradesh aims to vaccinate entire state population with first dose by July 25: CM ThakurHimachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur said the state government will vaccinate 100 per cent of the population with the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19, adding there is no shortage of doses. "There is no shortage of vaccines, about 5 lakh doses available at present. By June 25, we are aiming to have 100 per cent population vaccinated with the first dose in tribal areas like Lahaul-Spiti, and other areas," Thakur said while speaking to reporters. Amarinder vs Sidhu battle reaches Delhi: Punjab CM to meet Congress panel todayThe Congress party has stepped up its efforts to end the feud between Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and party MLA Navjot Sidhu. Read moreReady for talks ‘anytime’ with North Korea, says Biden envoyThe United States special representative for North Korea, Sung Kim said the US was ready for talks “anywhere, anytime” with North Korea. “We continue to hope that the DPRK will respond positively to our outreach and our offer to meet anywhere, anytime, without preconditions,” Kim said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-22-2021-101624321219826.html
