24-06-2021||India||Kerala women panel chief Josephine roasted for ‘then you suffer’ retort. Apology follows||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala women’s commission chairperson M C Josephine lost her cool during a live television show when a woman who called into the TV show to speak about her husband and mother-in-law beating her, said she hadn’t complained to the police or told a soul about the thrashings she got at home.“Then you suffer, OK,” Josephine shot back and disconnected the line. The state’s woman panel chief was on the show, a special programme put together by a Malayalam channel, to focus attention on women harassed and assaulted at home.On June 21, a 23-year-old who married a government official last year died by suicide. Initial investigations by the police indicate that she was allegedly beaten for months by her husband who was upset with the dowry she had brought.Josephine’s reaction to the woman’s plight on the TV show provoked sharp criticism on and off social media. Many people underlined that the woman, who was in an abusive relationship, had taken the first step when she dialled the show and should have been encouraged, not snubbed. Some of them were also people known to otherwise support the ruling the Communist Party of India (M), of which she is a central committee member.Josephine initially sought to justify her response. But as she and her party came under pressure, the party released a fresh statement issued by her to express regret.BJP state chief K Surendran said a FIR should be filed against her. “When a woman called up to narrate her woes, Josephine behaved in an insulting manner… How will women approach the commission with such a person at the helm?” Surendran asked.The Kerala Congress also asked the government to remove Josephine. Its women’s wing also held a demonstration and burnt her effigy to make their point.In her apology later, Josephine said a woman would get justice if she files a complaint.She said she was angry that many women suffer silently.“I was talking to her with motherly affection. If my words have pained anyone, I regret,” she said, acknowledging that many women continue to suffer in silence and are scared of going to the police against abusive husbands and relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-women-panel-chief-josephine-roasted-for-then-you-suffer-retort-apology-follows-101624559091136.html
24-06-2021||India||NHRC teams reach Bengal to probe post-poll violence, two regions on radar||A team constituted by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) visited a part of North 24 Parganas in south Bengal on Wednesday to probe allegations of post-poll violence while a second team reached north Bengal in the afternoon. Police officers aware of the development said the NHRC teams, which are part of a committee, will be touring parts of north and south Bengal over the next few days. There are seven people in the committee that includes a member of the West Bengal Human Rights Commission and a member of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority. On June 21, the Calcutta high court’s five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal dismissed a petition by the West Bengal government seeking recall of the June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during alleged violence after the recent assembly polls. The NHRC was asked to submit its report before the court by June 30, the next date of hearing. Hours later, the NHRC constituted a seven-member panel to “enquire into complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal” and told the panel to identify people who were prima facie responsible for the violence and the officers who maintained a “calculated silence”. The committee is led by Rajiv Jain, the former Intelligence Bureau chief who assumed charge as NHRC member on June 2, a statement by the human rights agency said. The committee also comprises National Commission for Minorities vice-chairman Atif Rasheed, National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja and West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee. The high court, which heard several petitions on the violence that erupted after the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) won the state elections, ordered on June 18 that the NHRC has to constitute the committee. The state government rushed to the high court the following day with a review petition, requesting the five judges to recall their order. The judges heard out the state government on Monday but were not convinced. The bench made a pointed reference to complaints of police inaction and observed that the conduct of the state did not inspire the confidence of the court. The court also pointed out that the NHRC had received 541 complaints while the state human rights commission did not receive a single one. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has mounted a relentless campaign against the Mamata Banerjee government, alleging that its supporters are being targeted. The BJP has alleged that more than 30 people have been murdered and women have been raped and molested as well for supporting the saffron camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-teams-reach-bengal-to-probe-post-poll-violence-two-regions-on-radar-101624558191034.html
24-06-2021||India||Statehood, delimitation: Key takeaways from PM Modi-J&K leaders meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah held discussions with representatives from several political outfits of Jammu and Kashmir in a meeting that lasted over three hours on Thursday. Fourteen prominent leaders from Jammu and Kashmir took part in the meeting. Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, National Security Advisor Shri Ajit Doval, MoS (PMO) Shri Jitender Singh and senior officials were also in attendance.This was the first meeting of its kind since the abrogation of Article 370 and the bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union territories in August 2019, where the following points were discussed.Emphasis on delimitationBoth Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah stressed on delimitation and the subsequent elections that would follow a delimitation exercise. Soon after the conclusion of the meeting, PM Modi took to Twitter to convey that delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected government that gives "strength to J&K’s development trajectory". Amit Shah emphasised that the delimitation exercise and peaceful elections are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament, the government said in a press release.Demand for statehoodThe leaders hailing from Jammu and Kashmir unanimously demanded the restoration of Kashmir’s statehood. People’s Conference leader Muzzafar Hussain Baig said, “All leaders demanded statehood. To which the PM said, the delimitation process should conclude first and then other issues will be addressed.”Also Read: Want to remove Dilli ki Doori and Dil ki Doori, PM Modi tells J&K leadersElectionsThe Prime Minister said during the meeting that the Union government was fully committed to the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir and stressed conducting assembly elections similar to the District Development Council elections conducted last year. The Prime Minister also assured the representatives that an elected government cannot be substituted with a bureaucratic one.Aspirations of Kashmiri youthThe Prime Minister talked to J&K leaders about the aspirations of the youth of Kashmir who, he said, are poised to provide political leadership in the coming years. ANI reported that PM Modi also discussed offering opportunities to the youth of J&K.Development projectsAmit Shah credited J&K for coming a long way in terms of development. Around 90% saturation has been achieved in individual beneficiary Central Government schemes in J&K. Several major road projects, two new AIIMS, 7 new Medical Colleges have also been set up, according to the official press release. New industrial policy has been notified with a ₹28,400 crore package to accelerate industrial growth with the aim of creating 4.5 lakh jobs, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statehood-delimitation-key-takeaways-from-pm-modi-j-k-leaders-meet-101624556254973.html
24-06-2021||India||Watch how Trinamool Congress sanitised BJP workers before welcoming them to the party||A video of around 140 BJP workers in West Bengal's Birbhum being inducted into Trinamool Congress from the BJP has gone viral as an elaborate purification drive was organised for the purpose. And amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, what is better to purify than sanitiser. As the viral video, shared by news agency ANI, shows, the local workers were made to stand in a queue. Then they were given sanitiser, not a blob on the palm, but generous spraying of the sanitiser all over their body. It was all apparently done in good humour as the workers were asked to close their eyes before they were sprayed with sanitiser and were given the TMC flag after they were purified. #WATCH| West Bengal: Trinamool Congress' local leaders in Ilambazar block of Birbhum perform ‘purification' ritual of workers who are joining TMC from BJP, with the spraying of sanitizer. pic.twitter.com/Q4krju0fXTThe purification appears to be symbolic but local Trinamool leaders have said that they believe that the 'BJP virus' was with them and so the BJP workers needed to be purified with the sanitiser.Reports said that while this video might have become viral, such purification process is actually not new as local Trinamool leaders elswehere too are making sure that those who are doing 'Ghar Wapsi' must do some atonement.In West Bengal's Hooghly, about 200 BJP workers were taken back to the Trinamool after purifying them with Ganga water. Some also shaved their heads as a mark of penitence, reports said.Just ahead of the West Bengal Assembly Election 2021, Trinamool witnessed a mass exodus from the party. One of the big-ticket exits was Suvendu Adhikari, who is now the leader of the opposition in the state assembly. The exits were reported at all levels as many grassroots workers jumped the ship ahead of the elections. After the election results were announced and the Trinamool government came to the power for the third consecutive time, the party is now witnessing a series of homecoming, the major one being that of Mukul Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-how-trinamool-congress-sanitised-bjp-workers-before-welcoming-them-to-the-party-101624554937827.html
24-06-2021||India||After Sonia meeting, Congress firms up nationwide protest plan from July 7||NEW DELHI: The Congress party will launch nationwide protests early next month against economic issues like inflation and rising fuel prices and expand its Covid outreach to cover 3 crore households in 30 days, a major political manoeuvre to make its presence felt on ground after losing elections in Kerala, West Bengal and Assam, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday after Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with top party officials.Gandhi, in her opening address at the meeting with the party’s general secretaries, state in-charges and state leadership, referred extensively to the Covid pandemic. She stressed that it was “absolutely essential that our party plays an active role” to ensure full vaccination coverage and encourage people to register for the jabs. In addition, the Congress should also continue to put pressure on the Narendra Modi government to treble the daily rate of vaccination to ensure at least 75% of India’s population is inoculated at the end of 2021.Gandhi also asked the leaders to give “urgent attention” and take “provocative measures” in the context of a possible third wave of the Covid virus. “We have to take steps to be better prepared if and when this strikes. The second wave these past four months has been devastating for lakhs and lakhs of individual families all over the country. We must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again,” she said.“No doubt, this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government which has, at our Party’s insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, that vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimized,” Gandhi said in her opening remarks.Gandhi also spoke about the “intolerable burden being imposed by rising fuel prices” and how “prices of many other essential commodities like pulses and edible oils too have skyrocketed causing wide-spread distress.”The Congress followed up the concern, announcing that it will launch a 10-day-long nationwide agitation from July 7 with programmes at block, district and state levels. The party’s frontal organizations will also step up. A cycle yatra at district levels, march and processions at state level and even a signature campaign at petrol pumps to demand reduction of prices of petrol and diesel would be part of this programme.The Congress hasn’t been able to carry out “political activities” due to Covid restrictions and needs to get back in the game. a senior Congress leader said.“We did campaign in the recent assembly elections, but round-the-year movements were missing. And in some states, lack of opposition activities has been a key reason for electoral losses,” said the leader who was present at Thursday’s meeting.The Congress’ Covid care campaign, which asks each volunteer to reach out to more than 200 households every day for a month, is targeted to cover 7,199 blocks and 7,935 towns across the country’s 736 districts. This is a part of the plan detailed in a circular by general secretary organization KC Venugopal reported by HT on Thursday.In the urban and semi-urban areas, the party wants to approach “auto/battery and cycle rickshaw drivers, plumbers, electricians, gardeners, mechanics, domestic workers, slum dwellers, delivery boys and street vendors” under its covid care programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sonia-meeting-congress-firms-up-nationwide-protest-plan-from-july-7-101624553810669.html
24-06-2021||India||India says focus on domestic vaccination programme, appears to rule out exports||India on Thursday appeared to rule out any immediate resumption of Covid-19 vaccine exports to neighbouring countries, saying its focus was on the domestic immunisation programme while simultaneously working to boost vaccine production. The vaccination programmes of several neighbouring countries such as Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal were affected when India put the brakes on its vaccine export scheme after the country was hit by a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections in late March. Responding to questions on the possible resumption of vaccine exports, especially to neighbouring countries, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing that India’s position on this issue had been “consistent and clear”. “We have always stated that overseas supply of vaccines from India would depend on vaccine availability and our domestic vaccination programme,” he said. “For the moment, our priority remains on utilising made-in-India vaccines for our own vaccination programme, which, as you know, has received a boost with the new phase of vaccination that was launched on June 21. We are also making efforts to further increase our domestic vaccine production,” he added. Referring to the possibility of other vaccines such as the one made by Pfizer being introduced in India, Bagchi said the government is “making all efforts to augment vaccine availability in the country through domestic production or imports”. The issue of specific vaccines and the status of their imports into India is a matter to be decided by regulatory authorities, he said, without giving details. Before exports were halted, India supplied almost 66.4 million doses of vaccines to 95 countries, including 10.7 million doses as grants and 19.9 million doses through the WHO-backed COVAX facility. The country’s neighbours had been among the first to get vaccines both as grants and commercial supplies. India is currently using the AstraZeneca, Covaxin and Sputnik V vaccines for its domestic vaccination programme and talks are on to introduce other vaccines that have been authorised by the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-focus-on-domestic-vaccination-programme-appears-to-rule-out-exports-101624553690634.html
24-06-2021||India||‘Delimitation needs to happen faster so that polls can be held’: PM Modi on J&K||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the delimitation exercise needs to be completed quickly so that Jammu and Kashmir can get an elected government. PM Modi in a tweet said that the government’s priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in Jammu and Kashmir.Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory. pic.twitter.com/AEyVGQ1NGy“Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and Jammu and Kashmir gets an elected government that gives strength to Jammu and Kashmir’s development trajectory,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet after meeting the leaders from the Valley.Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled. pic.twitter.com/t743b0Su4LSharing a photo of the meeting, PM Modi wrote, " Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled."Today’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir is an important step in the ongoing efforts towards a developed and progressive J&K, where all-round growth is furthered. pic.twitter.com/SjwvSv3HIpPrime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha met with Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tara Chand and GA Mir; National Conference's Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah; PDP's Mehbooba Mufti, J-K Apni Party's Altaf Bukhari; BJP's Ravinder Raina, Nirmal Singh, and Kavinder Gupta; CPI(M)'s M Y Tarigami; National Panthers Party's Prof Bheem Singh; and Peoples Conference's Sajad Gani Lone for the first time after the abrogation of Kashmir’s special status.Leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah asked the prime minister to restore full statehood and address trust deficit among the people. Union minister Jitendra Singh who was also present at the meeting said that polls will be held as soon as the delimitation process is completed.“The next important step in the democratic process in J-K is assembly polls and we have to move to it together. For this, the delimitation process will have to be completed swiftly so that all sections get proper political representation in assembly,” Singh said in a video message.Omar Abdullah also said that the central leadership understood that the government cannot be run by bureaucrats and a political government needs to take the lead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-needs-to-happen-faster-so-that-polls-can-be-held-pm-modi-on-jk-101624552027911.html
24-06-2021||India||Mukul Roy eligible for assembly committee as BJP MLA, says Mamata Banerjee||Being a legislator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Mukul Roy can become a member of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal legislative assembly, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday, stoking speculations that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) wants Roy to be the committee’s chairman, a post conventionally enjoyed by the main opposition party. The BJP and TMC got involved in a tussle on Wednesday when Roy, who left the saffron camp and returned to the ruling party on June 11, filed his nomination for induction into the PAC. On June 18, the BJP submitted a petition before speaker Biman Banerjee, saying Roy, the legislator from Krishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under the anti-defection law as he did not resign from the BJP before switching sides. The Bengal assembly has 41 committees and among them the PAC, which works as the audit watchdog for the assembly is considered the most important one.ALSO READ | BJP, TMC face off over Mukul Roy’s induction in public accounts committee“Anybody can file nomination papers for inclusion in the PAC. He (Roy) is a BJP member. He has been supported by the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. If required, we will support him too. We will win if there is an election. Let people see who is more powerful. The speaker takes these decisions,” Banerjee told the media during a press conference on Thursday afternoon. According to rules, it is the discretion of the speaker to select the chairpersons of the various committees in the assembly. The BJP wants Ashok Lahiri, the former chief economic adviser to the government of India who won the Balurghat seat in north Bengal, to be the PAC chairman. The BJP on Thursday submitted a letter to the speaker saying Roy’s nomination should be cancelled because the party did not nominate him. Stating that the BJP may seek legal action, the letter said Roy should be disqualified under the anti-defection law. The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process which involves inquiry and setting up of a committee. Mamata Banerjee’s protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her in the assembly polls, is the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly. He filed the application for Roy’s disqualification. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC along with his son Subhranshu Roy, but did not officially resign from the BJP, said opposition leaders. Reacting to the chief minister’s statement, BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “Let Mamata Banerjee decide first which party Roy belongs to. She says he has returned to the TMC but when it comes to a post she says he is a BJP member in the assembly. In her kingdom, she is the one who decides everything.” Roy avoided the media and could not be contacted despite several attempts. The speaker said on Wednesday that six BJP MLAs have filed their nomination for the PAC. Nominations have been filed for other committees as well. “It seems elections will be held in four committees as the number of candidates exceeds the strength of these committees. Elections were never held in the past for these posts as the candidatures were amicably decided through discussion,” the speaker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-eligible-for-assembly-committee-as-bjp-mla-says-mamata-banerjee-101624551110540.html
24-06-2021||India||Varun Gandhi slams Twitter's 'woke propaganda' after getting notice||BJP MP Varun Gandhi has now received a notice from Twitter's legal team which said that "Indian Law Enforcement" raised some issue regarding his Twitter account as it has been found violating the law(s) of India. "I am certain I have violated no law and that no law agency would have found anything offensive in my tweets," the BJP MP wrote, attaching a screenshot of the notice that he has received.Varun Gandhi wrote that he is shocked by Twitter's behaviour as it advocated for free expression, but "fails in deed". The MP said that before putting out these tweets, he enquired whether the government had sent any such request to Twitter. "If Twitter really has received a complaint regarding my content, let it share the said legal notice and its provenance in the interest of transparency," Varun Gandhi wrote.I have put out these tweets after enquiring from all possible avenues connected with the Indian law enforcement within the Govt. If @Twitter really has received a complaint regarding my content,let it share the said legal notice & its provenance “in the interest of transparency”.In the communication, Twitter said it has not taken any action as Twitter believed in defending and respecting the voice of Twitter users. "It is our policy to notify our users if we receive a legal request from an authorised entity to remove content from their account," Twitter wrote as found in the screenshot that the MP shared."For too long now, Twitter has indulged in online bullying of our citizens for their diversity of political views to make us conform with their "woke" propaganda. It should stay a platform, not an ostracizing tribunal. This harassment of Indians will not fly with the law of the land," Varun Gandhi wrote.Varun Gandhi's clash with Twitter comes at a time when the microblogging platform is at loggerheads with the government and has lost legal protection in the country. The ongoing disagreement between the government and Twitter started in January this year after the Centre asked Twitter to take action against accounts tweeting on 'farmer genocide' after farmers' protest in Delhi on Republic Day. According to the government, the social media platform dragged its feet in responding to the government's request. Following this, there have been several flashpoints including Twitter's non-compliance to the new IT rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-slams-twitter-s-woke-propaganda-after-getting-notice-101624550452011.html
24-06-2021||India||AawazLive: HT Media, Aawaz.com initiative to let listeners interact with RJs||Aawaz.com and HT Media Ltd’s Fever FM are coming together to create a series of live, interactive audio experiences on #aawazLive, a feature inside aawaz for real-time interactions.Listeners can interact live with popular Fever FM RJs including Vaibhav and Raghu Raftaar, among others. Listeners can also ask questions, share comments, and express themselves with emojis during the live audio show conducted in Hindi starting May 22.Visit bit.ly/fevergameshow in your mobile browser to begin.The initial focus will be on Uttar Pradesh and other Hindi speaking markets, and more regions and languages will be added subsequently. Aawaz.com is the largest spoken-word audio and podcast network in Indian languages. It has also been live since January 2019, providing high-quality, professionally generated, Original audio content in Hindi, Marathi, Indian English, and Urdu.“Fever FM has the reputation of pushing the envelope in the audio category, and we are proud to have them on-board as partners to create live & real time interactions on #aawazLive,” the company’s co-founder and CEO, Sreeraman Thiagarajan said. Aawaz is a product by Mumbai-based Agrahyah Technologies Pvt. Ltd.Fever FM is the fastest growing contemporary bollywood station in the country and the destination station for youth with listenership of over 16 million. Fever FM has introduced content across various genres (music and non-music), appealing to the millennials and Gen Zs since its inception. Fever FM is the pioneer repackaging great epics like Mahabharata and Ramayana and also autobiographies of Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose over the years.Fever has also partnered with the biggest sports franchises across the country powering the IPL and sports revolution.“As the audio industry continues to grow, we are very excited to collaborate with aawaz on their new feature #aawazLive. It is the era of audio entertainment and Aawaz leads the way in the podcast category. We’re sure that these live interactions with the Fever RJs will become a listener's favourite in no time and will help us unlock a new set of audience,”Ramesh Menon, CEO – Radio and Entertainment, HT Media Ltd and Next Mediaworks Ltd said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aawazlive-ht-media-aawaz-com-initiative-to-let-listeners-interact-with-rjs-101624549989921.html
24-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Taiwan min asks nation should prepare for military conflict with China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taiwan needs to prepare for military conflict with China, says foreign minister WuThe warning comes a week after the island reported the largest daily incursion by the Chinese air force as they entered Taiwan's air defence identification zone (ADIZ). Read more here.'Thin line between carefree and careless': Sunil Gavaskar on Rishabh Pant's innings in WTC finalReacting to Pant’s innings of 41 in India’s second innings, in which the left-hander tried to force things by going down the track multiple times against New Zealand seamers, Sunil Gavaskar said ‘there is a thin line between carefree and careless.’ Read more here. Anupam Kher gets 'reality check' as Himachali man fails to recognise him, wants to drown in 'chullu bhar paani'A Himachal Pradesh resident failed to recognise Anupam Kher while he was on his morning walk. The actor shared a video of the incident. Watch here.BTS ARMY is relieved as South Korean govt says they would delay band's mandatory military serviceBTS fans have another reason to celebrate as the South Korean government made a new announcement on the mandatory enlistment of BTS for military service. Read more here. Watch: Uyghur & Tibetan protesters demand boycott of 2022 Olympics in China||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-taiwan-foreign-minister-says-nation-needs-to-prepare-for-101624547688376.html
24-06-2021||India||Delta Plus: List of states where this new Covid variant has been reported so far||In the wake of the reports of a new Coronavirus variant, Delta Plus, surfacing in India, the Union health ministry on Tuesday alerted Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, where the initial cases were found. But in the last two days, many other states reported the variant and Madhya Pradesh has also reported the first Delta Plus death on Thursday.From the statewise distribution of the Delta Plus cases, it might be wrong to conclude that southern states have been infected by the Delta Plus variant more than northern states as genome sequencing may be pending for many samples. No specific age group has emerged as more vulnerable as the variant has been found in a toddler and in senior citizens as well.Here is a list of the state where Delta Plus has been detected so farMaharashtra: The very first case of Delta Plus in India was found in a sample taken in April from Maharashtra. The state has over 20 cases of the new variant. Maharashtra's Ratnagiri and Jalgaon are the two places where the initial cases have been traced to. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said it is concerning that the number of daily Covid-19 infections is not coming below 8,000.Madhya Pradesh: Bhopal and Shivpuri were the two places which were alerted by the Centre. On Thursday, Ujjain reported two Delta Plus cases, including one death. According to reports, a 59-year-old woman of Ujjain who died of Covid-19 on May 23 was infected with the Delta Plus variant. She was not vaccinated. Madhya Pradesh, in total, has reported five Delta Plus cases, including the death. The other four received vaccinations and are now recovering, reports said.Karnataka: Karnataka reported the first Delta Plus in Mysuru on Wednesday, and the second in Bengaluru on Thursday. Both the patients are in isolation.Kerala: After a Delta Plus case was reported from Pathanamitta and two from Palakkad district, three villages went under lockdown. In Pathanamthitta, Delta Pus was found in a four-year-old boy in Kadapra village.Tamil Nadu: A 32-year-old nurse from Chennai is Tamil Nadu's first case of Delta Plus variant and she has recovered now. She tested positive on May 4 and now it has been found out that she was infected with the Delta Plus variant.J&K: A healthcare worker of J&K was detected with the Delta Plus variant and has recovered completely, Jammu Government Medical College has informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-list-of-states-where-this-new-covid-variant-has-been-reported-so-far-101624546024157.html
24-06-2021||India||India rejects Pak leadership’s remarks on Kashmir, Afghanistan, says focus on terror||India on Thursday brushed aside the Pakistani leadership’s recent assertions about the Kashmir issue and India’s role in Afghanistan, and said Islamabad should focus on creating an atmosphere conducive to normal bilateral relations by taking action against terrorism. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi was responding to comments by Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi that India’s presence in Afghanistan is larger than it ought to be, and Prime Minister Imran Khan’s contention that both countries wouldn’t need nuclear weapons if they settled the Kashmir issue. Referring to the remarks by Pakistan’s foreign minister on India’s role in Afghanistan, Bagchi said: “We firmly believe that it is for the Afghan people to decide their partners and the size of the partnership. India has brought electricity, dams, schools, health clinics, roads and community projects to Afghanistan. And the world knows what Pakistan has brought to Afghanistan.” Indian officials have for long blamed Pakistan’s security establishment of having close links to terror groups active in Afghanistan, including the Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Haqqani Network, a key faction of the Afghan Taliban. Bagchi also dismissed the Pakistan prime minister’s comments on the Kashmir issue, saying: “Regarding developments in Jammu and Kashmir, this is clearly an internal matter for India.” He added, “As far as our bilateral relations with Pakistan are concerned, our stand is well known. We desire normal relations with all our neighbours, including Pakistan. Pakistan must work towards creating a conducive atmosphere, including by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible actions to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner.” The spokesperson also responded to several questions on India’s position on the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and the reported outreach to Taliban factions and leaders amid the drawdown of US troops, which is likely to be completed well before the deadline of September set by the Biden administration. “Our perspective on Afghanistan has been enunciated on various occasions. India supports all peace initiatives and has a long-term commitment towards development and reconstruction of Afghanistan,” Bagchi said. “In this context, we remain in touch with various stakeholders, including regional countries,” he added. Bagchi also referred to external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s statement at a UN Security Council debate on Afghanistan on Tuesday, saying it had laid out India’s concern at the upsurge in violence and the vision for Afghanistan’s future. Without directly naming Pakistan, Jaishankar had called for zero tolerance for cross-border terrorism and also sought full transit rights for Afghanistan. He also called for a permanent ceasefire to end a surge in violence, including targeted attacks on women, minorities and civil society activists, and said India will welcome any move towards a genuine political settlement in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pak-leadership-s-remarks-on-kashmir-afghanistan-says-focus-on-terror-101624546310022.html
24-06-2021||India||Want to remove Dilli ki Doori and Dil ki Doori, PM Modi tells J&K leaders||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday met representatives of political parties from Jammu and Kashmir at an all party meeting called to discuss issues related to the union territory’s development, the ongoing delimitation exercise, and the restoration of statehood.“The PM said that he wants to removeDilli ki Doori (the distance from Delhi) as well as Dil Ki Doori (the distance from the heart),” said a person familiar with the happenings at the meeting who asked not to be named.This person added that Modi said the purpose of the meeting was to strengthen the democratic process in the region, and reiterated his government’s commitment to the democratic process in J&K. He stressed that holding assembly elections, just like the successful conduct of the District Development Council (DDC) elections, is a priority, said a second person aware of the details.In three tweets minutes after the meeting, PM Modi emphasised this message.“Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled,” PM Modi said.Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory. pic.twitter.com/AEyVGQ1NGyPM Modi said the country’s priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. “Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory,” he added.There has been a demand for the restoration of statehood and resumption of elections in the UT and the issue was raised at the meeting.“It was discussed that elections can happen soon after delimitation and by and large most participants expressed support for this,” said a third person.“The PM expressed satisfaction with the acceleration of development in Jammu & Kashmir and said that it is creating new hope and aspirations among the people. And said that when people experience corruption free governance, it inspires trust among the people and people also extend their co-operation to the administration and this is visible in J&K today,” the person quoted above said.The meeting is being seen as New Delhi’s move to break the ice with the regional parties and to reset the political process in the UT; the PM said that there would be political differences but everyone should work in national interest so that the people of J&K benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-remove-dilli-ki-duri-and-dil-ki-duri-pm-modi-to-jammu-and-kashmir-leaders-101624545589901.html
24-06-2021||India||Govt closely following Covaxin’s effort for obtaining WHO approval: MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told reporters on Thursday that any development regarding Covaxin’s Emergency Use Listing (EUL) authorization by the World Health Organisation (WHO) is being closely followed by the government.“We are closely following the developments regarding efforts by Bharat Biotech to obtain Emergency Use Listing (EUL) authorization from the World Health Organisation,” ANI said quoting Bagchi.Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin, had expressed confidence in getting the UN body’s approval based on "its experience of getting its other vaccines prequalified by WHO”, and that an approval for emergency use listing is expected during July-September. The manufacturer has also claimed that around 90 per cent of the required documents have already been submitted to WHO and the remaining will be sent in July.Also Read: Bharat Biotech likely to attend pre-submission meeting with WHO for Covaxin emergency use listingThe Hyderabad-based manufacturer also held a pre-submission meeting on July 23 with the UN body. MEA is coordinating with Bharat Biotech to secure WHO’s approval for the country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine.The lack of endorsement from WHO has been hampering travel plans for individuals as many countries are only accepting vaccines approved by the public health body. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Modi on Thursday urging his intervention in the approval process."A large number of students from all over the country travel abroad every year for higher studies and many of them have got themselves vaccinated with Covaxin. They came to learn later on that their vaccination certificate is not valid abroad. These students are now in a fix regarding their next course of action and their career is at stake," Banerjee said to the Prime Minister, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-closely-following-covaxin-s-effort-for-obtaining-who-approval-mea-101624544719180.html
24-06-2021||India||Students in a fix: Mamata seeks PM’s intervention for WHO’s approval of Covaxin||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling for his intervention in order to facilitate early approval for India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin from the World Health Organisation (WHO) so that students aspiring to go abroad for studies do not face any problem.In a letter that Banerjee addressed to the PM and posted on Twitter, she wrote, “It is learnt that Covaxin is still not approved by WHO and it is not possible to travel abroad, as many countries are allowing only those people who are fully vaccinated with WHO-approved vaccines.”She pointed out that a large number of students from across the country travel overseas every year for higher studies, and several of them have got themselves inoculated with Covaxin shots. “They came to learn later on that their vaccination certificate is not valid abroad. These students are now at a fix regarding their next course of action and their career is at stake,” the chief minister further wrote.She added out that an early approval for Covaxin will also benefit those who are travelling abroad for jobs, business and any other purpose.Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, reportedly submitted the third-phase trial results of the vaccine to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Tuesday. “We have received the data from phase-3 trials,” news agency ANI quoted a senior government official as saying.A top representative of Bharat Biotech said that from July onwards more private hospitals across the country could offer Covaxin doses as the drugmaker will be supplying 25 per cent of the total production volume of its Covid-19 vaccine to the private sector next month. At the moment, the company supplies 10 per cent of the total production volume.This comes amid a controversy over data from the phase-3 trials of Covaxin that Bharat Biotech earlier said it would make public in June, only to announce later that the data would, in fact, be made public in July, marking a delay of nearly a month from the originally announced timeline.Last week Bharat Biotech quashed rumours about its submission of Covaxin’s third phase trial data to the WHO for its approval, calling such reports “incorrect and lacking any evidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-in-a-fix-mamata-seeks-pm-s-intervention-for-who-s-approval-of-covaxin-101624543375353.html
24-06-2021||India||China’s amassing of troops, bids to change status quo to blame for LAC standoff: India||India on Thursday blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for the ongoing military standoff, dismissing Beijing’s contention that New Delhi’s policies were to blame for the tensions. The latest war of words between the foreign ministries of the two countries came against the backdrop of a lack in progress in disengagement and de-escalation of frontline troops following a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. India has insisted that peace and tranquillity on LAC is a prerequisite for normalcy in the overall bilateral relationship. “It is well recognised that it has been the Chinese actions over the last year, including amassing of a large number of troops close to border areas in the western sector, and trying to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC, which have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. These actions, he said, have violated several bilateral agreements, including the 1993 and 1996 agreements which “mandate that the two sides shall strictly respect and observe the LAC and that the two sides will keep their military forces in the areas along the LAC to a minimum level”. Bagchi was responding to questions regarding the Chinese foreign ministry’s contention on Wednesday that Chinese troops were deployed at the border to prevent India from encroaching on Chinese territory, and that India’s aggressive policies alone were to blame for tensions on the LAC. “The military deployment by China in the western sector along the border is a normal defensive arrangement. It is meant to prevent the encroachment or threat against China’s territory by relevant country,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had said. Zhao had contended the Indian side had been increasing its military presence along the border and “encroaching upon Chinese territory”. This, he said, was the root cause of the “tense situation along the borders”. The Chinese side further said the border issue shouldn’t be linked to bilateral ties. The strong Indian response to the stance adopted by China’s foreign ministry reflected the position taken in recent weeks by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who has maintained that Beijing’s actions were responsible for the military standoff and that bilateral relations could move forward in all spheres only after the two countries addressed the situation on the LAC. India has repeatedly said complete disengagement at all friction points on the LAC and peace and tranquillity in the border areas alone can lead to the normalisation of the overall bilateral relationship. Participating in a virtual dialogue at the Qatar Economic Forum on Tuesday, Jaishankar said the onus is on China to adhere to written agreements with India on not deploying large numbers of armed troops along the border so that the two countries can take forward their ties on the basis of mutual sensitivity, mutual respect and mutual interest”. Though there has been considerable speculation about India and China holding a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, Bagchi told the briefing that he didn’t “have any update to share for the moment”. More than a year after the standoff began, the disengagement of troops is yet to be completed after 11 rounds of military talks and seven rounds of diplomatic talks. China’s People’s Liberation Army has continued the deployment of troops and heavy equipment on the LAC and inducted the army’s air defence units in its air force command chain, establishing a joint air defence system for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinas-amassing-of-troops-bids-to-change-status-quo-to-blame-for-lac-standoff-india-101624543669827.html
24-06-2021||India||PM Modi tells J&K leader he's committed to restoring statehood, wants to remove 'Dilli ki Duri, Dil ki Duri'||Leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, who flew to New Delhi to attend the first-ever meeting after August 2019 with PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday, were assured that the Centre is committed to granting statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, a demand unanimously raised by all political parties of J&K. "We kept five demands in the meeting- grant statehood soon, conduct Assembly elections to restore democracy, rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits in J&K, all political detainees should be released and on domicile rules," Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said after the three-hour meeting concluded. "The Home Minister said the government is committed to granting statehood to Jammu and Kashmir," the Congress leader said.Today’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir is an important step in the ongoing efforts towards a developed and progressive J&K, where all-round growth is furthered. pic.twitter.com/SjwvSv3HIpMeeting the leaders from the Valley, PM Modi said that there would be political differences, but everyone should work in the national interest for the benefit of the people. PM Modi said there should not be 'Dil ki Duri' and 'Dilli ki Duri', news agency ANI reported, citing sources.Also Read: Why all-party meeting on J&K is important and what's on agenda"Today’s meeting on Jammu and Kashmir was conducted in a very cordial environment. Everyone expressed their commitment to democracy and the constitution. It was stressed to strengthen the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir," Union minister Amit Shah said."We first expressed anger over how the bifurcation was done. We have said there should be development and for that statehood and elections are necessary. We said we need a guarantee that land and jobs will be protected. There should be immediate steps for the rehabilitation of Pandits," the former chief minister of the former state said.PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, who earlier commented that PM Modi should speak to Pakistan too, said she told PM that J&K's people do not accept the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated. "People of J&K are in a lot of difficulties after 5th Aug 2019. They are angry, upset and emotionally shattered. They feel humiliated. I told PM that people of J&K don't accept the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated unconstitutionally, illegally and immorally," Mufti said.While the political parties raised the demand for the restoration of the statehood before elections, Union minister Amit Shah said elections can't be held without completing the delimitation exercise, which got delayed because of the pandemic, Ghulam Nabi Azad said.National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said it was conveyed to PM Modi that what the Central government did to J&K on August 5, 2019, was a breach of trust. "We told PM that we don't stand with what was done on 5th August 2019. We are not ready to accept it. But we won't take the law into our hands. We will fight this in court. We also told PM that there's been a breach of trust between the state and the Centre. It's the Centre's duty to restore it," Omar said.People's Conference leader Sajjad Lone said the meeting was cordial. "We came out quite positive that hopefully there will be some delivery for the people of Jammu and Kashmir," Sajjad Lone said.J&K Apni Party's Altaf Bukhari said PM Modi heard everyone and asked all to participate in the delimitation process. "We have been assured that this is the roadmap towards elections," Altaf Bukhari said.The fact that the meeting went on for over three hours is in itself an indication of the success of the meeting, BJP's Ram Madhav tweeted soon after the conclusion of the meeting.Minister of State in PMO Jitendra Singh, principal secretary to Prime minister P K Mishra and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla were among those who attended the meeting apart from PM Modi and Amit Shah. Four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti were also present in the meeting. Four former deputy chief ministers were in attendance too – Congress’ Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig and BJP's Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta.CPI-M leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head G A Mir, BJP's Ravinder Raina and Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh attended the meeting as well.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-said-he-is-committed-to-restore-statehood-says-j-k-leader-after-3-hr-meet-101624541229384.html
24-06-2021||India||TN CM Stalin announces dropping of cases against protesters||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Thursday announced that all the cases filed against people for protesting will be withdrawn. The cases filed by the previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government include those related to protests against the Chennai-Salem expressway, Kudankulam nuclear power plant, hydrocarbon extraction projects, and the three new farm laws passed last year.Stalin, who made the announcement on the last day of the current assembly session, said the cases were being withdrawn to uphold the rights of the protesters and protect the freedom of expression. He also announced ₹1,000 crore for temple renovation in the state.Activists say over 10,000 cases were registered against protestors across five districts in Tamil Nadu over the protests against the Salem-Chennai expressway alone. “We welcome the government dropping cases against us, but this is not enough,” said A Chandramohan, state secretary, All India Kisan Mahasabha.Also Read | Chennai nurse, first case of Delta Plus variant in TN, has recoveredHe asked the government to pass a resolution in the assembly insisting that the central government scrap this project. “Tamil Nadu revenue department is the local authority for the land acquisition process. Without its support, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) cannot implement it.”In December 2020, the Supreme Court upheld the land acquisition notifications for the expressway partially allowing appeals of the Union government and the NHAI.Stalin met Prime Minister Narendra Modi this month in Delhi and sought the scrapping of several centrally sponsored schemes and projects including the Salem-Chennai expressway. Stalin has announced a resolution that will be passed against the farm laws and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in the budget session of the assembly scheduled in July.On June 13, Stalin wrote to Modi saying no hydrocarbon projects should be taken up in the protected agriculture zone in the interests of the agrarian community and the ecology of the region.Stalin earlier ordered the withdrawal of most of the cases against anti-Sterlite protestors on the third anniversary in May of the police firing that killed 13 civilians. The civilians were protesting in Thoothukudi district against the Sterlite facility. The DMK government has also decided to provide no-objection certificates to those arrested during the protest for pursuing higher education and jobs.The previous AIADMK government, before the assembly elections, dropped a majority of cases against anti-CAA protestors, Covid-19 lockdown violators, and pro-jallikattu activists. A few of these protests were supported by the DMK when it was in the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-stalin-announces-dropping-of-cases-against-protesters-101624540009831.html
24-06-2021||India||Maha CM talks to 7 district collectors, asks to gear up for Covid third wave||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed health department officials to make plans for combating the probable third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19), his secretariat said, as reported by news agency ANI.“The chief minister was talking to collectors of Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Hingoli districts. Health minister Rajesh Tope was also present,” ANI quoted the secretariat as saying.This comes after Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that he has directed officials to closely monitor the Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 causing Covid-19. He added that officials have also been asked to collect and record information regarding cases related to the variant for study. “We are taking 100 samples from every district,” he told ANI.Citing a study, Tope further stated that the Delta Plus variant could be more virulent than other variants of the virus. His remarks came as Maharashtra reported 21 independent cases of the Delta Plus variant. Tope added that a separate hospital ward has been formed for such patients.“It is a matter of concern for the state as the number of fresh (daily) Covid-19 cases is not dropping below 8,000. In the last 7 to 8 days, the state has been adding around 7,000 to 8,000 new Covid-19 cases per day but the number is not going down,” Tope said.Notably, Maharashtra reported 10,066 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, highlighting another jump from Tuesday’s daily case count of 8,473 cases, the state health bulletin data showed. Following this, the cumulative tally of coronavirus cases in the state has climbed up to 59,97,587, the bulletin data added.India has been grappling with rising cases of coronavirus due to the Delta Plus variant, with 40 samples found to have been infected till now. According to a statement by the union ministry of health and family welfare, most of the cases have been detected in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala.Tamil Nadu confirmed its first case on Wednesday after a top government official confirmed that a Chennai-based nurse contracted the variant of the virus. On the other hand, two cases – one each in Mysuru and Bengaluru, were also detected in Karnataka on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-cm-talks-to-7-district-collectors-asks-to-gear-up-for-covid-third-wave-101624537961120.html
24-06-2021||India||K'taka HC grants interim relief to Twitter India head in Ghaziabad assault case||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday granted interim relief to Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari and told the Ghaziabad police not to take any coercive action against him. Bangalore-based Maheshwari moved the high court after the Ghaziabad Police summoned him to its Loni Border police station on Thursday to record his statement in connection with a video that seemed to show a hate crime targeting a Muslim man in Ghaziabad, and was amplified as such. The police, however, subsequently claimed it was not a communal incident.Maheshwari’s counsel told the court that he is an employee of Twitter and he had nothing to do with the offence. He also highlighted that Ghaziabad Police wanted Maheshwari to be present in-person despite Supreme Court and high court stating that the statement can be recorded through video-conferencing.Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari, who lives in Bengaluru in Karnataka received a notice from the Ghaziabad police on June 17 and was asked to join the probe. The police also gave him seven days to get his statement recorded in the case.Ghaziabad Police booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi with connection to the case on June 15. The police alleged that these people mentioned above tried to disrupt communal harmony by spreading such messages. In the video, the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claimed that he was thrashed by some young men who had also asked him to chant ‘Jai Shree Ram’ on June 5. Journalist Rana Ayyub was granted transit anticipatory bail for a period of four weeks in connection with the case by the Bombay high court.Police claim that the altercation was not due to any communal reason but over some amulets sold by the man to a few youths in the area who assaulted him over the sale. Police arrested nine men - Kalloo Gurjar, Parvesh Gurjar, Adil, Intezaar, Saddam, Himanshu, Anas, Shavez and Babu - following the assault on the elderly man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-hc-grants-interim-relief-to-twitter-india-head-in-ghaziabad-assault-case-101624536830689.html
24-06-2021||India||Rajasthan seeks relocation of tigers to MHTR, conservation team plans visit||The lone tigress at the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) in Rajasthan’s Kota district is likely to get a companion soon as the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has formed a team to inspect the area in an attempt to strengthen and improve the Reserve.The hill reserve, which had a significant tiger population in 2018, is now left with an 8-year-old tigress MT-4 since two tigers and two cubs died last year between July-August, and another tiger MT-1 went missing.Chief Wildlife Warden, Mohan Lal Meena said the Rajasthan forest department had submitted a proposal to NTCA for relocating two tigers and a tigress to MHTR, along with the compliance report of the recommendations made by them. “We had discussions with them, now a NTCA panel will be inspecting the compliance of work done by the state forest department,” he said.According to Meena, the NTCA had recommended increasing the prey base, making the reserve disturbance free with relocation of villages and other steps. The prey base has increased and the shifting of over 500 chitals has been approved and relocations of villages have been completed.Environmentalists have time and again raised their concerns over the health and fertility of the lone tigress at the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve , if pairing was not done soon.Even after spending ₹30 crore on the fencing of MHTR for tiger safety and creation of the required infrastructure, the reserve is left with only one tigress. Tigress MT-4 is still living in an inner soft enclosure of 28 hectares, where tigers are kept before their release in the wild area spread over 80 square km at MHTR. Two tigers and two cubs of MHTR died between July and August last year.“MT-4 is nearly eight years old and has delivered cubs twice. The tigress can deliver twice more before she is 10 years old. The average age of tigers in the wild is 15 to 16 years,” said Daulat Singh Shaktawat, former deputy conservator of forests of the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in Sawai Madhopur and a representative of NTCA.“Staying alone can have an adverse impact on the age, health and fertility of the lone tigress, so its pairing is necessary,” he said.Shaktawat emphasised the importance of pairing by giving an example. “When the wildlife department was facing difficulty in tranquilising tiger MT-1 in the forests of Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary in Bundi, it played out recorded voice calls of a tigress to lure the tiger. And the trick worked. The tiger came out after hearing the voice call of the tigress, and the forest department staff succeeded in tranquilising it,” he said. “Tigers and tigresses feel stressed if they are kept alone for long.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-seeks-relocation-of-tigers-to-mhtr-conservation-team-plans-visit-101624536048318.html
24-06-2021||India||Pfizer says its vaccine highly effective against Delta variant||Pfizer which is in the final stages of striking an agreement with India claimed on Thursday that its vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant of Covid-19, the variant which has emerged as a new threat to the world. In India, the Delta variant was considered to be the reason behind the second wave. A second mutation of the variant, called Delta Plus, has also been reported in India and in some other countries, including the UK and the US. Hence, all vaccine makers are relooking their data on the effectiveness of the vaccines on these variants."The data we have today, accumulating from research we are conducting at the lab and including data from those places where the Indian variant, Delta, has replaced the British variant as the common variant, point to our vaccine being very effective, around 90%, in preventing the coronavirus disease, Covid-19," Alon Rappaport, Pfizer's medical director in Israel told local broadcaster Army Radio, Reuters reported.As Pfizer seems all set to enter India, its effect against the Delta variant will amp up India's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The union health ministry has said that both Covishield and Covaxin, the two vaccines which have been part of India's vaccination drive, are effective against the Delta variant.Sputnik V, the Russia-made vaccine available now in India, has also claimed that the vaccine is effective against the Delta variant.Delta variant, first reported from India, has proved to have been more virulent than the previous variant. It is now responsible for around 100 per cent of Covid-19 infections in the UK.Pfizer in IndiaPfizer CEO Dr Albert Bourla recently said that the agreement with the Indian government is being finalised. The company, as it did in all other countries, wanted legal protection in India, which initially created a bottleneck as no other vaccine maker enjoys indemnity in the country as yet. "My hope is that very soon we will finalise the approval of the product in India by the Indian health care authorities and the agreement with the government so that we can also start sending vaccines, on our side,” Bourla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-says-its-vaccine-highly-effective-against-delta-variant-101624535364701.html
24-06-2021||India||US lobby group views India's e-commerce plan as worrying, email shows||A top lobby group that is part of the U.S Chamber of Commerce believes India's proposed new e-commerce rules are a cause for concern and will lead to a stringent operating environment for companies, according to an email reviewed by Reuters.India this week spooked online retailers like Amazon and Walmart's Flipkart by outlining plans to limit "flash sales", reining in a private label push and mandating them to have a system to address grievances.The Washington-headquartered U.S-India Business Council (USIBC), of which Amazon and Walmart are members, described the rules as concerning in an internal email, saying some provisions were in line with New Delhi's stance on other big digital companies.India's draft plan "includes several concerning policies, including significant limits on platforms' ability to organise sales and handle grievances," USIBC said in an email to its members.USIBC has in the past urged India not to tighten a separate set of rules governing foreign investment in companies like Amazon and Flipkart, an issue that has often soured trade relations between India and United States.USIBC did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The new rules - open for consultation until July 6 - are expected to have an impact across the board in an online retail market forecast to be worth $200 billion by 2026.They will also apply to Indian firms like Tata's BigBasket and Reliance Industries' JioMart, but the proposal comes after Indian retailers for years complained that market leaders Amazon and Flipkart used complex business structures to bypass India's foreign investment law, hurting small businesses.The companies deny any wrongdoing.India's new proposed rules have raised concerns they will force Amazon and Flipkart to review their business structures, industry sources and lawyers have told Reuters.The USIBC email noted that India's proposals "preclude (e-commerce) platforms from owning vendors".Amazon specifically holds an indirect stake in two of its top sellers and a Reuters investigation in February cited Amazon documents that showed it gave preferential treatment to a small number of its sellers.India's rules also will force e-commerce companies to reveal the country of origin of a product and suggest alternatives to ensure a "fair opportunity for domestic goods".Some of the new provisions align with India's similar federal policies "for social and digital media companies ... and will result in a more stringent e-commerce regime," USIBC said in its email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-lobby-group-views-india-s-e-commerce-plan-as-worrying-email-shows-101624534201343.html
24-06-2021||India||U’khand fake Covid testing: Congress’s state-wide protests on Friday||The Uttarakhand Congress will be holding a state-wide protest against the state government over the alleged Mahakumbh fake Covid test scam on Friday. The symbolic protest would be led by Congress state president Pritam Singh from Ganga ghat in Haridwar. Singh said, “The fake test scam is a blot on the image of Uttarakhand. On Friday, we will hold a fast at the Ganga ghats in Haridwar followed by state-wide protests against the government on the issue. Considering the seriousness of the scam, we also demand a probe by a sitting judge in it along with the resignation of chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat.” On Thursday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members also held a symbolic protest across the state on the issue, in which they broke earthen pots in fornt of BJP offices in the state. AAP leader Ravindra Jugran said, “The breaking of pots was a symbolic protest to signify that with the fake Covid test scam in Mahakumbh, BJP’s pot of sins was going to burst. With the scam in Mahakumbh, India’s reputation has taken a hit.” Demanding a judicial probe in the scam, Jugran added, “The role of BJP leaders and government officials is clearly visible in this scam. Hence, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat who is also the state health minister, should resign from his position.” Congress state spokesperson Garima Dasauni on Thursday also accused the government of “misleading the public by claiming no scam happened in the Mahakumbh.” She said, “We are holding a fast at Ganga ghats but actually, the BJP should have done this for the blot on the dignity of Maa Ganga this scam has brought.” A day ago, she had shared photographs of the owner of the private agency under the scanner with BJP heavyweights, and said, “The photographs which feature him with BJP heavyweights such as JP Nadda, Smriti Irani, Narendra Singh Tomar, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat, MPs Sunny Deol and Ajay Bhatt, just shows what relations Pant, the mastermind of the scam, had with them.” The BJP meanwhile refuted the allegations, saying “Congress is frustrated”. “The Congress has lost its mind in frustration. It is normal for any big leader to have photographs with various people. If the photographs of their big leaders is pulled out, then they would be in trouble,” said party state vice president Devendra Bhasin. He added, “As far as the alleged scam is considered, the government is determined to take strong action against those involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-fake-covid-testing-congress-s-state-wide-protests-on-friday-101624535087196.html
24-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Electoral activity begins in eastern UP ahead of 2022 polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of 2022 assembly polls, parties begin electoral activity from eastern UPThe ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has held over 40 meetings in Varanasi and other eastern Uttar Pradesh districts in the last 50 days even as the party has asked its workers to apprise the people about the Centre and state government’s welfare schemes. Read MoreU’khand fake testing: HC grants diagnostic lab owners interim relief from arrestThe Uttarakhand high court on Thursday granted temporary protection from arbitrary arrest to the owners of Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs, which is under investigation for allegedly administering fake Covid tests during the Mahakumbh. Read MoreFilmmaker violated Covid protocol, Lakshadweep administration tells HCThe Lakshadweep administration on Thursday informed the Kerala high court, through a special petition, that activist and filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who was summoned by the island police for her bio-weapon remarks, flouted the interim protection granted to her by the court. Read MoreWTC Final - Team India Report Card: A disaster at SouthamptonThe World Test Championship (WTC) Final was expected to be the pinnacle of achievement for an Indian Test team which has been relentless at home over the past five and a half years and achieved historic successes in Australia, West Indies and Sri Lanka. Read MoreBMW 5 Series launched in India at ₹62.90 lakhBMW has launched its new 5 Series in the Indian market starting at ₹62,90,000 (ex-showroom). Read MoreNeetu Kapoor tears up as Super Dancer contestants pay tribute to Rishi Kapoor: 'It was so touching'Veteran actor Neetu Kapoor broke down on the dance reality show Super Dancer Chapter 4 after the contestants performed to her and her late husband Rishi Kapoor's songs. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-electoral-activity-begins-in-eastern-up-ahead-of-2022-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101624532262445.html
24-06-2021||India||After court pulls up, U'khand CM says preparations on to combat Covid third wave||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said on Thursday that the state government is making all preparations in order to combat the possible third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19).He added that he has also directed to convert the chief minister’s residence into a Covid care centre in view of the probable third wave of the viral disease.“I had not even thought of the second Covid wave. It was bad. Now, we have controlled the situation and increased the number of hospitals in the state. They will possibly reach 30 in number,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Saluting the medical fraternity, the chief minister further stated that he himself had experienced the tragedy wrought by pandemic as he had to perform the last rites of several police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel.This comes after the Uttarakhand High Court earlier in the day reprimanded health secretary Amit Negi for the state government’s preparedness to tackle the possible third wave and the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19.Hearing public interest litigation (PIL) on the handling of the pandemic by the state government, the court said that the administration cannot “leave the children to die” and that their arrangements are inadequate.“The Delta variant was spread across the country in a month, the Delta Plus variant will not take even three months. What are you doing to save our children? You must be thinking that Delta Plus variant will say let the government prepare first and then it will attack,” the division bench said, as reported by ANI.“Stop fooling us as we know the reality. Don't tell the Chief Justice that there is Ram Rajya in Uttarakhand and that we live in heaven,” the court further noted.India is among 11 countries where Covid-19 cases related to the Delta Plus variant have been confirmed. As many as 40 samples from across the country have been found infected so far, with most cases being in Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.Tamil Nadu also reported its first Delta Plus variant case, with a Chennai-based nurse getting infected, a top government official said on Wednesday. Meanwhile, two cases of the variant were reported in Karnataka – one each from Bengaluru and Mysuru, state health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said.The variant that has till now affected almost 200 people worldwide has been labelled as a “variant of concern” by the Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-court-pulls-up-u-khand-cm-says-preparations-on-to-combat-covid-third-wave-101624532655584.html
24-06-2021||India||Calcutta HC reserves order on Mamata Banerjee’s plea on Nandigram poll result||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday reserved its judgement on an election plea by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seeking the judge’s recusal from the case. The petition challenges BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari’s victory over the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo from Nandigram constituency in 2021 West Bengal Assembly elections.Banerjee also appeared for the hearing virtually.Appearing for Banerjee, advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi mentioned instances that show Justice Kausik Chanda has connections with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and highlighted a case where the Judge moved the intervention application on behalf of the saffron party, news agency ANI reported.“You lawyers also have political affiliations. You are from Congress and Mukherjee (Mamata Banerjee’s counsel Soumendra Nath Mukherjee) has BJP background. But you are appearing for TMC’s Mamata Banerjee’s case,” ANI quoted Justice Chanda as saying to Singhvi.Justice Chanda, as per the report, said that the petitioner has full right to move for recusal and that the matter will be decided judicially.Banerjee has also moved an application to change the judge in the case, alleging that Justice Chanda has links with the central ruling dispensation.Notably, the matter was deferred to this day on June 18 after Mukherjee requested the same to the court. “In the meantime, the Registrar shall file a report before this court as to whether the petition has been filed in conformity with the Representation of People Act,” the Calcutta High Court had directed in the order.According to a Bar and Bench report, Justice Chanda further asked Banerjee’s unit as to why the recusal application was not pointed out on June 18, when the matter was first heard.Adhikari, who was once a close-aide of Banerjee in TMC, defeated her in Nandigram by 1,956 votes. Soon after, the chief minister alleged that the returning officer of the Assembly seat had said that he was threatened against recounting of votes.Despite the loss, TMC pulled off a landslide triumph in the polls by winning 213 seats of a total of 294, while the BJP emerged as the primary opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-reserves-order-on-mamata-banerjee-s-plea-on-nandigram-poll-result-101624530995852.html
24-06-2021||India||Prasar Bharati goes 100% paperless||India’s public broadcaster Prasar Bharati has gone 100% paperless, with all its centres functioning as e-offices, according to a press release from the government.This comes in less than two years since e-office was introduced in August 2019. Out of 577 Prasar Bharati centres across the country, 10% adopted e-office in 2019. By 2020, it was 74% of Prasar Bharati centres and the remaining 16% joined by June 18, 2021. Also Read | Prasar Bharati looks at BBC model for makeoverAnuradha Agrawal, additional director general (Tech), Prasar Bharati, said, “In 2019, we adopted e-office and it was picking up. But, it helped when Covid hit; files could not move and everyone was home. Even though we were home, data was available on e-office and we could complete our daily work very smoothly and efficiently. Covid did not affect even 1% of our work.”She said adoption of e-Office was CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati’s initiative. “He made it clear that he would not receive any files in physical form. So in Delhi, we adopted e-office even before Covid and other centres did so during the pandemic. That’s how we became 100% paperless.”According to the government statement, the CEO office has cleared 11,186 e-files since August 2019. Currently, only new files have been digitised and the old files remain in physical form. However, the public broadcaster aims to digitise the old files in the next phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-goes-100-paperless-101624531967798.html
24-06-2021||India||Odisha announces package for lockdown-hit dairy farmers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday announced a Covid assistance package totalling ₹11 crore for 120,000 dairy farmers, registered under Odisha State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation (OMFED), the biggest milk procurement body in the state. Every farmer will be given a maximum of ₹6,000 under the scheme to buy fodder.Patnaik said while almost all other sectors of the economy were in a state of turmoil, only agriculture and allied sectors were keeping the economy afloat during the Covid-19 pandemic.During the state-wide lockdown amid the second wave of Covid-19, dairy farmers were hit hard when OMFED, the top body of milk producers and other cooperative unions in the state, cut down milk procurement from about 5.45 lakh litre a day to 2-3.75 lakh litres a day during the lockdown citing low demand.The sale of dairy-based products like cheese, ghee and curd also dipped considerably with shops remaining closed and lockdown restrictions forced distress sale, several dairy farmers said.“Dairy farming plays an important role in the rural economy and is especially helpful in the livelihoods of small and marginal farmers. A large decline in the demand for milk and dairy products due to the Covid pandemic has seriously affected the livelihoods of dairy farmers,” Patnaik said, explaining the rationale behind the assistance package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-package-for-lockdown-hit-dairy-farmers-101624530766965.html
24-06-2021||India||State boards can come up with own Class 12 assessment schemes: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that state boards are free to have their own assessment scheme for Class 12 students but has insisted that it be notified within 10 days and results should be announced by July 31.The order was passed by a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari on a public interest litigation filed by a group of parents led by Anubha Shrivastava Sahai. The petition demanded cancellation of all state board examinations and a uniform assessment scheme for Class 12 students across the country.Haryana state board opposed the idea of a uniform assessment scheme and sought a clarification. Assam informed that the assessment scheme is under preparation.The bench said, “We make it clear that each board may formulate its own scheme. We direct the boards to formulate and notify the scheme not later than 10 days from today and declare results by July 31, which is the timeline specified for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE).”The decision by the court is set to be benefit over 10 million Class 12 students across various state boards. In all, 21 state boards cancelled the Class 12 examinations this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Six state boards had already conducted the examination in March-April this year. The only exception was the state board of Andhra Pradesh, which informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that it will be holding Class 12 examinations by July-end. The state government indicated in its affidavit that it was confident to hold Class 12 examinations for over 519,000 students by putting in place all safety protocols. But the bench pointed out many gaps in the state’s preparedness. “Going by your affidavit, the state would need 34,634 classrooms to accommodate 15 students per room. These rooms have to be ventilated. Do you have so many rooms? Merely stating that we want to hold examination is not enough. All logistics have to be arranged with regard to invigilators and support staff. You have to take responsibility of students, staff and frontline workers,” the bench said.“It is not a question of holding an examination alone but about the health and safety of every individual. No state board has willingly cancelled the examination...In the second wave, everything was over in 10 days. If it happens again, are you ready to risk the life of students?” it asked.Terming the situation uncertain, particularly with experts warning of a third wave, the bench said, “We don’t know what will happen in July. If you hold examinations, when will you announce results? If you are unable to hold them, is there a contingency plan?” The state agreed to answer to all these questions by Friday, when the bench will again hear the matter.In its affidavit, the state had said that the decision to hold examinations was taken in the interest of students since Class 12 marks are crucial for admission to future courses. In Class 10, the state board awards grades and there was no reliable means to assess Class 12 students based on internal tests conducted by schools. The bench said it was open for the state to consult its experts or take advice from CBSE, CISCE. Any delay to take decision will cost students admission into central educational institutions this year, the bench observed.On a separate application by a group of parents challenging Kerala state board’s decision to hold Class 11 examinations in September, the bench directed the petitioners to approach the Kerala high court as the matter heard by the top court related to Class 12 examinations alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-boards-can-come-up-with-own-class-12-assessment-schemes-supreme-court-101624528306830.html
24-06-2021||India||PDP says will hold open-minded discussions as J&K leaders arrive for PM meet||As political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) arrived in Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a spokesperson for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) said they will have an open-minded discussion. “We are hearing that there is no specific agenda,” he said.National Conference (NC) leader Farooq Abdullah said all the invited leaders have reached Delhi and they held no fresh meeting before Modi’s all-party meet.NC Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi said the leaders may have got invitations for the meeting individually, but they will meet Modi as a “forum”. He added Omar Abdullah, another former chief minister, will also attend the meeting. Click here for LIVE Updates of the meetingThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress representatives attending the meeting went into a huddle separately before the meeting.Ghulam Ahmed Mir, Ghulam Nabi Azad, and Tara Chand will represent the Congress in their capacities as Congress local unit head, former chief minister, and former deputy chief minister. The three met at Azad’s residence before the all-party meeting.BJP chief JP Nadda met Nirmal Singh, Kavinder Gupta and Ravindra Raina, who will attend the meeting on the party’s behalf, before the all-party meeting. J&K Panther’s Party, J&K People’s Conference, and newly formed Apni Party will also be represented at the meeting with Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-says-will-hold-open-minded-discussions-as-j-k-leaders-arrive-for-pm-meet-101624528066792.html
24-06-2021||India||PM Modi to chair all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir: Latest updates||All eyes are set on the all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir which will be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday in Delhi. Fourteen leaders, including four former chief ministers (CMs) of the then state have been invited. Union home minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and home secretary would also attend the meeting.This is the first high level interaction to be held between the central government and Kashmir's political leadership since 2019, when the former scrapped Article 370 and 35A, which gave special status to J-K and its people. The meeting is expected to lay down a road map for conducting assembly elections. Talks are also expected on issues and problems faced by the Union Territory's population. The issue of revocation of Article 370 and 35A , which has invited sharp criticism from top political brass of J-K including the likes of National Conference (NC) patron Farooq Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti, is likely to be raised. Here are the latest updates:(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-all-party-meeting-on-jammu-and-kashmir-latest-updates-101624522110878.html
24-06-2021||India||ISRO espionage case: Ex-intelligence officer file anticipatory bail plea in Kerala HC||PS Jayaprakash, a retired Deputy Central Intelligence Officer has filed an anticipatory bail plea in the Kerala High Court against the Central Bureau of Investigation's (CBI) move, which made him an accused in the 1994 ISRO espionage case.A bench of Justice K Haripal ordered to not arrest him till Friday and the court will again consider the petition tomorrow.The High Court also sought the CBI's view on his petition.The retired Deputy Central Intelligence Officer approached the court just after CBI submitted the FIR in a Thiruvananthapuram court.While hearing, the counsel for the petitioner submitted, "The petitioner was only a middle-level officer who was part of the team that was helping the Kerala Police in the investigation. He did not take part in Nambi Narayanan's interrogation or arrest. He only interrogated Mariam and D Sasi Kumaran, the former space scientist.He interacted with Fauzia Hassan, another Maldivian woman just one time. Other than that, he was not connected with the episode. He has not even met Nambi Narayanan and had no reason or occasion to do anything against him. Arraigning him and harassing him after over two decades is clearly an abuse of process of law." (||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-espionage-case-ex-intelligence-officer-file-anticipatory-bail-plea-in-kerala-hc-101624524465021.html
24-06-2021||India||NSA Ajit Doval wants SCO to take action against Pak-based terror groups Jaish and Lashkar-e-Taiba||National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval proposed an action plan against Pakistan-based terror groups Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) as part of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) framework. He said this during the meeting of national security chiefs in Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe.Doval also said that there is a need to monitor new technologies used by terrorists, including drones, for smuggling of weapons and misuse of dark Web, artificial intelligence, blockchain and social media.Strongly condemning terrorism in all forms and manifestations, the NSA emphasised on the need for full implementation of United Nations resolutions and targeted sanctions against UN-designated terrorist individuals and entities. He said that perpetrators of terrorism including cross-border terror attacks should be expeditiously brought to justice.He also said that there is a need to preserve gains made in last two decades in Afghanistan and give top priority to welfare of its people. "India fully supports SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan, which should be more active," said Doval."Though India became SCO Member in 2017, it has physical, spiritual, cultural and philosophical inter-linkages for centuries with countries that now make up SCO," Doval further said.On the sidelines of the meeting of SCO's national security chiefs, Doval had a long meeting with Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev. They discussed contemporary developments of bilateral, regional and global significance.The two leaders also exchanged their views on the evolving situation in Afghanistan and the Asia-Pacific region during the meeting.The Beijing-based SCO is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations.India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017.The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the Presidents of Russia, China and the four Central Asian countries of Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-ajit-doval-wants-sco-to-take-action-against-pak-based-terror-groups-101624524114288.html
24-06-2021||India||Appeal against Tarun Tejpal’s acquittal adjourned to July 29||The Goa government’s appeal against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a rape case was on Thursday adjourned to July 29 after the prosecution sought more time to further amend their memorandum of appeal. When the matter came up for hearing, state advocate general (AG) Devidas Pangam asked the court for a week to submit copies of the amended appeal. “At the request of the learned advocate general, leave is granted to further amend the memo of appeal. AG states that the further amendment will be carried out within a week of one week from today,” the high court bench of justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said. Also Read | HC serves notice to Tejpal on Goa’s pleaAppearing for Tejpal, advocate Kapil Sibal told the court that he was yet to receive copies of the memorandum of appeal as well as the copies of documents, transcripts and other evidence that the prosecution will seek to rely on during the course of the hearing. Sibal pointed out that he only had a copy of the initial appeal which still mentioned that a copy of the judgement was yet to be made available following which the Advocate General sought the court’s leave to file an amended copy and serve the defence as well. Tejpal was acquitted of all charges by additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi in May. In her judgement, copies of which were handed out to the parties on Tuesday, Tejpal was given the benefit of doubt and acquitted on account of lack of sufficient evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appeal-against-tarun-tejpal-s-acquittal-adjourned-to-july-29-101624522366211.html
24-06-2021||India||Stop fooling us: Uttarakhand HC tells state govt on Covid-19 preparedness||The Uttarakhand High Court reprimanded the state government for the manner, in which it was preparing to deal with the third wave of Covid-19 and asked it to gear up for the Delta Plus variant.A division bench comprising Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma hearing a PIL (public interest litigation) related to the Uttarakhand government's handling of Covid-19, reprimanding health secretary Amit Negi and said that "you cannot leave the children to die, your arrangements are insufficient".The court said, "The Delta variant was spread across the country in a month, the Delta Plus variant will not take even three months. What are you doing to save our children? You must be thinking that Delta Plus variant will say let the government prepare first then it will attack.""Stop fooling us as we know the reality. Don't tell the Chief Justice that there is Ram Rajya in Uttarakhand and that we live in heaven," the high court said.The Court further commented that while there is a need to work on a war footing during the pandemic, bureaucratic hurdles are being created to delay processes.It also questioned the government on its claim of having adequate ambulances."You have enough ambulance. The claim is false, you talk about enough ambulances in the state, while there are frequent reports that pregnant women in the hills do not get ambulances, they have to be taken by palanquins," the court added.The court posted the matter for the next hearing on July 7, by that time the Chief Secretary and the Health Secretary will have to file an affidavit with details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-fooling-us-uttarakhand-hc-tells-state-govt-on-covid-19-preparedness-101624521122794.html
24-06-2021||India||Odisha to announce class 10 exam result on Friday||Odisha board of secondary education on Thursday said it will announce annual results for High School Certificate (HSE), state Open School Certificate and Madhyama Examination 2021 for class 10 on Friday afternoon.“After being approved by the Examination Committee, the results of all the above three examinations will be published from the BSE (Board of Secondary Education) head office at Cuttack at 4 pm,” an official release said.The results will be made available on websites - bseodisha.ac.in and www.bseodisha.nic.in from 6 pm onwards.On April 21, Odisha announced cancellation of class 10 examination for the current academic year (2021-22) due to rising Covid-19 cases. Nearly 650,000 students were to write the board examination.Odisha secondary education board had said it will mark class 10 students based on their marks in class 9 and pre-board exams. Board of Secondary Education (BSE) said marks of class 9 half yearly examination and annual examination will be taken into account apart from the results of 2nd, 3rd and the 4th Practice Test taken in class 10.“While 40% weightage will be given to highest marks secured in class 9 exams in each subject, 30% weightage will be given to two highest marks in all subjects out of three practice tests conducted in class-10. In case a candidate has not appeared in any of the practice tests of class 10 exam, 100% weightage will be given to the marks secured in class 9 exam (both half yearly & annual) and subject-wise highest marks will be taken into consideration,” the board had earlier explained the marking process.In case a candidate has appeared in only one practice test, then 70% weightage will be given to the marks secured in class-9 exams-half yearly and annual.School’s performance in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 HSC examination will also be taken into account for the results, the board had said.The board has also left a window of opportunity open for students who may not be satisfied with their result, by allowing them to appear in offline examinations to be conducted by the board after the pandemic situation improves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-announce-class-10-exam-result-on-friday-101624521286210.html
24-06-2021||India||Continue pressure on govt to treble daily vaccination rate: Sonia Gandhi to AICC||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked the party to continue the pressure on the government to treble the daily rate of vaccination to ensure at least 75% of India’s population is inoculated at the end of 2021.She emphasised the party must play an active role in ensuring full vaccination coverage and encourage people to overcome vaccine hesitancy and register for jabs. “It is absolutely essential that our party plays an active role in ensuring full vaccination coverage. At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75% of our population gets fully vaccinated by end of this year,” she said in her opening remarks at a meeting with the party’s general secretaries and state chiefs.“No doubt, this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government which has, at our Party’s insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, that vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised,” Gandhi said.Also Read | Chennai nurse, first case of Delta Plus variant in TN, has recoveredNearly 6.4 million doses of vaccines were administered against Covid-19 across the country till 11 pm on Wednesday, as per the Co-WIN dashboard – making it the day with the second-highest daily inoculation figures since the start of the drive.India’s latest round of vaccinations began on Monday with a record 8.5 million doses administered, but the numbers saw a slight drop on Tuesday when there were around 5.4 million daily jabs with numbers fluctuating heavily across states.Gandhi asked the party leaders to give “urgent attention” and take “provocative measures” in the context of a possible third Covid-19 wave. “We have to take steps to be better prepared if and when this strikes. The second wave these past four months has been devastating for lakhs and lakhs of individual families all over the country. We must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again,” she said.The meeting to deliberate on an outreach programme by the Congress was called as the party now aims to focus on the daily wagers and unorganised sector hit by the pandemic.HT reported on Thursday that Congress general secretary KC Venugopal has written to the state party units saying they aim to provide relief “especially to those who have kept essential services running but are not recognised as frontline workers”.Gandhi referred to the letter and the tasks ahead for the Congress workers. She spoke about the “intolerable burden being imposed by rising fuel prices” and how “prices of many other essential commodities like pulses and edible oils too have skyrocketed causing wide-spread distress.”“This price rise is taking place at a time when livelihoods are being lost in unprecedented numbers, when there is mounting unemployment and when economic recovery is not a reality,” she said.A Congress leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the party is working on an action plan for protests against the price rise of essential commodities and fuel.The Congress’s new approach to Covid-19 related outreach will now include farmers, agricultural labourers, street vendors, artisans, washermen, weavers, potters, masons, domestic workers and carpenters.There was no immediate response from the government or the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/continue-pressure-on-govt-to-treble-daily-vaccination-rate-sonia-gandhi-to-aicc-101624521107367.html
24-06-2021||India||7th pay commission: Banks to send monthly pension slip via SMS, WhatsApp||The central government pensioners will now be able to get monthly pension slips from banks on SMS and WhatsApp. The slip will provide complete details of the monthly pension paid with the break-up of the amount credited and tax deductions. The pensioners' registered mobile numbers will be used to send the digital pension slips, a government order said."Accordingly, the undersigned is directed to request all Pension Disbursing Banks to issue pension slip to pensioners after credit of pension on their registered mobile numbers through SMS and email (wherever available) also," an order from the department of pension and pensioners welfare read. "Banks may also use social media apps WhatsApp etc in addition to SMS and email," it also said.Also read| 7th pay commission matrix: Govt to hold key meeting on employees' DA on June 26The decision was taken in the meeting of the Central Pension Processing Centres (CPPCs) of the pension disbursing banks on June 15 to ensure the 'ease of living' of the pensioners."The CPPCs of Pension Disbursing Banks are requested to ensure compliance of the above instructions for improving the "Ease of Living" for pensioners," department of pension and pensioners welfare under the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions said in an office memorandum.The complete information about the pension is required by the pensioners in connection with income tax, dearness relief payment, DR arrears, etc, the department of pension and pensioners welfare noted.The department also said that the banks welcomed the idea and expressed their willingness to provide the information to the pensioners."The pension slip should provide complete details of monthly pension paid along with break-up of the amount credited and tax deductions etc. if any," the department said on providing the information.The department requested the CPPCs of the pension disbursing banks to ensure compliance of the instructions for improving the 'ease of living' for pensioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7th-pay-commission-banks-to-send-monthly-pension-slip-via-sms-whatsapp-101624517547365.html
24-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Work to address Covid vaccine hesitancy, says Sonia Gandhi to Cong members and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Work to address Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy: Sonia Gandhi to Cong membersCongress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked the party general secretaries to work towards addressing Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy and ensure its wastage is minimised. Read moreManipur okays ₹10L incentive for Tokyo Olympics-bound weightlifter Mirabai ChanuThe Manipur Cabinet decided to extend a onetime cash incentive of ₹10 lakh to Tokyo Olympics-bound weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu. Read moreChhattisgarh: 3 forest officials removed, 2 suspended over elephant’s deathTwelve days after a wild elephant was found dead in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district, three forest officials including a district forest officer (DFO) were removed and two others were suspended for negligence in duty, officials said on Thursday. Read moreChennai nurse, first case of Delta Plus variant in TN, has recoveredTamil Nadu has reported its first case of Delta Plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2. The patient was a 32-year-old staff nurse in Chennai, but she has recovered now. Her RT-PCR report returned positive on May 4. Read moreOla electric scooter's launch inches near. Should rivals be concerned?Ola Electric is gearing up for the launch of its first electric scooter in India this summer. The company is said to be rolling out the scooter's pricing this July. Read moreSakshi Dhoni treats netizens with a glimpse of Himachal Pradesh in her latest video, Anushka Sharma hearts itSakshi Dhoni, along with her husband MS Dhoni and daughter Ziva, recently visited Himachal Pradesh for holiday. Since visiting the beautiful state, she has been sharing all sorts of images and videos documenting the family’s holiday in the hills. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-work-to-address-covid-19-vaccine-hesitancy-says-sonia-gandhi-to-cong-members-and-all-the-latest-news-101624519065415.html
24-06-2021||India||Odisha Police arrests fraudster for swindling ₹3.5cr of farmers’ subsidy||The economic offences wing of Odisha’s crime investigation department (CID) arrested a seller of paddy transplanting machines on Thursday for cheating the government treasury of around ₹3.5 crore by falsely claiming to have sold the mechanised machines and pocketed the subsidy meant for genuine farmers.The EOW officials said one Kamaljeet Singh of Bargarh and his brother Harpal Singh used to upload fake engine/chassis numbers and photos of paddy transplanters-a machine used for paddy farming- and of fake beneficiaries to fraudulently corner the subsidy given by the state’s agriculture department.“Between 2018 and 2020, the duo used to make gullible farmers pose with paddy transplanters and take away the subsidy amount ranging between ₹1 and 1.5 lakh, which was credited to the beneficiary farmers’ account, after giving them anything between ₹3,000 and 5,000. The total subsidy swindled in this manner amounted to ₹3.49 crore,” said JN Pankaj, deputy inspector general of the wing.Kamaljeet Singh was arrested following a complaint by Rigin Bennet, manager of Redlands Ashlyn Motors PLC- a company that sells the mechanised machines in Kerala’s Thrissur. Harpal is yet to be arrested. The duo falsely claimed to have sold 278 machines in the company’s name to farmers of western Odisha districts of Bolangir, Sambalpur, Bargarh and Sonepur.An amount of Rs1.92 crores in different bank accounts of the two accused and their firms has been frozen.In March this year, an MLA of ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD), Sudhanshu Sekhar Parida faced similar accusations of siphoning subsidy amount meant for purchase of farm equipment. A complaint was filed before Odisha Lokayukta alleging the MLA had embezzled ₹6 lakh subsidy claiming to have purchased paddy harvesters.Paddy seedlings grown in a mat nursery are transplanted using a self-propelled machine. While manual paddy transplanting requires 8-12 labourers for one acre, a self-propelled rice transplanter covers four acres in a day by engaging only three people.Odisha government has been offering subsidy to encourage mechanisation of farming||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-arrests-fraudster-for-swindling-rs-3-5cr-of-farmers-subsidy-101624519545973.html
24-06-2021||India||Supreme Court asks for Class 12 assessment plan from states, warns Andhra to not play with lives of students||The Supreme Court on Thursday posed some serious questions to the Andhra Pradesh government for insisting on conducting Class 12 examination in physical mode "tentatively" in last week of July. The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari was reacting to the affidavit presented by the Andhra Pradesh government before the court."The state should have a decision and concrete plan. How can it play with the lives of students?" the bench asked. It said that the situation is very uncertain and if the exams are conducted in July, the results will be delayed further.In the affidavit, the Andhra Pradesh government said that around 5.20 lakh students will appear for the board examination and there would be precautionary measures in place, including holding exams on alternate days and allowing only 15 to 18 students at one exam centre."Going by your affidavit, you will need 34,634 rooms with 15 students per hall. Have you worked out a formula. Do you have so many rooms?" the bench asked.“Unless we are convinced that you are geared up to hold examinations without a single fatality, we will not permit you to hold examination," the bench told the counsel who appeared for Andhra Pradesh government.It also asked Andhra Pradesh government to produce by Friday all details about logistics, staff and safety protocols as it was not convinced by the state’s confidence to hold the examination.The strong words from the court came on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking cancellation of Class 12 physical examinations in view of the Covie-19 situation. Several students had also intervened in the petition seeking cancellation.The court had earlier told the state that it cannot keep the students hanging on fire and that if there is "even one fatality" then the state will be "held responsible for it".While hearing the case on Thursday, the Supreme Court said that there can't be a uniform scheme for assessment for all state boards across India. It directed all state boards which have cancelled Class 12 examinations to frame an assessment scheme based on internal assessment at the earliest and notify the same not later than 10 days from Thursday (June 24).The apex court also directed all states to announce results by July 31, the same timeline as fixed by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and ICSE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-andhra-pradesh-insists-on-holding-class-12-exam-a-warning-from-supreme-court-101624517675884.html
24-06-2021||India||Work to address Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy: Sonia Gandhi to Cong members||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked the party general secretaries to work towards addressing Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy and ensure its wastage is minimised."At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, that vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised," Gandhi said while addressing a meeting of party leaders virtually, according to news agency PTI.She said that daily vaccination rate has to treble so that 75% population gets fully vaccinated by year-end."No doubt, this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government which has, at our party's insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this," she added.This comes days after the Congress, in a white paper on the Covid-19 pandemic, has sought free, universal vaccination for all Indians in the shortest possible time frame and compensation for those who died after contracting the viral disease.The document, released by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked the government to invoke compulsory licensing provisions under the Patents Act 1970 to ramp up domestic vaccine production.Releasing the paper, Gandhi said 90% of Covid-19 deaths in the second wave were “needless” as they could have been saved if oxygen or drugs were available, and demanded a commission to look into “what went wrong” in the government’s strategy .Thursday's meeting comes ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament which is likely to start in July.The Congress has been also attacking the government on issues related to the farmers' agitation against three new agri laws and fuel price hike.India has administered over 300 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday.India on Thursday recorded 54,069 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,321 deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,082, 778 and 391,981 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-to-address-covid-19-vaccine-hesitancy-sonia-gandhi-to-cong-members-101624516191681.html
24-06-2021||India||Manipur okays ₹10L incentive for Tokyo Olympics-bound weightlifter Mirabai Chanu||The Manipur Cabinet decided to extend a onetime cash incentive of ₹10 lakh to Tokyo Olympics-bound weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu.The meeting was chaired by chief minister N Biren Singh and attended by deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh and works minister Th Biswajit Singh.The state chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar and principal secretary (health & family welfare) V Vumlunmang were also present during the meeting.Last week, chief minister N Biren Singh congratulated world champion weightlifter Mirabai Chanu for her entry into the Tokyo Olympics, scheduled to begin next month.Also Read | Tokyo Olympics: Mirabai Chanu will fight for gold, feels IWLF secretarySharing a photo of Mirabai on his Twitter account on June 13, Singh wrote, “Hearty congratulations to our daughter Mirabai Chanu on qualifying for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics in Women’s 49 Kg category. Mirabai Chanu has been ranked 2nd in the International Weightlifting Federation’s Absolute Ranking List in the 49 Kg category. May your hard work and dedication bring laurels to the country.”Mirabai Chanu is India’s lone entry into the Tokyo Olympics--the former world champion placed second in the women’s 49kg Absolute Ranking released by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF). Mirabai Chanu gathered 4133,6172 Robi points to come in second behind Chinese national Hou Zhihui (4926, 4422) in the rankings published by IWF recently.Mirabai – who lifted a total of 205kg, including a world record of 119 kg in clean and jerk, to secure a bronze medal in the Asian championships in April – is considered a strong medal prospect in the Olympics. She is training in the USA at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-okays-10l-incentive-for-tokyo-olympics-bound-weightlifter-mirabai-chanu-101624517385698.html
24-06-2021||India||Middle East's share of India's oil imports hits 25-month low||The share of Middle Eastern crude in India's oil imports fell to a 25-month low in May, tanker data provided by trade sources showed, as refiners tapped alternatives in response to the government's call to diversify supplies.India, the world's third biggest oil importer, in March directed refiners to diversify crude sources after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies, led by top exporter Saudi Arabia, ignored New Delhi's call to ease supply curbs.Asia's third-largest economy imported about 4.2 million barrels per day (bpd) of oil in May, just below the previous month but about 31.5 per cent higher than a year earlier, the data showed.The Middle East's share dropped to 52.7 per cent, the lowest since April 2019 and down from 67.9 per cent in April, the data showed.Imports from Saudi Arabia, India's second-largest supplier after Iraq, slipped by about a quarter from a year earlier, while supplies from the United Arab Emirates, which dropped to No. 7 position from No. 3 in April, fell by 39 per cent, the data showed.This comes after Indian state refiners nominated to lift less oil from Saudi Arabia in May.Lower purchases of oil from the Middle East dragged OPEC's share of Indian oil imports to a record low.To replace Middle Eastern oil, refiners hiked imports from Latin America, the United States and the Mediterranean.Indian refiners bought higher volumes of gasoline-rich U.S. oil in March, expecting a recovery in local gasoline demand to continue in the months ahead, said Ehsan Ul-Haq, lead analyst for Oil Research and Forecasts at Refinitiv.Strong demand for light crude saw Nigeria improving its ranking by two notches to become the No. 3 supplier to India in May.Private Indian refiners Reliance Industries and Nayara Energy, however, boosted purchases of Canadian heavy oil to a record 244,000 bpd, equivalent to about 6% of India's overall imports."Indians bought Kazakhstan's CPC blend and Canadian oil due to attractive discounts in comparison to dated Brent and WTI, respectively," Ul-Haq said.Tanker arrival data showed higher imports in contrast to preliminary government data, as cyclones along India's coast line last month delayed discharge of cargoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/middle-east-s-share-of-india-s-oil-imports-hits-25-month-low-101624515289649.html
24-06-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 3 forest officials removed, 2 suspended over elephant’s death||Twelve days after a wild elephant was found dead in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district, three forest officials including a district forest officer (DFO) were removed and two others were suspended for negligence in duty, officials said on Thursday. Chhattisgarh principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) Rakesh Chaturvedi said these officials acted “irresponsibly” and failed to take “immediate and effective” steps in the case of the elephant’s death, suspected to have occurred on June 3, but discovered by forest officials only eight days later on June 11. The officials claimed that the elephant was struck by lightning near Darhora village under Pratappur forest range. Particulars of the alleged negligent and irresponsible conduct by the errant employees were not available at the moment. The DFO of Surajpur Forest Division, Duleshwar Sahu was attached to a forest office in Raipur while sub-divisional forest officer (Pratapur) BK Lakra and forest ranger (Pratapur) Premchand Mishra were posted to the office of chief conservator of forest (CCF) of Ambikapur. Forest range assistant Vijay Kumar Kujur and beat guard Maan Singh were suspended, a forest department spokesman said. In another incident, a wild elephant was found dead in Dharamjaigarh forest division of Raigarh district on Tuesday and the exact reason of the death was yet to be ascertained. North Chhattisgarh was home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in the forest lands in Surguja and nearby regions of the state, often triggering human-elephant conflicts. In the last decade, the state recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose numbers rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department. Between June and October last year, 15 elephant deaths were reported in the state in separate incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-3-forest-officials-removed-2-suspended-over-elephant-s-death-101624515825766.html
24-06-2021||India||‘Tradition, technology India’s greatest strengths’: PM Modi at Toycathon 2021||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held an interaction with the participants of Toycathon 2021, where he said that tradition and technology are India’s greatest strengths.“Students, teachers, startups have enthusiastically participated in Toycathon 2021. The participation of over 1,500 teams during the grand finale of the first event indicates a bright future. The event also strengthens the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign,” PM Modi said and lauded the participants from Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and other places who presented their digital toy ideas based on India’s history, mythology and the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic among others.The Prime Minister also made an appeal to the country’s youth with regard to self-reliance and coming up with local solutions in the world of toys and digital gaming.“Toys and games influence our mental power, creativity and our economy. All of us know that a child’s first school is his/her family. But the first book and first friends are toys,” PM Modi said.Toycathon 2021 was jointly launched by the Education ministry, Women and child development, Textile ministry, Department for promotion of textile and internal trade, Information and broadcasting ministry, MSME ministry and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) on January 5 this year to crowd-source innovative toys and game ideas.Around 120,000 people across the country took part in this event and over 17,000 ideas were submitted of which 1,567 were shortlisted for the final event which is being held from June 22-24. Amid the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the final will have teams with digital toy ideas and a separate offline event take place for non-digital toy ideas.“India’s domestic market as well as the global toy market offers a huge opportunity to our manufacturing sector. Toycathon-2021 is aimed at boosting the Toy Industry in India to help it capture a wider share of the toy market,” the Centre said in a statement.The launch of this event can be linked to PM Modi’s pitch for Made in India toys last year. During the 68th edition of his Mann Ki Baat on August 30, 2020, Modi said that the global toy industry was over ₹7 lakh crore and India’s share was very small. “We will have to work to increase it,” he said and called upon entrepreneurs to ‘team up for toys’ as it is time to be vocal for local toys. He also urged entrepreneurs to develop computer games in and about the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tradition-technology-india-s-greatest-strengths-pm-modi-at-toycathon-2021-101624511893925.html
24-06-2021||India||As PM Modi meets J&K politicians, here are the key players||Political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) are all set to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday for the first engagement of this kind since August 2019, when the region was stripped of its semi-autonomous status with the effective nullification of Article 370. The parties invited to the meeting include the following: National Conference (NC): Former chief minister (CM) Farooq Abdullah-led NC also leads the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which was formed last year for the restoration of Article 370. He said that their single focus right now is to ensure the unity and integrity of J&K. “Any talks that can take us out of this chaos and will lead to the welfare of the people, we are all for it,” he said. Abdullah will attend the meeting along with NC’s Members of Parliament Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi.Also Read | Unease in sections of BJP-RSS over all-party Kashmir meetingPeople’s Democratic Party (PDP): Former CM Mehbooba Mufti, who has been vocal about the restoration of J&K’s special status, will represent the party at the meeting. Mufti told HT that J&K has “been a crown of India”, which was dismantled by New Delhi “because it is a Muslim majority area.” The PDP has said that its sole motive for attending the meeting is to convey to Modi that the “unconstitutional move”, that stripped J&K of its special status, has been rejected by the people. It maintained the agenda is not just the restoration of statehood, but also getting “back the special rights”. Mufti has maintained that she will not contest elections until special status is restored.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP): Ravinder Raina, the party’s J&K chief, Nirmal Singh, and Kavinder Gupta will represent the BJP at the meeting. Gupta said they will enlist the benefits of the nullification of Article 370. Raina referred to Mufti’s demand for “holding talks with Pakistan as India was even engaging with Taliban” and added that “talks and terror cannot go together.” He added that PAGD’s demand for the restoration of the special status is useless.The Indian National Congress: Former CM Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tara Chand, and J&K unit chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir will attend the meeting on behalf of the Congress. Mir said any effort, big or small, towards undoing J&K’s bifurcation will be welcomed.Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI (M): The party is an ally of the PAGD. CPI (M) leader Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami, who will attend the all-party meeting, said the engagement is a result of the BJP’s realisation that its moves in the region have not been in the best interest of the people. He added that he does not want to speculate and lend any false hopes to the people as the agenda of the meeting is still unclear.Also Read | J&K BJP rejects PDP’s suggestion to talk to Pak before all party meetJammu & Kashmir Panthers Party (JKPP): JKPP leader Bhim Singh said his party’s primary demand at the meeting will be that an elected government be put in place. He backed dialogue with Pakistan and added he will request Modi for “reintegration” of J&K through the restoration of Article 370.J&K People’s Conference (JKPC): JKPC leader Sajad Lone, who is among the 14 leaders meeting Modi, called for a new social contract between Delhi and the people of J&K. He added he will apprise Modi of the “ground realities of pain and suffering.”J&K Apni Party: Altaf Bukhari, the party leader who is among those meeting Modi, has backed the restoration of the region’s statehood. The party was formed after the end of J&K’s special status. He said that they do not want to fix an agenda and are more concerned about the problems that the people of J&K face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-pm-modi-meets-j-k-politicians-here-are-the-key-players-101624514505769.html
24-06-2021||India||Chennai nurse, first case of Delta Plus variant in TN, has recovered||Tamil Nadu has reported its first case of Delta Plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2. The patient was a 32-year-old staff nurse in Chennai, but she has recovered now. Her RT-PCR report returned positive on May 4. She was in home isolation with mild symptoms. She was re-tested on May 19 and the report returned negative so she re-joined her duty the following day.Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said her contacts in her work place and family were found to be Covid-19 negative. “She is currently doing well without any illness or post Covid-19 complications,” said a report from the directorate of public health and preventive medicine. Also Read | Fast unlocking, lesser vaccination rates risk renewed Covid spike, says reportSo far, Tamil Nadu has sent 1,159 samples to Bengaluru-based lab InStem for whole genome sequencing. As of today, results of 772 samples (67%) have been received. The findings show that the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) was the most common reported in 556 samples (72%), followed by the Alpha (B.1.1.7) variant in 65 samples (8.4%). “This one Delta Plus variant of SARS CoV-2 was reported among the 556 Delta strains,” the report said.The samples are of positive cases taken between December 2020 and May 2021 in Tamil Nadu. Since the second wave saw a high prevalence of more transmissible variants, associated with reinfection and vaccine breakthrough cases, Tamil Nadu began the exercise to identify the variants circulating in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-nurse-first-case-of-delta-plus-variant-in-tn-has-recovered-101624513965746.html
24-06-2021||India||Fast unlocking, lesser vaccination rates risk renewed Covid spike, says report||The rush by India’s states to end lockdowns as new coronavirus infections (Covid-19) drop, rather than waiting for vaccination rates to rise, risks triggering fresh restrictions and holding back the nation’s recovery, according to global forecasting firm Oxford Economics.“States are easing lockdowns based on lower test positivity rates rather than vaccination progress. This risky strategy increases the chances of renewed outbreaks that would further delay the recovery," Priyanka Kishore, head of India and South East Asia Economics at Oxford Economics, wrote in a report to clients.The report said that provinces including national capital New Delhi have begun reopening amid signs of Covid-19 infections decreasing, causing mobility rates to improve as of mid-June. While that’s likely to foster return of some demand in the near-term, there’s the risk of consumption and business activity suffering going ahead should newer restrictions be placed to control a resurgent coronavirus wave.With only 3.9% of India’s population fully vaccinated, Kishore sees economically important states, including Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu not yet reaching the “safe” levels of vaccination.“The vaccine situation keeps our outlook cautious,” said Kishore, who maintained India’s growth forecast for this year at 9.1% -- a pace slower than the 9.5% predicted by the nation’s central bank. “Economic data also doesn’t support an upward revision to our growth expectations at this point,” she added.Earlier on Wednesday, it said that states' re-opening strategy in the wake of decline in Covid-19 cases is not "prudent" and might even result in rise in infections as vaccine coverage remains low in many states.The Oxford Economics also said that vaccination rates are far below the levels deemed to be safe for easing social distancing measures substantially in the more populous and economically important states."... we think this reopening strategy is not prudent and may result in a renewed rise in infections and re-tightening of restrictions in the future," the report added.According to the report, re-opening has commenced at a faster pace than it had anticipated as states have focused on declining test positivity rates as the guiding factor for easing measures rather than the share of population vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fast-unlocking-lesser-vaccination-rates-risk-renewed-covid-spike-says-report-101624509066637.html
24-06-2021||India||India has administered over 300 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 300 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, June 23. The country has begun setting up a surveillance system for Covid variants, with five hospitals and labs in each state sending samples for whole genome sequencing on a regular basis, said people familiar with the matter.Meanwhile, by Wednesday 7pm, 300,969,538 vaccine doses had been given in India. In the 18-45 category, 4,123,073 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 68,903 doses were given as second dose. In all, 70,211,075 persons across the country have received their first dose and 1,498,113 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Delta variant more transmissible, says US top surgeon as 85 nations report casesAssam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than a million beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group. India on Thursday recorded 54,069 Covid cases and 1,321 deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,082, 778 and 391,981 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. The total recoveries have climbed to 29,063,740 after 68,885 people were discharged from the hospital in the last 24 hours, the health ministry update showed. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new infections for the 42nd consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-300-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101624512585902.html
24-06-2021||India||TMC leader claims she was jabbed at fake vaccination drive, man arrested||The West Bengal Police have arrested a man after a complaint from Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mimi Chakraborty about a fake Covid-19 vaccination drive in Kolkata. Chakraborty filed the complaint saying the man posed as an IAS officer and requested the actor-turned-politician to be present at a Covid-19 vaccination drive organised by him.The TMC MP said she had attended the drive and even got herself vaccinated there to encourage people to take the Covid-19 vaccinations to contain the spread of the virus."He said that he was running a special drive for transgenders and specially-abled persons and requested for my presence. I took Covishield vaccine at the camp to motivate people for taking jabs. But I never received a confirmation message from CoWIN," she said.Chakraborty also claimed that the man was using a car with a blue beacon and fake sticker.The police have identified the arrested man as Debanjan Dev. Officials said that Dev had set up the free inoculation camp introducing himself as a joint municipal commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC).Outgoing mayor and chairman of the KMC board of administrators Firhad Hakim said if any official of the municipal corporation is found to be involved in the matter, the person will face strict action.The police further said that several people were administered Covid vaccines at the camp for which Dev had no permission from the KMC.The cops, however, said they haven't come across any vial having an expiry date and the seized vials will be sent for testing to find out if they are genuine or not."We haven't come across any vial having an expiry date. Seized vials will be sent for testing to find out if they are genuine or not. Accused will be interrogated in this regard," said Kolkata Police.The case regarding the alleged fake Covid vaccination drive has been transferred to the Kolkata Police Detective Department.The police impounded a four-wheeler from the possession of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-claims-she-was-jabbed-at-fake-vaccination-drive-man-arrested-101624511680389.html
24-06-2021||India||Delta Plus more virulent, Maha cases not falling below 8,000 a concern: Minister||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus could be more virulent than other variants. He was citing a study to say that the severity of Delta Plus could be higher.The minister's remarks came as Maharashtra recorded 21 cases of Delta Plus variant. Tope said a separate hospital ward is formed for such patients.“These are the index cases of Delta Plus variant and its severity could be higher. The study of this variant has indicated that it could be more virulent compared to the previous mutants,” Tope said on Wednesday. He said 100 samples each from 36 districts of Maharashtra have been taken and sent for genome sequencing.The minister also expressed concern over the number of daily cases not falling below 8,000.“It is a matter of concern for the state as the number of fresh (daily) Covid-19 cases is not dropping below 8,000. In the last 7 to 8 days, the state has been adding around 7,000 to 8,000 new Covid-19 cases per day but the number is not going down,” said Tope.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases after a gap of one week, taking its tally to 59,97,587, according to state health department bulletin.The new Delta Plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the deadly second wave. Though there is no indication yet of the severity of the disease due to the new variant, Delta Plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for Covid-19 recently authorised in India.Some cases of the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus have also been found in Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. The Centre has already declared the Delta Plus variant as 'variant of concern'.So far, 40 samples across the country have been found infected with the Delta Plus variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-more-virulent-maha-cases-not-falling-below-8-000-a-concern-minister-101624510221080.html
24-06-2021||India||Man arrested for ATM money heist tells police how cash was stolen from SBI deposit machines||The police have arrested a person from Haryana in connection with the theft of ₹48 lakh from various cash deposit machines of State Bank of India in Tamil Nadu and recovered ₹4.5 lakh from him.As many as 14 cases of such fraud in SBI ATMs have taken place in the city from June 15-18, a police release here said, adding, more than five groups of people seemed to be involved in the crime.Investigation by a special team revealed "some accused have come from northern States and committed these offences.""Around ₹45 lakh was syphoned off. In the course of investigation, the special team arrested one Amir Arsh of Ballabhgarh (Haryana) with the help of the Haryana State police," the release said.During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime, explained the modus operandi and provided other leads."It is learnt that more than five groups have operated in Chennai city. A sum of ₹4.5 lakh was recovered from him (the arrested person). The special team is camping at Faridabad to arrest the remaining accused," it added.According to police, totally ₹48 lakh has been stolen from Automated Cash Withdrawal and Deposit Machines also known as Cash Deposit Machines (CDM) located in various places, including Velachery here.The CDMs provide a 20-second window to customers to take cash away and if it was not done, the cash went back into the machines.If cash was taken, the lid of the machine would slide and get closed.Probe indicated that the suspects first took the cash from the machines (using withdrawal option in such machines) and then prevented the lid from getting closed for a while by using their hands.The sensors appeared to have misread this action for "cash not being taken away" by customers and sent messages to servers that cash has not been withdrawn.Hence, the related bank accounts were not debited while cash was taken away from machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-arrested-for-sbi-atm-heist-explains-modus-operandi-to-police-101624509467019.html
24-06-2021||India||Coastal districts in Bengal on high alert ahead of full moon tide||The West Bengal government has sounded a high alert in three coastal districts ahead of the spring tide (full moon tide) on Friday when the water levels in the rivers and sea is expected to swell by a few metres.“Due to the spring tide, the water level in the rivers and sea is expected to rise at least a metre high over and above the daily high tide levels. The water level could touch 5.67m at Sagar near the confluence of the Ganges and the Bay of Bengal. During the daily high tide, the water level reaches around 4.5m,” said an official, who did not want to be named.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting on Wednesday to take stock of the situation and alert the district officials.Also Read | BJP, TMC face off over Mukul Roy’s induction in public accounts committeeThe state has received excess rainfall since June 1. The India Meteorological Department has predicted more rains. The state usually receives around 226 mm rain till June 23. This year, it has received 315 mm so far.“The coastal district of South 24 Parganas received 84% excess rain while East Midnapore received 63% excess rain during this period. Kolkata too received 83% excess rain,” said an official, who did not want to be named.Cyclone Yaas also inflicted severe damage to the sea dykes and river embankments in the coastal areas and Sunderban islands. Not all the damages could be repaired properly as the monsoon has set in.Officials fear if some of the weaker and damaged sections of embankments collapse, some of the villages will be flooded again.A storm surge triggered the maximum damage when Cyclone Yaas hit on May 26 . The cyclone coincided with the perigean spring tide (which occurs when the moon is closest to earth) and triggered the storm surge of 7m-8m high. Several villages were flooded and caused damage to property worth thousands of crores.The neighbouring states of Jharkhand and Bihar have also received excess rain.“When the neighbouring states receive excess rain, they release water from the dams. As a result, some of our districts including Howrah, Hooghly, Burdwan get flooded. The district administrations have been alerted,” said another official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coastal-districts-in-bengal-on-high-alert-ahead-of-full-moon-tide-101624509465634.html
24-06-2021||India||Messaging app Signal not in compliance with new rules, say officials||End-to-end encrypted messaging application Signal is not in compliance with the new social media and intermediary guidelines, officials aware of the matter said. The privacy-focused app is also likely to be liable under the Information Technology Act and the provision of safe harbour in it is unlikely to be applicable to it due to the non-compliance, they added.The officials said the app, developed by the Silicon Valley based nonprofit Signal Foundation, has not shared the details of a compliance officer with the government under the new guidelines.Signal is a significant social media intermediary as it has over five million users in the country.Also Read | HC refuses to stay CCI notice to Facebook, WhatsApp in privacy policy matterThe new guidelines also mandate such as Signal and WhatsApp to share the details of the first originator of a message. WhatsApp has challenged the clause related to the new guidelines saying it is at odds with end-to-end encryption.“Signal has not complied with the guidelines. Services like iMessage do not fall under the traceability clause since the significant social media intermediaries in the nature of messaging services have to comply,” said an official, requesting anonymity.HT reached out to Signal for comments but did not receive a response immediately.At least eight parties have contested the new rules in several high courts, saying they are beyond the scope of the Information Technology Act they have been formulated under.Twitter, too, has faced off with the government over its failure to comply with the new guidelines. The guidelines mandate social media companies to appoint compliance officers, nodal officers, and grievance redressal officers.Signal became the most downloaded on the Apple App Store in March as WhatsApp faced privacy concerns. It was one of the most downloaded apps on Google Play Store on Monday.Namrata Maheshwari, Encryption Policy Fellow, Access Now, a digital civil rights organisation, said Signal cannot comply with the traceability requirement without weakening end-to-end encryption. “For example, Signal’s end-to-end encryption currently has a privacy-enhancing feature called ‘forward secrecy’ which ensures that the chain of a message on its platform cannot be tracked.” Maheshwari said if Signal is forced to change its service to comply with “these unlawful, disproportionate rules”, it would undermine privacy and security for its many users in India. “The main problem remains that these rules contain an unclear mandate on messaging services to facilitate surveillance that undermines encryption and enables potential misuse and selective application--which are concerns now being adjudicated by Indian courts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/messaging-application-signal-not-in-compliance-with-new-rules-say-officials-101624508925464.html
24-06-2021||India||Unease in sections of BJP-RSS over all-party Kashmir meeting||There is an unease in sections of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), over the talks on Jammu & Kashmir being held under the shadow regional parties sticking to their demand for the restoration of the Constitution’s Article 370, people aware of the matter said.The parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi for talks in Delhi on Thursday. This is the first such meeting after Jammu & Kashmir was stripped of its statehood and semi-autonomous status.According to a person aware of the matter, the timing of the meeting has raised eyebrows in the party and the Sangh. The person added it is felt the government after opting for a muscular Kashmir policy seems to have climbed down from its position of not engaging with parties if they seek the restoration of Article 370. The Article gave the erstwhile state a special status and Article 35 (A) defined domicile rules.On August 5, 2019, the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two union territories of Jammu & Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without a legislature. Articles 370 and 35 (A) were read down after Parliament passed the Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation Bill.Also Read | J&K BJP rejects PDP’s suggestion to talk to Pak before all-party meet“Abrogation of Article 370 was a long-standing demand of the Sangh and the BJP. There is a section of people who feel that by inviting PDP and other parties that have a hardline view about issues such as reimposition of Article 370 and engagement with Pakistan, the government is following the policies of the (previous) Congress government,” said a party functionary.Bifurcation of the state into two union territories and abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35 (A) tops the list of the Modi government’s achievements.The regional parties have been critical of the decision and have been unambiguous in demanding the restoration of the status quo ante.In an interview with HT, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti said, “Article 370, which gave the state its special status, was unconstitutionally removed. It was a bridge that also connected us emotionally to the rest of India. We will not settle for less. We want Article 370 to be restored. We are fighting within the Indian Constitution, of which 370 was a part.” She added that restoration of statehood will not be enough. “We will not settle for anything other than the restoration of Article 370.”The decision to invite PDP, which was an ally of the BJP before the coalition government in Jammu & Kashmir fell on June 18, 2018, and its stated position of nudging India to hold talks with Pakistan and reimposition of Article 370 has particularly caused consternation, said a second functionary.Also Read | Explained: Why all-party meeting on J&K is important and what’s on agenda“Post-August 5 (2019) there was an indication that there would be a shift in the Union Territory’s polity. Newer political outfits and formations would get space that was occupied by the regional satraps. But the decision to invite PDP has raised a question about their future. A large number of workers, who quit the PDP and NC to join newer outfits such as the Jammu & Kashmir Apni Party and Jammu & Kashmir People’s Conference, in the hope of a new political beginning, might return to their old base and consequently derail the process of a newer political realignment,” the second person said.To be sure, both new parties will also be part of the all-party talks.Anil Gupta, a BJP spokesman in Jammu, said the talks are being held with political parties with a mandate. “Newer parties are present along with the older ones. The criterion (for invitations)... was some kind of mandate in the DDC (District Development Council) elections (held last year) and former chief ministers and deputy chief ministers,” he said.After August 2019, when the leaders of the mainstream parties were incarcerated, newer political parties such as Apni Party and Jammu & Kashmir Workers Party were floated in the erstwhile state. While there was scepticism that the foundations of these new parties were laid in Delhi, their leaders asserted that the new entities would fill the political vacuum.The meeting also sends a mixed message, said the first functionary. “The government and the party claimed that the parties have lost their relevance and the cases of corruption against them have exposed them. Now, these parties are back at the talking table.”Another grievance is the absence of voices from the Jammu region and no representation from the Kashmiri Pandit community. Ajay Chrungoo, chairman of the Panun Kashmir, which seeks a separate homeland for Pandits, said, “We do not know why these parties have been invited. But we have no invitation to join.”On Monday, the Panthers Party, the Dogra Front, and the PoJK Refugees Front staged protests in Jammu against what they alleged is the “neglect” of the Jammu region.Gupta said it is wrong to say that communities are being left out. “...all these political parties represent all the communities including Dogras and Kashmiri Pandits,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unease-in-sections-of-bjp-rss-over-all-party-kashmir-meeting-101624507905375.html
24-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally rises with 54,069 new cases; recoveries over 29 mn||India on Thursday recorded 54,069 cases and 1,321 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 30,082, 778 and 391,981 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. The total recoveries have climbed to 29,063,740 after 68,885 people were discharged from the hospital in the last 24 hours, the health ministry update showed. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new infections for the 42nd consecutive day.The active cases have come down to 627,057 and constitute 2.14 per cent of the caseload.As many as 1,859,469 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the cumulative figures have climbed to 397,832,667, the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Thursday.Also Read| As cases of Delta Plus variant increase, Centre calls for containmentThursday’s case count is 3,221 more than that of Wednesday’s when 50,848 cases were recorded. However, the deaths on Thursday are 37 less than that of Wednesday when 1,358 people succumbed to the viral disease.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/6fMEF3EdJYEven though the daily cases and deaths in India are ebbing, the country is now grappling with an increased spread of the Delta Plus variant, also known as ‘AY.1’ variant or B.1.617.2.1.Forty cases of the variant have been reported in India so far. The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that the variant has been “observed sporadically” in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh. Apart from these, Jammu and Kashmir and the southern states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have also reported cases of the AY.1 variant.Also Read| Scientists developing universal vaccine to fight Covid-19 variantsHealth secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote a letter to the chief secretaries of Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, requesting them to take up immediate containment measures. Bhushan said the Delta plus variant has been found in Bhopal and Shivpuri districts of Madhya Pradesh, Ratnagiri and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra, and Palakkad and Pathanamthitta districts of Kerala.“You are requested to take up immediate containment measures in these districts and clusters including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis,” the health secretary said in the letter.A total of 301,626,028 people have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease till now of which 248,224,925 have received the first dose and the remaining 53,401,103 have received both doses, according to the health ministry. Of the total vaccinations, nearly 6.5 million people were inoculated in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-rises-with-54-069-new-cases-recoveries-over-29-mn-101624502334509.html
24-06-2021||India||Cochin airport gets global award for quality of service||The Cochin International Airport Ltd (CIAL) has won a global award for quality of service. Airport Council International (ACI) Director-General Luis Felipe de Oliveira, in a communiqu announcing the recognition, said the CIAL consistently delivered excellence in customer service by winning multiple ASQ awards over five years during the past 10 years."The Cochin International Airport has consistently delivered excellence in customer service by winning multiple ASQ awards over five years during the past 10 years and is one of the only six airports worldwide that will receive the recognition this year," he said. The ACI, a global body of airport operators, established the Roll of Excellence recognition to those airports, which in the opinion of the passengers, have consistently delivered excellent service. CIAL Managing Director S Suhas said the ACIs service quality programmes have been helping the airport officials to ensure international standards in airport operations management and the Roll of Excellence honour is definitely a gesture from the global organisation recognising CIALs commitment to the passengers. "We are grateful for this honour and this will give an impetus for our efforts to facilitate one of the best-in- class travel experiences for the passengers. We have won five ASQ awards consecutively in last five years. The backing of the government of Kerala was tremendous," Suhas said. The award would be presented during the ACI customer Experience Global summit slated to be held on September 9, 2021, in Montreal, Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cochin-airport-gets-global-award-for-quality-of-service-101624504124913.html
24-06-2021||India||First case of Delta Plus variant detected in J&K has recovered||The first case of the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus detected in Jammu and Kashmir has recovered, principal and dean of Jammu Government Medical College (GMC) Shashi Sudhan Sharma said on Thursday. The Delta Plus variant has been classified as a variant of concern.“It was a health care worker but he has recovered now. He had tested positive for Delta Plus variant, but he has recovered completely,” she said. Also Read | Explained: Why all-party meeting on J&K is important and what’s on agendaThe case was reported from Katra, she said, which serves as the base camp for the pilgrims visiting the Vaishno Devi shrine atop the Trikuta hills. The patient, a 39-year-old man, is an employee of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. “The employee was posted at Himkoti en route the cave shrine. He had been on leave. Before resuming his duties, he was tested for Covid-19. His reports returned positive for the suspected Delta Plus variant. He has mild symptoms and the Reasi district magistrate Charandeep Singh has been informed,” a shrine board official had said earlier. Reasi deputy magistrate didn’t respond to repeated calls by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-case-of-delta-plus-variant-detected-in-j-k-has-recovered-101624505267500.html
24-06-2021||India||J&K BJP rejects PDP’s suggestion to talk to Pak before all party meet||The sharp divide in opinions of political parties in Jammu and Kashmir has come to the fore ahead of the all party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday with the J&K Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ravinder Raina vehemently opposing People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) suggestion to engage Pakistan in talks.“Talks with Pakistan are not possible. Guns and talks can’t go together. Pakistan is training and pushing terrorists into J&K for causing bloodshed, and operating terror camps in PoK (Pakistan occupied Kashmir). In the past 35 years, Pakistan has caused bloodshed in J&K. Therefore, the question of holding talks with Pakistan doesn’t arise at all,” Raina said on Wednesday afternoon before leaving for Delhi to take part in the all party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir.14 leaders, including some ex-chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, have been invited to attend the first such meeting between the Centre and mainstream parties from the region after the abrogation of Article 370 and 35(A) and the bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories in August 2019.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, whose party is one of the six in the Gupkar alliance, has suggested that India can talk to Pakistan “If they can... talk to the Taliban” to bring about a resolution to the Kashmir issue. People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has also said that it will press for restoration of Article 370, 35(A) and Jammu Kashmir’s statehood.The battle lines are clearly drawn for the Thursday meeting with the J&K BJP having declared that they will oppose any attempt by the PAGD to raise demands for restoration of Article 370 and 35-A and talks with Pakistan and separatists.Raina also brushed aside concerns that some Jammu-based parties were not invited and said that BJP will represent all Jammu residents at the meeting. “We have represented them and will do so again. They should feel rest assured that their issues ...will [be] put forth... before the PM,” he said.Raina and Dr Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta, the two former deputy chief ministers of the party left for Delhi on Wednesday afternoon.Other leaders who are scheduled to participate in the meeting are Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tara Chand and GA Mir; National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah; Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti; J-K Apni Party’s Altaf Bukhari; CPI(M)’s MY Tarigami; National Panthers Party’s Prof Bheem Singh; and Peoples Conference’s Sajad Gani Lone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-bjp-rejects-pdp-s-suggestion-to-talk-to-pak-before-all-party-meet-101624505266296.html
24-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Jammu orders immediate care for Covid affected families and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jammu orders immediate care for Covid affected families, orphaned childrenJammu administration asked officials late Wednesday to identify and rehabilitate children orphaned by Covid-19 under the recently launched special assistance schemes for Covid mortalities (SASCM/SAKSHAM), which covers families that lost their sole bread earners due to the pandemic with pension and scholarships. Read moreScientists developing universal vaccine to fight Covid-19 variants, human trials next yearScientists at the University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health have come out with news of major relief amid the rising concerns of Delta and Delta Plus variants of coronavirus. Read moreMicrosoft Windows Event 2021: How to watch the livestream, what to expectThe reign of Windows 10 is about to end. Microsoft is hosting a special event today wherein it is expected to announce ‘what’s next for Windows.’ If reports and leaks are any indication, it is expected to be Windows 11. Read more'I don't believe in it': Virat Kohli calls for best of three WTC finals going ahead, 'not too bothered by this result'India captain Virat Kohli, under whom the team phenomenal Test cricket over the last two years to reach the first-ever WTC final, only to stumble at the last hurdle, has batted for a best of three finals going ahead to decide future World Test Championships. Read moreGhanshyam Nayak aka Nattu kaka battles cancer, resumes Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah shoot amid chemotherapyActor Ghanshyam Nayak, who is best known for portraying Nattu Kaka in the popular TV show Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, has revealed that has been diagnosed with cancer. He also said that he has restarted his treatment recently. Read moreThis viral video of the world’s biggest Rubik’s Cube will leave you in aweEvery now and then, the Guinness World Records (GWR) takes to their official social media accounts to share different record creating videos. The clips usually leave people intrigued or amazed, often both at the same time. Just like this video showcasing world’s biggest Rubik’s Cube. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-jammu-orders-immediate-care-for-covid-affected-families-and-all-the-latest-news-101624501441088.html
24-06-2021||India||Explained: Why all-party meeting on J&K is important and what's on agenda||The Centre has invited mainstream politicians of Jammu and Kashmir for a meeting in Delhi. The meeting will be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This is the first outreach initiative from the Centre since the abrigation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the region into two union territories: Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a group of five parties in Jammu and Kashmir, held a meeting earlier this week to decide about the Centre's move. The group confirmed participation in the meeting and its leaders have reached Delhi.Mehbooba Mufti, the chief of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) - one of the constituents of PAGD - arrived in Delhi on Wednesday afternoon and National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah will fly to the national capital on Thursday morning.Union home minister Amit Shah, National Security advisor Ajit Doval, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and Union home secretary will also be present at the meeting which will take place at PM Modi's residence at 3pm.Who all are participating?The Centre has invited 14 leaders of mainstream political parties for Thursday's meeting. These include four former chief ministers - NC leaders Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, and senior Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad.Apart from these leaders, Congress' Tara Chand and GA Mir; J-K Apni Party's Altaf Bukhari; BJP's Ravinder Raina, Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta; CPI(M)'s Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami; National Panthers Party's Prof Bheem Singh; and Peoples Conference's Sajad Gani Lone have also been invited to the meeting.Most of the 14 leaders have reached Delhi.What's on the agenda?No official agenda has been set for the meeting and a freewheeling discussion is expected. But leaders from Kashmir have indicated that they will press for restoration of Article 370 and full statehood.“We will put our point of view in the meeting tomorrow. The biggest thing what has been taken away from us should be given back to us,” said CPM leader Tarigami, the spokesperson for PAGD.“We (Congress leaders) will ask for agenda for this important meeting and then put our point of view before the PM,” said J&K Congress president, Ghulam Ahmad Mir.Discussions on delimitation and assembly elections are also expected to take place at today's all-party meeting.Why is this meeting important?The all-party meeting signals the restarting of political engagement between mainstream Kashmiri parties and the Centre, which in August 2019 voided Articles 370 and 35A that bestowed special status to Jammu and Kashmir and privileges to its residents, and split the state into two Union territories.All mainstream political leaders were detained, internet and phone connections were snapped and curfew-like restrictions were imposed in the Valley for months.Response in Kashmir valleyThe meeting, though first between the leaders from Jammu and Kashmir and the Centre since the August 2019 developments, drew lukewarm reactions in the Muslim-majority Kashmir valley. Here, limited trust in mainstream parties and hostility over the revocation of Article 370, which granted Jammu and Kashmir special status, persisted among residents.“Common Kashmiris have very little expectation from the meeting. Many are not even interested,” Abdul Gani, a retired government employee of Srinagar, told Hindustan Times.He believed that the calling of a meeting by the PM was a ‘routine political exercise’ to break the monotony after the decisions of August 2019.Politicians in the Valley remain bitterly opposed to J&K's bifurcation and revocation of Article 370.Political analyst Professor Noor Ahmad Baba said that Kashmiris doubt the intentions of the central government and mainstream Valley politicians. “The experiences of people in Kashmir prompt them to doubt the centre as well as local political leaders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-all-party-meeting-on-j-k-is-important-and-what-s-on-agenda-101624504035701.html
24-06-2021||India||Maha betters its record of highest single-day vaccinations with over 600k jabs||Maharashtra on Wednesday inoculated 607,407 people, its highest single-day Covid vaccination tally since the drive began in January this year. A day ago, on Tuesday, the state had carried out 552,921 vaccinations, which is now the second-highest tally to date.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, state health department, attributed the achievement to the district teams. “We have bettered the performance of yesterday, and have administered the highest-ever number of Covid vaccination doses in a single day in the state,” said Vyas.Also Read | More Delta Plus cases reported in India: How this variant is rapidly spreadingThe state recorded 10,066 new Covid-19 cases, and Mumbai recorded 864 cases on Wednesday. The state case tally now stands at 5,997,587. There were 241,801 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries was 11,032.There are currently 121,859 active cases across the state of which Mumbai tops with 18,711 followed by Pune with 17,378 active cases.The death toll has now reached 119,303 with Pune leading with 16,379 fatalities followed by Mumbai with 15,338.Dr Amin Kaba, who works in several private hospitals in Mumbai, said a speedy vaccination drive was the key to control the virus. “We will be able to contain this virus by vaccinating the majority of the population,” said Dr Kaba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-betters-its-record-of-highest-single-day-vaccinations-with-over-600k-jabs-101624503405705.html
24-06-2021||India||Snana Purnima in Odisha's Lord Jagannath temple today: Check details here||The famous annual bathing ritual (Snana Purnima) of Lord Jagannath and His siblings Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra will be held on Thursday in Odisha's Puri. However, in the wake of restrictions in place due to coronavirus pandemic, devotees will not be allowed to participate.The Jagannath temple in Odisha's Puri was illuminated on Wednesday evening ahead of the Snana Purnima. The gates of the 11th century temple will open on Friday after several weeks of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Only fully vaccinated people with Covid-19 negative report will be allowed in the temple.Chief administrator of the temple Dr Krishan Kumar informed that the festival will be live-streamed for devotees across the world."There will be no gathering outside the temple has Section 144 will be enforced by district administration. We will just follow traditional rituals. After this, Lord Jagannath will take rest for 15 days and reappear during Rath Yatra," Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Public movement is prohibited since 10pm on Wednesday and several police vehicles are patrolling the area.According to the schedule by the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA), the Snan Purinima on Thursday will start with the Pahandi (walking procession of the deities) at 1am and end by 4am.The Chhera Pahanra (sweeping of the bathing place) ritual by Dibyasingh Deb, the titular king of Puri, is scheduled to be held at 10:30am. The deities will later be adorned with Gajanan Besha or Hati Besha (elephant attire) between 11:00am and 12 noon.Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra, and Lord Jagannath will then be taken to the Anasara Ghar (sick room) as it is believed that they fall ill after taking the bath.The return procession of the deities from the bathing pandal to the sick room inside the temple will take place between 5pm-8pm. The Anasara (sick) rituals will begin from that day and continue for the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snana-purnima-in-odisha-s-lord-jagannath-temple-today-check-details-here-101624501827558.html
24-06-2021||India||Jammu orders immediate care for Covid affected families, orphaned children||Jammu administration asked officials late Wednesday to identify and rehabilitate children orphaned by Covid-19 under the recently launched special assistance schemes for Covid mortalities (SASCM/SAKSHAM), which covers families that lost their sole bread earners due to the pandemic with pension and scholarships.The District Level Task Force (DLTF) for providing care and protection to children affected by Covid-19 decided to immediately compile details of all Covid-19 deaths and the children affected thereof. Nearly 500 children either lost a single parent or both to Covid 19 during the second wave across Jammu and Kashmir.The Child Welfare Committee was directed to ensure rehabilitation of orphaned children through measures such as adoption, foster care, sponsorships etc and also psychological counselling and nutritional support apart from timely referral for Covid-19 treatment if found infected.Jammu district commissioner Anshul Garg said that a cash assistance of ₹1000 per month will be provided to the spouse or the eldest member of the families that qualify under the scheme apart from scholarship of ₹20,000 per annum for school going students and ₹40,000 per annum for college going students. A family in distress shall be eligible for scholarship for two children, if they are not getting any other scholarship, he added.The meeting was attended by chief planning officer (CPO) Yoginder Katoch, district social welfare officer Ajay Salan, chief medical officer JP Singh, Child Welfare Committee, representatives of Seva Bharti Committee besides other senior officers of the concerned departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-orders-immediate-care-to-covid-affected-families-orphaned-children-101624502505641.html
24-06-2021||India||Kabir Das Jayanti 2021: Know its significance, date and time||Kabir Das Jayanti will be observed on Thursday and it marks the birth anniversary of Sant Kabirdas - the famous poet, saint and social reformer of India.Kabir Das' writings had a great influence on the Bhakti movement and includes titles like Kabir Granthawali, Anurag Sagar, Bijak, and Sakhi Granth. The major part of his work was collected by the fifth Sikh guru--Guru Arjan Dev.Kabir's legacy is still going on through a sect known as Panth of Kabir, a religious community that considers him as the founder.He is a widely revered poet whose works had a tremendous influence on the Bhakti movement.Kabir's works were written in the Hindi language which was easy to comprehend. He used to write in couplets to enlighten people.Significance of Kabir Das JayantiKabirdas Jayanti is celebrated on the Jyeshtha Purnima tithi, as per the Hindu lunar calendar. On his birth anniversary, Sant Kabirdas' followers remember him by reciting his poems and teachings. Sant Kabirdas was best known for his two-line couplets, known as 'Kabir Ke Dohe'.Date and tithi of Kabirdas Jayanti 2021Kabirdas Jayanti date - 24 JunePurnima tithi begins - 3.32am on 24 JunePurnima tithi end time - 12.09am on 25 June||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kabir-das-jayanti-2021-know-its-significance-date-and-time-101624499498038.html
24-06-2021||India||Twitter India MD to appear before Ghaziabad cops today, 11 questions ready for him: Report||Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari will appear before the Ghaziabad Police in connection with a video of a victim of a purported hate crime, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. The comoany had denied any role in the video going viral Maheshwari offered to join the pobe through video conference. But the Ghaziabad Police sent fresh summons on Tuesday asking the Twitter India MD to appear before it.“Clarification given by you is inappropriate. Being the MD of Twitter in India, you are the representative of the company. Therefore, you are bound by the Indian law to cooperate in the investigation,” the notice sent by the police said.Maheshwari is expected to visit at Loni Kotwali along with his lawyer at 10.30am, Livehindustan reported.It further said that the police have prepared a list of 11 questions for Maheshwari, including the one about failure to remove the controversial video. The police will also ask about the number of complaints against the video and what action the micro-blogging platform has taken, according to Livehindustan.The police on June 17 sent a set of summons over to the social media company over a video that went viral and seemed to show a hate crime targeting a Muslim man in Ghaziabad, and was amplified as such, but which the state’s police has subsequently claimed was not a communal incident.HT has seen a copy of the summons, which cites Section 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) seeking the appearance of a person who has been named in a complaint. This section gives cops more authority to demand the presence of a person. The first notice was sent citing Section 160 of the criminal procedure code, which allows the police the ability to question any person who they believe may be aware of facts related to a complaint.The video being probed by the Ghaziabad Police shows a 72-year-old Muslim man being beaten up and his attackers chopping his beard. The police said the incident was not communal but a personal dispute of the victim with the suspects. However, the victim’s family has alleged a religion angle.The video surfaced on June 14 and a complaint against Twitter and several journalists was lodged at Loni Border police station on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-md-to-appear-before-cops-today-11-questions-ready-for-him-report-101624500071791.html
24-06-2021||India||More Delta Plus cases reported in India: How this variant is rapidly spreading||Two people were found infected with the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain district and one of them, a woman, died on Tuesday, the local administration said on Wednesday.“A woman died in Patidar Hospital due to coronavirus on May 23 after she tested positive for Covid-19. Her sample and that of 14 others were sent for genome report (sequencing) in a lab in Bhopal. Out of these, 15 samples, two persons were found infected with the Delta Plus variant and among these two, a woman died on May 23 in the private hospital,” an official release said.Ujjain collector Ashish Singh said there is no threat of the Delta Plus variant in the district, but cautioned people not to lower their guard and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing a face mask, maintaining social distance and avoiding crowded places, the release added.Here's all the latest update on Delta Plus variant:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-delta-plus-cases-reported-in-india-how-this-variant-is-rapidly-spreading-101624498108498.html
24-06-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with participants of Toycathon 2021 today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with participants of Toycathon 2021 on Thursday at 11am via video conferencing. Union minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal will also be present on the occasion.Taking to Twitter yesterday, PM Modi wrote, "At 11 AM tomorrow, 24th June, will interact with participants of Toycathon-2021, an effort aimed at making India a hub for ideation and production of toys."The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) noted that Toycathon 2021 was jointly launched by the Ministry of Education, WCD Ministry, MSME Ministry, DPIIT, Textile Ministry, I&B Ministry and AICTE on January 5 this year to crowd-source innovative toys and games ideas.Around 1.2 lakh participants from across the nation have registered and submitted more than 17000 ideas for the Toycathon 2021, out of which 1,567 ideas have been shortlisted for the three days online Toycathon grand finale, being held from June 22-24, the PMO informed.Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the event will have teams with digital toy ideas, while a separate physical event will be organised for non-digital toy concepts.India's domestic market, as well as the global toy market offers a huge opportunity to its manufacturing sector. Toycathon 2021 is aimed at boosting the toy industry in India to help it capture a wider share of the toy market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-participants-of-toycathon-2021-today-101624495900455.html
24-06-2021||India||7th pay commission matrix: Govt to hold key meeting on employees' DA on June 26||The central government will decide on giving pending dearness allowance (DA) along with arrears at a key meeting scheduled to be held on June 26. The payment of DA of central government employees has not been revised since January 2020.The participants of the meeting will include the finance ministry, National Council of Joint Consultative Machinery (JCM) and the Department of Personnel and Training (DOPT). The final decision on the DA will be taken during the meeting.The central government employees are expected to receive Dearness Allowance (DA) from July 1. The benefits will be paid in three installments based on calcuation according to 7th pay commission.The three installments of dearness allowance for central government employees and DR for pensioners, due on January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, were frozen in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The central government employees are going to get the benefit of two years' DA directly as the dearness allowance of the central government employees had increased by 4% in January 2020, then there was an increase of 3% in the second half i.e. in June 2020. In January 2021, the dearness allowance increased once again by 4%.Speaking on the pay matrix and DA arrears of the 7th Pay Commission, Shiv Gopal Mishra, Secretary-Staff Side, National Council of JCM, said that a simple calculation can show the DA arrears that central government employees can expect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7th-pay-commission-matrix-govt-to-hold-key-meeting-on-employees-da-on-june-26-101624494746824.html
24-06-2021||India||PM's all-party meeting on J&K today, leaders may press for statehood||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. This is the first meeting between the Centre and mainstream parties from Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 and the divisions of the erstwhile state into two union territories in 2019.Also Read: J&K leaders set to meet PM today, Valley remains scepticMost of the 14 leaders, including some ex-chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir who have been invited for the meeting, arrived in New Delhi on Wednesday evening. These leaders have said that they will meet the Prime Minister with an open mind. The meeting is scheduled to take place at 3pm."We have not been given an agenda. We will be attending the meeting to know what the Centre is offering,” CPM leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who is also a spokesman for the six-party People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), said on Wednesday.The leaders have indicated that they will press for restoration of Article 370 and full statehood. “The biggest thing what has been taken away from us should be given back to us,” said Tarigami.Apart from these two, the leaders who are scheduled to participate in the meeting are Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tara Chand and GA Mir; National Conference's Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah; Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti; J-K Apni Party's Altaf Bukhari; BJP's Ravinder Raina, Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta; CPI(M)'s MY Tarigami; National Panthers Party's Prof Bheem Singh; and Peoples Conference's Sajad Gani Lone.While Mehbooba Mufti, Ravinder Raina and Kavinder Gupta arrived in the national capital on Wednesday, Farooq Abdullah will reach Delhi on Thursday morning.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah holds consultations with NC leaders from Jammu over meet with PMUnion home minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and home secretary would also attend the meeting.Meanwhile, a day before the all-party meeting, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday held virtual discussions with its representatives in Jammu and Kashmir and deputy commissioners regarding the delimitation of the 90 Assembly constituencies in the Union Territory.The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019 was notified by the government on August 9, 2019, which paved the way for the creation of two Union Territories: Jammu and Kashmir, which will have a legislature and Ladakh, without it.The act provides that the number of seats in the legislative assembly of Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall be increased from 107 to 114, and delimitation of the constituencies will be determined by the Election Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-all-party-meeting-on-j-k-today-leaders-may-press-for-statehood-101624494328870.html
24-06-2021||India||As cases of Delta Plus variant increase, Centre calls for containment||The Centre has asked the state governments where cases of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus have surfaced, to redouble containment and testing efforts, and carry out surge vaccinations. The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that there are 40 confirmed infections with the Delta Plus variant, up from 22 a day before."The Public Health Response, in this case, while broadly remaining the same, has to become more focused and stringent. Thus, you are requested to take up immediate containment measures in these districts and clusters including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter sent to state chief secretaries.Also Read: States prep for Delta+ as mutation cases riseDelta Plus has already been declared a variant of concern by the central government. The cases have primarily ben concentrated in three states - Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala.In Kerala, three villages have been shut and residents are being mandatorily tested for Covid-19, while in Maharashtra, health minister Rajesh Tope said that 100 samples from each district will immediately be sent for genome sequencing. Maharashtra saw a jump in its daily Covid-19 count on Wednesday, recording 10,066 fresh cases. Tope said it is a matter of concern that daily cases are not falling below 8,000.Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka's capital Bengaluru recorded their first case of Delta Plus variant on Wednesday. In J&K, the patient is a 39-year-old employee of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. She has been kept in isolation at home with mild symptoms. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said the state government has informed the Union health ministry about the Bengaluru case and further action is being planned.Till now, the Delta Plus variant has been found in 197 samples across 11 countries - Britain, India, Canada, Japan, Nepal, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States. No deaths have reported among the UK and Indian cases.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) have decided to conduct a study to see if the new and more potent variant of coronavirus can be neutralised by the existing vaccines in India.The study is likely to involve Covaxin and Covishield vaccines."As per earlier data concerning Delta variant, neutralisation was happening with the existing vaccines in India. Though neutralisation has dropped, it's enough to protect against Delta variant. Delta Plus should also behave (in a similar manner). We are working in this direction. We have isolated this variant and we are going to conduct a study soon. We will come back with the study," she said.All Delta sub-lineages are treated as variants of concern (VOC) and properties of AY.1 are still being investigated. Delta Plus is also known as 'AY.1' variant or B.1.617.2.1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-increase-centre-calls-for-containment-101624493187173.html
24-06-2021||India||Cong’s Covid outreach to focus on daily wagers||The Congress has modified its Covid-19 outreach in the aftermath of the second wave of the pandemic to focus more on the daily wage earners and address their health and economic issues, a circular issued by the party has said.The letter, dated June 13 and issued by KC Venugopal, general secretary of the All India Congress Committee, told the state units that “the party aims at providing relief especially to those who have kept essential services running but are not recognised as frontline workers”.The letter also identified farmers, agricultural labourers, street vendors, artisans, washermen, weavers, potters, masons and carpenters in the rural areas of the country as targets for this outreach campaign.This outreach programme has come amid the party’s demand to the Centre for compensation to Covid-19 victim’s families. The circular said this outreach will help disseminate information regarding issues related to Covid-19 and post-Covid care and in “identifying the demands of the affected families in order to raise them politically”. In the urban and semi-urban areas, the party wants to approach “auto/battery and cycle rickshaw drivers, plumbers, electricians, gardeners, mechanics, domestic workers, slum dwellers, delivery boys and street vendors”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congs-covid-outreach-to-focus-on-daily-wagers-101624490525679.html
24-06-2021||India||BJP leaders protest, walk out of House panel meet||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders staged protests and briefly walked out from a parliamentary committee meeting on Wednesday that discussed Covid-19 vaccine development and genome sequencing of the coronavirus and its variants, people familiar with the matter said.The BJP members opposed any discussion on the vaccine policy at the meeting of the science and technology committee of Parliament.At one point, the BJP’s Sakshi Maharaj insisted on voting, but panel chairman and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh did not agree, a person with knowledge of the developments said.Another person aware of the matter said: “Jairam told the members that committees are run by consensus and not vote. He even said that he would not allow vote even if it is the last meeting for him as the chairman.” An MP present at the meeting said Ramesh even told them that they were free to pass a no-confidence motion against him as the chair, and can complain to the Rajya Sabha chairman, but the meeting must take place. The panel invited K Vijaya Raghavan, VK Paul and members of the departments of biotechnology and scientific and industrial research for the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-protest-walk-out-of-house-panel-meet-101624490001305.html
24-06-2021||India||Chautala finishes prison term early; was out on parole||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, sentenced in 2013 in a corruption case, has completed his prison term two months before he was supposed to on account of a special remission granted to around 20 convicts who have less than six months remaining in their jail term, people familiar with the matter said.Chautala has been out on parole since March 26 last year, when Tihar jail authorities released 1,000 prisoners on parole to decongest prisons in view of the Covid pandemic.Prison officials said Chautala did not return to Tihar in February this year, unlike the others released with him, citing medical grounds.The 86-year-old veteran politician, who continued to head the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) through his prison term, was admitted to a Gurugram hospital and moved the Delhi high court for an extension of his parole.“It was extended twice by the HC,” said a prison official on condition of anonymity.But Chautala will have to come to prison once to complete the formalities of his release.“He will be a free man. Since the former chief minister is on parole, he will have to surrender before the prison authorities for completing formalities,” Chautala’s lawyer Amit Sahni said.Tihar prison’s director-general Sandeep Goel said Chautala will be released because he has less than three months jail sentence to go, which would be counted as remission. An e-mail sent to his lawyer said he would have to formally surrender to complete the formalities.Officials said his son Ajay Chautala, however, did not qualify for special remission because he still has to serve about seven to eight months.Chautala, his son Ajay, 60, and 53 others were convicted on January 13, 2013, by a Delhi court for illegally recruiting 3,206 basic teachers in Haryana in 1999-2000 when the INLD chief was the chief minister. The Central Bureau of Investigation was ordered to probe the case by the Supreme Court on a petition filed by IAS officer Sanjeev Kumar, who accused Chautala of taking bribes to recruit teachers, and said he was forced to change the list of selected candidates.Chautala has been released on parole in the past, too, between July 5 and October 8, 2019, on different grounds such as his grandson’s engagement and wedding, and his wife’s death. His party, the INLD, hopes his presence will change the outfit’s fortunes, and called it a historic day for Haryana.“He will continue to fight for the farmers and labourers’ plight. He will reach out to workers across the state once he is discharged from Medanta hospital,” said INLD’s state president Nafe Singh Rathee.A family feud led to OP Chautala’s son Ajay Chautala to walk out of the party and form the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) with his sons Dushyant and Digvijay Chautala in December 2018.Dushyant’s JJP won 10 seats in the 2019 assembly polls and he has been serving as deputy chief minister in Haryana’s coalition government led by Manohar Lal Khattar of the Bharatiya Janata Party.OP Chautala’s INLD was confined to only seat, which was won by his son Abhay Singh Chautala from Ellenabad seat in Sirsa. Abhay resigned from the assembly in January this year in support of farmers protesting against three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chautala-finishes-prison-term-early-was-out-on-parole-101624484971987.html
24-06-2021||India||Pandemic delays big-ticket launches by Isro this year||The Indian Space Research Organisation’s (Isro) big-ticket launches planned towards the end of this year are likely to be delayed after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic impacted the timeline, people aware of the matter said on Wednesday.After the first wave of the pandemic last year, a committee of the space agency reviewed all pending missions to reschedule them. Isro was to carry out the first unmanned flight of the human-rated GSLV Mk III and the country’s first solar mission, Aditya L1, in December, according to the revised schedule.“The decision on the new timelines for the missions is awaited,” an official from the agency said on condition of anonymity. Another official said the missions were likely to be delayed beyond their schedule.Last year, the space missions were impacted by the inability to move equipment and parts from across the country during the lockdown necessitated by the pandemic.The third lunar mission, carrying aboard only a lander and rover, was initially slated for the end of 2020 or beginning of 2021, but has since been pushed to 2022. The government green-lit the third mission soon after the lander-rover of the Chandrayaan 2 mission crashed and lost communication just 2.1km from the surface.The first unmanned Gaganyaan flight was initially planned for December 2020, the second for July 2021, and the first manned spaceflight was to happen by December 2021 ahead of the Prime Minister’s deadline of Independence Day 2022.Only three PSLV missions have been carried out since the pandemic began last year – the EOS-1 earth observation satellite mission in November, the CMS-1 communication satellite mission in December, and a mission carrying the Brazilian earth observation satellite as the main payload in February.The launch of GISAT 1, an earth imaging satellite, was postponed in March last year after technical issues following which it was scheduled for March this year but is yet to happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-delays-big-ticket-launches-by-isro-this-year-101624483121219.html
24-06-2021||India||Borrowers’ nod needed to alter interest rates, says commission||Banks cannot change home loan interest rates without taking the consent of the borrowers, the Delhi consumer commission ruled in a judgment which further held that automatic change in interest rates amounts to “unfair trade practice”.The commission, presided over by justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal, noted that banks have to inform borrowers and seek their consent whenever interest rates of the home loans were being changed under the floating rate of interest plan.Citing a 2015 judgment of the Supreme Court, and a 2019 judgment of the national consumer forum, the commission said that it was not in dispute that in cases of floating rate of interest, the rate of interest on the loan kept fluctuating and these interest rates were changed as per the approvals of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). By signing a loan agreement, a borrower would also agree to these alterations in rate of interest as well as changes in total tenure of the loan repayment, noted the commission.“In simple terms, an opportunity must be afforded to the borrower before changing the floating rate of interest,” maintained the commission, adding that banks were duty-bound to inform the borrowers.“Consequently, we are of the view that the increase or decrease in the interest rates by the Opposite Party (bank) without taking the consent from the borrower/complainant amounts to unfair trade practice,” it declared. The commission’s judgment is dated May 11. It was released recently.The commission was adjudicating a consumer complaint by Vishnu Bansal, who availed of a home loan from ICICI Bank Ltd in November 2005 at a floating rate of interest of 8.75%. The adjustable margin was 1.5%. The loan was payable in 240 equated monthly instalments (EMIs).According to the complaint, Bansal noticed in 2010 that while the bank was initially charging EMI at the rate of 7.25%, the interest rate first increased to 8.75% and then to 12.25% without informing him. The tenure was also increased from 240 months to 331 months.Bansal cleared the home loan taken from ICICI by taking another home loan from a different bank but he complained that an additional amount of ₹1.62 lakh was charged on account of increase in interest rates.After the banking ombudsman failed to resolve Bansal’s complaint, he approached the consumer commission in 2019. The bank argued that Bansal was bound by the loan agreement containing stipulations regarding the floating rate of interest, which was signed by him after understanding it and admitting its contents. The commission noted that although ICICI had the power to change the rate of interest or change the number of the EMIs, the complainant was never apprised about these facts, and it was hence an unfair trade practice.It then directed the bank to pay back the amount of ₹1.62 lakh charged towards increase in rate of the interest, along with an interest of 6% from the date of filing of the complaint before the commission. The commission also ordered ICICI to pay ₹1 lakh to Bansal for mental agony and cost of litigation.An order of a state consumer commission can be appealed before the national consumer forum. ICICI officials did not respond to queries seeking a comment.Srinath Sridharan, independent markets commentator, said: “Consumers’ interest will need to be balanced with financial institutions’ concerns regarding asset-liability mismatch. I would suggest an ‘opt-out’ method could do the needful here when we have the trinity of Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile making even the most rural populace accessible to banks,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borrowers-nod-needed-to-alter-interest-rates-says-commission-101624482295269.html
24-06-2021||India||Bengaluru logs first case of Delta Plus variant, says Karnataka health minister||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday confirmed the presence of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in Bengaluru. Two cases of the new variants have been reported in Karnataka – one each in Bengaluru and Mysuru, the minister said.The minister said the information has been shared with the Union health ministry and a further course of action is being planned. Adding that the state is monitoring the emergence of new variants, he announced that six genome labs were functioning in the state. “Wherever we have a suspicion, we are doing genomic sequencing. We are doing random checks of five per cent of the total samples checked,” Sudhakar said. The Delta variant of coronavirus has been held responsible for the deadly second wave of the pandemic in India. Several other countries also consider Delta as the factor behind a sudden surge of infections. He said that in the case detected in Mysuru the patient has been isolated and he is asymptomatic. “The virus hasn’t infected the primary and secondary contacts. The person is under observation,” the minister said. “Monoclonal Antibody treatment that was effective for the Delta variant is being resisted by the Delta Plus variant. Wherever there is a possibility of the Delta variant being found, across the districts, genome sequencing is being done there. A minimum 5% of random check-up is also being done,” he added. Stating that vaccination is the only way forward, Sudhakar said that the government is confident that the Covid-19 virus can be controlled. “CM BS Yediyurappa has flagged off an accelerated vaccination drive recently which resulted in 11,24,355 lakh doses of vaccination in a single day. We are ramping up the vaccination process every day. Yesterday (Tuesday), our state completed providing 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses,” the minister said. He added that the state received 4.5 lakh vaccine doses on Wednesday. “We have set up more than 13,000 sites to administer vaccines to people. Our state has been conducting more than 1 lakh Covid-19 tests every day,” he said. On Tuesday, the high-level committee led by Dr Devi Shetty formed to prevent the possible Covid-19 third wave submitted an interim report to the government. “It has been decided that within 45 days, preparations will be made at the district level, from setting up ICU units to deploying health care staff,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-logs-first-case-of-delta-plus-variant-says-karnataka-health-minister-101624479044256.html
24-06-2021||India||J&K: EC holds meet with all deputy magistrates||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s all-party meet scheduled to be held on Thursday, election commission on Wednesday held deliberations with all the 20 deputy magistrates of the union territory via video-conference.“Election commission held deliberations with all the deputy magistrates via video conferencing and it asked basic statistics like population, number of constituencies, Patwar and Halqas, geographical boundaries and topography,” said one of the deputy magistrates, requesting anonymity.In July last year the delimitation panel had sought substantial information from J&K administration in various formats like maps, statistics, Census 2011 figures, new tehsils, patwars and halqas.Union Law Ministry has constituted the Delimitation Commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-ec-holds-meet-with-all-deputy-magistrates-101624478576348.html
24-06-2021||India||First case of Delta + variant reported in B’luru: Minister||Bengaluru: Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday confirmed the detection of delta plus variant of Covid-19 in Bengaluru. Talking to the media, he said that two cases of delta plus variants have been reported in Karnataka – one each in Bengaluru and Mysuru. The minister said the information has been shared with the Union health ministry and a further course of action is being planned. Adding that the state is monitoring the emergence of new variants,he announced setting up six genome labs in the state.. “Wherever we have a suspicion, we are doing genomic sequencing. We are doing random checks of five per cent of the total samples checked,” Sudhakar said. Delta variant of coronavirus has been held responsible for the second wave of the pandemic in India. Several other countries as well consider Delta as the factor behind a sudden surge in cases. He said that the patient in Mysuru has been isolated and he is asymptomatic. “The virus hasn’t infected the primary and secondary contacts. The case is under observation,” the minister said. “Monoclonal Antibody treatment that was effective for the Delta variant is being resisted by Delta plus variant. Wherever there is a suspicion on Delta variant being found, across the districts, genome sequencing is being done there. Minimum 5% of the random check-up is also being done,” he added. Stating the vaccination in the way forward, Sudhakar said that the government is confident that the Covid-19 virus can be controlled. “CM BS Yediyurappa has flagged off an accelerated vaccination drive recently which resulted in 11,24,355 lakh doses of vaccination in a single day. We are ramping up the vaccination process every day. Yesterday (Tuesday), our state completed 20 million Covid-19 vaccine doses,” Sudhakar said. He added that the state received 4,05,000 vaccine doses on Wednesday. “We have set up more than 13,000 sites to administer vaccines to people. Our state has been conducting more than 1,00,000 Covid-19 tests every day,” he said. On Tuesday, the high-level committee led by Dr Devi Shetty formed to prevent the possible Covid-19 third wave submitted an interim report to the government. “It has been decided that within 45 days, preparations will be made at the district level, from setting up ICU units to deploying health care staff,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-case-of-delta-variant-reported-in-b-luru-minister-101624478323530.html
24-06-2021||India||K’taka govt unveils ₹195 cr digi-learning initiative||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Wednesday launched its ambitious ₹195 crore Digi-learning initiative that it hopes will bridge the gap between urban and rural geographies among other hurdles faced by students pursuing collegiate education. The launch of technology-interventions like smart classes comes at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown has forced a higher dependence on online classes across the country. “These initiatives will be helpful to resolve the imbalances between offline & online, digital & physical, rural & urban, government & private, rich & poor and also english & native language barriers with respect to access for quality teaching and learning, besides providing a strong platform to implement National Education Policy effectively,” Dr CN Ashwath Naryan, the deputy chief minister of Karnataka said in a statement on Wednesday. The state government also distributed 1,55,000 tablet PCs to students from across the state, amounting to ₹163 crore. The government also said that it had developed 2,500 smart classrooms at a cost of ₹27.77 crore and a Learning Management System (LMS) that cost ₹4.04 crore. The decision to take online classes was necessitated by the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases, endangering the lives of students and others in Karnataka and other parts of the country. However, a digital divide was seen in the rural areas where issues like affordability and connectivity added to the challenges of students who were forced to remain away from physical classes. The PCs will be distributed to first-year students of 430 government first grade colleges, first and second year students of 87 government polytechnic colleges and the all first, second and third year students of 14 engineering colleges, Narayan said. The department of higher education said that it had created around 3,05,000 materials of content, an online library with option for feedback rating, integrated student and teacher work diary and other measures as part of its reforms to the education sector. The smart classrooms will be equipped with projectors, white board, android box, UPS and internet facilities to enable both offline and online classes, the government said. The initiatives comes a day after the BS Yediyurappa government said that it is considering reopening higher education institutions in a phased manner after the technical advisory committee (TAC) submitted a report and recommendations on the imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections. Yediyurappa said that the decision will be based on the recommendations of the expert committee and following the vaccination of teachers and students. The initiatives on Wednesday are said to benefit 25,000 teaching staff and around 5,00,000 students in state-run institutions. The other features include PPT, video and study material for each subject, multiple choice questions for assessment, analysis of student’s performance and other benefits. The state government is also mulling introduction of CBSE and ICSE-like syllabus and assessment for students in primary and secondary education to mitigate challenges like assessing students without exams in extraordinary situations like this academic year. The state government has cancelled exams for second-year pre university students and they will be graded on their performance in the previous year. However, the state government has decided to conduct at least two papers for class 10 in the third week of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-unveils-195-cr-digi-learning-initiative-101624478143531.html
24-06-2021||India||Kerala on alert as Delta Plus variant detected in 3 villages||Thiruvananthapuram: Three villages in Kerala have been shut, at least for a week, after a genome sequencing study found presence of highly infectious Delta plus variant in some of the Coivd-19 patients, state health officials said. Experts have warned that the new variant is highly infectious, with strong binding to receptors of lung cells, and affects monoclonal antibodies fast. On Tuesday, one case was reported from Pathanamthitta and two in Palakkad district. “In Pathanamthitta, it was found in a four-year-old boy in Kadapra village, and he has tested negative now. We have cordoned off the area and all residents are undergoing RT-PCR tests. We have examined the travel history of the family and it seems mutation might have taken place locally,” said district medical officer Dr A L Sheeja on Wednesday. She added that many patients from the area were earlier infected with Delta variant and mutation might have taken place locally. In Palakkad, the variant was detected in two women in their 50s and both of them tested negative later. Palakkad DMO KP Reetha on Wednesday said their primary contacts were tested negative and a massive testing was on in the area. District collector Mrunami Joshi said two villages -- Parali and Pariyari -- will be closed for a week and all residents will have to undergo RT-PCR tests. Experts said as of now very little is known about the virus, which has reportedly been found in nine countries, including India. Head of the national experts’ group on vaccination V K Paul on Tuesday said that affected states were sent advisory and asked to step up vigil. He said 40 cases were detected in the county till date, with Maharashtra reporting the maximum 21 cases. According to experts, the new variant is a mutant version of B.1.617.2 strain, but there is little evidence how virulent the strain is. After some preliminary studies in Maharashtra, experts found that transmission rate of the new strain is quite high, and it reduces monoclonal antibody response. The detection of the new variant has come at a time when Covid-19 cases have declined in the state, prompting the government to open up several sectors that were under lockdown for more than 40 days. On Wednesday, Kerala reported 12,787 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 10.29%. For more than a week, the state has been reporting the highest number of cases in the country. It also reported 150 deaths, taking total fatalities to 12,445, according to the state health department bulletin. Though cases are high, the state’s fatality rate is .38% against the national average of 1.33%, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-on-alert-as-delta-plus-variant-detected-in-3-villages-101624476883476.html
24-06-2021||India||BJP, TMC face off over Mukul Roy’s induction in public accounts committee||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday got involved in a tussle when Mukul Roy, who left the saffron camp and returned to the ruling party on June 11, filed his nomination for induction in the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal legislative assembly. The Bengal assembly has 41 committees and among them the PAC, which works as the audit watchdog for the assembly is considered the most important one.On June 18, the BJP submitted a petition before assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, saying Roy, the legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under the anti-defection law as he did not resign from the BJP before switching sides. The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process which involves inquiry and setting up of a committee. Since a leader from the opposition is conventionally made chairman of the PAC, Roy, 67, stoked speculations that he may get the post because of his seniority although the much younger former cabinet minister and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP in December last year, is the leader of the opposition in the assembly. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC along with his son Subhranshu, a former MLA. According to rules, it is the discretion of the speaker to select the chairpersons of the various committees in the assembly. The BJP wants Ashok Lahiri, the former chief economic adviser to the Government of India who won the Balurghat seat in north Bengal, to be the PAC chairman. “Six BJP MLAs have filed their nomination for the PAC. Nominations have been filed for other committees as well. It seems elections will be held in four committees as the number of candidates exceeds the strength of these committees. Elections for these posts were never held in the past as the candidatures were amicably decided through discussion,” the speaker said. “My mission is to ensure that Roy is disqualified. He will not remain an MLA so the question of him becoming the PAC chairman does not arise. However, we will wait for the decision of the speaker,” said Adhikari. “If the speaker decides that someone from the ruling party will head the PAC there is nothing we can do although opposition leaders usually get the post,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. “Adhikari does not know the rules of the assembly. It is the speaker who decides who gets these posts,” said senior TMC legislator Tapas Roy. Since the Congress and the Left parties could not win a single seat in the recent state polls, the 213 TMC MLAs and the 75 BJP MLAs can claim membership of the various committees. The BJP had bagged 77 seats but two MLAs resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. By-polls will be held in seven constituencies. Mamata Banerjee, who was defeated by Adhikari in Nandigram, will contest again from Bhawanipore, her old seat in south Kolkata. The seat was vacated by minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay who will also contest again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-tmc-face-off-over-mukul-roy-s-induction-in-public-accounts-committee-101624476824011.html
24-06-2021||India||From singer to counsellor: 48-yr-old wore many hats||Sanghamitra, 48, and her son 24-year-old Soham Chatterjee had a song. She would sing it to him to mollify him when he was upset, they would sing snatches of it to each other during a hum-drum day, and they would even perform it as a duet at family gatherings. And when Sanghamitra was on her deathbed, Chatterjee sang it for her one last time.“But she couldn’t hear it, as she was unconscious. I broke down after singing the first few lines, but dad asked me to finish it,” he said.The song -- a Kishore Kumar–Sushma Shreshta duet Tera mujhse hai pehle ka nata koi ( written by Sahir Ludhianvi and featured in the 1973 film, Aa Gale Lag Jaa) -- “symbolized their relationship,” said husband Dhurjati Chatterjee (55), adding that his wife was “a great singer”.“She tested positive on May 6 after we rushed her to a hospital because of her Covid-19 symptoms. By then she had started sinking. On May 12 we got a video-call from the hospital. That’s when I sang our song out to her,” Chatterjee said.Sanghamitra died of Covid-19 related complications in a Kolkata hospital on May 13. On that day, West Bengal reported 20,839 cases, the second highest caseload till date.Born to a middle-class Bengali family in north Kolkata, Sanghamitra was the younger of the two siblings. She was the soft-spoken one and did well academically. Her older sisters recall Sanghamitra receiving an impossible score of 99 out of 100 in a Bengali exam in secondary school. Sanghamitra inherited all of her schoolteacher father’s books after he passed away earlier this year in March, older sister Sharmistha Bhattacharya said.Both parents were trained classical singers -- their father trained under legendary singer Dwijen Mukhopadhyay -- and so, Sanghamitra and her siblings were made to learn music, too.“We were trained in classical music as children. Shomu, as we used to loving call her, trained under Pandit Tarapada Chakraborty,” said Bhattacharya.But Sanghamitra was inclined to other arts as well. Trained in a Bengali-medium school, she had an excellent command over the language and would write Bengali poetry.“After our annual exams, our father used to take us to watch some of the good Bengali movies, mostly films by Satyajit Ray, in cinema halls and buy story books,” Bhattacharya said.Sanghamitra married Durjati soon after she finished high school; she was 18 then.From a softspoken girl, who was talked little, Chatterjee came into her own after marriage. She completed a post-graduate diploma in counselling and struck conversations with people across all age groups. With children, in particular, Sanghamitra had a knack of breaking the ice easily, said his son.“She was a great cook. My father’s colleagues used to steal the tiffin my mother used to make for him. My friends and our relatives dropped in quite often just to eat something cooked by her,” Chatterjee said.“She was a trained counsellor. But she never took it up professionally. Over the last few years, however, she started counselling. Her fame spread by word of mouth,” her son added.Sanghamitra had health concerns, including hypertension and diabetes, and was doubly careful during the pandemic -- she barely stepped out.“We never thought that she would get infected by Covid,” Chatterjee said.On May 12, when Chatterjee sang the song to his unconscious mother, the medicos in the room could not help but be moved.Critical care doctor Dipsikha Ghosh who made the call to Chatterjee from her phone wrote on her social media account on May 12: “The song changed us. The song would always be there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-singer-to-counsellor-48-yr-old-wore-many-hats-101624474905287.html
24-06-2021||India||PMGKAY, India’s Covid relief programme, praised by UN wing: Official||The World Food Programme (WFP), the food-assistance wing of the UN, has praised India’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), a Covid-relief programme that gives free food handouts to nearly 80 million beneficiaries, as a “notable step to tackle hunger by any developing nation” during the pandemic, Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey has said.The food secretary said the WFP has conveyed to the government that it would like to undertake a case study of the scheme so that other emerging economies could benefit from its design and implementation.“The WFP has praised the scheme and said they would like to use it as a case study and a model that can be shared with others nations,” the food secretary said. The global body also tweeted about PMGKAY on June 7.The official also said the programme, launched during the first Covid wave and currently in force, involved a federal spending of nearly ₹3 lakh crore, allocation of nearly 60 million tonne of foodgrains for a duration of 15 months since the pandemic broke out in 2020.Under PMGKAY, the government gives five kilos of rice or wheat and one kilo of pulses free every month through the public distribution system. It will continue till Diwali, November 4, 2021.The secretary said a study of the programme by the firm Dalberg found that 96% of the beneficiaries benefited from the scheme. The study was commissioned by the Union finance ministry.A comment from the Rome-based WPF was not immediately available and the organisation hasn’t replied to a query sent to it till the time of going to press.“The WFP is working to improve the efficiency, accountability and transparency of India’s own subsidised food distribution system, which brings supplies of wheat, rice, sugar and kerosene oil to around 800 million poor people across the country,” a page on its India operations on its website states.Food-security campaigners say the country needs to do more to ensure India’s malnutrition levels go down. India ranked 94 out of 107 nations according to the Global Hunger Index 2020, which found a serious level of hunger.The National Family Health Survey 5, released in December 2020, found that in 13 states, the percentage of stunted children aged under five has gone up slightly in comparison to 2015-16.“We would like to see universal coverage under the PDS as a solution to chronic problems malnutrition and hunger,” said Ayesha, who goes by one name, of the Right to Food Campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmgkay-india-s-covid-relief-programme-praised-by-un-wing-official-101624474844050.html
24-06-2021||India||Arrested RJD MP transferred $11 mn to VVIP chopper case accused, says ED||Amarendra Dhari Singh, the Rajya Sabha member arrested in an alleged fertiliser scam earlier this month, had transferred $11 million through two Panama-based companies to AgustaWestland scam middleman Rajiv Saxena in 2013, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has told a Delhi court.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MP had also allegedly made cash payments running into several crores to several people in 2018-2019, the agency said, adding that money laundering worth ₹40 crore has already been linked to Singh.People familiar with the probe told HT that the source of all these funds, which Singh failed to account for during questioning, is being investigated.The submissions were made by ED through special public prosecutor Nitesh Rana and counsel Zoheb Hossain in the court of special judge Vikas Dhull on Wednesday while opposing the bail of Singh, who was arrested on June 2.ED’s money laundering case is based on a corruption case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) last month against U S Awasthi, the managing director and CEO of Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO), and Parvinder Singh Gahlaut, CEO of Indian Potash Limited (IPL), apart from the RJD MP and Saxena. CBI alleged that IFFCO and IPL imported fertilisers and raw materials running into thousands of metric tonnes from foreign suppliers at highly inflated rates between 2007 and 2014. For this, CBI alleged, illegal commissions worth over ₹685 crore were paid through sham transactions disguised as consultancy agreements.The central agency has found that two companies owned by Singh in the Republic of Panama — Summerpark Corporation and Lake Village Assets Corp — had transferred $11 million in 2013 from their bank account at Banque Heritage, Geneva (Switzerland), to Rajiv Saxena, for the purpose of real estate investments.These transactions are reflected in an email dated November 30, 2013, sent by Lake Village, and addressed to Saxena, confirming the transfer of $1 million on April 29, 2013. Another email was sent by Summerpark on the same day to Saxena, confirming the transfer of $9,75,000 from November 16, 2012, till June 21, 2013.ED has also referred to cash payments running into crores made by Singh to several people between September and November 2018.While seeking bail, Singh’s lawyers, Siddharth Aggarwal and Madhav Khurana, sought relief on the ground that he has been suffering from lymphatic cancer since 2002 and has to travel to the United States regularly for medical check-up. They also said that he is a law-abiding citizen.But ED opposed the plea, saying that the accused is not suffering from any life-threatening disease as per his own admission and releasing him will hamper the investigation.The court dismissed Singh’s bail request, saying he is a Rajya Sabha MP as well as a member of the parliamentary standing Committee on fertilisers. “Therefore, there is a likelihood that the accused, being a powerful person, may influence certain witnesses, who are working with different entities involved in the import of fertilisers,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-rjd-mp-transferred-11-mn-to-vvip-chopper-case-accused-says-ed-101624474783479.html
24-06-2021||India||25-yr-old gunned down by terrorists in Srinagar||A 25-year-old shop owner shot dead by terrorists in Habbakadal locality of Srinagar on Wednesday evening, police said.The victim, identified as Umar Nazir Bhat of Kelashpora, received gunshot injuries to the chest as terrorists opened fire at him inside his mobile shop at Main Chowk in Old City at around 8.15 pm, police said.“He received critical gunshot injuries and was shifted to a nearby hospital for the treatment, where he succumbed to his injuries,” said IGP Vijay Kumar.Kumar added that the investigation into the matter was in progress and officers continue to work to establish the circumstances that lead to the terrorist attack.“The area has been cordoned off and search in the area is going on,” he said.He said the recent “innocent killings” of civilians and local policemen are being committed by local terrorists of Lashkar-e-Taiba on the instruction of terrorist Abbas Sheikh.“They have been indulging in the terror crimes for money being paid by Pakistani handlers. These terrorists are falsely labelling these innocent people as informers…,” the IGP said.On Tuesday, a police officer was killed in a suspected terrorist attack on the outskirts of Srinagar.Officials said that Inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing of J&K police, was fired upon critically at Nowgam near his home.He was rushed to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital in the old city where doctors declared him ‘dead on arrival’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25yrold-gunned-down-by-terrorists-in-srinagar-101624474664781.html
24-06-2021||India||LAC deployment a defensive arrangement, says Beijing||The Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday said the country has deployed troops at the border to prevent India from encroaching its territory, while blaming New Delhi’s “aggressive policies” for the ongoing tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“The overall Sino-India bilateral ties should not be linked to the boundary dispute either,” the Chinese ministry said, reiterating its opinion that the disagreements on the border should be kept at its right place in the range of aspects in the relationship.The Chinese foreign ministry was reacting to a question on Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s comments on Tuesday where he said that the Chinese military deployment at the border and uncertainty if Beijing will fulfil its promise on troop reduction remain challenges in bilateral ties.New Delhi has also repeatedly said that complete disengagement at all friction points on the LAC and peace and tranquillity in the border areas alone can lead to normalisation of ties in other spheres, such as trade and investment – especially in context of Beijing’s repeated statements that the border question should be kept in its right place.In an interview with Bloomberg at the Qatar Economic Forum on Tuesday, Jaishankar said that the “issue there is whether China would live up to the commitments it has made -- written commitments it has made -- about both countries not allowing a large armed force at the border.”China’s “close-up deployment still continues, especially in Ladakh,” Jaishankar said.Beijing, however, stuck to its narrative of blaming New Delhi.“The military deployment by China in the western sector along the border is a normal defensive arrangement. It is meant to prevent the encroachment or threat against China’s territory by relevant country,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday.“For quite some time the Indian side has been increasing its military along the border and encroaching upon the Chinese territory. This is the root cause of the tense situation along the borders,” Zhao added.“We advocate that we should address the boundary issue through peaceful negotiations, and we don’t think that the border issue should be linked up to our bilateral ties,” the spokesperson added.India had earlier said that PLA troops had transgressed across the LAC, triggering the friction in eastern Ladakh.New Delhi has told Beijing that given the seriousness of the Galwan Valley incident, it cannot be business as usual - and the border dispute cannot be swept under the carpet -- until full disengagement is completed at friction points.Jaishankar has also spelt out the Indian government’s position on the disengagement process, saying the LAC “must be strictly respected and observed as this is the basis for peace and tranquility in the border areas”.More than a year after the ongoing tension began, disengagement of troops is yet to be completed despite 11 rounds of military and seven rounds of diplomatic talks – under the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination on India-China Border Affairs – having taken place.China’s People’s Liberation Army has continued deployment of troops and military equipment along the LAC and has even inducted the army’s air defence units in its air force command chain in Western Theatre Command, establishing joint air defence system along the border for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-deployment-a-defensive-arrangement-says-beijing-101624474664077.html
24-06-2021||India||Molesters throw UP girl off building, 2 held||Two of the three men, who allegedly threw a 17-year-old girl off the second floor of a house in the Chaatha area of Mathura district on Monday night, were arrested on Wednesday, the police said. The search is on for the third , police added.“A case has been registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code, including that for molestation and attempt to murder. The age of the girl was not revealed at the time of the complaint but later, she we found out she is a minor,so, the relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act are to be added,” said Shirish Chandra, Mathura’s superintendent of police (Rural). All three accused were in their early twenties, said Chandra.The three men , according to the family of the girl, had stalked and harassed her in the past too. It is believed that frustrated at their attempt being scotched in the past, they decided to attack her.The family alleged police inaction adding that they went to the local police station on Monday night itself but were told to come the following day. Chandra said that the girl’s family gave a written complaint at the local police station on Tuesday morning after which the FIR was lodged.The father of girl alleged that the three men, including two from Bihar, lived in same locality and had molested the girl in the past. The three men had been harassing his sister for about a year, the girl’s brother was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. However, the family did not register a complaint about these,Chandra said.According to the brother, a little after 8 pm, the “three men arrived on a motorcycle and barged into our house. They assaulted my family members, including mother and sister. Two of them forcibly took my sister to the second floor and threw her from the balcony, breaking her spinal cord,” he alleged.The police have CCTV footage from the neighbourhood which purportedly shows the girl falling flat on the street outside the house.“The victim is under treatment in Kosi town. The exact injuries are yet to be confirmed as the girl has been sent for an MRI to Mathura by doctors,” Chandra added.“She is admitted to a private hospital and has got severe injuries in her spinal cord and other parts of the body. She is in a critical condition,” the girl’s father told reporters.Meanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party government over crimes against women.“In Mathura, goons who had been harassing a girl for a year entered her house and threw her from the terrace. A girl, troubled over being teased, ended her own life in Hamirpur,” she said in a tweet in Hindi. “In jungle raj, the safety of women is in God’s hands.”“I am not aware of the exact details but all I can say is that whatsoever the case is, in this government, the guilty will not be able to use influence to escape the law....,” said UP BJP spokesperson, Harish Srivastava.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/molesters-throw-up-girl-off-building-2-held-101624474663404.html
24-06-2021||India||Assam NGO files FIR against former NRC coordinator Prateek Hajela||A Guwahati-based NGO has lodged a police complaint against former coordinator of National Register of Citizens (NRC) Prateek Hajela, alleging manipulation of family tree verification to include names of illegal migrants in the list, which was to include names of genuine Indian citizens.“We suspect there was manipulation in family tree verification during the process that led to inclusion of many illegal and doubtful persons in the updated NRC,” said Abhijeet Sharma of Assam Public Works (APW), whose petition in the Supreme Court in 2009, had set the ball rolling for updating the NRC for Assam.“We suspect Hajela and his close associates in collaboration with some officers, data entry operators and leaders from minority community used government mechanism to insert names of illegal migrants in the list,” Sharma added.APW has filed the first information report (FIR) against Hajela and his unnamed associates with Assam criminal investigation department (CID) on Monday.This is the 10th FIR lodged by APW alleging irregularities in the updated NRC and seeking re-verification of the entire process. The NGO plans to file 12 more such complaints in future.The updated NRC, which was made public in August 2019, had left out 1.9 million of the nearly 33 million applicants. The list was dubbed by almost all parties and organisations as faulty citing exclusion of genuine citizens and inclusion of persons with doubtful identity.The NRC was first prepared only for Assam in 1951 on the basis of the census conducted the same year. The process to update the 1951 list started in 2015 following directions from the Supreme Court, which acted on petitions seeking detection of illegal immigrants, especially from Bangladesh.The updated list was to include names of all those persons (or their descendants) who appear in the 1951 NRC, or in any of the electoral rolls up to the midnight of March 24, 1971—when the liberation war for Bangladesh’s independence from Pakistan began.The verification of an applicant’s family tree with help of records provided to show his/her link to an ancestor included in the 1951 NRC or in subsequent voter rolls was a key part of the process to update the list.“The verification of a family tree would have been the fool proof method of NRC verification, had it been done properly. But as there was no quality check, the officers with migrant backgrounds got a free hand to include names of the suspected foreigners at their will. The entire mischief was done by the then state coordinator in connivance with some antinational element,” the FIR stated.In November 2019, three months after the NRC was published, Prateek Hajela, an IAS officer, was transferred to Madhya Pradesh following a SC order. The NRC process is still in limbo as the updated list is yet to be notified by the Registrar General of India and the process of filing of appeals by those left out of the list hasn’t started.In May this year, Hajela’s successor Hitesh Dev Sarma filed an application in the apex court seeking a complete, comprehensive and time-bound re-verification of the updated draft as well as the supplementary list of NRC as some “glaring anomalies of serious nature” were detected in the process.The application sought re-verification to be done under supervision of a monitoring committee preferably represented by district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-ngo-files-fir-against-former-nrc-coordinator-prateek-hajela-over-anomalies-101624474484905.html
24-06-2021||India||Banks given ₹9k-cr of seized assets, says ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has handed over ₹9,041.5 crore worth of assets, mostly in shares, to Indian banks that lost over ₹22,585.83 crore to bank fraud by three fugitive businessmen, Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, the agency said in a statement on Wednesday, underlining that this implied the public sector banks have already recouped 40% of their losses in cases involving the three.ED has already seized assets worth Rs. 18,170.02 crore, 80.45% of the total loss to banks in cases involving the three businessmen, and transferred a part of the attached or seized assets to the banks and the government, the statement said. This includes their properties worth ₹969 crore in foreign countries including the UK, the US, France and the UAE. India is also pursuing their extradition.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman responded to the ED announcement on Twitter. “Fugitives & economic offenders will be actively pursued; their properties attached & dues recovered,” she said.Wednesday’s statement came after the Debt Recovery Tribunal, on behalf of the State Bank of India-led consortium, sold Vijay Mallya’s stake in United Breweries Limited for ₹5,824.50 crore.Vijay Mallya left India in March 2016 after a clutch of banks got together to initiate proceedings to recover more than ₹9,000 crore from him, accusing him of wilful default. The UK high court last year ordered Mallya’s extradition and his request for permission to file an appeal in the UK Supreme Court has been turned down. But he is learnt to have applied for asylum there.Diamantaire Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi face fraud charges in India in connection with their involvement in fraudulent transactions that led to losses of about ₹13,578 crore in the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB). They left the country in January 2018, weeks before the Central Investigation Bureau received a complaint from the bank about the fraud. Nirav Modi is fighting India’s attempt to seek his extradition from the United Kingdom, while Mehul Choksi is fiercely opposing an attempt to get him deported from Dominica, an island nation in the Caribbean, where he has been arrested for illegal entry.Nirav Modi has been in a jail on the outskirts of London since March 2019; his repeated requests for bail have been rejected. In February this year, a UK magistrate’s court ordered Nirav Modi’s extradition. On Wednesday, he lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in the high court.ED said that it unearthed the money trail by exposing a web of what it described as domestic and international transactions and stashing of assets abroad . The investigation revealed that the three used dummy entities controlled by them for rotation and siphoning off the funds provided by the banks, it said.Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said ED has attached assets much more than the money that was allegedly due to the banks. “In this case, banks will recover more than 100% of the principal as well as interest”.“However, for the people who have been declared fugitive, I have my doubts as to how will banks get the money as in fugitive economic offenders (FEO) act, there is no provision to give money to the victims and it is confiscated by the central government.”Mallya’s lawyers could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-given-9k-cr-of-seized-assets-says-ed-101624474064534.html
24-06-2021||India||Maoist leader carrying ₹40L bounty dies of Covid: Police||A senior Maoist leader, 52-year-old Haribhushan, carrying a reward of ₹40 lakh on his head and a member of central committee of Communist Party of India (Maoist) died due to Covid-19 on June 21 in jungles of Bastar, said the Chhattisgarh police on Wednesday.“Reliable sources have confirmed the death of CPI (Maoist) Central Committee Member , Yapa Narayana alias Haribhushan, due to Covid-19 infection on June 21,” said Inspector General of Police (IGP) , Bastar Range, Sundarraj P in a statement.However, Maoists have not confirmed the death of their leader who also the secretary of the North Telangana State Special Zonal Committee of Communist Party of India ( Maoist)He further said that Haribhusan was camping along Minaguram-Bhattigudam-Jabagatta jungles along South Bijapur-Sukma inter-district border of Bastar region during his illness. Haribhusan hailed from Medagudam village of Mehbubnagar in Telangana and carried a reward of over ₹40 lakhs on him.Haribhusan familiar with his name as Lakmu Dada in Usur-Poojarikanker-Pamed area along Chhattisgarh-Telangana interstate border area was involved in more than 22 cases of Maoist violence in Chhattisgarh region, the IG said.“Contrary to the claims of Maoist leaders, the Covid-19 situation in Maoist camps is very alarming. More than 16 senior and middle level Maoist cadres have died in the last couple of months due to Covid-19. Many more cadres are also infected and are desperate for treatment,” said the IG.“Two senior Maoist leaders of Bastar Ganga and Sobhroi also died of Covid-19 infection during last couple of weeks only,” the IG said.Over 16 senior and middle-rung cadres, including Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) members Ganga and Sobhroi, have died due to the infection in the last couple of months, the IPS officer told PTI.During last few days, Bastar police was continuously receiving information from certain quarters that few senior Maoist cadres including Telangana State Committee Secretary Haribhusan was seriously ill due to Covid-19, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-leader-carrying-40l-bounty-dies-of-covid-police-101624474003457.html
24-06-2021||India||Deadline set for CM Amarinder to act on poll promises: Rawat||The Congress has asked Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to act within a deadline on some of his poll promises, particularly the resolution of emotionally sensitive issues such as the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari and the drug menace in the state.This was revealed on Wednesday by All India Congress Committee general secretary and in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat, at a media briefing held after his meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. The Wayanad MP earlier met Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal.Rawat said that the three-member AICC committee set up to resolve differences among the Punjab Congress leaders has given the CM a fixed timeframe to act on his 18 poll promises. The committee, comprising Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge, former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal and Rawat, discussed all these issues with the CM on Tuesday. The meeting was their second in less than three weeks.“Bargari is an emotional issue in Punjab. We respect the emotions of the people. The CM has been told to take action in accordance with the public sentiment within the legal parameters. On drugs, strong action has been taken. Action in pending cases will be taken soon,” said Rawat who is the former chief minister of Uttarakhand.He added that the CM has also promised to act on his other promises such as free power of up to 200 units, scholarships for Scheduled Caste students, loan waiver for poor people and the securing of their land rights, and action against sand and transport mafias.“The chief minister has agreed to act. He will hold a press conference soon and give details on all these issues,” said Rawat.Several of these issues were raised by Navjot Singh Sidhu and other dissenting ministers and MLAs who have been critical of the chief minister in recent weeks.Asked about Sidhu’s statements against the CM, Rawat said the committee has taken note of them too. “I have called for his statements. I will give him advice wherever needed. In case there is need for a direction, I will do the needful,” Rawat said, going soft on the former minister.Some party leaders, including two MPs, drew the attention of Gandhi and Kharge to Sidhu’s statements on Tuesday. But Rawat said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi will take a decision on this by the first week of July and everyone, including Sidhu, have agreed to abide by it.On the controversy over the government appointments given to the sons of two Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey on compassionate grounds, Rawat said he has been told that the duo had agreed to thank the government and not to take these jobs. “Bajwa has agreed. I am to check with Pandey,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-set-for-cm-amarinder-to-act-on-poll-promises-rawat-101624474004045.html
24-06-2021||India||6.4 million doses given as Covid-19 vaccination drive picks up pace||Nearly 6.4 million doses of vaccines were administered against Covid-19 across the country till 11pm on Wednesday, as per the health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard – making it the day with the second highest daily inoculation figures since the start of the drive.A total of 6,395,250 doses were administered on Wednesday, according to the Co-WIN dashboard as at 11pm. In a major milestone for India’s inoculation drive, the total number of vaccine shots administered across the country crossed the 300 million mark (300,969,538), according to government data.India’s latest round of vaccinations started on Monday with a record 8.5 million doses administered, but the numbers had seen a slight drop on Tuesday when there were around 5.4 million daily jabs with numbers fluctuating heavily across states.The central government on Wednesday said it has now removed all bars on age-wise use of vaccines for states. “With effect from June 21, both the state government and Government of India supplies, irrespective of the type of supply, are to be used for population above 18 years as all categories of priority groups are now unified and are to be provided vaccination free of cost at the state-designated government Covid vaccination centre,” the health ministry said in a statement.Around 52 million people have been completely vaccinated across the country (having received both shots), while another 193 million people have been partially vaccinated, according to government data.Officials in the Union health ministry said keeping in mind vaccine the supplies in hand, they expect daily numbers to remain around the 5 million mark for the rest of June. “With the vaccine supplies at hand, and the way states are performing the drive, it looks like the number will remain steady at more-or-less 5 million doses a day. But in July, we expect the numbers to go further up,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.Government experts overlooking the country’s Covid-19 vaccination rollout said they expect the country to be prepared to administer around 10 million jabs on a single day by August, and added that vaccine availability will not be an issue in coming weeks with about 200–220 million doses likely to be available in July.“Our aim is to vaccinate at least one crore people every day. Our capacity is such that we will easily be able to administer 1.25 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine every day,” said Dr NK Arora, chairperson, national technical advisory group on immunisation in India (NTAGI).India’s vaccine drive began on January 16, for health care workers, expanded to include all front-line workers on February 2, and then, everyone over the age of 60 years and people over the age of 45 with co-morbidities, on March 1. On April 1, it was further expanded to include everyone over the age of 45. Then, in response to demand from states and people, the drive was opened up further, to everyone over the age of 18 years, although states were told they would have to pay for the vaccines of those between the ages of 18 and 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/64-million-doses-given-as-drive-picks-up-pace-101624473943410.html
24-06-2021||India||U’khand fake testing: Firms get temporary relief||The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday granted temporary protection from arbitrary arrest to the owners of two private firms under investigation for allegedly conducting 100,000 fake tests during the Mahakumbh but dismissed their petitions to quash an FIR against them in the high-profile case.The court directed representatives from Max Corporate Services, a Noida-based private agency that bagged the contract to carry out Covid tests during the holy event, to appear before an investigating officer on Friday and cooperate in the ongoing probe into alleged fake Covid testing during the Mahakumbh.Justice NS Dhanik, who heard both petitions, also granted temporary protection from arbitrary arrest to Max Corporate Services and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs.“In view of the judgment rendered by hon’ble apex court in Arnesh Kumar vs. State of Bihar ...the petitioner should be arrested only when the investigating officer has reason to believe on the basis of information and material collected, that he has committed an offence,” said the order.The 2014 Arnesh Kumar judgment required the police to conduct a preliminary probe before making arrests where offences were punishable with imprisonment for less than seven years. Under these guidelines, a police officer has to record reasons for an arrest in writing and it can be done only if it fulfils certain conditions.Allegations of fake testing surfaced at the Kumbh last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Three firms – Lalchandani Lab, Nalwa Lab and Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services – were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act last week. Days later, all three firms approached the high court separately to quash the FIR.At present, three separate probes are looking at the allegations: one by the police, one by the district administration and one by the mela administration.In court, both Max Corporate Services and Nalwa Labs said they were ready to cooperate with the probe. Kartikeya Hari Gupta, who represented Max Corporate service partner Mallika Pant, informed the court that she was ready and willing to join the investigation, comply with the court’s order and appear before the investigating officer on Friday.“We are humbled and grateful to the court to uphold our client’s right to appear freely before the SIT inquiry and co-operate. We have written to the Investigation Officer and shall be sharing all documents with the investigating team. My clients are victims of another’s wrong and justice shall prevail,” said Apoorva Agarwal, legal representative for Max.Parikshit Saini, counsel for Nalwa labs and its owner Navtej Nalwa, said they were ready to cooperate with the probe and had already appeared before the investigators in person.A third petition, by Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs, is likely to be heard on Thursday.On June 18, Max Corporate Services filed a writ petition, demanding quashing of FIR against it and stay on arrest. The agency said that it was a service provider and didn’t have the expertise or clearance to carry out tests, which was done by the two labs.In its petition, Nalwa labs claimed that it signed a memorandum of understanding with Max on March 10 but neither received any payments nor sent any technicians to conduct tests at the Kumbh. Max rejected the allegations.Lalchandani Labs told the high court that it signed a MoU with Max on March 10 and conducted only 12,000 rapid tests between April 1 and 26.The Kumbh mela was curtailed this year but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this -- at least six million people -- congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-fake-testing-firms-get-temporary-relief-told-to-appear-before-probe-officer-101624473883349.html
24-06-2021||India||3 top fashion designers asked to appear before E.D. in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned three top fashion designers, Manish Malhotra, Sabyasachi Mukherjee and Ritu Kumar , in connection with a money laundering probe against Punjab Congress legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.ED believes that Khaira made certain cash payments, around ₹15-16 lakh in total, to the three designers on different occasions in 2018-19 and wants to seek clarifications in this context, said an agency officer.Khaira is already under investigation in two cases registered by the federal agency earlier this year to probe money laundering charges linked to a trans-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab in 2015, and a fake passport racket in Delhi.The agency carried out searches at the residence of Khaira and his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal in March and the two have subsequently been questioned a few times. Khaira was last questioned by ED on Wednesday.The designers have been told to appear at the agency’s headquarters in central Delhi’s Khan Market over the next two days. Two of them are already in touch with ED officials, said an agency official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.HT reached out to the three designers but there was no comment till filing of this report.The politician or his legal team could not be contacted for comments. But in the past, Khaira denied any wrongdoing and alleged that he was being targeted as he opposed Centre’s three new farm laws.Khaira, who was earlier in the Congress, was elected MLA from Kapurthala’s Bholath seat in 2017 on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket and appointed leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly. He was removed from the post in July 2018 and later formed the Punjab Ekta Party (PEP). He rejoined the Congress earlier this month.The Fazilka drugs case relates to the seizure of 1,800 grams of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards by Jalalabad police (Punjab) in 2015. But it was only in 2017 that Khaira’s name cropped up during the investigations.Although not named in the Punjab police charge-sheet, a Fazilka court summoned Khaira, then an AAP MLA, on November 30, 2017. However, the Supreme Court quashed the proceedings against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-top-fashion-designers-asked-to-appear-before-e-d-in-pmla-case-101624473833612.html
24-06-2021||India||Kishor again meets Pawar amid talks of a new front||Prashant Kishor was back at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) founder Sharad Pawar’s residence in Delhi on Wednesday, the third time since June 12 (and the second in the past three days), adding to the speculation that the senior opposition leader and the election strategist are working on a possible anti-BJP front.HT spoke to leaders in both the NCP and the Trinamool Congress Party (TMC) who confirm that the talks, which are still nascent, are happening with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. However, both parties steered clear of saying so on record.``Prashant Kishor did an excellent job for TMC in Bengal. While we don’t know what his meetings with Mr Pawar are about, we have taken note of them,’’ said TMC’s key strategist and Lok Sabha MP Saugata Ro. ``Mr Sharad Pawar is very fond of Mamata Banerjee,’’ he added.The NCP’s Supriya Sule, Pawar’s daughter, played down Kishor’s visit. ``Prashant Kishor is a personal friend. He knows my husband and he knows me also for a long time and so he came to see me today (Wednesday). He didn’t meet Pawar Sahab today at all.’’Soon after the meeting, Pawar and Sule left for Mumbai.Kishor did not comment on the meeting. On Monday, he said he was not taking on the NCP as a client and has retired from the business of helping parties win elections.But his visits to the Pawar household are significant because they bookended a meeting of prominent civil society leaders and members of opposition parties there on Tuesday, where they discussed the fuel price rise, unemployment, and the need for creating an “alternative vision” for India. The meeting was not attended by anyone from the Congress and leaders who were present there said there was no discussion about the formation of a front to take on the BJP.The TMC is of the opinion that after defeating the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) by a huge margin Banerjee was ready for a larger national role and to even be the opposition’s consensus candidate.However, since the TMC’s win in West Bengal, there’s been talk of a joint front, with Mamata Banerjee playing a significant role, to take on the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishor-again-meets-pawar-amid-talks-of-a-new-front-101624473765061.html
24-06-2021||India||Centre should return what was snatched from us: Hasnain Masoodi||There is a realisation in Delhi that things haven’t gone the way they wanted, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration coordinator and National Conference parliamentarian Hasnain Masoodi told Mir Ehsan a day ahead of the Centre’s meeting with leaders from Jammu & Kashmir.Edited excerpts:Has the National Conference changed its stance on the situation vis-à-vis Jammu & Kashmir?Not at all. Our stand is clear -- we want restoration of the pre-August 5 situation. The situation should have never reached here. Now if they (Centre) have done it, they should give us what has been snatched from us.Why do you think this meeting has been organised?They (Centre) have not achieved what they had desired by revoking Article 370 and 35A. Now they have invited all those leaders for talks who were jailed, or against whom they said many bad things. Even the “political saplings” they planted failed to deliver, and in the interest of the country and J&K, they have realised they should again talk to people whom people trust.Did the participation of the PAGD in the District Development Council polls played any role in calling for an all-party meeting.Yes, it was the game-changer. The people voted for the alliance despite the leadership not getting a chance to campaign. After winning maximum seats, Delhi has realised the importance of the parties which are part of the alliance. They (Centre) should have initiated dialogue process earlier, but still its good if they have realised this after two years.There aren’t any conditions from either side for these talks, how do you take it as the alliance partner?During the meeting with the PM, the alliance will get a chance to explain what have been taken from us, and our leaders will try to convince the PM that things should be given to us that were taken from us without keeping in consideration the framework of the constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-return-what-was-snatched-from-us-hasnain-masoodi-pagdcoordinator-101624473763402.html
24-06-2021||India||J&K leaders set to meet PM today, Valley remains sceptic||Mainstream leaders from Jammu and Kashmir arrived in Delhi for a key all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, the first such outreach since the controversial scrapping of the region’s special status and its bifurcation two years ago.The meeting drew lukewarm reactions in the Muslim-majority Valley where limited trust in mainstream parties and hostility over the revocation of Article 370, which granted Jammu and Kashmir special status, persisted among residents.The meeting, to be attended by 14 political leaders, doesn’t have any fixed agenda but Kashmir leaders have indicated that they will press for restoration of Article 370 and full statehood.“We will put our point of view in the meeting tomorrow. The biggest thing what has been taken away from us should be given back to us,” said Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami, Communist Party of India leader and spokesperson for the five-party alliance, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD)In a meeting on Tuesday, PAGD decided to attend the meeting to be held at the PM’s residence at 3pm. All participants have been asked to submit negative Covid reports.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti arrived in Delhi on Wednesday afternoon and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah will fly to the Capital on Thursday morning.”Farooq Abdullah will travel to Delhi on Thursday for the meeting. Omar Abdullah is already in national capital and he is also scheduled to attend the meeting,” said NC spokesman Imran Nabi.Tarigami, Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone, Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari. former deputy chief minister Muzuffar Beig, Congress J&K president Ghulam Ahmad Mir and former J&K deputy chief minister Tarachand also reached Delhi on Wednesday. “We (Congress leaders) will ask for agenda for this important meeting and then put our point of view before the PM,” said J&K Congress president, Ghulam Ahmad Mir.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief and former deputy chief minister Nirmal Singh also arrived in Delhi.The meeting signals the restarting of political engagement between mainstream Kashmiri parties and the Centre, which in August 2019 voided Articles 370 and 35A that bestowed special status to Jammu and Kashmir and privileges to its residents, and split the state into two Union territories. All mainstream political leaders were detained, internet and phone connections were snapped and curfew-like restrictions were imposed in the Valley for months.When the leaders were released in 2020, they came together as PAGD and adopted a resolution to demand the region’s full statehood and special status. Current PAGD members include the NC, PDP, CPI-M, J&K Awami National Conference, and the J&K People’s Movement.Politicians in the Valley remain bitterly opposed to J&K’s bifurcation and revocation of Article 370. In the past, PAGD members have clashed with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which backed the scrapping of special status.Despite the frenetic political activity in Delhi, the mood in Srinagar was subdued with little expectation. “Common Kashmiris have very little expectation from the meeting. Many are not even interested,” said Abdul Gani, a retired government employee of Srinagar.He believed that the calling of a meeting by the PM was a ‘routine political exercise’ to break the monotony after the decisions of August 2019.“It is a reconciliatory measure to move forward the political process so that elections are held. The decisions over special status are cast in stone. We don’t expect any change in that,” he said.Waseem Ahmad, a resident of south Kashmir’s Pulwama, said that he does not expect much to change.“After the changes to special status, the people at Centre tried to raise a political alternative in J&K and failed. Now they have realised that they cannot do away with NC and PDP which are cadre based parties,” he said.“The demands of the PAGD seeking return of Article 370 will now be just political rhetoric with no sincerity,” said Bilal Ahmad, a teacher of north Kashmir’s Baramulla.Political analyst Professor Noor Ahmad Baba said that Kashmiris doubt the intentions of the central government and mainstream Valley politicians. “The experiences of people in Kashmir prompt them to doubt the centre as well as local political leaders,” he said.J&K BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur said “The BJP delegation comprises of state president Ravinder Raina, Kavinder Gupta and Nirmal Singh.”They will speak about delimitation and elections in the UT.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-leaders-set-to-meet-pm-today-valley-remains-sceptic-101624473643404.html
24-06-2021||India||Check jab status of frontline workers before giving salaries: Assam govt||The Assam government on Wednesday directed all department heads to ascertain the vaccination status of frontline government employees before releasing their monthly salaries.The order was issued by chief secretary Jishnu Barua, in his capacity as chairperson of State Disaster Management Authority, Assam (ASDMA) after it was observed that several frontline government employees in the state were yet to get their Covid vaccination doses.“Non-vaccination of such frontline government servants may give rise to the possibility of further spread of the virus, which in turn may endanger the lives of common citizens especially the vulnerable groups like children, pregnant women etc,” the order said.“Direct all department heads to ascertain the vaccination status of such government servants before releasing the monthly salary/remuneration from current month onwards,” it added.There is no precise data on how many frontline government employees in the state were yet to get the Covid vaccine doses. Some officials, however, indicated that the figure runs into several thousands.Assam directed all government employees who got both doses of the Covid vaccine to join office on June 14. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma indicated last week that plans were afoot to open all government offices from July 1, and directed all employees to take vaccine doses.“During evaluation, it was found that thousands of frontline government employees who were registered in the Co-Win portal are yet to get their doses. Since these employees are in touch with the public, we don’t want them to get infected and spread the Covid19 virus,” said Dhiraj Saud, state project coordinator, ASDMA.“The order is not meant for all government employees but only for employees of departments like police, health, disaster management, revenue, transport, district administrations etc. where there is contact with the public,” he added.Assam is witnessing large turnouts in the vaccination centres across the state, but there are still some who haven’t taken doses for fear of side-effects and due to their medical conditions. According to officials, nearly 30,000 anganwadi workers and around 1% of the state’s police force are yet to get vaccinated. The state government has launched an awareness drive urging everyone to get their doses without apprehension.The government’s directive was, however, termed improper by some experts.“Whether to take vaccine or not is a matter of choice of any individual and can’t be forced upon by the government. Employees could have medical conditions that prevent them from getting vaccinated and some could be posted in remote areas where vaccination drives are not taking place,” said neurosurgeon Dr Navanil Barua.Assam started an “enhanced immunisation drive” on June 21 with the aim of administering Covid vaccines to at least 300,000 people daily for a month. Till Wednesday, over 6.3 million doses (5.2 million first dose and 1.1 million second dose) were administered across the state.On Wednesday, the state recorded 2,728 new Covid19 cases. Assam has recorded nearly 490,000 Covid19 scases and 4,310 deaths since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/check-jab-status-of-frontline-workers-before-giving-salaries-assam-govt-to-dept-heads-101624473585215.html
24-06-2021||India||Digital connectivity between India, EU 'fairly fertile area' to be explored, says EAM S Jaishankar||Underlining the importance of digitisation in the post-Covid world, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday discussed said that connectivity in general and digital connectivity between India and the EU is a "fairly fertile area to be explored"."Going forward, the areas that the two partners (India and the EU) would be looking at would be technology and artificial intelligence. Data security, cyber security and privacy, EU and their conversations with big tech were all issues of interest to India. Connectivity in general and digital connectivity, in particular, is a "fairly fertile area to be explored" between India and the EU," he said."Connectivity, data, technology even the climate challenge -- all of this is going to require us to work together more closely. We have crossed a threshold, we have seen more momentum more energy in the relationship," he added.His remarks came while he was participating in a discussion on 'The future of India-EU relations' at a virtual event organised by Observer Research Foundation (ORF)."We have just launched our connectivity partnership. Digital connectivity, energy connectivity, and human connectivity. On the physical connectivity the views of India broadly tally with the views of India," said Jaishankar.Regarding human connectivity, Jaishankar said, "Knowledge economy will require flow of talent, more seamless we make that, we are helping ease of business, helping growth of creativity in respective societies.""We have migration and mobility partnership with different countries. Done some agreements with EU countries like France, we are looking at number of other countries, Portugal is one of them," said Jaishankar, adding, "Digital connectivity - is very much on our minds, we are looking at digital investment forum. We are looking at taskforce on AI."He laid stress on the buzzword connectivity, with several initiatives in the pipeline. He also discussed about the major pillars of India-EU connectivity, importance of digitisation post Covid-19 pandemic, leveraging digital connectivity, building data proposition networks - different than in the US, China and more attractive to Asians and Africans.Portugese Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva, who was also present in the event virtually, said India was one of EU's key partners in Asia, not China, which he described as a "selective partner," "competitor" and "systemic rival"."The way we see institutions, the way we see political fundamentals, the way we see human rights, the way we see the role of civil society is very different when you see from the point of view of Brussels or when you speak from the view of Beijing," Silva said."That is why in these crucial areas our partner in Asia is not China, our partner in Asia is India," he said.According to Silva, the European Union was paying less attention to India than it should have. The US, the UK and several European countries had prepared their national strategies for the Indo-Pacific region."We needed to focus on this issue at the European level. This (a EU level strategy for the Indo-Pacific) was the purpose of the (India-EU) Leaders' meeting that was held in virtual format in Porto last month. The main results of the India-EU summit were political -- the resumption of a high level dialogue between the two largest democracies, India and the EU, the improvement of sectoral partnerships that are very, very important, the connectivity partnership and the resumption of the free trade talks," he said.On the question of waiver of patents related to vaccines, Silva said that the EU was of the view that innovation and research and development needed to be preserved given that there were predictions of future waves of the Covid-19 pandemic.The EU had given one billion euros for scaling up vaccine production in Africa and a similar amount was being contemplated for Latin America, he said.Jaishankar stressed that to scale up vaccine production to meet the challenges for inoculating the world, Europe needed to keep open supply chains as well as consider a waiver of patents as proposed by India and South Africa at the WTO.The minister said that without "dramatically" scaling up production, the world would not be able to deal with the challenges of today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-connectivity-between-india-eu-fairly-fertile-area-to-be-explored-says-eam-s-jaishankar-101624472997600.html
24-06-2021||India||Nurse from Chennai is Tamil Nadu's first Delta plus variant Covid-19 case||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported its first case of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total cases of the mutated virus to 40 in the country. A nurse from a city hospital has reportedly been infected by the virus, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.The state health department had sent a total of 1,159 samples for genome sequencing, out of which reports of 772 samples were received on Wednesday, in which one sample came back positive. The samples were sent in May to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia). The nurse has also recovered from the virus, officials said. "Of the 772 samples, one has been reported as Delta Plus variant from Chennai. It pertained to a 32-year-old lady employed as a staff nurse at a hospital," Radhakrishnan told PTI.The official has confirmed that there is no need for alarm and panic so long as the citizens follow Covid-19 safety protocols. "We have seen the British variant and double mutant variant. There is no need to panic as of now," Radhakrishnan said. The IAS officer tasked with Covid-19 pandemic handling in the state said there is a need to adhere to Covid-19 prevention measures like wearing face mask, avoiding crowds and getting vaccinated.The Delta Plus variant's properties, which are being investigated, is characterised by a mutation in the spike protein, which helps the virus gain entry into human cells.A total of four states have confirmed the presence of the Delta Plus variant. These include Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. On Tuesday, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said the Delta variant is found in 80 countries around the world, including India, and it is a variant of concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nurse-from-chennai-is-tamil-nadu-s-first-delta-plus-variant-covid-19-case-101624471846408.html
24-06-2021||India||Delhi rejects Centre’s ‘rejection’ of ration plan, says grounds frivolous||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Union government has rejected the Delhi government’s ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme even though no proposal was sent for the Centre’s approval in the first place, and described some of the reasons given in the letter as “frivolous”.The two sides have been locked in a standoff over the scheme since March, and the matter has come to a head in recent weeks with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal raising objections against the plan, and Delhi chief minister sending back the file to the L-G with clarifications and counter-objections.“Yesterday (Tuesday), Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent a letter to the Delhi government through the Union food and consumer affairs ministry saying that our doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been rejected. The excuses given for rejecting the scheme are so frivolous and funny that it reflects how the PM wants to pick up a fight with someone or the other,” Sisodia on Wednesday said in a digital press briefing.“They are saying that this scheme has been rejected, but we never sent it to them for approval. So, how can they reject it?” he added.Later, Kejriwal tweeted some of the reasons cited by the central government in its letter. “The Centre’s letter has come. It is very disappointing. They gave such reasons to reject our ration scheme: what if the van carrying the ration for delivery gets stuck in traffic or breaks down on its way; how will the ration be delivered if a beneficiary lives on the third floor; how will the delivery van go in narrow lanes - India of the 21st century has reached the moon, and you’re stuck on the third floor,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.“It is not right to fight with everyone every time - Twitter, Lakshadweep, Mamata didi, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Delhi government, farmers, traders, and even with the chief secretary of West Bengal. How will the country progress if you keep fighting so much and keep doing politics all the time? The doorstep delivery of ration scheme is in national interest. Do not fight over this,” he added in a second tweet.In its letter to the commissioner of Delhi’s food and supplies department, the Union ministry wrote that the proposal doesn’t meet the statutory and functional requirement of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and therefore, “can’t be accepted”.Flagging “concerns and shortcomings” regarding the scheme, the ministry said that the Delhi government has not mentioned the prices of ration under home delivery. It asked whether people who opt for home delivery can later revert to taking ration from the fair price shops. It also raised concerns about how the Delhi government will ensure continued home delivery of ration if the beneficiary changes their address and how such a database will be maintained as most of them “keep changing their temporary accommodation”.The Centre’s letter, written by DK Gupta, director (public distribution), stated that “every beneficiary shall expect the vehicle in front of their door” and if that is not done, “there may be issues of favouritism and nepotism”.“Free movement of the delivery vehicle may be hindered. Moreover, doorstep delivery may not be successful in multi-storey buildings with multiple floors. Thus, these constraints may defeat the whole purpose of the ‘home delivery’ and in fact, the beneficiaries may actually be called to come till the van/vehicle and collect their packets,” read the letter, a copy of which was seen by HT.It also questioned how the Delhi government will coordinate with the beneficiaries during the time of delivery as most of them are daily wagers, labourers, household job (holders) and so on. “…timely delivery at a fixed date/time may be hampered due to tackling traffic congestion, breakdown of delivery vehicles etc. Absence of beneficiaries during home delivery date/time/trips of van shall impact their food security, as compared to choosing their own convenient date, time and cost of lifting food grains… Food items loaded on the delivery vehicles for doorstep delivery may be subjected to variable weather conditions such as rain, heat, mist, dust, pollution, humidity, etc resulting in wastage,” said the letter.Responding to the points, Sisodia said that the Centre could have simply asked the Delhi government about the prices involved in this scheme. “We would have told them... Distribution of ration under the NFSA is the preparative of the state government. We assure the Centre that the cost to the beneficiary for availing the scheme will not be more than the rates prescribed by it,” he said.He added that it was in these narrow lanes of Delhi that pizzas are getting delivered. “When people can get pizzas delivered to their houses; fridges, clothes, food and any other consumable item can be delivered by Amazon, why can’t the poor get their ration delivered? How do these things reach the third floor? I want to tell the PM, this is young India. Today the youth of our country have the capacity to deliver ration even to the moon.”The Centre also suggested in its letter that the Delhi government first start the scheme on a pilot basis. It further sought clarity whether there will be a single contractor for the whole of Delhi or multiple contractors and how they will be made accountable under NFSA.This is the third time this year that the scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. On June 16, Kejriwal wrote a note to Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal in response to the L-G’s comments asking the CM to reconsider the proposal and seek the Centre’s approval citing an ongoing court case in the matter.In his note to the L-G, Kejriwal addressed the price issue as flagged by the Centre, saying that any beneficiary who avails doorstep delivery of ration will have to pay ₹2 per kg only for processing the wheat into flour, and that this does not include services such as cleaning, packaging and transportation, and is based on a letter issued by the Union government’s department of food and public distribution on November 3, 2014.The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections— the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament. The Delhi government, on March 24, passed a Cabinet decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013.Delhi currently has around 1.78 million ration card-holder households, which according to government records, translate to 7.2 million beneficiaries. Ration is currently distributed to them through a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops.Anjali Bhardwaj, member of the Right to Food campaign, said it is very unfortunate that at a time when people are facing the double whammy of a health disaster and economic distress, and millions are in dire need of rations, the central and state governments are indulging in politics over food.“They should both focus on increasing food security net in Delhi. Only 37% (72 lakh people) have ration cards while many more need ration. Last year, under the e-coupon scheme, the Delhi government had to provide rations to nearly 70 lakh people without ration cards. The Delhi government can issue temporary ration cards and use home delivery for non-PDS delivery by starting a state level scheme to avoid getting into a tussle with central government,” said Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-rejects-centre-s-rejection-of-ration-plan-says-grounds-frivolous-101624472203375.html
24-06-2021||India||IMD’s string of wrong monsoon forecasts for Delhi||Since Friday, residents of the national capital have waited with bated breath for rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on June 17predicted that “moderate rainfall and thunderstorms” will sweep through the city on the weekend as the monsoon hits the Capital, more than 10 days ahead of its usual onset date. But, as it turned out, residents spent the weekend sweating, with no rain anywhere in the city.But this was not the Met department’s first inaccurate weather forecast of the year. The IMD’s predictions, short- and long-term, have missed the mark on several occasions in 2021.While Met officials argued that some “volatile” and unforeseen weather conditions unique to northwest India this year led to these inaccuracies, independent experts said such patterns are not unusual, and said IMD should be in a position to come up with more precise predictions.The weather body’s string of missed monsoon forecasts began on June 11. IMD announced that the arrival of monsoon in Delhi, along with other parts of northwest India, had advanced by at least 12 days. Instead of its usual arrival date of June 27-28, monsoon showers would hit by June 15, the department said.“A low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and the formation of a trough over the region is showing favourable conditions for the advancement of south-west monsoon in most parts of northwest India,” the forecast said.This prediction was revised on June 13, and Met officials advanced their prediction of the onset date by a day. The forecast said “conditions were favourable for further advancement of south-west monsoon into most parts of Madhya Pradesh, parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab” by June 14.But two days later, the Met department’s forecast took a U-turn and revised the monsoon arrival date again. Another revision came more than a week later on June 22, when IMD in an official statement said the arrival of the south-west monsoon over Delhi was unlikely till at least June 29.“Due to the adverse influence of mid-latitude westerlies, a hiatus in the further advancement of south-west monsoon into remaining parts of northwest India is seen. The situation is being monitored continuously and will be updated on a daily basis,” the revised forecast read.While the weather body has now refrained from committing on the date of the monsoon arrival in Delhi, they have also over the past week missed the mark with some short-range forecasts in the region. The department on June 17 said there was a possibility of rainfall and thunderstorms over Delhi and the National Capital Region. This activity was to on June 19 intensify into moderate showers, leading to a drop in temperatures in the Capital.Nearly two weeks since the original monsoon forecast, Delhi is yet to see any significant rain, with the days mostly hot and humid since then.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre on Wednesday told HT that the monsoon is likely to arrive in Delhi by the first week of July — a few days after its usual onset date, but over two weeks than the IMD’s prediction.Explaining the yawning gap between the monsoon forecast for the season and the actual weather conditions, Srivastava said, “Between June 10 and June 15, the low-pressure system was advancing very fast till eastern Uttar Pradesh. However, after that, even though the trough has persisted, the low-pressure system is not as intense.”The department’s prediction inaccuracies this year have not been limited to the monsoon. The IMD in 2021 has also got the summer predictions for northwest India wrong. In March, this year the Met department released a long-range forecast for summers, warning that temperatures are expected to be higher than normal this year.The forecast said that in March, April and May, regions along the Indo-Gangetic Plains including Delhi, Haryana, UP, Punjab and Bihar, were expected to clock maximum temperatures at least 0.71 degrees Celsius above the normal Long Period Average (LPA). LPA is considered the normal range of temperatures and rainfall, which helps note deviation.However, since March this year, Delhi is yet to record a single heatwave day. In fact, the summer months this time recorded lower-than-normal temperatures this year, due to a greater number western disturbances and two cyclonic storms — Tauktae, which struck India’s wester coast, and Yaas, which hit the east.Senior Met officials said that usually, long-range forecasts are only around 50% accurate, while short-range forecasts (predictions closer to the weather event) can go up to 70-80%. Weather experts pointed out that IMD only recently started making long-range forecasts, and said that these predictions are expected to improve over time.“There are a few factors that come in the way of accurate weather forecasts. Firstly, northwest India as a region is a little volatile in its weather activities, which makes it slightly trickier to make on-point forecasts compared to other parts,” a senior IMD official said.“Another reason is that the models that we use for forecasting have its limitations. We will probably be able to improve with better technology,” the official added.Private forecasters agreed that while the error margin of IMD predictions has reduced from 7-10% in the previous decade to around 5% now, more needs to be done to ensure better forecasts.“With climate change leading to extreme weather events, it has become more difficult to get forecasts totally right. However, that’s not to say that the role of regular monitoring and confirmation of weather conditions through multiple models is discounted. In a country like India, everything revolves around the weather and it is imperative that our government agencies work to better the predictions,” said Parth Sinha, a Noida-based climate researcher and private weather forecaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imds-string-of-wrong-monsoon-forecasts-for-delhi-101624472204077.html
24-06-2021||India||States prep for Delta+ as mutation cases rise||India has begun setting up a sentinel surveillance system specifically for Sars-Cov-2 variants, with five hospitals and labs in each state sending samples for whole genome sequencing on a regular basis, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, adding that 40 cases of the Delta Plus variant have been detected in India so far.Delta Plus refers to a variant scientifically known as the AY.1, which belongs to the same lineage as the Delta variant that is now established to be significantly more transmissible and possibly resistant to vaccines. AY.1 was classified as a “variant of concern” (VOC) by India on Tuesday. A new genome surveillance system will allow a better understanding of how the virus is mutating and could potentially help catch variants of concern before they take hold.“In addition to what was earlier being practised, hospital-based sentinel sites in all states for sample collection are being operationalised. As many as 18 more labs have been recently added to the list of 10 labs in the national Insacog network to scale up genome sequencing. Also, states have to regularly provide 5% positive samples from community to Insacog labs,” said a senior official in the Union ministry of health, on condition of anonymity.Insacog refers to the Indian Sars-Cov-2 genomic sequencing consortia, which was set up in December after the Alpha variant arose. The network had raised an alarm about the Delta variant but authorities were subsequently accused of delaying timely action which could have mitigated the severity of the second wave that began in March. For instance, not enough viral genomes were sequenced in the run-up to the second wave. The establishment of the sentinel sites should address that gap.The Union health ministry in a statement on Wednesday added that there are approximately 40 confirmed infections with the Delta Plus variant, an increase from 22 announced by the Union health ministry on Tuesday. These cases have been found in six districts – two each in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala.The Union government asked officials in these states to redouble containment and testing efforts, and carry out surge vaccinations, it said on Tuesday.In Kerala, three villages have been shut, officials said, and residents are being mandatorily tested for Covid-19. The cases were among three people, a four-year-old boy and two women in their 50s, all of whom have now recovered, said an official.In Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that 100 samples from each district will immediately be sent for genome sequencing.Officials in Karnataka on Wednesday said genome sequencing found Delta Plus variant cases in three people, and that they had stepped up efforts to sequence more samples.According to the Union health ministry statement, states have identified five laboratories and five tertiary care hospitals as sentinel sites, and each is expected to send 15 samples routinely to designated regional genome Sequencing Laboratories (RGSLs).Also read | Delta plus in 11 countries, 197 cases: What we know about Covid variant so farAccording to the health ministry, in addition to the sentinel surveillance, there will be additional event-based surveillance for special or unusual clusters – where cases have either grown unexpectedly, there is a change in symptoms or hospitalisation, or that show high breakthrough infections (those that happen despite vaccination).The details of the epidemiological investigations, study methodology, number of samples to be collected for genome sequencing would depend on the situation or event, the person added.One expert said more needs to be done, especially since Insacog has sequenced only 45,000viral genomes since its inception. “We need baseline plus targeting; 5% or 3% of all positive samples plus all deaths, vaccine breakthroughs, unusual presentations, children with hospitalisations, etc, [must be done]. 5% of the 20 million cases we have had since Insacog was established is 1 million. So, we have done one-twentieth of what was proposed,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, physician-scientist, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Another said resource limitations must be kept in mind for successful genome surveillance efforts. “When the case load is higher than what you can handle, the best thing to do is to go for smart sequencing, and do more sequencing in areas that look problematic such as areas from where such cases are being reported more, clusters or reporting of other conspicuous events,” said Shahid Jameel, senior virologist, and director, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University. Jameel headed an advisory group to Insacog before he resigned from the position in mid-May.“What is interesting is that for the Delta Plus variant you don’t need to do whole genome sequencing which is expensive and time consuming. One can go for genotyping assays that are cheaper and faster to do and can provide results in even 48 hours. It’s no rocket science as you already know the mutation, so you design probes to detect those changes. Public Health England is already doing this and for a country like ours, smart sequencing and genotyping assays will give us good results,” he added.“The actual Iinsacog work started around mid February when caseload was around 10-12,000 new cases per day but the country didn’t have the capacity to handle 5% of 200,000-400,000 cases that were getting reported in a day at one point. All 10 labs put together had the capacity to perform about 30,000 sequences per month and that is when they put on hold all other work and focus only on Covid-19. The grouping has done well in finding out what’s circulating, and alerted in March about B.1.617 variant that is now being called the Delta variant, and later on also about the Delta Plus variant,” he added.The Union health ministry also said that all sub-lineages of the Delta variant , including AY.1 and AY.2, are now considered VOCs. “All Delta sub-lineages are treated as a variant of concern, although properties of AY.1 are still being investigated. Currently, the variant frequency of AY.1 is low in India. Cases with AY.1 have been mostly reported from nine countries of Europe, Asia and America,” it said in a statement.The inclusion of AY.1 (Delta Plus) and AY.2 in VOC’s list was first made by Public Health England in its most recent technical briefing on June 11.With inputs from HTC in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-prep-for-delta-as-mutation-cases-rise-101624471663349.html
24-06-2021||India||Haridwar testing probe: 8-member team calling 98,000 phone numbers||118,000 Covid-19 rapid antigen tests. 98,000 different phone numbers used to register patients in two labs. Just eight investigators to track down the people behind the numbers.This is the scale of the task in front of officials probing allegations of mass fake testing during the Mahakumbh in April, prompting each of the eight members in the district administration’s team to dial roughly 450 numbers a day. Over the past week, the team has called up nearly 3,500 numbers a day, totaling about 25,000 -- only a fourth of the target.Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar said he ordered the humongous task after allegations that phone numbers registered for Covid-19 tests belonged to people who never visited Haridwar or didn’t get tested.“A week into this probe, I am convinced that irregularities occurred in the testing process. This process of calling up every phone number and seeking their response will help establish the crime and the extent of it,” said Ravishankar. “In the one week we have so far managed to dial 25,000 phone numbers and received a host of varied responses,” he added.The district administration’s probe is one of three looking into charges that two private labs – Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs – conducted roughly 100,000 fake tests during the holy event. A third, Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services, outsourced the testing. The allegations were triggered after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. All three firms have been booked by police under the Indian Penal Code, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act.Roughly 9.1 million people took the holy dip in the Ganga, coinciding with a devastating surge in coronavirus infections. The mela was cut short after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an appeal to seers on April 17 but by then, officials in many north Indian states had found infections in people who had travelled to Haridwar.The DM said the probe process involves dialling each number to ask a set of questions to the person at the other end of the line. If a respondent confirms that they were at the mela and got tested, they are asked follow-up questions to confirm that the testing was genuine.But many respond to the officials saying they had nothing to do with the mela or Covid-19 testing, but received text messages about supposed tests. “These are suspicious cases, which could either be examples of fake tests or errors in noting down numbers,” said Ravishankar.In many cases, the same number is mentioned against several tests. “There are quite a few such instances. In many instances, one phone number was mentioned against four-five tests. That could also be because they all belonged to one family or group,” said Ravishankar.But one such case was that of Indore-based contractor Kamal Patel, whose number was mentioned against 56 tests. “I have received over a dozen calls from health officials already,” said Patel.What has complicated the probe is that a lot of phone numbers are either not in service, out of reach, or simply switched off. “Then there are people who don’t want to talk to us, or simply do not understand our language or what we are conveying,” said Ravishankar.When the probe began a week ago, the district administration set a deadline of 15 days. “But the process of calling up every number, many of them multiple times, means that it will take much longer,” said Ravishankar.Apart from making these calls, the district administration is also issuing notices to the labs and government officials to join the probe.A parallel probe by the Haridwar Police’s special investigation team is questioning lab officials and mela administration. “Our probe is at a preliminary stage, but it mainly involves inspecting documents and questioning the officials,” said Senthil Avoodai Krishnaraj, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Haridwar.A third probe is by the Kumbh mela health department. “Appropriate action will be taken against anyone who found to be involved in irregularities,” said Harbeer Singh, additional mela officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-haridwar-testing-probe-eight-member-team-calling-98-000-phone-numbers-to-check-status-101624471603298.html
24-06-2021||India||UK high court denies Nirav Modi’s request to file appeal||The UK high court has turned down diamantaire Nirav Modi’s appeal against his extradition to India, leaving him with five days to mount a further appeal in what is expected to be a protracted legal process.In February, the Westminster Magistrates’ Court cleared Nirav Modi’s extradition, finding him guilty of fraud and money laundering in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and dismissing his claims that he wouldn’t get a fair trial in India. UK home secretary Priti Patel subsequently approved the extradition in April.Nirav Modi approached the UK high court to ascertain if there were any grounds for an appeal against Patel’s decision or the Westminster Magistrates’ Court order. This appeal was rejected by a high court judge on Tuesday.A UK high court official told PTI the permission to appeal was “rejected on paper”, leaving Nirav Modi with the option of making his case at an oral hearing in the high court through a renewed “leave to appeal” application that has to be filed within five days.Also read | Banks cheated by Mallya, Modi and Choksi get ₹9,371 crore from EDIt is believed Modi plans to make such an application, and a judge will then determine if the matter should proceed to a full appeal hearing.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Tuesday’s decision by the UK high court was just one step in what is set to be a protracted legal process. There is also speculation that Nirav Modi will have the option of approaching the European Court of Human Rights after exhausting all his legal options in the UK.The 50-year-old businessman has been held at Wandsworth Prison in southwest London since March 2019, when he was arrested on the basis of India’s extradition request. He is the second high-profile economic offender, after former liquor baron Vijay Mallya, whose extradition has been cleared by a trial court in the UK. Mallya lost his appeal against extradition in April 2020, though the British government has said his extradition is being held up by a “confidential legal issue”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought the speedy extradition of both economic offenders during a virtual summit with his British counterpart Boris Johnson in May.In its judgement in February, the Westminster Magistrates’ Court asserted that Nirav Modi has a case to answer and said that he, along with his brother Nehal Modi and others, defrauded Punjab National Bank, laundered the money taken from the bank and conspired to destroy evidence and intimidate witnesses.Nirav Modi’s argument that India has poor prison conditions was rejected by Westminster Magistrates’ Court, with the judge saying that conditions at Barrack Number 12 in Arthur Road Jail in Maharashtra, where he will be held, “are far less restrictive and far more spacious than the current regime he is being held in within the prison estate in our own jurisdiction”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-high-court-denies-nirav-modi-s-request-to-file-appeal-101624471483377.html
