25-06-2021||India||Bank guard shoots at man after argument over mask||A 35-year-old man was injured on Friday after a security guard at a bank fired at him for allegedly trying to force his way inside without wearing a mask in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, police said. The man, identified as Rajesh Kumar Rathore, is admitted to the district hospital in the town, where his condition is said to be stable. The guard, 45-year-old Keshav Prasad Mishra, was taken into custody, said superintendent of police (city) Ravindra Kumar. According to police, Rahore – an employee of the Northern Railway -- came to the Bank of Baroda office at the Civil Lines area in the town around 11:30am. Mishra denied Rathore entry to the bank because he wasn’t wearing a mask, triggering a heated argument between the two. Soon after, Rathore again tried to enter the bank without a mask, after which Mishra – using his licensed rifle – shot at Rathore’s leg, said senior superintendent of police, Bareilly, Rohit Singh Sajwan. “We have arrested the guard and Rathore has been hospitalised. We are investigating the matter. It was found that the guard objected to Rathore’s entry into the bank as he was not wearing a mask. This led to the argument between them, after which the guard shot Rathore in his leg,” Sajwan said. The bank, in a statement on Friday, said it regretted the incident and extended help to Rathore’s family. Mishra, who was deployed at the bank by a private security agency, has been relieved of his duties, the statement added. Police said Mishra has been booked under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code, based on the complaint filed by the victim’s wife, Priyanka Rathore.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-guard-shoots-at-man-after-argument-over-mask-101624644835448.html
25-06-2021||India||Indian economic growth may touch 10.1% in 2021-22, suggests NCAER report||The Indian economy is likely to grow 8.4-10.1% for the current financial year as against a contraction of 7.3% in the last fiscal, the economic think-tank National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) said on Friday.The research council has pitched for strong fiscal support to push India's economic growth in its quarter review report, reported news agency PTI."We estimate that gross domestic product (GDP) will grow 11.5% in Q1 (first quarter) and 8.4-10.1% for the whole year 2021–22," the think-tank said.The Indian economy turned a corner this month and began regaining momentum in June, ultra-high frequency data indicate, though subdued consumer sentiment is expected to limit the pace of recovery in Asia’s third largest economy. This comes as states gradually ease curbs on business activity, keeping in mind the decline in the number of fresh Covid cases.The week ended June 13 was at least the third consecutive week in which economic activity sequentially gained momentum, according to three data trackers by research agencies using a range of data available on daily or weekly basis.Indicating that the economy will reach the level where it was in 2019 after suffering two brute Covid-19 waves. "However, these high growth rates are also a reflection of strong base effects since 2021-22:Q1 follows the very steep decline in 2020-21:Q1. At the end of 2021-22 GDP, on constant prices, would still be about the same as ₹146 trillion ( ₹146 lakh crore) as in 2019-20," the NCAER said in a statement.In 2020-21, India's economic growth slowed and contracted by 7.3%, the NCAER said.The second wave of Covid-19 in India was four times worse than the first wave in terms of infections and deaths seen in the country, the report said. The second wave disrupted the already battered growth process from the first wave, it added.The economic activity, according to the think-tank's report, declined sharply at the peak of the second Covid-19 wave in April and May this year as shown by the high-frequency indicators.Economically, in June, India will see activities pick up signalling recovery during the gradual unlocking process.The NCAER report has stressed on a strong positive push to restore the growth process after the Covid-19 waves India has seen.This, combined with a strong expansionary macroeconomic policy thrust, could help revive normal growth, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-economy-may-grow-8-4-10-1-in-2021-22-report-101624639983367.html
25-06-2021||India||Covid-19: 80% of eligible population in Tripura received one vaccine jab||Nearly 80 per cent of the total eligible population in Tripura has received at least the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, a senior official said here on Friday.The state has received 24.9 lakh vaccine doses so far, of which 2.10 lakh is yet to be administered, Siddhartha Shiv Jaiswal, director, National Health Mission, said."As on June 24, a total of 18.31 lakh people have received the first shot, which is around 80 per cent of the total eligible population," Jaiswal said during a press meet.He further stated that at least 98 per cent of the population in the age group of 45 years and above has been inoculated in the state with one shot.Similarly, a total of 6.91 lakh people in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years have been administered the first jab, which is around 50 per cent of the targeted population, the official said."Different NGOs, clubs and social activist groups have cooperated with the government in its initiative to vaccinate people. The entire state machinery worked hard to make this inoculation drive a success," he added. PTI JOY RMS RMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-80-of-eligible-population-in-tripura-received-one-vaccine-jab-101624642477009.html
25-06-2021||India||Delta plus variant: Health ministry writes to 8 states, alerts 10 districts||The Union health ministry on Friday asked seven chief secretaries to take immediate containment measures in those districts where cases of patients infected with the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 have been found. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to chief secretaries asking them to implement immediate containment measures and ensure proper adherence of Covid-19 measures.Bhushan wrote to chief secretaries of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir, warning them against allowing people to intermingle and crowd. “You are aware that INSACOG is a consortium of laboratories for whole genome sequencing in the context of Covid-19 pandemic. INSACOG is tasked with not just the whole genome sequencing but also giving timely inputs on appropriate public health responses in specific geographies where variants have been found,” the letter said.The health ministry informed the chief secretaries that based on data received from the INSACOG so far it found that the Delta Plus variants have three main characteristics - increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells, potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.Bhushan in his letter said that widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis is necessary. He highlighted the immediate need of implementing containment measures in these districts and clusters.The following districts have been asked to strengthen their response after Delta Plus variant was found -The government said that it has detected 51 cases in 12 states from 45,000 samples tested. The NCDC director said that 22 cases of Delta Plus variant have been found in Maharashtra, followed by nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-variant-health-ministry-writes-to-8-states-alerts-10-districts-101624641034018.html
25-06-2021||India||India’s third Covid-19 wave ‘unlikely’ to be as severe as second: Study||Amid concerns over the severity of a potential third Covid-19 wave in the country, a study has claimed that a third wave, if it occurs, is "unlikely" to be as severe as the second wave.Also Read: Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 5; malls to open at 50% capacityThe study, titled "Plausibility of a third wave of Covid-19 in India: A mathematical modelling-based analysis" has been authored by a team from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), including its DG Dr Balram Bhargava, Sandip Mandal and Samiran Panda, along with Nimalan Arinaminpathy from the Department of Infectious Diseases Epidemiology, School of Public Health at London's Imperial College.Also Read: Nearly 30% of India's Delta plus cases are in south IndiaPublished in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR), it presents a vaccine ramp-up scenario in which 40% of the population has received two Covid-19 vaccine doses within three months of the peak of the second wave. Taking that the effect of the vaccination is to reduce the severity of the infection by 60%, the study states that this model illustrates how vaccination could substantially reduce the burden during a possible third wave."Any third wave seems unlikely to be as severe as the second wave. Rapid scale-up of vaccination efforts could play an important role in mitigating these and future waves of the disease," the authors stated.Also Read: Maharashtra records 9,677 new Covid-19 cases while daily deaths drop to 156; fresh infections in Mumbai fall to 693The study also involved examination of four potential mechanisms for a potential third wave; for this, a compartmental model of the SARS-CoV-2 transmission was used. The four mechanisms were: waning immunity restores previously exposed individuals to a susceptible state; emergence of a new viral variant capable of escaping immunity to previously circulating strains; emergence of a new viral variant more transmissible than the previously circulating strains; and release of current lockdowns leading to fresh opportunities for transmission of the disease.India's second Covid-19 wave was at its peak during April-May. During this period, the country registered daily cases and related deaths higher than those in any other country since the pandemic struck early last year. Since then, however, the wave has subsided though daily infections continue to be near or more than 50,000 while fresh fatalities remain above the 1,000-mark(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-third-covid-19-wave-unlikely-to-be-as-severe-as-second-study-101624638509278.html
25-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 5; malls to open at 50% capacity||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday extended the state's Covid-19 lockdown till July 5, though it also announced relaxations for several districts, including the capital city of Chennai.Also Read: Nearly 30% of India's Delta plus cases are in south IndiaContinuing with the tier system which was announced last week, the Tamil Nadu government has allowed government departments in 11 districts, which have been put under category 1, to function with 100% workforce. Coimbatore and Salem are among 11 districts under category 1.A total of 23 districts have been categorised under category 2. In these districts, which include Trichy and Vellore, public transport can operate at a passenger capacity of 50%. Further, shops providing services such as photo copy and tailoring have been allowed.In category 3 districts, including Chennai, private establishments can function with 100% workforce, while beaches will be open for walkers from 5am-9pm. Restaurants will remain shut, with only takeaway and delivery services allowed. Additionally, in Chennai and its adjoining districts of Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur, and Kancheepuram, shopping malls can reopen with 50% capacity with no air-conditioning. Temples, churches and mosques can also reopen.A complete lockdown came into effect in Tamil Nadu on May 10, after being announced two days earlier, as the state, along with the rest of the country, battled a devastating second wave of Covid-19. Initially, the lockdown was to in force for two weeks but was extended several times. On June 20, it was extended till June 28.Also Read: Tamil Nadu extends Covid lockdown till June 28; allows certain relaxationsOn Friday, 5,755 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Tamil Nadu, along with a related daily toll of 150, according to the latest health bulletin. There were 8,132 discharges as well. The cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has thus risen to 2,455,332, including 2,375,963 recoveries and 32,051 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-july-5-malls-to-open-at-50-capacity-101624633830028.html
25-06-2021||India||Nearly 30% of India's Delta plus cases are in south India||Increasingly recognised as the next global challenge, the Delta plus variant of coronavirus (Covid-19) has penetrated itself in India as the government said a total of 48 cases of the infectious disease have been recorded in the country. Of these 48 cases, at least 14 cases (29.1%) have been traced back to southern India in states like - Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.While Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit country in India with nine cases, it is followed by the rest of the southern states like Kerala (3), Andhra Pradesh (1) and Karnataka (1).India has detected these cases out of 45,000 total samples sequenced so far in the country. The worst affected by Delta plus variant is Maharashtra - which has been hit badly in both the waves India has seen - and is reporting the highest number of cases.Also read: Delta Plus more virulent, Maha cases not falling below 8,000 a concern, says ministerThe government, however, maintains that the country is still seeing "very limited" cases of this mutation and is not indicating an upward trend.Other than Maharashtra, seven cases have been in Madhya Pradesh, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka.Moving swiftly, India's richest state Maharashtra tightened restrictions Friday, citing fears of a "more severe third wave" as the country recorded its third death caused by a new coronavirus variant.The announcement came days after India's health ministry called Delta Plus a "variant of concern", citing its increased transmissibility and ability to bind to lung cell receptors more easily.Health experts have already said the Delta plus variant could be a concern. The variant calls for a high watch and containment of the affected zone should be done to reduce the transmission.Also read: 'Delta plus' variant evades vaccines? Experts flag major concernsThe variant is a sub-lineage of the Delta variant first found in India and also carries the spike protein mutation called K417N which is also found in the Beta variant first identified in South Africa.Scientists fear that the mutation combined with other existing features of the Delta variant could make it more transmissible.India has recorded more than 30 million infections since the pandemic began, with Maharashtra accounting for around a fifth of the total cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-30-of-india-s-delta-plus-cases-are-in-south-india-101624634601565.html
25-06-2021||India||At India-China meet, a push to hold early meeting of military commanders||New Delhi/Beijing: India and China agreed on Friday to hold the next meeting of senior military commanders as soon as possible to discuss complete disengagement at friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while working to maintain stability on the ground.This was the only tangible outcome from a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which resulted in what the external affairs ministry described as a “frank exchange of views” on the situation along the LAC in the western sector. The last meeting of the military commanders at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point was held on April 9.Following a drawdown of troops and armoured units from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February, India and China haven’t made any headway on disengagement and de-escalation at other friction points such as Depsang, Gogra and Hot Springs. The two sides have also engaged in a war of words this week, blaming each other for the year-long standoff on the LAC. On Thursday, India blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to unilaterally change the status quo on the LAC for the standoff, and dismissed Beijing’s contention that New Delhi’s policies were to blame for the tensions.Following the WMCC meeting, a statement issued by the external affairs ministry said: “The two sides agreed to hold the next (12th) round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the Western Sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols.”The two sides also agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a “mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity to enable progress in the bilateral relations”, the statement said.In the interim, the two sides will “continue to ensure stability on the ground and prevent any untoward incident”, the statement said. It added that both sides also agreed on finding an early resolution to remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in line with the agreement reached between the two foreign ministers in September 2020.This was the eighth round of diplomatic talks under the WMCC mechanism since the standoff began in May last year.The Indian delegation was led by additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava, and the director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry, Hong Liang, led the Chinese delegation.A separate readout in Mandarin from China’s foreign ministry described the discussions as a “candid and in-depth” exchange of views and said the two sides agreed to “consolidate the results of the disengagement of border troops” and “properly resolve the remaining issues” in the western sector of the border.The Chinese readout also referred to the consensus reached by the foreign ministers, and said the two sides will continue to “promote further de-escalation of the situation at the border, avoid the recurrence of the situation on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity”.It added that specific time and arrangements for the next round of military talks will be determined through the “border hotline as soon as possible”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-india-china-meet-a-push-to-hold-early-meeting-of-military-commanders-101624635835968.html
25-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tharoor tells RS Prasad that Twitter blocked his account as well and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Raviji same thing happened to me’: Tharoor says Twitter blocked his account tooAfter Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged on Friday that Twitter blocked access to his account, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor claimed he was also denied access to the social networking site. Read more here.Team India to play intra-squad games in Durham before England Tests: ReportsAs per report, the BCCI had requested England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) for a few practice games. However, the Covid-19 situation won’t allow any such plan to go ahead. Read more here. Want to travel to the US? Check this for visa and vaccine requirements, possibleAngira Dhar marries her Love Per Square Foot director Anand Tiwari in secret ceremony, see wedding picsActor Angira Dhar has tied the knot with her Love Per Square Foot director Anand Tiwari. The couple has shared pictures from the wedding. Read more here.The consumer tech experience is broken, it needs to change, says Nothing India's VP and GM Manu SharmaNothing announced today that its products are going to be available in India as Flipkart exclusives. We spoke to Nothing’s VP and GM Manu Sharma and Rakesh Krishnan, Senior Director, Electronics at Flipkart to find out more about plans they have. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tharoor-tells-rs-prasad-that-twitter-blocked-his-account-101624634712238.html
25-06-2021||India||'Third Front': Any alternative alliance will include Congress, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar told reporters on Friday that even though alliances were not discussed at the meeting in his Delhi residence any alternative force of opposition will include Congress“Alliance was not discussed in the meeting (Rashtra Manch meeting) but if an alternative force is to be raised, it will be done only by taking Congress together. We need power like that and I had said this in that meeting,” ANI said quoting Pawar.A collection of opposition parties known as the ‘Rashtra Manch’ met at Pawar’s Delhi residence on June 22. The meeting which lasted over two hours was attended by Omar Abdullah from National Conference, Samajwadi Party's (SP) Ghanshyam Tiwari, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Binoy Viswam from the Communist Party of India (CPI), Nilotpal Basu from CPI(M) and Sinha. Also present were Javed Akhtar, Retired Justice AP Shah, and ambassador KP Singh. Pawar’s statements on alliance comes after reports emerged of Congress’s absence from the June 22 meeting.The meeting attracted much attention and media coverage but NCP leaders dismissed the speculations surrounding the meetings as "over-hyped and highly speculative", reported PTI. "It was not an anti-BJP political front meeting called by Sharad Pawar. It was a meeting of Rashtriya Manch held at his residence. Like-minded individuals or people with the same ideology attended the meeting and there were several apolitical personalities present in the meeting," NCP leader Majid Menon told PTI.Pawar, whose party is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra along with Congress and Shiv Sena, also responded to Congress leader Nana Patole’s claims of fighting future elections in the state alone. Every political party has the right to expand itself. To increase the energy of our party workers we also make such statements. Similarly, if Congress says something like that (to fight next elections alone) we welcome it because it's their right (to expand their party),” he said in response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-of-ncp-says-any-alliance-will-include-congress-101624632643960.html
25-06-2021||India||‘Raviji same thing happened to me’: Tharoor says Twitter blocked his account too||After Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged on Friday that Twitter blocked access to his account, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor claimed he was also denied access to the social networking site. Taking to his Twitter account, Tharoor wrote, “Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) is getting hyperactive.”Tharoor also attached a video clip, stating that the same was deleted by Twitter because it includes the copyrighted BoneyM song ‘Rasputin’.The Congress MP said that Indians “creatively make videos” using short snippets of foreign music, and most people would deem that “fair use”.Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive. This tweet has been deleted by @Twitter because its video includes the copyrighted BoneyM song"Rasputin": https://t.co/ClgP2OKV1o #DanceIsNotJihad pic.twitter.com/IqQD50WhaUAfter process, a/c unlocked. https://t.co/TCeT8aGxV6“Instead of letting the clip enhance the popularity of their song, the copyright holders have issued notice. Though I just retweeted it, I’m not about to contest their act,” Tharoor added.He noted that the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), which is zealously defending Sony Music’s rights to ‘Rasputin’ was the complainant in the case. “Ironically, at their last conference in India, I was a keynote speaker,” Tharoor tweeted.Tharoor pointed out that however “stupid and pointless the request was,” unlike Ravi Prasad, he will not be blaming Twitter for denying him access to his account as the social media platform had “no choice but to honour a DMCA takedown notice.”However, the former Union minister said that as chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, he can state that they’ll be “seeking an explanation” from Twitter India for blocking access to him and Ravi Prasad, and the rules they follow in their operations in the country.So I won't blame @Twitter for this action or attribute the motives to them that @rsprasad does, though it wasn't pleasant finding my account locked. Clearly they had no choice but to honour a DMCA takedown notice, however stupid & pointless the request was.His remarks come after Ravi Prasad claimed that calling out Twitter’s “high-handedness and arbitrary actions,” have “clearly ruffled its feathers.” “Twitter’s actions indicate that they are not the harbinger of free speech that they claim to be but are only interested in running their own agenda, with the threat that if you do not toe the line they draw, they will arbitrarily remove you from their platform,” Ravi Prasad wrote on his Twitter, which was eventually unblocked.The social media giant and the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) have been at loggerheads after the new IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Ethics Code) Rules were announced in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raviji-same-thing-happened-to-me-tharoor-says-twitter-blocked-his-account-too-101624627178826.html
25-06-2021||India||Storm, gusty winds break Delhi's humid spell; IMD says light rain, thunderstorm expected||The weather in the national capital turned on Friday evening, marking a possible onset of pre-monsoon as light storm and gusty winds put an end to a hot and humid June seen so far.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) also predicted thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain for Friday."Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with speed of 40-70 Km/h would occur over and adjoining areas of many places of entire Delhi & NCR during next 2 hours," the IMD said in a tweet.Adjoining areas like Badurgarh, Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Gannaur, Sonipat and Gohana are also likely to witness a shift in weather, IMD said.On Wednesday, the IMD said Delhi will have to wait another week before the monsoon can officially hit the national Capital.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Further progress is unlikely in the remaining parts of the country, including in Delhi for the next seven days at least.”Srivastava said that till monsoon showers arrive in Delhi, Delhiites will have to continue to bear with the sultry weather.Monsoon has so far covered most parts of the country except parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. “The salient feature of the monsoon in 2021 is its progress to eastern, central and adjoining northwest India earlier than normal (up to 7-10 days). However, further progress over the remaining parts of the country is unlikely during the next seven days,” IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/storm-gusty-winds-break-delhi-s-humid-spell-imd-says-light-rain-thunderstorm-expected-101624626923320.html
25-06-2021||India||Bride calls off wedding, says groom can't walk without glasses||A bride in the Auraiya district of Uttar Pradesh called off her wedding after she claimed that the groom failed to read a newspaper without wearing his glasses. According to news agency ANI, the bride said that she and her parents were “uninformed” about the groom’s condition. “When the baraat (groom's side) came to the house, we got to know that the groom could not walk without wearing his glasses,” the bride told ANI.She also demanded valuables, gifted to the groom's side, be returned, reported ANI.Last Sunday, a similar incident took place in the state's Jaunpur district. A newly-wed bride reportedly slapped the groom after reaching her in-laws’ house and later returned to her parents’ home. Reports suggest that the incident occurred in Lavayen village under Khutahan block of Jaunpur district.The drama unravelled when the groom’s family was preparing to welcome the bride following the completion of the wedding ceremony. The wedding was reportedly held with great enthusiasm, and the bride did not say anything till then.As per a preliminary probe, the groom was having an affair and that came to the bride’s attention, which is why she slapped him, Zee News reported. The matter escalated and the police were informed.Before that, police had to intervene after a fight broke out between the families of the bride and the groom in the Jaunpur district. This happened when the groom slapped the bride during the garland exchange ceremony after a man from the groom’s side attempted to climb on the stage and the bride’s side opposed it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bride-calls-off-wedding-says-groom-can-t-walk-without-glasses-101624626156005.html
25-06-2021||India||Fake Covid testing at Kumbh: First probe report likely to be submitted next week||Haridwar’s chief development officer Sanjay Gaharwar is likely to submit the report of his probe into alleged fake Covid-19 testing during Mahakumbh in the next three to four days.“The representatives of Dr Lal Chandani Laboratories would come to Haridwar for questioning on Monday. Once it is done, I will submit my report to the authorities within three-four days.” Gaharwar earlier questioned representatives of other two firms allegedly involved in the fake testing. He said he has sought more documents for the probe. “Once they are received, a proper analysis would be done before completing the report,” said Gaharwar.Also Read | Investigating gender disparities in India’s vaccine rolloutA special investigation team of the police, which is holding a separate probe into the matter, was also questioning the representatives of Nalwa Laboratories. Two of the private firms under investigation allegedly conducted 100,000 fake tests during the Mahakumbh.Allegations of fake testing surfaced at the Kumbh after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Three firms – Lalchandani Lab, Nalwa Lab, and Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services – have been booked under the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, and Epidemic Diseases Act.Three separate probes are being conducted into the allegations of fake testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-covid-testing-at-kumbh-first-probe-report-likely-to-be-submitted-next-week-101624626835292.html
25-06-2021||India||How effective are Covishield and Covaxin against Delta Plus? Report in 7-10 days||In a first-ever study in the world, India will come up with its finding on how effective the vaccines are against Delta Plus, Dr Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Thursday. Such data is available nowhere in the country, Dr Bhargava said, adding that the report will be available in 7 to 10 days.In a presentation that he made on Friday during the health ministry's press conference, Dr Bhargava said Delta Plus has recently been cultured and it is being examined whether the vaccines are effective against this variant. "India was also the first country to culture Delta variant. Now we are working on Delta Plus, as we have enough information on Alpha, Beta," Dr Bhargava said.48 Delta Plus cases in 11 states: More study needed, cases very localised, says health ministryAccording to international data, presented by Dr Bhargava, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin remains equally effective against the Alpha variant, though against Beta and Delta variant its neutralising capabilities reduce threefold. Covishield's capabilities reduce 2.5 to 9 fold against Alpha and two-fold against Delta. The data also show that Pfizer and Moderna's capabilities reduce significantly against the Delta variant."You may have a vaccine with very high antibody response. But its response may get reduced to a great extent against a variant. Then you may have another vaccine that does not have such a high level of antibody response but it does not get reduced much against the variant. So both will be almost of the same platform against a variant," Dr Bhargava said explaining why knowing the effectiveness of vaccines against specific variants is significant.Both Covaxin and Covishield are effective against all variants of Covid-19, including Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta, Dr Bhargava said. "Delta Plus is a new variant. 12 countries in the world and 11 states in the country have reported this variant. It has been found in a very localised way - one patient here, two there. But we have isolated it and work is going on," the ICMR DG said.How effective Covaxin, Covishield, Pfizer, Moderna, Sputnik, Novavax and J&J are against variantsAlpha: Covaxin remains unaffected by the Alpha variant while Covishield's neutralising capability gets reduced 2.5 to 9 fold. The fold reduction figure is 0-4 for Pfizer 0-2 for Moderna, 0 for Sputnik, 2 for Novavax and less than 1 for J&JBeta: Covaxin's effect gets reduced three fold against this variant. the figure is 0-31 for Covishiedl, 1-4 for Pfizerm 1-28 for Moderna, 7 for Sputnik, 15 for Novavax and 5-10 for J&JGamma: This variant results three-fold reduction in Covishield's capabilities, 1-7 fold in Pfizer's and 3-5 in Moderna's vaccine.Delta: 3-fold reduction in neutralising antibody levels, 2 fold in Covishield, 7-10 fold in Pfizer and 7 in Moderna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-effective-are-covishield-and-covaxin-against-delta-plus-report-in-7-10-days-101624626339807.html
25-06-2021||India||Need more data to begin Covid-19 vaccination for children at large: ICMR DG||Amid concerns over the impact of a potential third Covid-19 wave on children, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) DG Dr Balram Bhargava said on Friday that till such time there is more data on the vaccination of children, "we would not be able to vaccinate children at large.""Whether very small children will ever need the vaccine, is still a question. Till such time we have more data on the vaccination of children, we won't be in a position to vaccinate children at large," Bhargava said at a press conference, according to news agency ANI."However, we have started a small study on children between the age of 2 and 18, and we shall have the results of that by September or so. However, international jury is still not out and they're still debating whether children need to be vaccinated. We've seen that there have some cases of complications in the United States," he added.However, we have started a small study on children b/w the age of 2-18 yrs & we shall have results of that by Sept or so. However, int'l jury is still not out & they're still debating whether children need to be vaccinated. We've seen some complications in the US: Balram BhargavaSeveral experts have projected that a third Covid-19 wave is likely to hit India in the near future, and this potential third wave will be particularly hard hitting for those below 18 years old, including k. As such, AIIMS Delhi and Patna have commenced trials to vaccinate children.Also Read | AIIMS Delhi begins screening of children for Covaxin trialsHowever, a recent AIIMS-World Health Organization (WHO) suggested that a third Covid-19 wave "may not hit kids disproportionately."Also Read | Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero surveyIn a recent interview to India Today, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said that Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, is likely to be approved for children in September. Three other vaccines, including another Bharat Biotech shot, are expected to be available for children soon.Also Read | Covaxin likely to be approved for children by Sept: Dr Randeep GuleriaCurrently, those above the age of 18 are eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine shot in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-more-data-to-begin-covid-19-vaccination-for-children-says-icmr-dg-101624621952702.html
25-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand high court pulls up government for allowing Char Dham Yatra||The Uttarakhand high court has pulled up the state government for allowing Char Dham Yatra from July 1 despite fears of a third Covid-19 wave. It directed a review of the decision. The court said the Yatra needs to be postponed or cancelled while citing the cancellation of Amarnath Yatra in Jammu & Kashmir.“Considering the fact that large gathering invariably leads to a spike in the COVID-19 pandemic, this Court is of the firm opinion that a catastrophe like COVID-19 pandemic should not be re-invited by holding and permitting large gathering at religious shrines, and by permitting the Char Dham Yatra by the State government. Therefore, this court directs the State government to review its decision to commence the Char Dham Yatra on July 1,” the court said.The court issued the directions while hearing a bunch of pleas related to the Covid-19 pandemic on Wednesday. The order was made available on Thursday.On June 20, the state government announced the start of the Char Dham Yatra in two phases. From July 1, it will be allowed for the residents of Uttarakhand’s Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi. The pilgrimage to four temples will be allowed from July 11 for people from the rest of the state. On April 29, the state government postponed the pilgrimage, which was scheduled to start on May 14.Also Read | Char Dham Yatra in two phases beginning July 1: UttarakhandThe court cited the Kumbh Mela held in April and said a large congregation of tens of thousands of people for the event was “clear cut proof of the failure of the civil administration” in ensuring precautionary measures “...the possibility of a large congregation descending on the temples and shrines of Char Dham cannot be ruled out…Once the devotees start gathering in large number, invariably the first victim is the SOP (standard operating procedure) itself; the second victims are the people at large.”The court cited media reports and said 59% of deaths due to Covid-19 in Uttarakhand were reported in May. “Thus, there is a clear co-relation between the holding of Kumbh Mela in April 2021 and the consequent deaths which occurred in Uttarakhand in May 2021. Furthermore, it is common knowledge that in April and in May 2021, the entire country was devastated by the second wave of COVID-19.”The court cited the government’s affidavit and added there are hardly any medical facilities available at the Char Dham shrines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-high-court-pulls-up-government-for-allowing-char-dham-yatra-101624625635429.html
25-06-2021||India||Chandy meets Rahul Gandhi amid dissent in Kerala’s Congress unit||Former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy on Friday met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi amid reports of dissent over the organisational reshuffle in the state party unit. He said everyone is prepared to accept the decisions of the high command and everyone is bound to do so. Chandy added that the manner in which they were implemented has led to some displeasure. “But everything is over now,’’ he said.Mullappally Ramachandran and Ramesh Chennithala were removed as the state unit president and leader of opposition in the Kerala assembly. V D Satheesan and K Sudhakaran replaced the two after the Congress failed to return to power in Kerala.Congress’s Kerala working president T Siddiqui said the party’s political affairs committee met on Wednesday. He added everyone “supportively took part in decisions to reconstitute the lower-level committees of the party and there was a unanimous pledge to work for the success of the political movements that Congress has planned.” Siddiqui added that everyone has “approved the decisions of high command” and there was no scope of any division within the party.Congress leader K Muraleedharan boycotted the meeting, the first such gathering after Sudhakaran and Sathesan’s appointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandy-meets-rahul-gandhi-amid-dissent-in-kerala-s-congress-unit-101624623775240.html
25-06-2021||India||About 80% of Tripura’s eligible population given Covid vaccine||Total 18.31 lakh [1.83 million] people have been vaccinated against Covid in Tripura so far, said National Health Mission director Dr. Siddhartha Shiv Jaiswal on Friday. As many as 969,000 people above 45 years of age have been administered the first dose since March 1 and 691,000 between 18-45 years have been given the first dose since May 13. Also Read | Task force proposes formula to determine oxygen need during Covid-19“ We have completed 98% vaccination for the 45 years and above people with the first dose and 47% with the second dose. 50% vaccination has been done in the 18-45 age group. Overall, 18.31 lakh of the total population in the state have been vaccinated which is approximately 80% of the total eligible population,” said Dr Jaiswal. The state has already completed 100% vaccination of the healthcare and frontline workers with the first dose; 73% of the healthcare staff and 56% of frontline workers have got the second dose, he said. “According to direction of the state government, we have involved our health workers, local leaders, NGOs, clubs to mobilise the people for vaccination. We have given priority to rickshaw pullers,drivers and media in vaccination,” he said.The state has 210,000 doses in stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-80-of-tripura-s-eligible-population-given-covid-vaccine-101624623175006.html
25-06-2021||India||SC gives fresh chance to Mamata Banerjee, minister to respond to CBI charges||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and minister Moloy Ghatak to respond by Monday to the grounds the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has cited in its plea before the Calcutta high court for the transfer of the Narada corruption case out of the state. The CBI has claimed that violent protests allegedly orchestrated by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) over the arrest of four politicians in the case last month hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts. It has named Banerjee, Ghatak, and TMC lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in the case.The high court on June 9 refused to accept the responses of the TMC leaders, citing the delay in filing them while hearing the CBI plea for the transfer of the case. The Supreme Court said the TMC leaders, in their application, shall give reasons in support of bringing the affidavits on record at this stage of hearing. It added that an advance copy should be sent to the CBI to enable it to come up with a response by Tuesday.A Vacation Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari set aside the high court’s June 9 order. It requested the five-judge Constitution Bench of the high court to consider the applications of the two “de novo” (a second time over) before proceeding with the merits of the case. On June 18 and 22, the Supreme Court requested the high court to defer its proceedings in the case.Also Read | Leadership, asset split key concerns for air force on theaterisation move“We are of the opinion that the petitioners ought to have filed an application (before the high court) to take their respective counter affidavits on record, especially when submissions or arguments were going on and had progressed substantially….Lest any prejudice is caused to the parties, the order of June 9 is annulled and the High Court shall decide the application de novo,” the top court said.The CBI filed its transfer petition on May 24, but notices were issued on May 27 to Banerjee and Ghatak. The agency has accused Ghatak of leading a mob outside the trial court, which first granted bail to the four politicians including ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee in the Narada case, on May 17. The high court later stayed the bail.The four, who have since been released on bail, were arrested in May in connection with the 2014 sting operation (details of which went public in 2016). The arrests triggered protests by the TMC and a six-hour-long agitation at the CBI office by Banerjee.In its transfer petition, the agency claimed the protests and stone-pelting mob prevented CBI officers from physically producing the accused in court.The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.The TMC has linked the arrests of the four to Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s alleged vendetta after Banerjee swept back to power in the state in May. The BJP has rejected the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-fresh-chance-to-mamata-banerjee-minister-to-respond-to-cbi-charges-101624622575214.html
25-06-2021||India||SII manufactures first batch of Covavax vaccine; Poonawalla congratulates team||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief Adar Poonwalla on Friday announced that the SII has manufactured the first batch of the Covavax vaccine. He said that this vaccine has the potential to protect children and teenagers. He also congratulated the team for its efforts.Excited to witness the first batch of Covovax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia! pic.twitter.com/K4YzY6o73A“Excited to witness the first batch of Covavax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia!,” Poonawalla said in a tweet.The SII had earlier said that it will introduce the Covavax in the country by September. The vaccine is the version of US firm Novavax’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The SII will also begin clinical trials of Novavax for children starting next month.The Novavax vaccine showed strong efficacy against the emerging variants of Covid-19, its makers Novavax Inc said citing data from a large trial on June 14. Novavax is the fourth vaccine the United States has added to its arsenal in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The data also showed that Novavax has shown a 93% effectiveness against variants of concern. These results were based on a second analysis which mostly consisted of cases of the Alpha variant of Covid-19, which is predominant in the United States.The vaccine efficacy rate of the vaccine developed by Novavax is similar to that of the vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc. with BioNTech SE and by Moderna Inc., as well as the Sputnik V vaccine from Russia. All of these vaccines are messenger RNA shots and use viral vector technology.India’s health ministry earlier said that the data shared by Novavax regarding its vaccine is ‘encouraging’. NITI Aayog member (Health) VK Paul on June 17 said that the SII making the vaccine in India makes Novavax relevant to India’s vaccination plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-manufactures-first-batch-of-covavax-vaccine-poonawalla-congratulates-team-101624622221819.html
25-06-2021||India||President Kovind takes train to his native village in UP||President Ram Nath Kovind and his wife boarded a special train at New Delhi’s Safdarjung railway station to travel to the former’s native Paraunkh village in Kanpur. It is the first such journey by the head of the state in 15 years.A Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said Kovind decided to travel by train in line with the tradition of his predecessors, who undertook rail journeys to connect with the people. Kovind is expected to attend functions and meet his family and friends during his four-day visit to Kanpur and Kanpur Dehat, his native district.This is Kovind’s first visit to his birthplace since he took office in 2017. “Though he desired to visit the place earlier, plans could not materialise because of the pandemic,” the statement said.In 2006, A P J Abdul Kalam last travelled on a special train as the president from Delhi to Dehradun to attend the parade of cadets at the Indian Military Academy.Also Read | Bridging Kashmir’s ‘dil ki duri’ with DelhiIndian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation’s chief public relations officer Deepak Kumar said Kovind’s journey will be a great morale booster for the railwaymen, who have diligently given their services throughout the difficult pandemic times. “This will also help to encourage and build confidence among the people to use the trains to travel for business, tourism and other purposes...”Officials said Kovind is being provided with a four-tier security cover of 100 snipers and 80 special commandos. Police personnel, Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police of 10 districts will also be deployed for security along the route to the village. Officials said drone cameras have been installed across vital junctions for security purposes along the route. On June 28, Kovind will take the train from Kanpur central railway station to travel to Lucknow for a two-day visit. The next day, he will fly back to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-takes-train-to-his-native-village-in-up-101624622335005.html
25-06-2021||India||UP top performer under Smart Cities mission, followed by MP and Tamil Nadu||The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs has ranked Uttar Pradesh as top performer under the Smart Cities mission’s India Smart Cities Awards Contest (ISAC) 2020 followed by Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Among cities, Indore and Surat were adjudged joint winners. Among Union Territories, Chandigarh was ranked first.The awards were announced on Friday to commemorate 6 years of the three urban transformative missions of the Central government -- Smart Cities Mission (SCM), Atal Mission for Urban Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U), which were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 25, 2015.These awards were given across the themes of social aspects, governance, culture, urban environment, sanitation, economy, built environment, water, urban mobility. Some new themes were also added this year for Sustainable Business model of Integrated Command and Control Centres, and Innovation award specially in Covid management.“Since 2018, we have felicitated the top-performing cities through the India Smart Cities Award Contest. This year’s best proposals range from the use of Integrated Command and Control Centres in governance or in response to Covid-19, enhancing safety and security of citizens, intelligent traffic management, innovative use of open spaces, enhancement of urban environment, innovations in the improvement of urban mobility, smart water management, waste-to-energy generation and many others,” Union housing affairs minister Hardeep Puri said.There are a total of five award categories in ISAC 2020. Winners for three of these five categories were decided through a two-stage submission process. Stage-I involved an overall assessment of the city’s performance. Stage-I submissions were evaluated by a Technical Support Team and 71 Smart Cities qualified for Stage-II.“Indore has been a forerunner among the Smart Cities in the past year...It is implementing projects worth ₹5,099.6 crore under the Smart Cities Mission of which ₹4,711.6 crore is dedicated to the projects within the ABD [area based development]. Improvement of city identity through revival of old heritage structures, development of public and commercial places, and waste management within the ABD area is an approach well received by the people of Indore. The Smart City has made visible gains in a timebound manner – exhibiting strong local support for the smart city projects undertaken,” the ministry said.At present, 69 Smart cities have developed and operationalised their ICCCs in the country. These function as war-rooms for Covid management, and along with other smart infrastructure developed under the mission, have helped cities in fighting the pandemic through information dissemination, improving communication, predictive analysis and supporting effective management. These are being developed across all 100 Smart Cities of the country, the ministry said.HT on April 7, 2020 reported the government’s plans of using ICCCs designed for National Smart Cities Mission, an urban renewal and retrofitting programme, for real-time surveillance and monitoring of Covid-19-affected districts across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-top-performer-under-smart-cities-mission-followed-by-mp-and-tamil-nadu-101624621495040.html
25-06-2021||India||48 Delta Plus cases in 11 states: More study needed, cases very localised, says health ministry||The Union health ministry on Friday said 48 cases of Delta Plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus have been found in the country, spread across 11 states including Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Karnataka. "Wherever you find a cluster, you have to contain it," Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, Indian Council of Medical Research said adding that the second wave of the pandemic is not yet over. Giving a detailed presentation of the genome sequencing work, Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh of the National Centre for Disease Control said, "Forming a scientific opinion on a variant takes time. Genome sequencing takes 10-12 days. Then some more samples are sometimes sought from the state to find out whether the particular variant is linked to the spike in the cases." Dr Singh said the plus in the name of Delta Plus does not denote more virulence. "The plus is an addition of an existing variant. It does not mean that it is stronger than Delta. At least the name does not. If scientific evidence suggests so in future, we will inform the public about it."Delta Plus: List of states where this new Covid variant has been reported so farHow Delta variant spread in India since December 2020In his presentation, Dr Singh said the Delta variant, first reported in India, had a minimum presence in the country in December. In March 2021, the variant spread to 52 districts and in June there are 174 districts reporting the variant. But the trend is declining, Dr Singh said. At present, the Delta variant can be found in 174 districts in 35 states, the highest being reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat. The distribution was not uniform. In some places, Delta variant cases were minimum at the beginning and then gradually Delta took over Alpha, Dr Singh said, adding that Delta is stronger than Alpha. Why more study required to understand the nature of the Delta Plus variantThe number of Delta Plus variant cases in the country as well as in the world is not enough for extensive study. For example, Dr Singh said, Delta Plus cases have been there in India sporadically for three months. "It can't be said that this is a growing trend. This variant has the same mutations as Delta. Only one mutation K417N is different for which Delta variant is believed to be immune-escape and monoclonal antibody-resistant, but more studies are required," Dr Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48-delta-plus-cases-in-11-states-more-study-needed-cases-very-localised-says-health-ministry-101624620167457.html
25-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra imposes stricter norms after Delta plus variant cases emerge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra imposes stricter norms after cases of Delta plus variant emergeThe Maharashtra government has decided to impose stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. Read MoreNo alternative to two-state solution between Israelis and Palestinians: IndiaIndia has emphasised that there is no alternative to the two-state solution between Israel and Palestine, and said the peace process can’t be put on the back burner amid concerns about tensions increasing again in Gaza. Read MoreCovid-19 may have been spreading in China since Oct-Nov 2019: New studyThe coronavirus linked to Covid-19 may have been spreading in China as early as October 2019, a new study has found, pushing the date back by weeks before the first case was officially identified in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Read More'Bumrah is just 3/10, Pujara 2/10': Aakash Chopra rates Team India's performance in WTC finalNew Zealand defeated India by 8 wickets to win the first-ever World Test Championship on Wednesday. Read MoreVicky Kaushal’s 6am Capoeira workout combines dance, acrobatics and musicPumping up our fitness motivation this Friday with style, actor Vicky Kaushal was seen flaunting the movements of Afro-Brazilian martial art, Capoeira, during his robust gym session. Read MoreTwitter conversation between Tesla CEO Elon Musk and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey goes viralA Twitter conversation between Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and Tesla CEO Elon Musk has created a buzz. Read MoreWindows 11 price, release date, and download: Here is what you need to know nowWindows 11 OS has been launched and in a short and sweet event, its many details were explained. Windows 11 has been put through a makeover with many new things that promise to heighten the experience of users and connect them in new ways to things that were not possible before. Read MoreFake report or fake oxygen demand? BJP vs AAP over O2 shortage during Covid peakWith the second wave of Covid-19 infections receding, the Aam Aadmi Party and Bharatiya Janata Party clashed over the issue of medical oxygen supply. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharashtra-imposes-stricter-curbs-after-delta-plus-variant-cases-emerge-and-all-the-latest-news-101624619208437.html
25-06-2021||India||Kerala women panel chief resigns after row over ‘Then you suffer’ remark||Kerala women panel chairperson MC Josephine, who recently landed in controversy for her “then you suffer” remark on a domestic violence victim during a live television show, tendered her resignation on Friday.“MC Josephine has tendered resignation for her callous remarks to a domestic violence victim. Merit and empathy should be the criteria for the appointment of new chairperson,” Kerala BJP chief K Surendran tweeted.Josephine drew flak from all quarters, including supporters of the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala, of which she is a central committee member.The incident unfolded when a woman called in the show, a special programme held by a Malayalam channel to lay attention on women experiencing harassment and abuse at home. The woman spoke about her husband and mother-in-law beating her up, and informed that she has not yet registered a complaint with the police or even told a single person about her ordeal at home. Josephine said, “Then you suffer, OK,” and snapped the line.While the state women panel chief attempted to justify her response, she later issued an apology after she and her party came under fire. “I was talking to her with motherly affection. If my words have pained anyone, I regret,” Josephine said, adding that she was angry about women suffering silently.Earlier today, she told news agency ANI that she didn’t make the remark. “There are women who aren’t listening to us. We suggest women file complaints, making the case stronger as we can’t reach everywhere,” Josephine added.However, soon after Josephine stated that she realised she shouldn’t have reacted to the woman’s plight in “such manner,” ANI reported.Both Kerala Congress and state BJP unit demanded action against her. While the women’s wing of state Congress burnt Josephine’s effigy to make their point, K Surendran called for registering a First Information Report (FIR) against her.The incident comes in the wake of three dowry-related deaths reported in one week in Kerala. In one case that happened on June 21, a 23-year-old woman, who married a government official last year, died by suicide. Initial police investigation suggest that her husband allegedly beat her up for months over scorn with the dowry she had brought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-women-panel-chief-resigns-after-row-over-then-you-suffer-remark-101624618971072.html
25-06-2021||India||China inaugurates 1st fully electrified bullet train near Indo-Tibetan border||China on Friday unveiled its first fully electrified bullet train in the remote Himalayan region of Tibet. The bullet train connects the provincial capital Lhasa and Nyingchi, which is a strategically located Tibetan border town close to Arunachal Pradesh.The Lhasa-Nyingchi section is a part of the Sichuan-Tibet Railway and the 435.5km-long corridor has been integrated ahead of the centenary celebrations of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) on July 1.Also read | China’s amassing of troops, bids to change status quo to blame for LAC standoff: IndiaNyingchi is the prefecture-level city of Medog, which is adjacent to the Arunachal Pradesh border. China claims that Arunachal Pradesh is part of South Tibet. The claims have been firmly rejected by India. The India-China border row stretches over China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet, which is firmly rejected by India. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC).This is the first electrified railway to be made operational in the Tibet Autonomous Region. The Sichuan-Tibet Railway will be the second railway into Tibet following the Qinghai-Tibet Railway, which will travel through the southeast of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, reported to be one of the world's most active geolocation.Chinese President Xi Jinping had directed officials in November last year to expedite the construction of the new railway project, connecting Sichuan Province and Nyingchi in Tibet, as he said that the new rail line would be a key player in safeguarding border interest and stability."If a scenario of a crisis happens at the China-India border, the railway will provide a great convenience for China's delivery of strategic materials," Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University told the official daily Global Times, reported PTI.Through the train, which has a speed of 160km per hour, the travel time between Lhasa and Nyingchi has reduced from five hours to approximately 3.5 hours and the travel time between Shannan, which is one of the stations where the train will stop and Nyingchi from six hours to approximately two hours, as per a report by Xinhua news agency.The Sichuan-Tibet Railway starts from Chengdu, capital of Sichuan Province, goes through Ya'an and enters Tibet via Qamdo. The journey from Chengdu to Lhasa is reduced from 48 hours to 13 hours.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-inaugurates-1st-fully-electrified-bullet-train-near-indo-tibetan-border-101624614869306.html
25-06-2021||India||No alternative to two-state solution between Israelis and Palestinians: India||India has emphasised that there is no alternative to the two-state solution between Israel and Palestine, and said the peace process can’t be put on the back burner amid concerns about tensions increasing again in Gaza. New Delhi’s position was outlined in a statement by Vikas Swarup, secretary (West) in the external affairs ministry, at a UN Security Council meeting on the Palestine issue on Thursday. India urged all parties to honour the May 20 ceasefire arrangement to ensure the situation doesn’t “spiral out of control”. The ceasefire, declared after 11 days of rocket and air attacks across the border area between Gaza and southern Israel, has come under strain following a march by right-wing Israeli activists through Jerusalem’s Old City and rallies in Gaza Strip by Islamic forces that led to incendiary balloon attacks at Israel. “The peace process can no longer be kept on the back burner. The continuation of the impasse only exacerbates the trust deficit between the parties and increases the chances of cycle of violence to recur,” Swarup said. “There is no alternative to a two-state solution for ensuring meaningful and enduring peace,” he said, adding that India wants all parties to “de-escalate the situation [and] refrain from acts of provocation, intimidation and incitement that exacerbates tensions”. The UN special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, Tor Wennesland, told the Security Council meeting that the world body is working closely with all parties and partners to solidify the ceasefire, allow the entry of humanitarian aid and stabilise the situation in Gaza.  Also Read | India seeks concerted action to tackle terror, radicalisation across AsiaThe hostilities in May left more than 240 people dead, including more than 230 Palestinians and 12 people killed in Israel in rocket attacks by Hamas and other extremist groups. Wennesland urged all sides to “refrain from unilateral steps and provocations” and to reduce tensions. Swarup expressed concern at the fresh tensions. “After a period of brief calm, tensions are rising again in Gaza. The launch of incendiary balloons from Gaza targeting civilians in Israel and the retaliatory strikes into Gaza threaten to restart the cycle of violence, which caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths recently,” he said. Describing the situation in West Bank as volatile, Swarup said that India is “concerned at the potential for renewed violence in East Jerusalem and other parts of West Bank over the legal process that could lead to possible evictions in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem”. He added, “Any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo that undercut efforts to advance a negotiated two-state solution should also be avoided.” Incitement and inflammatory rhetoric, as witnessed during the recent escalation, would only drive and fuel violence, he noted. The world community’s attention shouldn’t be diverted from the immediate needs of humanitarian aid for the Palestinian civilian population, particularly in Gaza, and there should be reinforced cooperation between Israeli and Palestinian authorities for humanitarian aid delivery, including food and medicines and movement of patients in and out of Gaza, the Indian statement said. The rehabilitation and reconstruction of Gaza should be prioritised, and India recognises the centrality of the Palestinian Authority for delivering international aid to the local people, Swarup said. “We take note of the postponement of the reconciliation meeting of all Palestinian parties that had been facilitated by Egypt and hope that the parties overcome the current stalemate. We believe that intra-Palestinian unity is critical for achieving a peaceful settlement of the Israel-Palestine conflict,” he said. Referring to the stalled Middle East peace process, the Indian side emphasised the need to immediately resume the process and direct negotiations between Israel and Palestine. “India supports all diplomatic efforts, including by the Quartet, which are aimed at strengthening the collective commitment of the international community to resume these negotiations and facilitate the peace process,” Swarup said, while reaffirming India’s “unwavering commitment” to establishing an independent, viable, democratic state of Palestine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-alternative-to-two-state-solution-between-israelis-and-palestinians-india-101624619094827.html
25-06-2021||India||Twitter denied me access to my account: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday said Twitter denied him access to his account for almost an hour citing alleged copyright infringement. He linked the action to his statements calling out Twitter’s “high-handedness and arbitrary actions”.Prasad called the denial a gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021. He said Twitter did not provide him any prior notice before denying him access.“Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account,” Prasad wrote on Koo, India’s alternative to Twitter. “It is apparent that my statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of Twitter, particularly sharing the clips of my interviews to TV channels and its powerful impact, have clearly ruffled its feathers.”HT reached out to Twitter for comments but did not receive a response immediately.Also Read | Twitter executive gets HC relief from arrest in Ghaziabad caseTwitter has been at loggerheads with the government over the new controversial social media and intermediary guidelines. The government has pulled up the company for failing to comply with the guidelines. It has said the non-compliance could result in Twitter’s loss of safe harbour protection under the Information Technology Act. Twitter has raised concerns about the safety of its employees in India and flagged police intimidation.The firm and the government have also faced off over orders to block access to content and marking of posts by Bhartiya Janata Party leaders as manipulated media.Prasad said it is apparent why Twitter is refusing to comply with the guidelines. He added it is because if Twitter does comply, it would be unable to arbitrarily deny access to an individual’s account which does not suit its agenda. “Furthermore, in the past several years, no television channel or any anchor has made any complaints about copyright infringements with regard to these news clips of my interviews shared on social media.”Prasad slammed Twitter saying that its actions showed that it was not the “harbinger of free speech that they claim to be but are only interested in running their own agenda, with the threat that if you do not tow the line they draw, they will arbitrarily remove you from their platform”. He said no matter what any platform does, it will have to abide by the new rules fully and there shall be no compromise on that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-denied-me-access-to-my-account-union-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-101624618914999.html
25-06-2021||India||Galwan Valley deployment showed India’s intent to seek peace: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that the Indian Navy’s proactive forward deployment during the Galway Valley standoff with China last year signalled India’s intent of seeking peace as well as its readiness for any eventuality.Speaking at the Southern Naval Command after reviewing the construction work of the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) in Kochi, Rajnath Singh said that the project was originally given a nod by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government and has made significant progress despite Covid-19.“Yesterday, I also reviewed Project Seabird at Karwar, which will be the largest naval base of the Indian Navy in future, and will provide the facilities and infrastructure to support the navy's operations in the Indian Ocean region and beyond,” news agency ANI quoted Singh as saying.The defence minister said that their urge towards modernisation, utilising India’s indigenous know-how and industry, is a primary priority and that 42 of the 44 warships being constructed at Indian shipyards are testimony to this.Singh also praised the navy for its efforts in times of crisis such as the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and Cyclone Tauktae, which affected Gujarat and Maharashtra last month. “The navy has also made significant contributions in the fight against Covid, bringing back citizens from overseas during Op Samudra Setu-I, and much needed liquid medical oxygen during Samudra Setu-lI, despite dangers of Covid spread onboard warships. SAR efforts by the navy during Cyclone Tauktae showcased the spirit of daring and courage among our men and women in whites,” he added according to ANI.Earlier in the day, Singh said that India will commission the first IAC next year. Terming the moment as the country’s pride and a shining example of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the minister noted that it will also be a “befitting tribute to 75 years of India’s Independence.”During the event, Singh also talked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region or SAGAR and said that our efforts are in alignment with his vision of the initiative and that the wider goal of a Free, Open and Inclusive Indo-Pacific is to ensure peace and stability in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-valley-deployment-showed-india-s-intent-to-seek-peace-rajnath-singh-101624617442276.html
25-06-2021||India||‘Something peculiar happened’: IT minister Prasad alleges Twitter blocked his account for an hour||Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged on Friday that Twitter denied him access to his account for over an hour on account of a “violation,” adding that he was subsequently allowed access to his account.“Friends, something peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA, and subsequently they allowed me to access the account,” Prasad tweeted, sharing screenshots of Twitter’s message to him of his account being locked, and then unlocked.Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account. pic.twitter.com/WspPmor9SuThe minister described Twitter’s action as being in gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology Rules 2021. “Twitter failed to provide me any prior notice before denying access to my own account,” he tweeted.The IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Ethics Code) Rules, which were announced in February, have led to a faceoff between the social media giant and the Prasad-headed Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY).Prasad further remarked that his statements calling out the “high-handedness and arbitrary actions” of Twitter have “clearly ruffled its feathers.”“It is now apparent as to why Twitter is refusing to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines, because if it does comply, it would be unable to arbitrarily deny access to an individual’s account which does not suit their agenda,” the IT minister posted in a subsequent tweet.Twitter’s actions indicate that they are not the harbinger of free speech that they claim to be but are only interested in running their own agenda, with the threat that if you do not tow the line they draw, they will arbitrarily remove you from their platform.Twitter’s action indicate that it is not the harbinger of free speech that it claims to be, Prasad said, adding that “no matter what any platform does, they will have to abide by the new IT Rules fully and there will be no compromise on that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/something-peculiar-happened-it-minister-prasad-alleges-twitter-blocked-his-account-for-an-hour-101624617908924.html
25-06-2021||India||Maharashtra brings back some Covid curbs after Delta Plus cases found in state||The Maharashtra government on Friday decided to bring back some Covid-19 restrictions in the state after Delta Plus variant cases have been reported in the state. Instead of a five-level unlock, which the government announced earlier, there will be three-level restrictions now. The decision has been taken considering cases of Delta plus variant cases found in the state, the government said. In the first week of June, the Maharashtra government announced a 5-level unlocking plan, ending the month-long lockdown-like period. The number of daily cases started to climb down, but the government decided to unlock in levels allowing districts with better Covid-19 situation to reopen the maximum, while district with higher positivity rate retained restrictions. But now there will be no district complete relaxations, the government has said."Given that the virus causing Covid-19 is undergoing mutations in various geographic and that their mutations are displaying more transmissibility and potential reductions in monoclonal antibody response, a state-level trigger mandating all the administrative units, irrespective of values of the indices of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage to remain at a level, not below 3 is to be in operation till withdrawn by specific order of SDMA," the order said.Levels of restrictions for safe Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/FOAKTSrI9AThe Delta variant of the Covid-19 has emerged as a variant of concern and another mutation of Delta, Delta Plus, has been found in India. The first case of Delta Plus was detected in a sample collected in Maharashtra in April, the government has said. This indicates that though the variant has been reported recently, cases were already there in India in April during the peak of the second wave. Ratnagiri and Jalgaon are the two areas where the Delta Plus samples were found, the Centre said and asked the government to focus on containment.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope recently said though the Covid-19 situation of the state was improving, the number of daily cases is not coming below 8,000, which is concerning. The Covid-19 task force of the Maharashtra government has also warned that Delta Plus variant might be the reason for the third wave of the pandemic in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-brings-back-some-covid-curbs-after-delta-plus-cases-found-in-state-101624615595007.html
25-06-2021||India||It’s bizarre: Chidambaram hits out at Centre for insisting on polls in J&K before restoring statehood||A day after the all-party meet between political representatives of Jammu and Kashmir and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader P Chidambaram hit out at the Centre for prioritising elections over the issue of statehood."Congress and other J&K parties and leaders want Statehood first and Elections afterward. Government's response is Elections first and Statehood later," Chidambaram tweeted."The horse pulls the cart. A state must conduct elections. Only such elections will be free and fair. Why does the government want the cart in front and the horse behind? It is bizarre," he added in a subsequent tweet.At the all-party meet which took place at the Prime Minister’s official residence in the national capital J&K political outfits unanimously demanded that J&K’s statehood be restored. The Prime Minister is said to have emphasised on the need to carry out free and fair elections for strengthening “grassroots democracy”.“Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory,” PM Modi tweeted after the meeting ended.Union home minister Amit Shah assured the leaders present that statehood would be restored once the delimitation exercise is completed and fresh elections are held.“The future of Jammu & Kashmir was discussed and the delimitation exercise and peaceful elections are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament,” Shah said.This is the first such meeting between the Centre and local representatives of J&K since the bifurcation exercise of 2019. Along with the Prime Minister and the home minister, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha were also in attendance.Congress leader Gulam Nabi Azad who was also present in the meeting said the party has put forth five demands, “the first is that the dissolution of the state into union territories was carried out without the consent of the elected representatives so statehood should be restored. We have also asked for conducting elections to the Vidhan Sabha, rehabilitation of Kashmiri pandits and protection of domicile rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-bizarre-chidambaram-hits-out-at-centre-for-insisting-on-polls-in-j-k-before-restoring-statehood-101624613812660.html
25-06-2021||India||When will US lift travel restrictions for Indians? US Embassy official Don Heflin answers||With the new academic session starting in US schools and colleges in August, it is time for the last-minute scramble for Indian students as the situation has become more challenging owing to issues regarding travel restriction, Covid-19 vaccinations etc. In an exclusive interview to Hindustan Times' Aditi Prasad, minister-counsellor for consular affairs in US Embassy New Delhi, Don Heflin, gave a clear picture of when the United States can lift travel restrictions for India, whether Indian students will need a second vaccination after reaching the United States etc.On travel restrictionsAt present, no one can travel from India to the United States if they have been in India in the last 14 days. There are exceptions for American citizens, students and those who can prove their travel to the US as of national interest. "It is hard to predict when the travel restrictions will be lifted. But one signal for India will be to look for the lifting of the restriction from Europe's Schengen area, which was placed under travel curbs before India. Once those countries come out of restrictions, India can expect to see the lifting of the US travel ban," Don Heflin said. The Schengen area comprises 26 European countries including France, Germany, Italy, Denmark etc.Watch: HT's Aditi Prasad speaks to Don Heflin on India-US travel, visa restrictionsNot getting visa appointments?Don Heflin said that the embassy is working towards increasing the number of visa appointments and more will be opened in July. But how will the July visa appointment help if the classes start in August? "There is no need to panic. Schools will let you come late. Try to reach by August 25. If that is not possible for any reason, then contact the department concerned," Heflin said. The second wave of the pandemic in India delayed the appointment process in India, but the embassy has already opened 45,000 visa appointments and is aiming to achieve the pre-covid number of visa appointments.Also Read: US travel ban strategy doesn’t make sense, ex-FDA chief saysWill you get vaccinated again if you have got Covaxin in India?As Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is yet to receive a nod from the World Health Organization, this question has been raised. The minister-councillor said the United States, as yet, has no vaccine requirement. It only requires an RT-PCR test report but schools, universities are following their own guidelines regarding vaccination. "When you come for a visa interview, we won't ask you whether you are vaccinated. Airlines won't ask you whether you are vaccinated. immigrant officials won't probably ask you about this either," Heflin said adding that vaccines are widely available in the US. But the single-point guideline will be to check with the college and also the CDC website, Heflin said.Here are some additional specific questions regarding US travel and visa requirementsCan a green card-holding Legal Permanent Resident maintain their status and travel to the United States if they have been in India for more than one year due to Covid restrictions? What steps should they take?A permanent resident (called lawful permanent resident or LPR) must return to the United States within one year of departure to maintain permanent resident status. There is currently no change to the requirement that LPR(s) maintain their status. We encourage you to review the information on our website for additional detail and application instructions for a re-entry permit or returning resident visa.Can individuals in the United States with valid F-1 visas and approval for Optional Practical Training status travel to India, then return to the United States in a timely manner? What should they do to prepare for their travel?Given the current demand for visa appointments and COVID-19 related restrictions, we cannot guarantee a student’s timely return to the United States following short-term travel to India. Students with valid F-1 or M-1 visas, including those with active OPT approval, who are resuming their programs in the United States on or after August 1, 2021, do not require a National Interest Exception (NIE) before travelling to the United States from India within 30 days of their programme resumption date.How have the US Embassy and consulates in India been impacted by Covid-19? If you are only processing visas for emergency cases, how do you prevent this from negatively affecting Indians aspiring to work in the United States?The Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns in India have caused delays in visa processing. The embassy and consulates resumed processing visas, focusing first on returning workers and now students, as soon as conditions allowed. Please note that H-1B workers in India who hold valid visas may be eligible for a National Interest Exception (NIE) from Presidential Proclamation 10199. To date, we have processed thousands of NIEs for qualified returning workers.Are H-4 minors with lapsed visas eligible for interview waiver processing if their H-1B parent is currently in the United States and their H-4 parent holds a valid visa?Yes. We resumed limited interview waiver processing for certain categories of visas, including H-4s. There are some H-4 visa holders who plan to attend school in the United States on F-1 visas.Is there a provision for these individuals to change their status and prepare for study without travelling to India for the visa interview?We encourage you to contact US Citizenship and Immigration Services for information regarding the planned change of status within the United States.Are F-2 derivative relatives of F-1 students currently in the United States permitted to travel to join them? What timing and National Interest Exemption waivers should they bear in mind?F-2 visa holders must be approved for a National Interest Exception prior to travel to the United States; the blanket waiver for F1 students does not apply to F2 derivatives. Please refer to our website for information on the National Interest Exemption process: https://in.usembassy.gov/visas/national-interest-exception-frequently-asked-questions/How does the visa and travel process differ for F-1 PhD students or others with independent or flexible programs without a set start date? Are there limitations in travel dates? Is a National Interest Exemption required?Students who are starting new programs should refer to their I-20 for their official “program start date”. Students with valid F-1 visas and active SEVIS status can enter the United States up to 30 days prior to a program resumption date that is August 1 or later. You should work with your school to confirm your specific resumption date.Do fully vaccinated students need to quarantine in the United States?Please consult the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for the latest information on quarantine requirements upon US entry. According to current guidance, fully vaccinated individuals do not need to self-isolate upon entry.Hindustan Times received many queries regarding the US travel and visa restrictions from its readers/viewers including from Smriti Sharma, Avi Seth, Asha Khatri, Shiven Panya, Shweta Chhajed, Rashmi Bogapur, Dr R Jeevakumar, Haseena Begum, Maneshker Mathivanam, Ved Garg, Shashwat Kumar, Sandeep, Geetha Sundar, Ashwin Kumar, Sravanthi Kuthuru, Pradeep Kumar, Ankit Hatalkar, Rishi Kesh among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-us-lift-travel-restrictions-for-indians-us-embassy-official-don-heffline-answers-101624607728793.html
25-06-2021||India||Delhi govt, BJP spar over SC-appointed panel’s report on oxygen utilisation||A political battle has broken out between Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government and the Bharatiya Janata Party over an interim report submitted by a Supreme Court-appointed panel to conduct oxygen utilisation audit in Delhi that has indicted the Delhi government over “gross discrepancy” in recording the requirement of medical oxygen by its hospitals, besides inflating the demand by more than five times of its actual consumption between April 29 and May 10. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said: “The Supreme Court set up an oxygen audit committee. We spoke to members of the committee. They said that they have not approved or signed any report till now. Then what report is it? Where has it come from? I challenge the BJP to get a report which has been signed and approved by the oxygen audit committee.”The panel is headed by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria. Its other members are Subodh Yadav, a joint secretary in the Jal Shakti ministry, Dr Sandeep Budhiraja from Max Healthcare, Bhupinder S Bhalla, principal secretary, home, Delhi government, and Sanjay Kumar Singh, the controller of explosives at the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO). Dr Guleria couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.Also Read | Mamata case judge reminisces of days as lawyer, reserves orderThe BJP was quick to respond to the findings. “It is unbelievable to see that Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi government politicised oxygen supply when Covid was at its peak. This is such petty politics. The data presented by Oxygen Audit Committee in the report is shocking,” party’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra said in a press conference.“The demand for four times more oxygen was made by the Delhi government, due to which the oxygen tankers remained on the road. Had this oxygen been used in other states, many lives could have been saved. This is a heinous crime committed by Arvind Kejriwal Ji,” he added.HT has reviewed a copy of the audit sub-group’s report. The controversial report marks the latest chapter in a long-running spat between the Union government and the Delhi government fought across the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court. The Delhi government’s position, in the arguments in court, held against the backdrop of the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic in the Capital, was that the Union government was not allocating it enough oxygen. The Centre’s position was that Delhi’s needs were overstated and that the local government wasn’t able to even lift supplies of oxygen that had been allocated to it. With social media filled with pleas of people scrambling for oxygen, the courts had to step in. While the issue was resolved with Delhi finally receiving adequate oxygen, the apex court also constituted an expert panel to look into the usage of the precious medical commodity. The interim findings of the audit sub-group of that panel, now leaked, have become the subject of controversy. Even in a response in the report itself, the Delhi government describes the panel’s proceedings as “a perfunctory desktop exercise, conducted hurriedly” which resulted in “erroneous entries and even more erroneous conclusions”. Terming the allegation of excess supply “incorrect,” it told the panel that it was “sad and shocking” that the panel arrived as “sweeping conclusions” without lending it an opportunity to explain. The sub-group was constituted by the Supreme Court-appointed 12-member national task force. The task force was set up by the apex court on May 8 when the bench, led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, called for an immediate oxygen utilisation audit in Delhi. At the same time, the bench also directed that Delhi should get 700 metric tonne (MT) of the life-saving medical input every day despite the Union government’s reluctance to give it that much. Also Read | Borrowers’ nod needed to alter interest rates, says commissionThe interim report cited a study conducted by PESO and responses received from 183 hospitals in the national capital regarding their oxygen requirement to observe that while the city government’s statistics claimed actual consumption of oxygen by its hospitals as 1,140 MT, the actual consumption turned out to be just 209 MT after correcting faulty reporting by four city hospitals. If the Centre-recommended formula for oxygen allotment was employed, the requirement would have been 289 MT and with the Delhi government’s formula, it would have been 391 MT, stated the report. It noted that four hospitals, Singhal Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Government Hospital, ESIC Model Hospital and Liferays Hospital erroneously claimed extremely high oxygen consumption with very few beds, “leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher oxygen requirement for entire state of Delhi.” HT has reached out to the hospitals and will update the story once they respond. The sub-group has added that the oxygen consumption did not go beyond 350 MT on any day between April 29 and May 10. This meant that when Delhi government gave data of 1,140 MT as actual consumption by 183 hospitals, none had reported excess supply. The panel, which met seven times between May 11 and May 21, recorded in one of its meetings a finding by PESO “that there is a gross discrepancy of about four times in that the actual oxygen consumption claimed of 1140 MT was about four times higher than the calculated consumption by formula for bed- capacity, which is 289 MT.” On May 13, the sub-group also noted that the actual requirement of oxygen was 332 MT as per bed-occupancy formula of the Centre before it made an interim recommendation to the Supreme Court that 400 MT of daily oxygen with an additional 100 MT per day in exigency reserve should be adequate for the national capital for the time being since the Covid-19 cases have dropped significantly. The panel further cited a PESO report that contended that actual requirement of Delhi during the peak of second Covid-19 wave was much less than what was demanded, making other states such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir “suffer badly”. The report, prepared after carrying out a study between May 5 and 11, also contended that AAP government was neither auditing its usage of oxygen nor was assessing its realistic demand. However, the interim report attached documentary replies of the Delhi government to the findings of the sub-group as well as to the PESO report, refuting that the city government ever demanded oxygen in excess of its requirement. Disagreeing with the formula used by the sub-group to compute oxygen requirement, the Delhi government, in its communication to the panel, said: “The finding that Delhi received excess oxygen is incorrect. Delhi has never received excess oxygen. Only on May 5, it received 730 MT which was more than its requirement. Moreover, the oxygen requirement is dynamic and as soon as Delhi’s requirement decreased, a proactive communication was sent to the Central government restating its current requirement.” In another letter, it added: “From a perusal of the minutes and the proceedings, it appears to have been a perfunctory desktop exercise, conducted hurriedly, without even conducting an audit of a single institution in true sense... sadly, it is noted that none of the experts actually visited a single institution or interacted with their heads to get first-hand account of the grim realities which were created by supply shortages.” Also Read | Now, SC judge recuses from hearing pleas in Narada caseThe Delhi government also disputed the sub-group’s pro forma on requirement of oxygen as per bed occupancy, saying the sub-group has proceeded on an assumption that only 50% of non-ICU beds used oxygen which was not correct in the context of a respiratory disease like Covid-19. “The (audit) committee needs to begin with the GNCTD calculation of 568 MT, which is the scientifically modelled and data-driven estimate (arrived at by the Delhi government) and then points out where it feels that our requirements could be higher or lower. This fact cannot be determined through an armchair paper exercise but through an actual survey on the ground.”It also disputed a minute of the meeting on May 13 when Guleria expressed “anguish” over the fact that the oxygen tankers in Delhi were not able to upload oxygen and were lying idle since oxygen tanks in various hospitals were completely filled. The Delhi government called Guleria’s observations “strange”, pointing out that several SOS calls had been received for tanker supplies for his own institutions, AIIMS, Delhi. “It is only when the system has stabilised that this strange narrative is finding place in the committee of experts,” it complained. The Supreme Court is yet to hear this matter after May 6 and the court website, as on Friday, also did not indicate any next date of listing. Sisodia said: “Such misleading statements and conspiracies are not okay in matters that are subjudice. We are all aware of the oxygen crisis in Delhi and the central government’s failure in oxygen management across the country. Instead of taking the responsibility, the BJP is citing reports that do not exist. The BJP created this report in its headquarters and called it the report of the oxygen audit committee.”“It is an insult to people who lost their loved ones because of BJP’s oxygen mismanagement. Were the patients, doctors, and hospitals lying? So many parties went to the court – were they all lying? BJP leaders are lying,” said Sisodia.Abhishek Dey and Malavika PM in Delhi contributed to this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-bjp-spar-over-sc-appointed-panel-s-report-on-oxygen-utilisation-101624609554675.html
25-06-2021||India||Emergency’s ‘dark days’ can never be forgotten, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday attacked the Congress on the 46th anniversary of Emergency, imposed from 1975 to 1977, and said that “the dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten”. “The #DarkDaysOfEmergency can never be forgotten.The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution,” tweeted Modi on the 46th anniversary of the declaration of the state of Emergency. “This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. We remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracyWe remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy,”the PM wrote in another tweet.The Emergency was imposed by then prime minister Indira Gandhi for a 21-month period from 1975 to 1977, when curbs were imposed on the fundamental rights of people.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said during the Emergency, the Congress even banned movies about freedom fighters Bhagat Singh and Chandrasekhar Azad, quotes of Mahatma Gandhi and Rabindranath Tagore, songs of Kishor Kumar, and India’s right to dissent. Also Read | What J&K leaders said after meeting PM ModiUnion home minister Amit Shah called the emergency a period of “brutal tortures” and “ruthless rule of 21 months” to “quell the voices against one family.”“Emergency imposed to quell the voices against one family is a dark chapter in the history of independent India. Salute to the sacrifice of all the countrymen who fought relentlessly for the protection of the Constitution and democracy of the country while suffering the brutal tortures of the ruthless rule for 21 months,” he said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh termed the 1975 emergency as a “dark chapter” in the history of Indian democracy and saluted all those who have played a role in the safeguarding of democracy.“Emergency is known as a ‘dark chapter’ in the history of Indian democracy. The manner in which the Constitution was misused to attack the democratic traditions of the country can never be forgotten. Even today that era is fresh in the memories of all of us,” said the Defence Minister in a tweet.Responding to the criticism, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor attacked the BJP-ruled central government and wrote on Twitter, “We are suffering a nationwide shortage of doctors to battle #Covid19, but continue to spurn fully qualified Foreign Medical graduates. Why can’t we recognize foreign medical degrees at least during this period of national emergency?”Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh said that it was pointless of BJP to preach about democracy as India is going through a “Modigency” since the last 7 years which have witnessed “trampling down of all the democratic institutions”. “All the institutions have been eroded, parliament has lost its credibility and even the pleas for protecting the democratic rights are seen by this government as anti national acts,” Vallabh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-46th-anniversary-of-emergency-in-1970s-pm-modi-hits-out-at-congress-101624607514311.html
25-06-2021||India||Accused of submitting fake degree, Assam MLA asked by HC to prove credentials||Former deputy speaker of Assam assembly Aminul Haque Laskar recently filed a petition in Gauhati high court against Sonai MLA Karim Uddin Barbhuiya for allegedly producing a fake degree while submitting his nomination papers to contest the assembly polls. Now the court has asked Barbhuiya to be present for a hearing on August 4 and produce his documents. Justice Kalyan Rai Surana issued an order on Thursday in this regard. All India United Democratic Front candidate Barbhuiya defeated Bharatiya Janata Party’s Aminul Haque Laskar to become an MLA from Sonai constituency in this year’s assembly election. Laskar has alleged that Barbhuiya declared himself a graduate from Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut, but this was untrue. He claimed that he had filed an RTI in Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut, and the reply stated that Barbhuiya never graduated from that university. Also Read | Doctor held for raping colleague in Assam’s DibrugarhTalking to Hindustan Times, Laskar said, “This is not the first time that Barbhuiya has produced fake documents. In the 2016 election, he said he had a diploma in engineering, but he did not mention this while submitting his nomination in the 2021 election. This year he claimed that he graduated in 2019 from Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut, which is also fake. We informed election officials before polling day but they didn’t scrutinise the issue. Later we decided to knock on the door of honourable high court, and the court has decided to hear the matter. I am sure the court will cancel Barbhuiya’s legislatureship.”However Barbhuiya called this a political conspiracy. He said, “In an RTI to Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Laskar wanted to know if I have done my graduation through distance education. But I did it from a private college. I think he has got confused a bit. He also lodged a complaint before Election Commission of India (ECI) in the past and demanded the cancellation of my candidature. But the ECI rejected it and allowed me to contest and I won. He has a long list of complaints against me but none of them are true. I have not received the court’s order yet but if they have called me, I will be there with all my documents to prove myself truthful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-of-submitting-fake-degree-assam-mla-asked-by-hc-to-prove-credentials-101624607453967.html
25-06-2021||India||Narada case: Supreme Court asks Bengal CM, law minister to file fresh pleas at Calcutta high court||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the Calcutta high court order denying permission to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the state's law minister Moloy Ghatak to submit their reply affidavits in connection with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)'s plea for transfer of the Narada sting operation case. The top court allowed the chief minister and the state cabinet minister to file fresh applications before the Calcutta high court by Monday, said people familiar with the development. Seeking permission to file affidavits in the case will now be considered de novo, the top court ruled.The top court was hearing three appeals including that of the state government challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak in their role on the day of the arrest of four Trinamool Congress leaders on May 17 by CBI in the Narada scam case.A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari urged the 5-judge bench of the Calcutta high court, headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal, to decide afresh the pleas of Banerjee, Ghatak, and the state government before deciding on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the scam case to the high court itself.The said application shall contain reasons for not filing the affidavit all this while even though hearing in the case had begun back on May 27.The Supreme Court asked the Calcutta high court to first decide the application and then proceed with the merits of the case. The CBI will be served an advance copy of the application on Sunday, which will be taken up in the high court on Tuesday.It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played a key role in stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after the arrest of four leaders in the case.West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra, and former mayor of Kolkata Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on a 2017 order of the high court.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-supreme-court-asks-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-law-minister-moloy-ghatak-to-file-fresh-pleas-at-calcutta-high-court-101624605466021.html
25-06-2021||India||India to commission first indigenous aircraft carrier next year: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that commissioning of the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) next year will be a befitting tribute to 75 years of India's Independence, terming it as the country's pride and a shining example of Atmanirbhar Bharat.Speaking at the Southern naval command after reviewing the construction work of the IAC, the defence minister said: "It was a pleasure to review the construction work of the IAC first-hand. The project was originally approved by the National Democratic Alliance government and has made significant progress in the recent past despite Covid-19. Commissioning of the IAC next year will be a befitting tribute to 75 years of India's independence."He also said that the combat capability, reach and versatility of the aircraft carrier will add formidable capabilities in the defence of our country and help secure India's interests in the maritime domain.Asserting that the government is fully committed to a strong Navy, he said: "Yesterday, I also reviewed Project Seabird at Karwar, which will be the largest Naval Base of the Indian Navy in future, and will provide the facilities and infrastructure to support the Navy's operations in the Indian Ocean Region and beyond."The defence minister further said that their impetus to modernisation, harnessing India's indigenous industry and know-how, is a key priority and 42 of the 44 warships on order being built at Indian shipyards is a testimony to this."The IAC boasts of nearly 75 per cent indigenous content, from design to steel used in construction, to key weapons and sensors. DAC has also recently accorded approval for the RFP of Project 75-I under the Strategic Partnership model, which will give further fillip to the indigenous development of niche manufacturing technologies," Rajnath added.The minister said that these measures will help enhance the Indian Navy's operational reach and prowess to protect India's maritime interests. The Indian Navy remains poised and combat-ready to tackle any challenge.Lauding the efforts made by the Navy in times of crisis like the Covid-19 pandemic and Cyclone Tauktae, he said: "The Navy has also made significant contributions in the fight against Covid-19, bringing back citizens from overseas during Op Samudra Setu-I, and much needed Liquid Medical Oxygen during Samudra Setu-lI, despite dangers of Covid-19 spread onboard warships. SAR efforts by the Navy during Cyclone Tauktae showcased the spirit of daring and courage among our men and women in whites."He also spoke about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region) and stated that our efforts are in alignment with his vision of SAGAR and the wider goal of a Free, Open and Inclusive Indo-Pacific, to ensure peace and stability in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-commission-first-indigenous-aircraft-career-next-year-rajnath-singh-101624603095053.html
25-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: NCB takes Dawood’s brother in custody in drugs trafficking case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NCB takes Dawood’s brother Iqbal Kaskar in custody in drugs trafficking caseThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday took custody of Iqbal Kaskar, brother of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, in connection with seizure of a large quantity of hashish which originated from Jammu and Kashmir. Read moreDelhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia lashes out at BJP for 'false report' on oxygen demandDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for lying about a report which said the Arvind Kejriwal-led state government exaggerated the city's oxygen demand during the devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic in April-May. Read MoreKerala HC grants bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha SultanaThe Kerala high court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to filmmaker Aisha Sultana in the sedition case filed against her for her comments against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Read MoreSushant Singh case: Petition against 8 film personalities, including Salman Khan, dismissedA local court in Bihar's Muzaffarpur has dismissed the revision suit filed against eight Bollywood personalities, including Salman Khan, on charges of conspiracy to kill actor Sushant Singh Rajput, according to a report. Read MoreDestructive batting doesn't mean hitting pacers out of the ground: Pathan says Pant should have shown 'responsibility'Former India all-rounder Irfan Pathan feels Rishabh Pant should have batted a little more sensibly during India's second innings, especially since the team had received a setback in the form of Virat Kohli and Cheteshwar Pujara's wickets in quick succession early on Day 6. Read MoreRay review: Manoj Bajpayee, Harsh Varrdhan Kapoor stand out in irreverent but inconsistent Netflix anthologyIt’s one thing to adapt the works of a writer. But it’s a different ball game altogether to adapt the works of a writer who also happens to be one of the most celebrated filmmakers of all time. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ncb-takes-dawood-s-brother-iqbal-kaskar-in-custody-in-drugs-trafficking-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101624605376541.html
25-06-2021||India||'It's not govt performance...': Shashi Tharoor's take on Centre over India's poor global ranking||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday hit out at the Centre highlighting India's poor standing in various developmental reports and said whatever is winning the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) votes, it's not the performance of the government. Tharoor pointed out the difference in India's ranking in global developmental reports during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime with PM Modi's second term."In the Modi Govt's second term, India has slipped from 94 to 111 on the Human Freedom Index (we were at 75 under UPA), from 79 to 105 in the Global Economic Freedom Index and from 129 to 131 in @UNDP 's Human Development Report. Whatever wins the BJP votes, it's not govt performance," the Congress MP from Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram tweeted on Friday.In the Modi Govt's second term, India has slipped from 94 to 111 on the Human Freedom Index (we were at 75 under UPA), from 79 to 105 in the Global Economic Freedom Index& from 129 to 131 in @UNDP's Human Development Report. Whatever wins the BJP votes, it's not govt performance.The Human Freedom Index (HFI) is a global ranking of personal, civil and economic freedom. The index by the Cato Institute in the United States and Fraser Institute in Canada uses the data from 2008 to 2018 to present the state of human freedom in the world. Of the 162 countries, India was ranked at 111 in HFI 2020. India ranked 94 on the index in 2019.Also read: BJP lawmaker seeks Tharoor’s removal as parliamentary panel headIn the Global Economic Freedom Index 2020, India slipped 26 spots from 79 to 105th position. The annual report by the Fraser Institute was released in conjunction with India's think tank Centre for Civil Society.India's standing also fell at the UNDP Human Development Report. Of the 189 countries, India stood at 131st rank in 2020. With a 0.645 HDI value, the country fell in the medium human development category. The country stood 129th in the 2019 report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-not-govt-performance-shashi-tharoor-s-take-on-centre-over-india-s-poor-global-ranking-101624597639107.html
25-06-2021||India||Kerala HC grants bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana||The Kerala high court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to filmmaker Aisha Sultana in the sedition case filed against her for her comments against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel.Sultana was last week granted interim bail and she appeared before the police in Lakshadweep for questioning in the case on Sunday. She moved the high court, which has jurisdiction over Lakshadweep, after police on June 11 registered the case against her for her alleged bio-weapon remark against Patel during a TV debate.Lakshadweep Bharatiya Janata Party chief C Abdul Khadar Haji filed the case against her saying her remarks were in a bad taste. Sultana regretted her use of words.The Lakshadweep administration and the Centre opposed Sultana’s bail plea saying her comments were “used by many foreign journals” to show the country in a poor light.Also Read | Woman allegedly dies by suicide in Kerala, days after opening up about abuseSultana’s comments came amid protests in Lakshadweep over the new rules and proposals introduced in the region. Opponents of the measures say they are “anti-people” and threaten their livelihoods. Some of the measures provide for the removal or relocation of islanders from their property for town planning and detentions without trial for up to a year. Other proposals include a ban on cow slaughter.The opponents say the measures “will affect the unique culture and tradition” of the island. They allege they will destroy the region’s character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the protected scheduled tribe category.The administration has justified the norms saying they will boost tourism in Lakshadweep. It informed the court on Thursday that Sultana flouted the interim protection granted to her. It said she met many people in violation of Covid-19 protocols and also spoke to the media. She also visited a panchayat office and attended some functions in Lakshadweep before returning to Kochi, where she lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-grants-bail-to-lakshadweep-filmmaker-101624604033808.html
25-06-2021||India||Kerala high court grants anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in sedition case||The Kerala high court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Aisha Sultana, activist and filmmaker, who is facing a sedition charge over her remarks against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel. She was earlier summoned by the island police in connection with her 'bio-weapon' remarks, said people familiar with the development. According to a LiveLaw report, Justice Ashok Menon at the Kerala high court passed the order on Sultana's bail application, the same single-judge bench that had earlier granted her anticipatory bail for a week.Also Read | Lakshadweep row: Kerala HC stays two orders issued by PatelThe case was registered against the filmmaker on June 10 when the Kavaratti Police booked her under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint by Lakshadweep BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji. Sultana was served a notice under Section 41A Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), and the police asked her to appear at Lakshadweep Police headquarters in Kavaratti, in connection with the case.The controversy over remarks made by Aisha Sultana:In the complaint, Haji cited a debate on a Malayalam news channels, in which Sultana called the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel a "bio-weapon". Haji said her words were in bad taste and intended to create hatred and aversion in the minds of people.During the hearing before the high court, the filmmaker's counsel said that the words "bio-weapon" were used in the context of criticising the relaxations given in the Covid protocol in the island and was made to represent the aggrieved lot.Also Read | Sultana flouted Covid norms, Lakshadweep admin tells Kerala HC"She never knew that this word can have such implications. She apologised the next day. Covid restrictions were relaxed in Lakshadweep leading to spike in cases. The words bio-weapon were used in that context," Sultana's lawyer said.But the counsel for Lakshadweep administration opposed the bail plea, asserting that Sultana made a powerful, noxious assertion against the government of India.Aisha Sultana flouted interim protection: Lakshadweep adminThe Lakshadweep administration had on Thursday informed the Kerala high court that Aisha Sultana flouted the interim protection granted to her by the court. The administration informed the court that the filmmaker was advised to stay in home quarantine except when called for interrogation. It said Sultana met people and talked to the media during her stay, flouting Covid-19 norms. She also visited the panchayat office and attended some functions, it said.Both Lakshadweep administration and the Union government had opposed Sultana's bail plea, pointing out that her words were used by many foreign journals to show the country in a poor light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-lakshadweep-filmmaker-aisha-sultana-in-sedition-case-101624600498690.html
25-06-2021||India||BJP, AAP spar over SC audit team report over oxygen need||A political row erupted on Friday after a Supreme Court-appointed audit team submitted its report on the situation of the requirement of oxygen in Delhi with the BJP and the AAP trading charges over the document. Several Union ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders criticised the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi for inflating the Capital's oxygen requirement and said that it "affected other states"."Because of Arvind Kejriwal's lies, 12 states were affected due to the oxygen supply as the quantity of oxygen had to be cut off from everywhere and sent to Delhi," BJP leader Sambit Patra said during a press briefing. "It is unbelievable to see that Arvind Kejriwal and the Delhi government politicised oxygen supply when Covid was at its peak. This is such petty politics. The data presented by Oxygen Audit Committee in the report is shocking," Patra also said.Union minister Prakash Javadekar was among those to slam the Kejriwal government. "Their demand for oxygen was four times more than what was needed and because of that the rest of the states had to bear the loss. One must learn how to make noise from Delhi government," Javadekar's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.BJP lawmaker from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir also took to social media and asked Kejriwal to hold a press conference and apologise to the nation. "If you have any shame left Arvind Kejriwal, hold one of your PCs now & apologise to the nation for inflating oxygen need BY FOUR TIMES during second wave!" he tweeted.If you have any shame left @ArvindKejriwal, hold one of your PCs now & apologise to the nation for inflating oxygen need BY FOUR TIMES during second wave!Union minister Piyush Goyal tweeted, "Hope accountability is fixed for disrupting oxygen supply across India."On his part, Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Bharatiya Janata Party was lying about the report. He said that the BJP is sharing a fake report created by them in the headquarters and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to control the actions of the party. "The Supreme Court constituted oxygen audit committee has not approved any report yet. Then, which is this report that BJP leaders have been quoting? I challenge the BJP to bring this report signed by members of the oxygen audit committee," Manish Sisodia said at a press conference.The Supreme Court's oxygen audit panel was led by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and included Delhi government principal home secretary Bhupinder Bhalla, Max Healthcare director Dr Sandeep Buddhiraja and Union Jal Shakti ministry's joint secretary Subodh Yadav. HT has not seen the report.Several hospitals sent out SOS calls to authorities saying that their oxygen stock was running out during the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On May 2, 12 people died in Delhi's Batra Hospital after the hospital ran out of oxygen. The Supreme Court, responding to this crisis, directed the Centre to ensure a supply of 700 MT of oxygen to the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-audit-team-says-delhi-inflated-oxygen-need-4-times-bjp-leaders-slam-kejriwal-101624601115637.html
25-06-2021||India||After ‘then you suffer’ remark, Kerala women panel chief begs to differ||After coming under fire for her “then you suffer” remark against a domestic violence victim, Kerala women’s commission chairperson MC Josephine said she never made the remark. “There are women who aren’t willing to listen to us. We suggest women file complaints making the case stronger as we can’t reach everywhere,” MC Josephine was quoted as saying by ANI.Josephine lost her calm during a live television show when a woman, who called in, spoke about her husband and mother-in-law beating her up. She said that she had not filed any complaint to the police or even informed a single person about the abuse she was suffering at home. “Then you suffer, OK,” Josephine said and disconnected the line.The show, a special programme where the women's panel chief was present, was put together by a Malayalam channel to throw light on women harassed and assaulted at home.Josephine’s reaction to the woman’s condition drew major flak off and on social media. Several people noted that the woman in the abusive relationship had taken the first step by calling into the show and that she should have been motivated instead of being ignored.In fact, among those who criticised her response were many who are otherwise known to support the Communist Party of India (M), of which she is a central committee member.The Kerala Congress asked the state government to remove Josephine and the party’s women’s unit even staged a demonstration and burnt her effigy to strengthen their demand. Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) Kerala unit chief K Surendran said that a first information report (FIR) should be registered against her. “Strongly condemn the indecent, insensitive and rude behaviour of MC Josephine to a domestic violence victim. How women can expect justice from this women’s commission? She no longer has the moral authority to continue in office. She is a disgrace to humanity,” Surendran tweeted on Thursday.Josephine later issued an apology saying that a woman would get justice if she files a complaint. “I was talking to her with motherly affection. If my words have pained anyone, I regret,” she said, adding that she was angry that women suffer silently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-then-you-suffer-remark-kerala-women-panel-chief-begs-to-differ-101624599469400.html
25-06-2021||India||Ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's Nagpur residences searched||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted search operations at the residences of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur and Mumbai in connection with a money laundering case.On May 11, the Enforcement Directorate registered a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Deshmukh. It was done following the FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after suspended Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh levelled allegations of corruption against Deshmukh.Singh wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in which he alleged Deshmukh indulged in "malpractices." He also told the chief minister that Deshmukh asked Sachin Vaze, a suspended police officer, to collect ₹100 crore every month, including ₹40-50 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Vaze was suspended during the probe by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case.The CBI filed an FIR based on section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) and criminal conspiracy (IPC 120 B). Following this, Deshmukh resigned as the state home minister.In April, CBI also conducted searches at four premises of Deshmukh and claimed to have recovered incriminating documents and digital devices.On May 4, Deshmukh had moved the Bombay High Court seeking the quashing of the CBI FIR against him. The court adjourned the petition and refused to give any interim protection to Deshmukh from any coercive action by the CBI.Waze was arrested in March in connection with the NIA probe into the case of recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai and the subsequent murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exmaharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-s-nagpur-residences-searched-101624599125731.html
25-06-2021||India||India's vaccination not fast enough to foil Covid-19 3rd wave: Report||On June 21, India made a record by vaccinating around 80 lakh people against Covid-19 in a day. It marked the beginning of a fresh phase of India's ongoing vaccination drive, where the Central government has taken the control of the vaccination in the states - 75% of it. But according to experts, even this pace, which may not be sustainable going forward, is not fast enough for India, Bloomberg reported.Bloomberg interviewed experts who questioned the record vaccination figure and interpreted it as an artificial push in the number engineered by some states.What these experts saidGautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, who also works on modelling outbreaks, said to Blomberg, "The single-day spike seems to have been the result of a concerted effort by some states, who may have stockpiled doses for this purpose. We would need to get to about 10 million doses per day to ensure that a future wave is less potent."Delta, Delta Plus: Which vaccines are effective against these Covid-19 new variantsChandrakant Lahariya, a New Delhi-based epidemiologist and co-author of a book on India’s battle against Covid, called it “an overzealous attempt” to hit a record that would drain limited stocks, the news agency reported.What are the issues?As pointed out in the report, India has covered only 4 per cent of its population so far, despite banning exports of vaccines. While the availability of the doses is a concern, vaccine hesitancy in rural areas is also a serious issue, experts have said.India to vaccinate all citizens against Covid-19 by December 2021, says Union minister Javadekar"If an average pace of about 3.2 million daily doses is maintained, India will be able to vaccinate 45% of its adult population by year-end and 60% by the end of March 2022, Anubhuti Sahay and Saurav Anand, South Asia economists at Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a report on Wednesday. They said that if more vaccines become available and the pace increases by 30%, India could fully immunize 55% by the end of 2021" -- the Bloomberg report said.Covid 3rd wave and India's vaccination promiseThe advent of the third wave of Covid-19 in India is in the realm of speculation and prediction. Experts working with the Centre have reiterated that both vaccines and Covid-appropriate behaviour are required to minimise the impact of a Covid wave. With the declining number of Covid cases, if people start crowding, the third wave will strike sooner -- within weeks, experts have said. As far as vaccination is concerned, the Centre earlier said India will be completely vaccinated by December 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccination-not-fast-enough-to-foil-covid-19-3rd-wave-report-101624597297031.html
25-06-2021||India||67-year-old woman from Gujarat's Vadodara earns PhD, fulfills dream||In an astonishing display of determination, a woman from Gujarat's Vadodara has earned her PhD degree at the age of 67 years.Married at the age of 20, Usha Lodaya, said she was helped by her daughter-in-law in achieving this feat."I was in the first year of my graduation when I got married. I always wanted to be a doctor. My parents wanted me to continue my studies after marriage but I could not continue and focused on my family instead. But now I am satisfied," Usha told ANI."When I came across a graduation course on Jainism in Maharashtra-based Shatrunjay Academy, I did not let this opportunity go and took admission in the first year of this course. It was an online course. After doing my Bachelor's, I did Masters and then got admission in the PhD on the basis of my marks," she added.Being a grandmother, she encourages her children never to lose hope.Her philosophy is to first set a goal in life and if one keeps working hard without losing courage, then one day he or she will definitely achieve the goal.Calling herself a proud daughter-in-law, Usha's daughter-in-law Nisha Lodaya said: "Usha Ji used to study for six to seven hours a day. It is obvious that if the support of the family was not available to her, then it would have been difficult to achieve this goal. Her husband is not in this world today but her son and I boosted her morale. I am a proud daughter-in-law."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/67yearold-woman-from-gujarat-s-vadodara-earns-phd-fulfills-dream-101624596938341.html
25-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi gets a birthday gift. White tiger in Hampi zoo is under his care now||To mark Rahul Gandhi's 51st birthday, Congress' Karnataka youth unit adopted a white tiger at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park in Hampi for a year under the former party president's name. An amount of ₹100,000 was also deposited with the zoo authorities for the adoption of the tiger, Arjuna.Siddu Hallegouda, the president of the rural Congress youth wing from Ballari and Vijayanagara, deposited the amount on June 19. "On Rahul Gandhi's birthday, the Bellary Rural Youth Congress has adopted a white tiger in the Vajpayee Wildlife Sanctuary, under the chairmanship of the Youth Congress Local Committee Chairman Sidhu Hallegowda," Karnataka wing of the Congress party tweeted.Also read: Congress white paper warns of Covid-19 third waveThe tweet also has the image of the party workers with what appeared to be the adopted white tiger and the receipt of ₹100,000 towards the adoption was also attached. “We were planning to do some social work to mark Rahul Gandhi’s birthday. Hence, we decided to adopt a tiger in our leader’s name as zoos are facing a fund crunch,” The New Indian Express quoted Hallegouda as saying.ಸನ್ಮಾನ್ಯ ಶ್ರೀ @RahulGandhi ಅವರ ಜನ್ಮದಿನದ ಪ್ರಯುಕ್ತ ಬಳ್ಳಾರಿ ಗ್ರಾಮೀಣ ಯುವ ಕಾಂಗ್ರೆಸ್ ವತಿಯಿಂದ ಯುವ ಕಾಂಗ್ರೆಸ್ ಸ್ಥಳೀಯ ಸಮಿತಿ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷರಾದ ಸಿದ್ದು ಹಳ್ಳೇಗೌಡ ಅವರ ನೇತೃತ್ವದಲ್ಲಿ ವಾಜಿಪೇಯಿ ವನ್ಯಸಂರಕ್ಷಣಾ ಧಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ ರಾಹುಲ್ ಗಾಂಧಿ ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ 'ಅರ್ಜುನ್ ಎಂಬ ಹುಲಿಯನ್ನು' ದತ್ತು ಪಡೆಯಲಾಯಿತು.@manjunathansui pic.twitter.com/zmnAzQmCh5The tweet showed the certificate of adoption under the name of Gandhi for a period of one year from June 18, 2021, to June 18, 2022. The National Students' Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the party, Karnataka president also retweeted the post.The zoo authorities said that the adoption process usually happens online and a certificate is then issued. “More than ₹1 crore has been collected from individuals and organisations over the last few weeks after the actor appealed to people to adopt zoo animals in Karnataka. Most of the adoptions were from Mysuru and Bannerghatta zoo in Bengaluru," an official of the Karnataka zoo authority said, according to the New Indian Express.The rise in the adoption of zoo animals is helping authorities maintain the animals and facilities as the coronavirus pandemic has hit the footfall at zoos.In April 1973, Project Tiger was launched as part of the country's tiger conservation programmer by the Union government led by the former prime minister Indira Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-gets-a-birthday-gift-white-tiger-in-hampi-zoo-is-under-his-care-now-101624593211773.html
25-06-2021||India||India has administered over 307 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 307 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, June 24. Delhi administered 157,060 doses till 11pm, the highest in a single day for the city which added 288 new centres and removed age criteria for adults to take the shots.Meanwhile, by Thursday 7pm, 307,246,600 vaccine doses had been given in India. In the 18-45 category, 3,544,209 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 67,627 doses were given as second dose on the day. In all, 74,345,835 persons across the country have received their first dose and 1,570,839 have received their second dose in this age group since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Odisha Police arrest drug company MD for selling fake, overpriced Covid medicineAssam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than a million beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group. India’s Covid-19 cases rose by 51,667 and fatalities by 1,329 over the last 24 hours, which took the overall tally to 30,134,445 and pushed the death toll at 393,310, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. The number of active cases declined to 612,868 as 64,527 people recovered and the total number now stands at 29,128,267, data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-307-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101624597013456.html
25-06-2021||India||PM Modi tweets on 46th anniversary of Emergency, says 'dark days' can never be forgotten||June 25, 2021, marks 46 years since the imposition of the Emergency, a historically relevant phase in India's years. On the occasion of the 46th anniversary of the Emergency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the "dark days" marked by the period "can never be forgotten". Notably, it was on this day in 1975 that Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, the then president of India, announced a state of emergency across the country on the recommendation of the Indira Gandhi-led Congress government at the Centre. The Emergency remained in effect from June 25, 1975, to March 21, 1977, and is, to this date, one of the highly-debated chapters in academic and political circles when talking about modern Indian history.Also Read | June 25: On this day in 1975, Indira Gandhi imposed the Emergency. What remains of its legacy?Prime Minister Modi, looking back at the chequered legacy of the Emergency period in India's history, said that the period between 1975 and 1977 witnessed a "systematic destruction" of India's democratic institutions. Taking to his official handle on Twitter, Modi pledged to strengthen India's democratic spirit and live up to the values enshrined in the Constitution.To highlight the "dark days" of systemic repression during the Emergency period, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also linked a series of infographics posted from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s official handle on Instagram. Calling attention to the series of images, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. We remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy."The #DarkDaysOfEmergency can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution.This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. We remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy. #DarkDaysOfEmergency https://t.co/PxQwYG5w1wA post shared by BJP - Bharatiya Janata Party (@bjp4india)The series of images, titled "The Emergency by Indira Gandhi in 1975: An unbelievable phase in India's democracy" mention a bunch of media -- movies, songs, and the like -- that was seemingly banned during the Emergency period. The list, posted by the BJP, said that movies on Chandrashekhar Azad and Bhagat Singh were banned during the Emergency imposed by Indira Gandhi, as were famous quotes of Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi. "Can you believe this was banned?" the BJP asked, taking note of the state-sponsored crackdown on dissent which was a highlight of the period. It also called for citizens to take a "pledge" to never allow "those who did this to our nation" to have the power to do something similar again.Also Read | Indira Gandhi’s Emergency and the story of a Punjab student leaderThe Emergency is often regarded as a dark phase in independent India's history because this period was marked by unbridled state incarceration, stifling of dissent, and government crackdown on civil liberties. There were reports of frequent human rights violations and the press being censored to a repressive extent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dark-days-of-the-emergency-can-never-be-forgotten-pm-modi-101624595575334.html
25-06-2021||India||India administered over six million Covid-19 vaccine doses in a day||India administered more than six million doses of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines on Thursday, the central government informed a day later. In post from its official handle on Twitter, the government's broadcasting arm noted on Friday that 6,073,912 vaccine doses were administered in the country in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide cumulative vaccination coverage past the 3.07-billion mark. As many as 307,948,744 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in India till now. Thursday was the fourth day since the implementation of the 'Revised Guidelines for Covid-19 Vaccination' under the Union ministry of health and family welfare. #IndiaFightsCorona:#COVID19Vaccination Status (As on 25th June, 2021, 8:00 AM)✅Total vaccine doses administered (so far): 30,79,48,744✅Vaccine doses administered (in last 24 hours): 60,73,912#We4Vaccine #LargestVaccinationDrive@ICMRDELHI @DBTIndia pic.twitter.com/VHSv0crimuMeanwhile, India's daily Covid-19 spike fell to 51,667, a day after the country recorded over 54,000 new cases. According to the health ministry's official update at 9am on Friday, the country's overall infection tally now stands at 30,134,445 while the death toll has reached 393,310. The number of active cases declined to 612,868 as more and more people recovered. As per the health ministry data, 64,527 people recovered from the viral disease and the total number now stands at 29,128,267.Daily recoveries continue to outnumber the single-day spike for the 43rd consecutive day, the central government said. The recovery rate has increased to 96.66% while the weekly positivity rate remains below 5% and is currently at 3%. On the other hand, the daily positivity rate, too, is currently at 2.98% and has remained less than 5% for 18 days in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administered-over-six-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-101624594071545.html
25-06-2021||India||Russian NSA Patrushev briefs Doval about Biden-Putin Summit||Indian National Security Advisor Ajit Doval was briefed by his Russian counterpart Nikolai Patrushev in detail about the Biden-Putin Geneva Summit on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) NSA meeting in Dushanbe, Tajikistan with Afghanistan-Pakistan, China and cyber-security on top of the agenda.The meeting between the two NSAs with Patrsuhev, considered very close to Russian President Vladimir Putin, on Thursday was extraordinary and extended for over two and a half hours with discussion on contemporary developments of bilateral, regional and global significance.According to diplomats based in New Delhi and Moscow, the Patrushev-Doval meeting came after the Russian NSA met US NSA Jake Sullivan and Chinese NSA Yang Jiechi in May before the crucial Putin-Biden summit on June 16 in Geneva. While India has maintained a studied silence over the Geneva summit, it is happy that the two former adversaries have decided to talk and move towards the normalization of ties. NSA Doval was briefed about the strategic stability and cybersecurity discussion between the Russian and the US presidents.Also read | India in touch with ‘various stakeholders’ in Afghanistan: MEAIt is understood that Patrushev told Doval that Russia will protect its national interest but will do not anything against India. The two NSA discussed the fall-out of US-NATO forces withdrawal from Afghanistan and how the rise of Sunni Taliban will impact the stability of Central Asian Republics across the Amu Darya. With the Taliban already knocking doors of Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz and Panjshir Valley, the two NSAs discussed the rise of fundamentalist forces in the Af-Pak region as all the key ideological and military leaders of Taliban are sheltered across the Durand Line. It is understood that Taliban ideological leader Hibatullah Akhundzada is already under level seven protection of the Pakistani deep state in Karachi, while the military leader and terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani is in Quetta across the Spin Boldak pass. Russia used to operate 201 motorised divisions to guard Tajikistan borders with Afghanistan when the Taliban snatched Kabul in 1996.The two NSAs discussed bilateral defence cooperation with NSA Doval briefing Patrushev about Chinese army posture across the Line of Control in East Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh. Cybersecurity was one of the key items of discussion as India is preparing to ramp up its capability to foil increased cyber-attacks from India’s adversaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-nsa-patrushev-briefs-doval-about-biden-putin-summit-101624593260744.html
25-06-2021||India||Only 10% of Covid vaccine breakthroughs in Odisha needed hospitalisation: Study||The first-ever study of Covid infection in Odisha among those fully vaccinated, by Bhubaneswar’s Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), an ICMR organisation, has found that around 10% of those reporting a breakthrough infection required hospitalisation.A breakthrough infection is defined as the detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA or antigen in a respiratory specimen of a person more than 14 days after receipt of all recommended doses of an approved Covid-19 vaccine.The preliminary study, yet to be peer-reviewed, was conducted during March 1 and June 10 with nasopharyngeal swab and serum samples from 274 fully vaccinated healthcare and other workers found that 9.9% required hospitalisation with no significant difference between Covaxin and Covishield recipients. Around 83.2% were symptomatic.Of those, 274 samples (186 male, 88 female) who were found to be positive after 14 days of receiving both the doses, 35 had received Covaxin and 239 Covishield.Anecdotal reports from India and published reports from USA show that breakthrough infections are rare. In a study in 75 skilled nursing care facilities in Chicago, among 627 persons with Covid infection, only 22 residents and staff members were fully vaccinated. A study done in a Delhi-based hospital among 113 of its fully vaccinated staff found symptomatic breakthrough infections in just 13.3% and only 1 required hospitalisation.In the Odisha study too, only one healthcare worker died post infection during the study period. The median duration of hospitalisation among the reported cases was 11 days with 1 person still in hospital.The most common symptoms found was fever (88.5%), followed by cough (77.6%) and sore throat (59.6%). Co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism and asthma were present in about 64 (23.3%) people.Also Read | Odisha Police arrest drug company MD for selling fake, overpriced Covid medicineMeanwhile, the seropositivity, the production of antibodies in an individual, in people receiving Covishield was 96.7% as against 77.1% in those who got Covaxin jabs. The authors of the study, however, pointed out two limitations of the study. Firstly, the number of documented vaccination breakthrough cases may be significantly a small fraction of all such cases and secondly, the data is based on passive and voluntary reporting of individuals, and might not be complete representation of breakthrough cases as most asymptomatic individuals or those with mild illness post vaccination may not have got tested.Noted microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra, who has worked with ICMR, said the study is consistent with similar studies done for Pfizer and Moderna vaccines.“The study has once again proved the necessity of taking vaccines to survive Covid infection. In case of a breakthrough infection, hospitalisation may be needed only in case of vaccinated old people with co-morbidities,” he said.However, he added that the study should have been done for detecting neutralising antibodies in the body rather than spike protein antibodies. “The seropositivity rate of Covishield would naturally be higher as it is made more of a spike protein antibodies that make it difficult for SARS-CoV-2 virus to attach to the cells. Covaxin is a whole virion vaccine and can create more neutralising antibodies. In that respect, the RMRC study has a limited value as the sample size is low and did not check neutralising antibodies for both the vaccines. More studies in different age groups are necessary,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-in-odisha-reports-75-breakthrough-infections-101624593473203.html
25-06-2021||India||June 25: On this day in 1975, Indira Gandhi imposed the Emergency. What remains of its legacy?||June 25, 2021, marks the 46th anniversary of the Emergency, a historically relevant phase in India's years. It was on this day in 1975 that Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, the then president of India, announced a state of emergency across the country on the recommendation of the Indira Gandhi-led Congress government at the Centre. The Emergency remained in effect from June 25, 1975, to March 21, 1977, and is, to this date, one of the highly-debated chapters in academic and political circles when talking about modern Indian history.Also Read | Indira Gandhi’s Emergency and the story of a Punjab student leaderThe Emergency is often regarded as a dark phase in independent India's history because this period was marked by unbridled state incarceration, stifling of dissent, and government crackdown on civil liberties. There were reports of frequent human rights violations and the press being censored to a repressive extent.The court verdict that prompted Indira Gandhi to declare EmergencyThe June 12, 1975 verdict of the Allahabad High Court convicting then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of electoral malpractices and debarring her from holding any elected post was one of the factors that led to the imposition of the Emergency.Indira Gandhi had won the 1971 Lok Sabha election from Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat in Uttar Pradesh convincingly defeating socialist leader Raj Narain, who later challenged her election alleging electoral malpractices and violation of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. It was alleged that her election agent Yashpal Kapoor was a government servant and that she used government officials for personal election related work. While convicting Indira Gandhi of electoral malpractices, Justice Sinha disqualified her from Parliament and imposed a six-year ban on her holding any elected post.The imposition of EmergencyInterestingly, the very next day Indira Gandhi imposed the Emergency suspending all fundamental rights, putting opposition leaders in jails, and imposing censorship on the media.The Congress government cited threats to national security, highlighting the recently-concluded war with Pakistan as a plank for its argument. While many within the party still remained opposed to the idea of a declaration of a state of emergency, a few loyalists, including the then chief minister of West Bengal, Siddhartha Shankar Ray, advised Indira Gandhi to go ahead with the measure. The prime minister's younger son, Sanjay Gandhi, too, had grown to be a proponent of "extra-constitutional" measures, according to historians, and hence was in support of his mother's declaration of the Emergency.The legacy of the EmergencyThe chequered legacy of the Emergency meant that the topic would forever remain hotly contested in India's hyperpartisan political climate, even nearly half a century later. In its immediate aftermath, top newspapers condemned the 21-month period of state repression in their respective editorials, while academics highlighted the need to bring checks and balances in the Indian constitution through amendments, to prevent future scenarios such as this.Also Read | JNU’s tryst with Indira’s EmergencyAs years went by, the issue of the Emergency became a primary point of contention between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Many of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)'s senior leaders were arrested during this period, and BJP leaders have made it a point to call attention to this phase repeatedly in their addresses to the public.On June 25, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid homages to all "those greats" who resisted the Emergency imposed by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on this day in 1975 and said democracy had prevailed over authoritarianism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/june-25-on-this-day-in-1975-indira-gandhi-imposed-the-emergency-what-remains-of-its-legacy-101624589306289.html
25-06-2021||India||What J&K leaders said after meeting PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday met political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) for the first such engagement since the region was stripped of its semi-autonomous status and statehood on August 5, 2019. Here is what the leaders and their parties said after the meeting:Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC) demanded the restoration of statehood and said they told Modi that the decisions taken in August 2019 were not in the interest of the people and should be reversed.NC leader Omar Abdullah said they sought the restoration of the J&K cadre of the all-India services, which was merged with the Arunachal, Goa, Mizoram, and Union Territories cadre. He added the Centre refused to discuss the restoration of special status claiming it was a “sub-judicial matter.” On delimitation, he said NC conveyed to Modi that it was not needed. “We told the Prime Minister that we do not stand with what was done on August 5, 2019. We are not ready to accept it. But we would not take the law into our hands. We will fight this in court,” he said.Also Read | Statehood, delimitation: Key takeaways from PM Modi-J&K leaders meetPeople Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti said she highlighted the issue of “ongoing persecution” of Kashmiris and also asked Modi to resume dialogue with Pakistan “to boost trade and maintain peace in Kashmir”. She added the atmosphere has become “suffocating” in Kashmir. Mufti said she also spoke against the culture of booking people under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. She added she told Modi the government illegally abrogated J&K’s special status and conveyed to him they would get it restored legally through courts.J&K Congress unit chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Modi’s “body language” reflected there has been a backlash from the voters of the Bharatiya Janata Party over how the abrogation of the region’s special status was carried out.Former chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad said Congress put forward five demands: immediate restoration of statehood, protection of land and jobs for the domiciles, return of Kashmiri Pandits, the release of political prisoners and assembly elections.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami said he told Modi it would have been wiser if this meeting was conducted before the nullification of Article 370. “We made it very clear Jammu & Kashmir is committed to remaining with India, but constitutional guarantees of Indian constitution should be given back.” Tarigami said there was “no assurance at all” regarding the fulfilment of the demands.J&K Panthers Party chief Bhim Singh said he demanded full statehood and elections and that a delimitation process should be initiated only after an elected government is in place. Singh added he also complained about the absence of representatives from Ladakh.People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone said there was a lot of “emotional bonding” between Modi and Kashmiri leaders and the meeting was held in a “cordial atmosphere.”Apni Party leader Altaf Bukhari said he also requested protection of land and jobs, improvement in infrastructure, and employment. He added Modi said delimitation would take place and this would be followed by the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-j-k-leaders-said-after-meeting-pm-modi-101624592273115.html
25-06-2021||India||Just 5 days left to link PAN with Aadhaar. Here's how you can do it||The last date to link the Permanent Account Number (PAN) card with the Aadhaar number is June 30 and it's getting closer. Earlier, the deadline to link the two was March 31, but the income tax department extended it by June 30 in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The IT department also informed about the extension of the deadline of linking PAN with Aadhaar on Twitter. "Central Government extends the last date for linking of Aadhaar number with PAN from 31st March, 2021 to 30th June, 2021, in view of the difficulties arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic," the tweet by the department read.Aadhaar is the most significant identity for Indian citizens and linking the two documents will make things more transparent and hassle-free. If not linked, the PAN card will become 'inoperative' and a penalty of ₹1,000 will be levied. Linking PAN with Aadhaar can be done digitally in just a few minutes.Here's how you can link the two essential documents digitally from the comfort of your home:Through SMSTaxpayers can easily link the two by sending an SMS to 567678 or 56161. In order to link the PAN with the Aadhaar number, the taxpayer needs to send an SMS by typing UIDPAN<space><12 digit Aadhaar><space><10 digit PAN>.For representation, this SMS can be referred: UIDPAN 0000011112222 AAAPA7777Q.After sending the SMS to the above-mentioned numbers, the Aadhaar number will be linked to the PAN number if the name and date of birth of the taxpayer are the same as that mentioned in both of the documents.Through websiteThe taxpayer can visit the new e-filing portal of the income tax department- incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in. The portal will show a 'Link Aadhaar' section on the list of services. On clicking that link, the taxpayer will be redirected to a page that will require the user's details like name, PAN card number, Aadhaar number. After inputting the accurate required information, the details would be validated and the documents will be linked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-5-days-left-to-link-pan-with-aadhaar-here-s-how-you-can-do-it-101624589216836.html
25-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra Covid-19 tally crosses 6 million mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra Covid tally crosses 6 million markMaharashtra on Thursday recorded 9,844 new Covid-19 cases, crossing the 6,000,000 mark. The total number of cases till now is 6,007,431 in Maharashtra. The first case in the state was recorded in Pune on March 9, 2020. Read moreOdisha Police arrest drug company MD for selling fake, overpriced Covid medicineA special task force of Odisha Police on Thursday arrested the managing director of a dubious drug distribution company that was planning to sell the popular Covid drug Favipiravir at almost 20 times its original price. Read moreIndia bats for 'independent, democratic' state of Palestine, seeks end to conflictIndia on Thursday backed the establishment of an 'independent, viable, and democratic State of Palestine' and called for an end to the decades-long conflict in the Middle-East. Read moreFirst Covid-19 case emerged in China in October 2019: StudySARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease or Covid-19, emerged in China between early October and mid-November, prior to the officially accepted timeline of early December 2019, a new study has revealed. Read more'It backfired, as it mostly does': Sanjay Manjrekar weighs in on Ravindra Jadeja's selection in India XI for WTC finalSanjay Manjrekar feels India missed a trick by including Ravindra Jadeja in the Playing XI for the World Test Championship final against New Zealand, which they lost by eight wickets. Read moreCustomer leaves $16,000 tip at New Hampshire restaurant on a $38 billIf you’re a regular user of the Internet, chances are you’ve read about the sweet stories of people leaving considerable amount of tip after having food or drinks at eateries. There is now a newest addition to that list. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-million-mark-and-all-the-latest-news-101624590951021.html
25-06-2021||India||Odisha Police arrest drug company MD for selling fake, overpriced Covid medicine||A special task force of Odisha Police on Thursday arrested the managing director of a dubious drug distribution company that was planning to sell the popular Covid drug Favipiravir at almost 20 times its original price.Police said they have arrested Siba Jena, managing director of Medilloyd Medicament, a Cuttack-based pharma distributor that got fake Favimax tablets (Favipiravir) from Noida-based Max Relief Health Care at ₹65 per strip of 10 tablets and had planned to sell them at ₹1290 per strip of 10 tablets. Early this month, Odisha Police had raided a medicine store in Cuttack and seized 170 boxes containing around 17,000 fake Favipiravir tablets. The medicine is prescribed for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The STF team is grilling Jena at an undisclosed location.On Wednesday, the STF had arrested Jena’s wife Subhalaxmi Jena, the director of Medilloyd Medicament, manager Priti Ranjan Parida and godown in-charge Satya Prakash Mohanty for selling the fake drug that was being manufactured in a non-existent plant in Solan area of Himachal Pradesh.Also Read | Odisha announces package for lockdown-hit dairy farmers“Noida-based Max Relief Health Care is a dubious company that has been claiming to manufacture the drug in Solan, Himachal Pradesh. Mumbai Police have already arrested the owner of the firm Sudeep Mukherjee and another person working in a pharmacy lab earlier this month. In Odisha, Medilloyd Medicament was the main distributor of the fake drugs,” said YK Jethwa, additional DG CID.A case under sections 275/276/420/467/468/471/120 B of IPC with Section 27C of Drugs and Cosmetic Act 1940 has been registered against the Odisha company officials. The STF has also frozen more than ₹50 lakh in the bank accounts of the accused persons and the above company.Multiple teams were formed to investigate, including to conduct raids, study the documents, linkages/networking in other states, modus operandi. Currently, three teams are probing the issue in Odisha, Maharashtra and West Bengal.STF officials said samples from the seized stock have been sent to Central Drug Research Laboratory in Kolkata for testing and the reports are yet to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-arrest-drug-company-md-for-selling-fake-overpriced-covid-medicine-101624590533157.html
25-06-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid tally crosses 6 million mark||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 9,844 new Covid-19 cases, crossing the 6,000,000 mark. The total number of cases till now is 6,007,431 in Maharashtra. The first case in the state was recorded in Pune on March 9, 2020.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the government has been able to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have a population of more than 120 million in Maharashtra and till now 6,007,431 have been infected with the virus. This shows that we have been able to deal effectively with Covid-19,” said Dr Lahane.Also Read | ‘Delta plus’ variant evades vaccines? Experts flag major concernsOf the 9,844 new cases, 773 were from Mumbai. The city also witnessed 10 deaths, taking its total death toll to 15,348.The second wave that started in Maharashtra on February 10 has so far led to 3,958,629 new Covid-19 cases and 68,499 deaths within four months, compared to the first wave which saw 2,048,802 cases, along with 51,360 deaths in approximately 11 months.Dr Ishwar Gilada. secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said most of the cases were in the second wave. “We have 64% cases in the second wave as it was more infectious, virulent and also lethal compared to the first one,” said Gilada. “Even today, we are facing problems in mainly rural parts of Maharashtra in places such as Kolhapur, Raigad and Ratnagiri,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-tally-crosses-6-million-mark-101624589873173.html
25-06-2021||India||'Delta plus' variant evades vaccines? Experts flag major concerns||The emergence of the Delta and Delta plus variants of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has once again put India, and by extension the world, in a state of high alert. Delta plus, reportedly a variant with increased transmissibility, is the latest in a long list of new mutant forms of the Delta Covid-19 strain which was first detected in India. While the earlier version had largely been blamed for the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, the new, more virulent variant is being feared ahead of a potential third wave. With the Delta plus Covid-19 variant being detected in as many as 11 countries so far, here's everything that the public health experts are currently talking about.What is the 'Delta plus' Covid-19 variant?First things first, one ought to know what exactly is 'Delta plus', the new coronavirus mutant strain that's got the world worried ahead of a potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | Delta Plus: List of states where this new Covid variant has been reported so farDelta plus (B.1.617.2.1/(AY.1) is a new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus formed due to a mutation in the Delta strain of the virus (B.1.617.2 variant). Since it is still technically a new mutant strain, not much is known about its severity or resistance to antibodies. Some reports claim that the Delta plus (AY.1) is resistant to monoclonal antibodies cocktail, but more research is required in this area.How dangerous is 'Delta plus' from the earlier Covid-19 variant?Additionally, one of the emerging variants of the Delta plus mutant strain has also acquired the K417N mutation, found in Beta variants in South Africa. Some scientists fear that the mutation combined with other existing features of the Delta variant could make it more transmissible, but again, further studies are needed to ascertain this idea.Efficacy of vaccines on 'Delta plus' variantsOne of India's top virologists and a former member of the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), Professor Shahid Jameel, expressed concerns regarding the Delta plus variant earlier this week. He said that the new mutant variant may just be capable of dodging immunities, both from Covid-19 vaccines as well as from earlier infections. This is because the Delta plus variant not only has all the symptoms that the original Delta variant had, but also carries symptoms from its partner Beta variant (K417N mutation), Professor Jameel explained. We already know that the Beta variant evades Covid-19 vaccines much better than the Alpha or the Delta variants, as evidenced by the fact that the South African government had returned a consignment of AstraZeneca vaccines, reasoned the virologist.WATCH | How to check spread of Covid's Delta Plus variant? Dr Randeep Guleria explainsHowever, the central government, on the other hand, has quoted studies as saying the Covishield and Covaxin are 'broadly effective' on the Delta plus variant. Further studies are required in this area to properly ascertain the claims on either side.Major concerns around the variantMultiple studies are ongoing in India and globally to test the effectiveness of vaccines against the Delta plus Covid-19 mutation. India's health ministry warned that regions where it has been found "may need to enhance their public health response by focusing on surveillance, enhanced testing, quick contact-tracing, and priority vaccination." Authorities have spotlighted that Delta Plus can likely inflict another wave of infections on India after it emerged from the world's worst surge in cases only recently.Also Read | No need to panic: Experts on Delta plus variant"WHO is tracking this variant as part of the Delta variant, as we are doing for other Variants of Concern with additional mutations," the World Health Organization (WHO) told Reuters.Around 200 cases of the new Delta plus variant had been found in as many as 11 countries till June 16 -- Britain (36), Canada (1), India (8), Japan (15), Nepal (3), Poland (9), Portugal (22), Russia (1), Switzerland (18), Turkey (1), and the United States (83).In India alone, around 40 cases of the Delta plus variant have been detected sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala, and Madhya Pradesh. However, no deaths have yet been reported of the new variant in India and the UK. Britain said its first 5 cases were sequenced on April 26 and they were contacts of individuals who had travelled from or transited through Nepal and Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-variant-evades-covid-19-vaccines-all-you-need-to-know-about-major-concerns-101624583935282.html
25-06-2021||India||India bats for 'independent, democratic' state of Palestine, seeks end to conflict||India on Thursday backed the establishment of an 'independent, viable, and democratic State of Palestine' and called for an end to the decades-long conflict in the Middle-East. At a session of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), India called for the resumption of peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine and said that there is no alternative to a "two-state solution" for ensuring enduring peace in the region.Also Read | Israel-Palestine conflict: A bit of Mahmoud Darwish, Edward Said in all those affected"India is committed to the establishment of an independent, viable, democratic State of Palestine. There is no alternative to a two-state solution for ensuring meaningful and enduring peace," said the secretary (west) of India's ministry of external affairs Vikas Swarup at the UNSC session. He further said that any attempt to unilaterally change the status-quo that undercut efforts to advance a negotiated two-state solution should also be avoided.There's need for immediate resumption of Middle East Peace Process and direct negotiations b/w Israel & Palestine. India supports all diplomatic efforts, including by the Quartet, to strengthen collective commitment of international community for peace process: MEAIndia's comments come in the backdrop of recent escalations in the conflict between Israel and Palestine after a series of missile strikes from the Israel Defence Forces earmarked civilian settlements in the Gaza Strip, violating a ceasefire arrangement on June 16 that was in place since May 21.At the UNSC session, India's MEA secretary said, "After a period of brief calm, tensions are rising again in Gaza. The launch of incendiary balloons from Gaza targeting civilians in Israel and the retaliatory strikes into Gaza threatens to restart the cycle of violence, which caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths recently."Also Read | Red Cross chief urges Israel, Palestine to end cycle of violence"Recent developments in Palestine are of concern. They can restart the cycle of violence, resulting in immense suffering and deaths. We urge both Israeli and Palestinian authorities to honour the ceasefire arrangement. There's a need for immediate resumption of the Middle East Peace Process and direct negotiations between Israel and Palestine. India supports all diplomatic efforts, including by the Quartet, to strengthen the collective commitment of the international community for a peace process," he added.India's representative to the UN said that the need of the hour is to provide immediate humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian civilian population, particularly in Gaza. All Palestinian parties should work with the authority to ensure the well-being of civilians affected by conflict and deliver required assistance to the people, India said."We call for reinforced cooperation between the Israeli and Palestinian authorities in the area of humanitarian aid delivery, including food and medicine, and movement of patients in and out of Gaza," added Swarup.Israel and Hamas concluded 11 days of fighting during which hundreds of rockets were launched from both Israel and Palestine sides. According to the Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry, 253 Palestinians were killed during the fighting, including 66 children, while 13 Israelis, including a 5-year-old boy and a soldier, were killed.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bats-for-independent-democratic-state-of-palestine-seeks-end-to-conflict-101624580398328.html
25-06-2021||NA||Maharashtra records 9,677 new Covid-19 cases while daily deaths drop to 156; fresh infections in Mumbai fall to 693||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Uttarakhand govt allows Char Dham yatra for localsUttarakhand government will allow Char Dham yatra for locals from July 1, but all appropriate Covid restrictions will have to be followed. Priests of all four shrines will also be vaccinated. Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 5Tamil Nadu government extended lockdown till July 5 with certain relaxations. Private companies situated all the districts of Chennai, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur have been allowed to operate at 100% capacity, and shopping complex and malls can reopen with 50% capacity, reported ANI.India-China agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along LAC: MEAIndia and China agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the issues persisting along the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh in the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) held on Friday, said the Ministry of External Affairs in a statement Deadline to link PAN-Aadhaar extended by 3 months to September 30, reports ANI quoting Anurag ThakurExtension of 3 months granted for PAN-Aadhaar linking - from 30th June-30th Sept. For payment without, interest extension is granted by 2 months from 30th June to 31st Aug. Closing the scheme with interest in the next 2 months by 31st of Oct: MoS Finance Anurag ThakurCovishield and Covaxin work against Covid variants, says ICMR DGCovidshield and Covaxin work against the variants of SARS CoV 2 — alpha, beta, gama as well as delta. Delta Plus is present in 12 countries; 48 cases have been identified in India but more importantly, they have been very localised: Balram Bhargava, Director General, ICMR pic.twitter.com/sTCVe1oXIIPregnant women can be vaccinated, says ICMR DGIndian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general said pregnant woman can be vaccinated against Covid-19, and that it is useful. The ministry of health has also issued guidelines to this end, he added.Ravi Shankar Prasad says Twitter blocked access to his account temporarily; warns against non-compliance to new IT rulesFriends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account. pic.twitter.com/WspPmor9SuDawood Ibrahim's brother bought to NCB office in Mumbai in connection with a drug caseDawood Ibrahim's brother Iqbal Kaskar brought to Narcotics Control Bureau office in Mumbai, in connection with a drug case. pic.twitter.com/ajtV1jW2KzThose who lost their loved one due to shortage of oxygen should be not be called liars, tweets Arvind KejriwalMy crime - I fought for the lives of 2 crore people of Delhi, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on 'exaggerated oxygen need' mentioned in Interim Report of Oxygen audit in NCT of Delhi pic.twitter.com/M9AIeLoJR2Kerala Women's Commission chairperson MC Josephine resigns MC Josephine, the Kerala Women's Commission chairperson, resigned on Friday after facing backlash for her controversial remarks on television to a domestic abuse survivor, reported news agency ANI.BJP to hold protest over law, order situation next month: Party's Bengal general secretaryThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) West Bengal general secretary Sayantan Basu on Friday said that the party will hold Lalbazar Abhiyaan (Kolkata Police headquarters march) against the law and order situation in the state with 100,000 party workers next month, reported ANI.Encounter breaks out between security forces, terrorists at Hanjipora area in J&K's ShopianAn encounter broke out between police, security forces and terrorists in Hanjipora area of Shopian in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, reported ANI.Karnataka to get 6 labs for genome sequencing: State health ministerKarnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday said that the state government will be setting up six labs for genome sequencing. "We are setting up six labs in the State for genomic sequencing. These labs will be located at Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubli, Vijayapura, Shivvamoga," ANI quoted Sudhakar as saying.President Kovind with wife boards special train from Safdarjung railway station to KanpurPresident Ram Nath Kovind along with his wife boarded a special train from Safdarjung railway station for his native place in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh.Railways minister Piyush Goyal and Railway board chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma were also present.India's 1st indigenous aircraft carrier to be commissioned next year: Defence ministerIndia's first indigenous aircraft carrier will be commissioned next year, said Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in Kochi on Friday.Kerala high court grants anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in sedition caseKerala high court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in sedition case.ED raids Maha's ex-home minister Deshmukh's residence in MumbaiAnother team of Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's residence in Mumbai's Worli area on Friday. His residence at Nagpur was also raided earlier in connection with an alleged money laundering caseDehradun authorities order testing of passengers coming from states with cases of Delta Plus variantDehradun district magistrate Dr Ashish Srivastava has issued instructions for Covid safety to all the passengers coming from every flight at Dehradun airport, especially those coming from Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, where cases with Delta Plus variant have been detected. The medical superintendent has instructed to conduct testing of the passengers, reported ANI.ED raids Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh's residenceEnforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday raided former home minister of Maharashtra Anil Deshmukh's residence in Nagpur, in connection with an alleged money laundering case.Dark days of emergency never be forgotten: PM ModiThe #DarkDaysOfEmergency can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution."This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. We remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy," the PM added.Part of building collapses in Mumbai's Fort area, rescue operation underwayA portion of a building collapsed in the Fort area of Mumbai on Friday. "At least 40 people have been rescued. No injuries reported so far. Rescue operation underway," ANI quoted the police as saying.Over 1.7 million samples tested for Covid in 24 hours: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @PIB_India @mygovindia #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/URlm4dbXC3India reports 51,667 new Covid-19 cases, 1,329 fatalities#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃 𝐅𝐋𝐀𝐒𝐇https://t.co/lUPQgrTviK pic.twitter.com/7fsHKAGOhCMore than 6 million Covid vaccine doses administered on June 24: Govt#IndiaFightsCorona:More than 60 Lakh #COVID19 vaccine doses administered on Day-4 of the implementation of 'Revised Guidelines for #COVID19Vaccination'. (As on 24th June, 2021, till 11:59 PM)#LargestVaccinationDrive #We4Vaccine pic.twitter.com/xhpluKvLWISenators call upon Biden to impose sanctions over Hong Kong's newspaper closureTwo leading US senators-Senator Pat Toomey and Senator Chris Van Hollen-called on President Joe Biden to use powers under a bill they authored to impose sanctions on those responsible for causing the closure of Hong Kong's Apple Daily newspaper. The letter by the senators also suggested that foreign banks were among those implicated.Bitcoin to become legal tender in El Salvador on September 7El Salvador's President Nayib Bukele said on Thursday that a recently passed law making bitcoin legal tender will be effective from September 7, 2021. El Salvador is the first country to accept the largest cryptocurrency as legal tender.US judge keeps Mumbai terror attack suspect in custodyA former Chicago businessman, Tahawwur Rana. a Pakistani-born Canadian, wanted by Indian authorities for his alleged involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack that killed 160 people will remain in the United States as a federal judge in Los Angeles weighs his extradition.New Zealand plans to strengthen hate speech laws in response to Christchurch attackNew Zealand plans to increase penalties for inciting hatred and discrimination as it aimed to strengthen its hate speech laws. The decision comes in response to the attack by a white supremacist in Christchurch two years ago that killed 51 Muslims.Earthquake of 5.3 magnitude hits Afghanistan's KabulEarthquake of 5.3 magnitude strikes 43 km North of Kabul, Afghanistan today at 04:34:44 IST, syas National Center for Seismology.1 killed, several injured as Delhi bus loses controlOne person was killed and four others were injured when a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) cluster bus rammed into a traffic police booth near Sarai Rohilla in Delhi. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-25-2021-101624578952738.html
25-06-2021||India||Lone passenger flies like ‘maharaja’||UAE-based Indian businessman who travelled from Amritsar to Dubai as the sole passenger on the Air India international flight said he felt like a ‘Maharaja’.The businessman and philanthropist SP Singh Oberoi who took the three-hour flight on Wednesday found that he was the only passenger in the aircraft. “I took my flight from Amritsar to Dubai by Air India (AI-929) on June 23 at around 4 am. I was very lucky to be the only passenger on the entire flight. I feel like a Maharaja during my travel,” Oberoi told ANI.Oberoi, who holds a ten-year golden visa and operates a business in Dubai said that when he bought the ticket for the three-hour flight for dirham 750. “I was treated very well by the entire crew and was photographed in an empty plane, I took pictures with the crew and pilots of the aircraft,” he said.On travelling without any co-passengers, Oberoi said: “If I get a chance to travel solo next time I will refuse. It is good for once in a lifetime experience. It was very boring.” He added that he resorted to counting the number of seats and windows of the aircraft to pass the time.Oberoi was refused permission by Air India to board the flight but was allowed after the intervention of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. “I was carrying all travel documents including authorized UAE full vaccinations proof. I finally boarded the flight after the intervention of Hardeep Singh Puri’s ministry.” Oberoi said.Later, once the issue was resolved, a senior airline officer said the pilot and crew ensured Singh had a unique experience. “Taking pictures on flight and allowing him (Singh) to roam around were a few of the perks that Singh, as a solo passenger, was allowed to enjoy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lone-passenger-flies-like-maharaja-101624575154272.html
25-06-2021||India||Andhra cancels Class 12 exam after apex court’s warning||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday announced cancellation of the year-end examinations for Class 10 and intermediate, hours after the Supreme Court warned the state that it would be responsible if single fatality happened in case of exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic.State education minister A Suresh said decision to cancel the exams was taken as it was difficult to adhere to the SC’s July 31 deadline to complete the process. A panel will now assess the marks to be awarded to intermediate students, he added.On Tuesday, the state told the court it would hold state board exams in view of the improving Covid situation.The court, however, dismissed the affidavit on Thursday, saying it is not convinced of the precautionary measures suggested by the state for holding the exams and said unless satisfied that there will be no fatality due to Covid, it will not allow them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cancels-class-12-exam-after-apex-court-s-warning-101624574080033.html
25-06-2021||India||Amikacin may have been used at fake Covid-19 vaccination camp in Kolkata||People who went to take their Covid-19 vaccine at the fake vaccination camp organised by the man who was impersonating an IAS officer, may have been injected with Amikacin, an antibiotic. Sleuths of the Kolkata Police’s detective department, who raided Debanjan Deb’s office in south Kolkata on Thursday, found a large number of Amikacin vials. Fake labels of Covishield have also been recovered. “In some of the Amikacin vials we found fake labels of Covishield had been pasted. Interrogation revealed that Debanjan Deb used to purchase Amikacin from chemists impersonating as a top official of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. On Wednesday, Kolkata Police busted a fake Covid-19 vaccination camp organized by 28-year-old Deb, who was masquerading as the joint commissioner of the city’s civic body. Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty was also duped as she attended the vaccination camp on an invitation and took a dose. She however, grew suspicious when she didn’t receive any message on her mobile. Police have lodged another case against Deb on Thursday after interrogation revealed that he had organised a similar camp at a college in north Kolkata a few days ago. Several students were injected. “The vials used by Deb had a label with Covishield written on it in green colour. It didn’t have any batch number, any manufacturing date, expiry date or the company’s name. It was only written ‘recombinant vaccine’. The vials were also smaller than actual Covishield vaccine vials,” said Ranita Sengupta, deputy chief medical health officer at KMC. Police suspect that as Deb was impersonating an IAS officer and a top civic official he was also arranging funds by negotiating with some microfinance companies. “He had employed security personnel and used to move around in a car with a blue beacon and the flag of KMC,” said the police officer. Further investigation is going on and the samples, recovered from his office and the fake vaccination camp, have been sent for examination. “Amikacin is a very important antibiotic which is given to patients suffering from sepsis and septicaemia. We still don’t know which injection was given. But if it was Amikacin then it won’t have much effect on a normal human being. But if the patient is suffering from kidney ailments and Amikacin has been given in high doses, then it could create problems,” said Dr Manas Gumta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors in the state. The BJP has raised allegations that Deb could be having links with senior leaders of the Trinamool Congress after pictures of Deb posing with senior TMC leaders surfaced. Recently, Deb attended a program organised by the TMC at Sonarpur in the southern fringes of the city. TMC legislator Lovey Maitra also attended the program on an invitation. Recently a bust of Rabindranath Tagore was unveiled at Taltala in Kolkata. Along with names of TMC MPs and MLAs, Deb’s name was also carved on the stone. “How can a MP (referring to TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty) attend a fake vaccination camp, without verifying it and speak highly of the camp? Does this mean that she is also associated with this? Deb’s picture can also be seen with TMC’s leaders including ministers and ward councillors. There has to be some connection,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal. “The way everything was camouflaged we admit that there was a fault. A crime has been committed. The police will investigate how he managed everything. Mimi Chakraborty didn’t speak highly of Deb. She tried to encourage vaccination. But we don’t want to hear it from the BJP. Could they identify the fake BJP leaders who joined the party in large numbers before the elections and are now willing to switch sides?” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson A few hundred people took injections in various camps organised by Deb. Police said that citizens who took the fake jab in south Kolkata were told that they were getting Covishield, those who got the fake jabs in the north Kolkata College were told they had got Sputnik. His office employees were also given fake injections and were told they were getting Pfizer vaccine. Such a camp was also organised at Sonarpur too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amikacin-may-have-been-used-at-fake-covid-19-vaccination-camp-in-kolkata-101624564851378.html
25-06-2021||India||Did not defame those with ‘Modi’ surname: Rahul Gandhi to Gujarat court||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appeared before a magistrate’s court in Surat on Thursday to record his statement in a criminal defamation suit filed by a Gujarat MLA, and denied making any defamatory remarks on people with ‘Modi’ surname.The suit was filed by Surat BJP MLA Purnesh Modi over Gandhi’s alleged remark on the ‘Modi’ surname.In his statement before Surat’s Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) A N Dave, Gandhi denied making any defamatory remarks on people with Modi surname during a rally at Kolar in Karnataka ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.When the magistrate asked Gandhi if he had said Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave ₹30 crore to an industrialist, Gandhi told the court that being a national leader, he keeps raising issues of corruption and unemployment in his addresses in the interest of the nation, and it is his right to do so.When asked if he had said all people with Modi surname are thieves, Gandhi claimed he never said such words.Besides, to most of the remaining questions related to the evidence and statements of witnesses in the case, Gandhi said: “I don’t know”.The case will now be heard on July 12.Earlier, Rahul Gandhi had appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment.Legislator Purnesh Modi filed a complaint against Gandhi in April 2019 under Indian Penal Code Sections 499 and 500, that deal with defamation.A week back, CJM Dave directed Gandhi to remain present on June 24 to record his statement in the case.In his complaint, the MLA had alleged that Gandhi defamed the entire Modi community by saying “How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?” while addressing a poll rally in 2019.During an election rally held at Kolar in Karnataka on April 13, 2019, Rahul Gandhi had reportedly asked, “Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi...how come they all have Modi as the common surname? How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?” He was the Congress president when he had made this alleged remark.Purnesh Modi has also moved the Gujarat high court, seeking to call Kolar district collector and a videographer, who recorded the speech, as witnesses in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-not-defame-those-with-modi-surname-rahul-gandhi-to-gujarat-court-101624564396850.html
25-06-2021||India||Global economic powerhouse: Sitharaman on stability, infra-led growth and reforms||India continues to rise as a global economic powerhouse because of macro-economic stability, infrastructure-led growth opportunities, financial sector reforms, and policy efforts to make it a strong player in global supply chains, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at the Global Investors Roundtable organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF). Sitharaman discussed India’s potential for rapid growth and investment opportunities due to its wide-ranging reforms that would position the country as an attractive destination for foreign investors, a finance ministry statement issued late night on Thursday said.She highlighted India’s efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic effectively that saw a significant drop in new Covid-19 infections in the country, it said. The finance minister participated in the roundtable through video conferencing, which was also attended by foreign investors such as Mastercard, MetLife, Prudential, Air Products, Dell, SoftBank and Warburg Pincus amongst others. The finance minister said the government’s over ₹20 lakh crore relief-cum-stimulus package helped in rapid recovery of the Indian economy after the pandemic that led to a nationwide lockdown for 68 days since March 25, 2020.She underscored the continued macro-economic stability and resilience in economic recovery. The 68-day national lockdown plunged the economy into technical recession. Indian economy contracted 24.4% in the first quarter, and 7.3% contraction in the second quarter of 2020-21. The ₹20.97 lakh crore stimulus package -- Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative) – helped a V-shaped recovery. The economy expanded by 0.5% in the third quarter and 1.6% in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. In her concluding remarks at the forum, Sitharaman spoke about going ahead with an overall vision to build a self-reliant modern India driven by five ‘I’ -- Intent, Inclusion, Investment, Infrastructure and Innovation, the statement said. “The Finance Minister stated that the country is committed to a long-term relationship with US investors and proposes to meet twice yearly,” it added. USISPF is a non-profit organisation, with the primary objective of strengthening the India-US bilateral and strategic partnership through policy advocacy in the fields of economic growth, entrepreneurship, employment-creation, and innovation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-economic-powerhouse-sitharaman-on-stability-infra-led-growth-and-reforms-101624563231224.html
25-06-2021||India||Nagaland Governor, NSCN (IM) in war of words on ‘taxation’ by armed group||Kohima: The government of India’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks, RN Ravi and the Isak-Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) are in the middle of a war of words on the armed group’s right to collect money from people.The trigger was a claim by the NSCN (IM) that representatives of the government of India who engage in political dialogue with NSCN leaders recognise their right to collect taxes from its citizens and this was a legitimate right of any government.The statement provoked Nagaland governor RN Ravi, who is also the Centre’s interlocutor for the peace talks, to fact check the armed group. Without naming the organisation on Tuesday, Ravi said the statement was “erroneous” and one that is likely to cause confusion among the people.“Taxation is a sovereign function which can be exercised only either by the government of India or the state government,” Ravi stated, adding that the government does not recognise any such right by any other entity.“Forcible collection of money by any entity is extortion which is a criminal offence punishable under the laws. In fact all the Naga armed organisations engaged in the peace process have given a commitment against such collection,” Ravi maintained.The NSCN (IM) hit back at Ravi on Wednesday, claiming that Ravi was trying to criminalise the Naga political movement by questioning the right of the NSCN to impose its tax after more than 23 years of Indo-Naga political dialogue.“NSCN puts on record to go back to history to point out that taxation is something which is deeply rooted in the history of the Naga resistance movement even before the Naga National Council (NNC) came into the scene. Now the focus has been shifted to the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN) which is at the helm of affairs leading the Naga political struggle. As brought about by the 23 years of Indo-Naga political talks, the Nagas’ stand for sovereign existence is before the world domain and not a question of obscurity,” the NSCN (IM) stated.The statement said the group collected taxes to support the Naga people’s political movement which started in 1929, even before India got independence from the British, and opposing the Naga tax is nothing short of obstructing the Naga movement. It asserted though that the organisation stands opposed to extortions and excesses committed by collectors.The NSCN (IM) also claimed that the government opposing taxations by the organisation instantly violates the “framework agreement” signed between them in 2015 wherein the two entities stated to have agreed to coexist peacefully as two different entities sharing sovereign power.“Following the signing of the Framework Agreement of the 3rd August, 2015, this taxation was included in the competencies. No one can deny these factual records of the Framework Agreement and the competencies,” the NSCN (IM) stated.The Naga peace deal is yet to be finalised as critical issues are waiting to be considered from the perspective of the “framework agreement”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-governor-nscn-im-in-war-of-words-on-taxation-by-armed-group-101624563111330.html
25-06-2021||India||Scientists urge President to recall draft rules for Lakshadweep||A group of 60 scientists and researchers has requested President Ram Nath Kovind to withdraw the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) 2021 that seeks to develop the islands as a major tourist destination, underlining that the region’s unique geography, ecology, and long human history places natural limits on the kinds of development the archipelago can support.In a letter sent to President Kovind on Wednesday, the group sought “a serious re-evaluation” of the developmental paradigms being promoted for the archipelago and underlined that Lakshadweep, an archipelago consisting of 36 islands with an area of 32 sq km, was already among the worst affected places due to the climate crisis.The 60 signatories to the appeal include herpetologist Romulus Whitaker, ecologist Katik Shanker, wildlife biologist Bivash Pandav, marine scientist Divya Panicker, and ecologist Harini Nagendra.Earlier this month, a group of 93 former civil servants also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the LDAR envisages land-use, which can destroy the islands.The regulation is among the new rules and proposals introduced in the region that has triggered loud protests in Lakshadweep. Some of the measures provide for the removal or relocation of islanders from their property for town planning. On Thursday, the Kerala high court stayed, for the time being, two decisions taken by the administrator to close dairy farms and exclude meat products from the midday meals in the island’s schools.The group identified Lakshadweep’s inherent environmental vulnerability, LDR’s impact on local livelihood, its legal status vis-a-vis existing laws and commitments and what it described as a questionable developmental paradigm as their four key concerns around the regulation.HT sought a response from Lakshadweep Administrator’s advisor A Anabarsu to the concerns raised by scientists but he did not respond.The group cautioned that Lakshadweep has already “experienced catastrophic climate change-related coral mass mortality events” over the last two decades.“Some reefs, including the capital, Kavaratti, are already eroding more than they are growing. Unless urgent action is taken now to reverse these trajectories, scientific studies conclude that between reef decline, sea-level rise, land loss, cyclones, and declining freshwater, the majority of low-lying atolls like Lakshadweep will become unlivable by mid-century.”“Atoll islands’’ are recently formed ( less than 4000 years), low-lying (with a mean elevation generally less than 3 metre) islands. They are composed mostly of biologically derived carbonate sand, gravel and boulders, generated on coral reefs according to scientific literature referred to in the letter.The researchers also insisted that the proposed regulation, which is designed to boost tourism, is in direct conflict with the rights of local people to land, livelihood and healthy ecosystems. Lakshadweep society, they argued, is organised around its limited land and freshwater resources. “… by granting authorities unqualified rights to appropriate land, beach and lagoon resources, the LDAR acts directly against the livelihood interests of local communities and jeopardises a way of life, and an entire economy.”The group said LDAR is also against India’s laws like the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, the Biological Diversity Act 2002, the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, the Ecotourism Guidelines, 2019, along with international and national legal obligations.The researchers argued that the regulation was based on the understanding that Lakshadweep is woefully underdeveloped and needs to be fast-tracked on a path of rapid growth. “This embraces a narrow interpretation of development that favours investment in physical infrastructure, high-end tourism, market mechanisms and resource exploitation over local rights, societal wellbeing and existing ecological infrastructure,” the letter said.Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology said rapid warming in the Arabian Sea has increased the number of cyclones by 50% in the basin. “As Arabian Sea continues to warm, climate projections indicate more extremely severe cyclones in the future. The storm surges from these cyclones, along with heavy rains and a rising sea level can be a threat multiplier to islands like the Lakshadweep,” said Koll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-urge-president-to-recall-draft-rules-for-lakshadweep-101624562811294.html
25-06-2021||India||Will drop cases filed against protesters during AIADMK regime: Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on the last day of the current session of the legislative assembly, announced that cases against those who protested the eight-way Chennai- Salem expressway, Kudankulam nuclear power plant, hydrocarbon extraction projects, the three new farm legislation and several others during the previous AIADMK would be dropped. “All these cases filed against citizens for protesting will be withdrawn,” Stalin said on Thursday, adding that the intention is to uphold their right and protect the freedom of expression. In the assembly, he also announced that ₹1,000 crores will be allocated to temple renovation in the state.Activists say that more than 10,000 cases were registered against protestors across five districts in Tamil Nadu where the Salem-Chennai expressway project cut through. “We welcome the government dropping cases against us, but this is not a conclusion,” said A Chandramohan, state secretary, All India Kisan Mahasabha (AIKM).“The DMK government has to pass a resolution in the legislative assembly insisting that the central government scrap this project. Tamil Nadu revenue department is the local authority to do the land acquisition process. Without the government support, the project by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) cannot implement it.” In December 2020, the Supreme Court upheld the land acquisition notifications for the expressway, partially allowing appeals of the Union government and the NHAI and overturned a Madras high court judgement.A few of these protests were supported by the DMK when they were in the opposition. When Stalin met Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month in Delhi, he urged him for several centrally sponsored schemes and projects to be scrapped, including the Salem-Chennai expressway. Stalin has already announced that a resolution will be passed against the farm laws and the Citizenship Amendment Act in the budget session of the assembly scheduled in July. Earlier on June 13, Stalin wrote to the PM that the state is of the firm view that hydrocarbon projects should not be taken up in the protected agriculture zone in the interests of the agrarian community and the ecology of the region.After coming to power, Stalin ordered for most of the cases to be withdrawn against anti-Sterlite protestors on the eve of the third anniversary in May of the police firing that killed 13 civilians who participated in the demonstration in Thoothukudi district. The new government also decided to provide no-objection certificates (NOC) to those arrested during the protest for pursuing higher education and jobs.The previous AIADMK regime, before the assembly elections, had dropped a majority of cases against CAA protestors, Covid-19 lockdown violators and pro-jallikattu activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-drop-cases-filed-against-protesters-during-aiadmk-regime-stalin-101624562570715.html
25-06-2021||India||Centre’s autocracy has tarnished India’s image: Mamata Banerjee||The scrapping of Article 370 and alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 vaccination by the BJP-led Union government has tarnished India’s image, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. “Why was it necessary to take away statehood? People first want to enjoy freedom. If freedom is lost, then everything is lost. This has not helped the country at all. Tourists could not go there for two years. It became a question of the country’s prestige. The autocracy has tarnished the country’s image, similar to what the Covid-19 vaccination drive has done,” Banerjee said while adding that she was not aware of the all-party meeting and its agenda. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir. Fourteen leaders, including four former chief ministers (CMs) of the then state were invited. It was the first high level interaction to be held between the central government and Kashmir’s political leadership since 2019, when the Centre scrapped Article 370 and 35A, which gave special status to J-K and its people. “What does she know about Article 370? There was a time when bloodshed was regular in Kashmir. Today there is peace and the people of Kashmir and Ladakh are thanking Modi ji. She is into appeasement politics and that’s why she is saying such things. She should first manage the vaccination drive properly in the state before commenting on India’s vaccination programme,” said Rahul Sinha, BJP leader. The TMC chief also slammed the BJP-led Union government over the three contentious farm laws. “BJP is always trying to prove that only they are nationalistic and the rest are anti-nationals. If people raise their voice, they become terrorists? They (BJP) can’t manage vaccines and they don’t keep records of how many bodies are flowing down the River Ganges. I salute the farmers,” she said. Banerjee also sent a letter to Modi on Thursday requesting the Prime Minister’s intervention so that Covaxin gets approval from the World Health Organisation. “It is learnt that Covaxin is still not approved by WHO and it is not possible to travel abroad as many countries are allowing only those people who are fully vaccinated with WHO approved vaccines,” Banerjee wrote in her letter to the Prime Minister. She also said that as a large number of Indian students go abroad to pursue higher studies and many have taken Covaxin, they were facing problems.Elections to more than 107 civic bodies in Bengal, including the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, have been pending for over a year and these bodies are currently being run by administrators appointed by the Mamata Banerjee-administration. On being asked whether the TMC government had any plans of holding the civic elections, Banerjee said: “First let the Election Commission of India hold the by-elections in seven assembly constituencies. We will hold the civic elections on time. We are waiting. We have nothing to fear (to hold the civic polls). We are ready.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-autocracy-has-tarnished-india-s-image-mamata-banerjee-101624562151996.html
25-06-2021||India||Relatives of men linked to Bengaluru riots struggle to pick up the pieces||Bengaluru: On the black grill outside an apartment complex in north-eastern Bengaluru’s Shampura, a clutch of “To Let” notices have appeared . While such posters are common in the city during the Covid-19 pandemic, in this particular housing complex, the reason for vacancies is different. A resident of the building, an elderly woman, said occupants of most of the vacant houses were arrested following the violence near DJ Halli police station last year. “As the breadwinners were in jail, the families had no choice but to vacate their houses. In some cases, the residents wanted to get away from the locality to avoid further police trouble,” the woman added, requesting anonymity. On the night of 11 August 2020, a mob resorted to arson in DJ Halli and KG Halli areas after Naveen P, nephew of Congress MLA from Pulakeshinagar constituency R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, allegedly posted a derogatory image of Prophet Mohammad on Facebook. Two police stations were attacked, houses were burnt, and scores of vehicles burnt, according to police FIRs. Police resorted to firing, in which three people died; one more succumbed days later to the bullet injuries. Subsequently, police arrested at least 400 people, including several from the building in Shampura. Tabrez Hussain, a 35-year-old executive in a multinational company, was picked from his apartment by police a day after the violence. According to Hussain, he was playing carrom in the parking lot of his apartment with three others when police barged in. He said three Muslim men including him were picked up while the Hindu watchman was left behind. “I asked them what was going on, but we did not get an answer. They took us to the main road and made us kneel. Soon, a government bus came, and we were all loaded in it. They initially took us towards KG Halli police station but later changed course,” Hussain told HT. The bus took them to police quarters in Adugodi, where around 90 men were locked inside a room. “They took our phones and started scanning through them. At that point, I didn’t know why I was picked up. I wanted to explain that I was nowhere near the spot of violence, but there was no one to tell,” he said. For another two months after his arrest, he remained in dark about the charges slapped against him by police. From the adjacent building, three men in their 20s from a family were also picked up by the police. All three were asleep when the police came . They were transported in the same bus as Hussain and were lodged in the same room. “All three of us were at home when the violence happened. They took every man they saw. In the room where we were locked in, they kept asking why we attacked the police station and they didn’t listen to us,” said the youngest brother, who didn’t wish to be named. Another man, who was in quarantine after contracting Covid-19, was also picked up by the police during the raid. “There was no questioning or checking our whereabouts. They had come with the intention of arresting every person in the building,” said the second brother, requested anonymity. Hussain said after spending hours locked in the room in the police quarters, they were presented before the magistrate through a video call, where a policeman panned the phone to show all the people in the room. “Even at the point, we were not sure what was going on. It was only when I saw one of the forms held by a policeman, which had Parappanna Agrahara central prison written on top, that I realised we were being sent to jail,” said Hussain. “The day I was arrested, my family didn’t know that I was picked up. It was only after pleading with the prison guard that they allowed me to make a phone call home to tell my family that I was in custody. Some other didn’t even get that chance,” Hussain added. For the next two months, they were locked up in a cell and they were not allowed to step out . “There was no sunlight and fresh air for two months, and there were 109 of us in the barrack. It was during this time that we heard that we were booked for rioting under UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act). It was more than two months later that we were let out of the barracks for short walks,” said one of the brothers quoted above. Between 2015 and 2020, Karnataka reported 971 cases of riots, either communal or political, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. This includes the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Mangaluru (in December 2019), which saw unprecedented violence – including death of two persons. However, it was only in the DJ Halli riots case that the Bengaluru police invoked the stringent UAPA, according to police records accessed by HT. Following the arrests, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant on August 20 had said no innocent person had been arrested by teams investigating the August 11 riots. “Arrests were made only after making proper verification and collection of evidence. The investigations are on the right track.” . In September 2020, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case. When NIA filed a charge sheet in the case, almost six months later, it drastically reduced the number of people booked under UAPA, and added sections of the Indian Penal Code against most of the others. “In the charge sheet filed by NIA, only 47 people have been booked under UAPA. At least 370 people have been booked under various sections of IPC. Initially when the case was filed, most of them were booked under UAPA by Bengaluru police, which the NIA changed. Most of them were denied bail for six months because of the UAPA charges,” said Mohammad Azhar, a lawyer representing some of the accused in the case. While the UAPA charges being dropped came as a big relief for many like Hussain and the three brothers, their lives changed for the worse during those six months. Hussain said he lost his job while he was in prison. “The company was initially supportive knowing my situation but sometime later, they hired another person as my replacement. Even though the UAPA charges have been dropped and there is enough evidence to prove my innocence, I don’t have a job,” he said. After he was released on bail in the last week of February, Hussain managed to get another job; however, he was sacked by the company citing the case against him, the 35-year-old said. Another resident of the building, a 31-year-old transport lorry driver was arrested following the violence and was released on bail after NIA dropped the UAPA charges against him. “The tempo (transport truck) was my only source of income. When I was arrested, my wife was alone at home. Since there was no income, the house owner began cutting rent from our deposit money. Eventually, my wife had no option but to sell the tempo. I lost everything I owed in those six months,” he said, requesting anonymity. In the same housing complex, at least four families vacated their houses after the men were arrested by the police and the families didn’t have the means to pay rent. For the three brothers, the expenses during the six months of jail have put the family in severe debt. “We had to keep sending money to the boys for availing facilities in the jail, such as making calls home. The lawyer’s fees and other expenses have come up to ₹1.5 lakh, which is a big amount for us. All three of them have lost their jobs also, which makes our situation worse,” said their mother. Three senior Bengaluru police officers refused to comment on NIA dropping UAPA charges against several accused, claiming the case is sub-judice. However, one senior officer, on the condition of anonymity, said the trial was yet to begin, and that they were preparing a watertight case. Officials of NIA Hyderabad, which is investigating the case, didn’t respond to calls made by HT for a comment. However, NIA has claimed that the violence in Bengaluru’s DJ Halli, on August 11, 2020, was coordinated through a WhatsApp group. The central agency made the claim in its charge sheet filed on February 9. The federal agency claimed that a WhatsApp group “DG Halli 45” was actively organising the mob to gather in front of the two police stations. “Analysis of the WhatsApp group revealed that more than a hundred members were present in the said group during the riot and had hidden their identity… the WhatsApp group was used for spreading incriminating messages, images, videos, audio clips etc related to the incident to instigate people to assemble unlawfully in front of both KG Halli and DJ Halli police stations for participating in the violent activities,” the charge sheet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-men-linked-to-b-luru-riots-struggle-to-pick-up-the-pieces-101624562150626.html
25-06-2021||India||Persuade people to get vaccines, not force them: Meghalaya high court to govt||The Meghalaya High Court on Thursday told the government not to coerce people to get their Covid-19 vaccine but use persuasion instead. The advice from a two-judge bench of the high court came after it took a dim view of the authorities barring people from opening shops or operating taxis unless they got the jab.The bench comprising chief justice Biswanath Somadder and justice HS Thangkhiew said the government cannot put an embargo on the fundamental right to life of individuals by strippng them of the right to livelihood except according to the procedure adopted by law. This procedure too, the court added, has to be fair, just and reasonable.“Till now, there has been no legal mandate whatsoever with regard to coercive or mandatory vaccination in general and the Covid19 vaccination drive in particular that can prohibit or take away the livelihood of a citizen on that ground,” the bench ruled.The bench has taken suo moto (on its own motion) notice of orders by deputy commissioners barring shops, commercial establishments and passenger vehicles from resuming business in their respective districts unless their staffers have been vaccinated.Instead, the bench ordered shops, commercial establishments and passenger vehicles to put up a notice board that indicates if the staffers have been vaccinated.“In the event, any shops/establishments/local taxis/auto-rickshaws/maxi cabs and buses flout the above directions, the concerned authority of the State shall immediately direct its closure/stoppage of plying,” the court ordered.“Compulsory administration of vaccines without hampering one’s right to life and liberty based on informed choice and informed consent is one thing. However, if any compulsory vaccination drive is coercive by its very nature and spirit, it assumes a different proportion and character,” the bench reasoned.The court said the issue of vaccine hesitancy needs to be dealt with by the state government in a manner that will commensurate with the seven-point fresh guidelines issued on Tuesday that advocates the “nudge” approach as a primary tool to effect change in the Covid vaccine compliance.The court cautioned the authorities that it will monitor the situation closely and underscored that the problem must be addressed at the earliest while expecting that all eligible persons in the state are vaccinated within the timeframe as specified by the government.The matter has been listed for hearing on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/persuade-people-to-get-vaccines-not-force-them-meghalaya-high-court-to-govt-101624561731334.html
25-06-2021||India||The doctor who went out of his way to help humanity||Delhi: “I am suffering from Covid-19; I have Covid pneumonia which is progressive. But even then remember the words of Raj Kapoor, the show must go on. Picture abhi baaki hai,” said Dr KK Agarwal, 62, in one of the last videos he put out as part of his practice to educate people about coronavirus disease (Covid-19).At the time of making the video, Agarwal was on oxygen support.A renowned cardiologist in the National Capital Region and the head of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) from 2016-17, Agarwal was known for his effort to educate people through social media and healthcare festivals.He was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences after contracting the coronavirus disease in May; his condition deteriorated and he was in need of ventilator support.He died on May 17 at the age of 62.The doctor had received both doses of vaccine against Covid-19; indeed, to combat vaccine hesitancy, he had even live streamed getting the jab. In January, he achieved a degree of virality when, after returning from getting a jab, he attended a call from his wife, Veena Agarwal, who scolded him for getting the jab without her.Later, Agarwal said that he was happy that people had achieved a “moment of levity” at his expense, but it was important for him to show people that nothing would happen if they got the vaccine.The Heart Care Foundation of India, which Agarwal started in 1986 to help treat patients with heart conditions, continues to run his social media accounts on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube.Dr Prem Aggarwal, owner of Sanjeevan hospital in Darya Ganj and a cardiologist, stood against Agarwal for the post of president of the Delhi Medical Association – and lost.“He was very malleable person; he could adjust to any situation and get along with anyone. He got along with me even as I wholeheartedly opposed him in the elections for the Delhi Medical Association. He won but we went on to do many events together,” Aggarwal said.Dr OP Yadava of the National Heart Institute remembered his colleague for over 30 years as someone whose reformatory zeal never dimmed.Agarwal was known for his classic look: he would wear a beret over his bandh gala, and had a stethoscope around his neck at all times. “People called him boastful for having the stethoscope around his neck all the time. But I think he just took pride in being a doctor. That’s an identity he wanted people to know him by, so that he could help them in their time of need,” Yadava said.Agarwal started the Sameer Malik fund in 2014 under the aegis of the Heart Care Foundation to conduct cardiac surgeries like bypass, installing pacemakers, and valve replacement for those who could not afford it. The fund was also used to treat children with congenital heart defects, particularly girls.“He could have earned a lot more if he wished to, but he wanted to help the society. We used to do the surgeries sponsored by the Sameer Malik fund and KK said that we should focus on the girl child because often parents would seek treatment for their boys but the girls remained neglected,” Yadava said.Born to a family that lived in a small one-bedroom house as the seventh child, Agarwal wanted to be a doctor from a young age. He joined Delhi’s Moolchand hospital in 1983 as a junior resident under Dr HK Chopra, a preventive cardiologist. Within a span of few months, he got five promotions and became a specialist at Moolchand hospital.Agarwal was one of the first cardiologists to bring echocardiography to Delhi after being trained in the United States. The technology is now an integral part of heart care in the country.He went on to win the highest award in the medical profession, the Dr BC Roy award, in 2005 and the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award, in 2010.“He brought medical journalism to the forefront with his reporting on issues in the country’s healthcare system,” said Aggarwal, co-founder of medical reporting site, Medical Dialogues.He was a stickler for organization, Yadava said. “He had made a detailed point by point note on who would take over his newsletter, who could take over what work. Everything had been taken care of even when he was in the hospitals. He was clear-headed till the end.” His newsletters were about awareness and findings of new studies.“He was methodical and wouldn’t waste even a minute.”He is survived by his wife, Veena, daughter Naina and son Nilesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-doctor-who-went-out-of-his-way-to-help-humanity-101624561252207.html
25-06-2021||India||People may have got antibiotics at fake jab camp in Kolkata: Cops||People who went to take Covid-19 vaccine at the fake vaccination camp, organised by the man who was impersonating an IAS officer, in south Kolkata might have been injected with Amikacin, an antibiotic, police said on Thursday.Sleuths of the Kolkata Police’s detective department, who raided accused Debanjan Deb’s office in south Kolkata on Thursday, found a large number of Amikacin vials. Fake labels of Covishield were also recovered, police said.“In some of the Amikacin vials we found that fake labels of Covishield have been pasted. Interrogation revealed that Debanjan Deb used to purchase Amikacin from chemists impersonating as a top official of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police.On Wednesday, Kolkata Police busted a fake Covid-19 vaccination camp organised by 28-year-old Deb, who was masquerading as the joint commissioner of the city’s civic body.Trianmool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty was also duped as she attended the vaccination camp on an invitation and took a dose. She, however, grew suspicious when she didn’t receive any message on her mobile.Police lodged another case against Deb on Thursday after interrogation revealed that he had organised a similar camp at a college in north Kolkata a few days ago. Several students were injected.“The vials used by Deb had a label with Covishield written on it in green colour. It didn’t have any batch number, manufacture date, expiry date or the company’s name. Only ‘recombinant vaccine’ was written on it. The vials were also smaller than actual Covishield vaccine vials,” said Ranita Sengupta, deputy chief medical health officer at KMC.Police suspect Deb, who was impersonating an IAS officer and a top civic official, was also arranging funds by negotiating with some microfinance companies.“He had employed a security guard and used to move around in a car with a blue beacon and the flag of KMC,” said the police officer.Police said further investigation was going on and the samples, recovered from his office and the fake vaccination camp, have been sent for examination.“Amikacin is a very important antibiotic, which is given to patients suffering from sepsis and septicaemia. We still don’t know which injection was given. But if it was Amikacin, then it won’t have much effect on a normal human being. But if the patient is suffering from kidney ailments and Amikacin has been given in high doses, then it could create some problem,” said Dr Manas Gumta, general secretary of Association of Health Service Doctors in the state.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has raised allegations that Deb might have links with senior TMC leaders after pictures of the accused posing with senior leaders of the ruling party surfaced.Recently, Deb had attended a programme organsied by the TMC at Sonarpur in the southern fringes of the city. TMC legislator Lovey Maitra had also attended the programme on invitation. Besides, a bust of Rabindranath Tagore was recently unveiled at Taltala in Kolkata. Along with names of TMC MPs and MLAs, Deb’s name was also carved on the stone, people aware of the matters told HT.“How can an MP (referring to Mimi Chakraborty) attend a fake vaccination camp, without verifying it and speak highly of the camp? Does this mean that she is also associated with this? Deb’s picture can also be seen with TMC leaders, including ministers and ward councilors. There has to be some connection,” Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal, said.Reacting to BJP’s allegations, Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson, said, “The way everything was camouflaged, we admit that there was a fault. A crime has been committed. The police will investigate how he managed everything. Mimi Chakraborty didn’t speak highly of Deb. She tried to encourge vaccination. But we don’t want to hear it from the BJP. Could they identify the fake BJP leaders who joined the party in large numbers before the elections and are now willing to switch sides?”A few hundred people took injections in various camps organised by Deb. Police said those who took the fake jab in south Kolkata were told that they were getting Covishield, those who got the fake jabs in north Kolkata College were told they got Sputnik. His office employees were also given fake injections and were told they were getting Pfizer vaccine. Such a camp was also organised at Sonarpur, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-may-have-got-antibiotics-at-fake-jab-camp-in-kolkata-cops-101624561190596.html
25-06-2021||India||India asks OPEC to restore oil supply to calm inflation||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday asked oil producers’ cartel -- Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) -- for restoring output to bring down international crude oil prices to a reasonable band, adding that their strategy of production squeeze is stoking inflation and restricting economic recovery of energy importers such as India.In a consultation meeting with Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, OPEC secretary general, Pradhan flagged concerns over the increasing crude oil prices and its impact on consumers and emphasised that high crude prices were adding significant inflationary pressure on India, a petroleum ministry spokesperson said.India has been witnessing unprecedented jump in pump prices of petrol and diesel as auto fuel rates, which are linked to their respective international benchmarks, are moving northward unabated in the last 52 days. Due to a spike in international oil rates, petrol and diesel have become costlier by ₹7.36 and ₹7.57 per litre, respectively, since May 4.Prices of the two fuels are breaking their own record almost every day as petrol breached the ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, particularly in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana and Laddakh. Fuel was costliest in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar, where petrol was sold at ₹108.94 per litre and diesel at ₹101.48 a litre on Thursday.Pradhan discussed recent oil market developments with Barkindo, the spokesperson said. The minister “reiterated his request of phasing out production cuts and also emphasised that crude prices should remain within a reasonable band, which will be in the collective interests of both consumers and producers and will encourage a consumption-led recovery,” he added.One of the key reasons for high domestic fuel rates is production curbs by the oil cartel. OPEC and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) on April 12 last year announced an unprecedented 9.7 million barrel per day cut in oil output, a 10th of the global output, from May 1, 2020, but did not adhere to the planned restoration of the supply.Output cut was initiated when international oil rates fell below $20 a barrel in April last year. Benchmark Brent crude on April 21, 2020 fell to $19.33 a barrel. It, however, rose to over $50 per barrel in early 2021. With rising demand and supply constraints, oil prices hit $75.78 a barrel on Thursday intraday trade, while WTI (West Texas Intermediate) hit a session high of $73.61 and was trading close to its highest in almost three years.India imported 227 million metric tonnes (MMT) of crude worth $101.4 billion in 2019-20 and about 78% of that came from OPEC countries, which include Algeria, Angola, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Venezuela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-opec-to-restore-oil-supply-to-calm-inflation-101624561191131.html
25-06-2021||India||Delta variant bypassed immunity, triggered repeat infections: Study||Delta grew to become the dominant variant in India due to its improved ability to jump to new hosts and by wiping resisting the large parts of population immunity in people from the first wave of Covid-19, a new study awaiting peer view has suggested, reporting finding that show the unique set of mutations makes the virus more infective, leads to higher viral load in people and causes larger outbreak clusters.The findings are by researchers in India and India, and takes into account outbreak patterns among healthcare workers in three Indian cities, and lab analysis of how the variant reacts to antibodies as well as the way in which the virus infects human cells, particularly in the lungs.The study made several crucial findings, some of which, to be sure, have also been reflected in real world data coming from the UK. The researchers included scientists from Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in collaboration with Cambridge University’s Gupta Lab.“The main finding of the paper is that the Delta variant has a good immune escape potential as shown in the lab. It also quickly replaced other variants and caused most of the breakthrough infections (infection after complete vaccination) in healthcare workers. For the people, what this means is that we have to be very cautious and behave appropriately, especially now that we are also seeing cases of Delta Plus. We still do not know anything about its immune escape potential. The studies have just started,” said Dr Rajesh Pandey, one of the authors of the paper and senior scientist at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.“Delta variant has the maximum transmissibility yet seen, and reduces neutralisation protection from previous infections and vaccines,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, one of the authors of the study and the director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.The mathematical model based on cases and deaths reported from Mumbai showed that by the end of January, there was a 2% increase in the transmissibility of the Delta variant against all others in circulation, and a 32% increase in immune evasion from a previous infection (if the researchers assumed that there was 30% under-reporting of deaths). The proportions go up if the assumption is 50% and 70% under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths.“We find that Delta is both more transmissible and better able to evade prior immunity elicited by previous infection compared to previously circulating lineages. While there is substantial uncertainty in our estimates, we find that in Mumbai, the Delta variant was 10% to 40% more transmissible than previously circulating lineages, and able to evade 20 to 55% of the immune protection provided by prior infection with non-Delta virus,” said a tweet from the collaborating Gupta Lab from Cambridge University.The in-vitro, or laboratory studies, looked at sensitivity of the variants of concern to neutralising antibodies from a previous infection by the virus that originated in Wuhan. It showed that Alpha variant, seen first in the UK, was 2.3 fold less sensitive and, Beta -- seen first in South Africa -- was 8.2 fold less sensitive as compared to 5.7 fold for Delta variant.The researchers also found that Delta variant had a replication advantage over Alpha variant in the lab. The researchers also found that when samples of over 100 healthcare workers from three Delhi hospitals who got breakthrough infections were sequenced, most of them were caused by the Delta variant.“However, by the time a significant proportion of the healthcare workers were fully vaccinated, Delta variant was the most common variant in circulation, accounting for 60% of cases. So, that could also be the reason why most breakthrough infections were caused by delta variant,” said Dr Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-variant-bypassed-immunity-triggered-repeat-infections-study-101624561130559.html
25-06-2021||India||BJP replaces zilla parishad chief candidate after Unnao rape victim’s objection||LUCKNOW/KANPUR: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday changed its candidate for the zilla parishad chairman’s post from Unnao after the victim in the 2017 rape case objected to the party’s choice, alleging he was “very close” to former MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who was convicted for the crime.Former BJP MLC Ajeet Singh’s wife Shakun Singh was hurriedly named as the new candidate after state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh ordered party’s Unnao district chief Raj Kishore Rawat to replace Arun Singh, a former block pramukh. “On directions of the party leadership, the candidature of Arun Singh has been cancelled. Now Shakun Singh, wife of the late former MLA Ajit Singh, will be the party candidate for the district panchyat chairperson,” Rawat said in a statement. The party’s decision came after the rape victim appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard. She thanked the PM and CM on Thursday for instantly dropping Singh’s name as the candidate for chairmanship.On Wednesday night, Rawat had declared that Arun Singh, who is the son-in-law of state minister Ranvendra Pratap Singh, would be the party’s candidate for the zila panchayat chairperson’s post from Unnao.After the announcement, Singh even came to the district BJP office where he was felicitated by some party workers on Thursday. But the scenario changed after the Unnao rape victim’s appeal to the top BJP leadership.In her appeal, the rape victim said that Arun Singh was one of the co-accused in the case registered in connection with the accident involving her car on July 28, 2019, in which her two aunts were killed while she and her lawyer were critically injured. Claiming he was being framed, Singh had that the Central Bureau of Investigation, which was probing the case, had given him a clean chit. He said he would write to the state government against those who had dragged his name into the controversy. The BJP had in April replaced Kuldeep Sengar’s wife Sangeeta as the party candidate for the zila panchayat ward member 22 after a similar uproar against her candidature. On Thursday, shortly before the UP BJP chief ordered the Unnao district unit to replace Singh, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said, “I think the party would be taking an appropriate decision.” Earlier, in a viral video, the rape victim had alleged that local BJP functionaries were supporting those who were plotting to eliminate her.She had said that her complaints against her abuse were not acted upon by the police due to the influence of Sengar, a four-time lawmaker.Sengar, a former BJP MLA from Unnao’s Bangarmau seat, was accused of rape by the victim in 2017. A Delhi court had sentenced Sengar to life imprisonment in the case in December 2019.In March 2020, a special court sentenced Sengar, his brother Atul Singh and five others to 10 years’ imprisonment in two cases linked to the death of the Unnao rape victim’s father in 2018.Kuldeep Sengar was expelled from the BJP and disqualified as member of state assembly after the trial court convicted him.Meanwhile, Shakun Singh thanked the party for her nomination. “I am grateful to the leadership,” she said.The election for the zila panchayat chairperson would be held on July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-replaces-zilla-parishad-chief-candidate-after-unnao-rape-victim-s-objection-101624561011202.html
25-06-2021||India||Two NHRC teams arrive in Bengal to probe post-poll violence complaints||A team constituted by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) visited a part of North 24 Parganas district in south Bengal on Wednesday to probe allegations of post-poll violence while a second team arrived in north Bengal in the afternoon. Police officers aware of the development said the NHRC teams, which are part of a committee, will be touring parts of north and south Bengal over the next few days.There are seven people in the committee, including a member of the West Bengal Human Rights Commission and a member of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority.On June 21, the Calcutta high court’s five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal dismissed a petition by the West Bengal government seeking recall of the June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during alleged violence after the recent assembly polls.The NHRC was asked to submit its report before the court by June 30, the next date of hearing.Hours later, the NHRC constituted a seven-member panel to “enquire into complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal” and told the panel to identify people who were prima facie responsible for the violence and the officers who maintained a “calculated silence”.The committee is led by Rajiv Jain, the former Intelligence Bureau chief who assumed charge as NHRC member on June 2, a statement by the human rights body said. The committee also comprises National Commission for Minorities vice-chairman Atif Rasheed, National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja and West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee.The high court, which heard several petitions on the violence that erupted after the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) won the state elections, ordered on June 18 that the NHRC has to constitute the committee. The state government rushed to the high court the following day with a review petition, requesting the five judges to recall their order.The judges heard out the state government on Monday but were not convinced. The bench made a pointed reference to complaints of police inaction and observed that the conduct of the state did not inspire the confidence of the court.The court also pointed out that the NHRC received 541 complaints while the state human rights commission did not receive a single one.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has mounted a relentless campaign against the Mamata Banerjee government, alleging that its supporters are being targeted. The BJP has alleged that more than 30 people have been murdered and women have been raped and molested as well for supporting the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-nhrc-teams-arrive-in-bengal-to-probe-post-poll-violence-complaints-101624560892027.html
25-06-2021||India||Cong plans protests on economy, fuel price; to boost Covid outreach||The Congress party will launch nationwide protests early next month against economic issues like inflation and rising fuel prices, and rapidly expand its Covid outreach to cover 3 crore households in 30 days, a major political manoeuvre to make its presence felt on ground after losing elections in Kerala, West Bengal and Assam, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday after Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with top party officials.Gandhi, in her opening address at the meeting with the party’s general secretaries, state in-charges and state leadership, referred extensively to the Covid pandemic. She stressed that it was “absolutely essential that our party plays an active role” to ensure full vaccination coverage and encourages people to register for the jabs. In addition, the Congress should also continue to put pressure on the Narendra Modi government to treble the daily rate of vaccination to ensure at least 75% of India’s population is inoculated at the end of 2021.Gandhi also spoke about the “intolerable burden being imposed by rising fuel prices” and how “prices of many other essential commodities like pulses and edible oils too have skyrocketed causing wide-spread distress.”The Congress followed up the concern, announcing that it will launch a 10-day-long nationwide agitation from July 7 with programmes at block, district and state levels. The party’s frontal organizations will also step up. A cycle yatra at district levels, march and processions at state level and even a signature campaign at petrol pumps to demand reduction of prices of petrol and diesel would be part of this programme.The Congress hasn’t been able to carry out “political activities” due to Covid restrictions and needs to get back in the game. a senior Congress leader said.“We did campaign in the recent assembly elections, but round-the-year movements were missing. And in some states, lack of opposition activities has been a key reason for electoral losses,” said the leader who was present at Thursday’s meeting.The Congress’ Covid care campaign, which asks each volunteer to reach out to more than 200 households every day for a month, is targeted to cover 7,199 blocks and 7,935 towns across the country’s 736 districts. This is a part of the plan detailed in a circular by general secretary organization KC Venugopal reported by HT on Thursday.In the urban and semi-urban areas, the party wants to approach “auto/battery and cycle rickshaw drivers, plumbers, electricians, gardeners, mechanics, domestic workers, slum dwellers, delivery boys and street vendors” under its covid care programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-protests-on-economy-fuel-price-to-boost-covid-outreach-101624560830603.html
25-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Shots for 60+ group hit hesitancy hurdle||The pace of vaccination among people above the age of 60 has fallen 75% from peak levels despite more than half the population in this age group yet to be administered even a single shot – igniting fears of vaccine hesitancy hampering the coverage of the population group most vulnerable to Covid-19.According to data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday, a little over 66 million (66,161,004) of the population above 60 years of age has received their first dose so far. Based on projections of population by the Census of India for 2021, there are an estimated 138 million people above 60. This means that around 52% of the country’s elderly are yet to receive a single shot – a massive proportion for an age group that has been eligible for shots for nearly four months now.But the worrying aspect of this trend is the drop in the pace of vaccination in this age group.The seven-day average of first dose administration among elderly peaked for the week ending March 27, when 1.48 million people got their shots every day on average. Through April and May, as the drive progressed, the number of new people above the age of 60 years getting shots started dwindling. By mid-May, this number dropped to 113,906 shots a day on average (for the week ending May 16), the lowest ever. And while it has inched up slowly since then (376,948 people above the age of 60 have got their first shots in the past week), it remains 75% below peak levels.Experts said vaccine hesitancy appears to be the main reason for this drop, as those who wanted to get their shots did so as soon as they could, but the remaining people appear to be staying away from vaccination centres. A rework of vaccination strategy may be needed to deal with this issue, they said.“The rush definitely has gone down of the elderly and it is largely younger people that are coming to get vaccinated... If 50% or so are still left in this population group, then we really need to reassess our approach,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo Hospitals. “Those among the elderly who have been left could either be those who cannot travel for some reason, or those who are hesitant to get jabbed. To manage this, requires a two-pronged strategy that includes providing vaccination at their doorstep for those who cannot travel, and to change the communication strategy to allay their concerns about safety,” he added.Vaccine hesitancy and patchy supplies are the primary concerns that people involved in the vaccination process have had to deal with, and Union health ministry has been issuing advisories to look at ways through which hesitancy can be effectively dealt with.“Certain challenges are foreseen that needs to be countered well in time. These may include the challenge of ensuring over 1.3 billion people in India receive factual and timely information and updates on vaccine roll-out progress and benefits, public’s anxiety and queries ... apprehension about the vaccines ... and fear of adverse events, misconception about vaccine efficacy, rumours and negative narrative…,” said ahealth ministry guideline on vaccine hesitancy.Also read | Pfizer says its vaccine highly effective against Delta variantTo address these probable challenges, the Centre has asked states to have in place an integrated 360-degree comprehensive advocacy communication and social mobilisation strategy in place, to include mechanisms by which four key areas around vaccination introduction, vaccine eagerness and hesitancy can be handled.“As part of the measures, information education communication material was asked to be distributed among target population to send out the right message, and alley their fears regarding vaccination. Volunteers were trained to go into community for conducting awareness generation campaigns among the target population, among other activities,” said a government official aware of the developments, on condition of anonymity.Experts, however, say that the Centre needs to draft an evidence-based communication strategy to address hesitancy in a more targeted age-based approach.“Since it is clear that there is huge vaccine hesitancy among this group, we need to get to the actual reasons behind it and then look for ways to tackle it. The government should hire a professional agency that understands communication to generate data on reasons behind vaccine hesitancy among different age groups as the reason for being hesitant may not be the same in all age groups,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahiriya, senior public health and vaccine expert.“Not just age-level, there should also be subgroups such as rural and urban as people in these groups may have different reasons for not coming out to get vaccinated. The data that is generated like this should be used to draft targeted, evidence-based communication strategy for their messaging to be more effective,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-for-60-group-hit-hesitancy-hurdle-101624559391650.html
25-06-2021||India||Mamata case judge reminisces of days as lawyer, reserves order||Calcutta high court judge Kausik Chanda on Thursday observed that he was put on a “media trial” for his association with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prior to judgeship, and reserved the order on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s plea that he drop out from hearing her petition against BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s election win in Nandigram.Banerjee was present in the court through video conferencing, as per the requirement under the Representation of People Act to present her election petition seeking re-evaluation of the Nandigram assembly poll results. The Trinamool Congress chief lost by a margin of less than 2,000 votes to her former aide though her party stormed to a massive victory to retain power.The judge did not specify the date of the verdict on Banerjee’s plea for his recusal.The 90-minute hearing in the high court saw an intriguing debate between justice Chanda and senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for Banerjee, and claimed that there was overwhelming material to show that the judge had been “an active member of BJP” and held a “deeply personal, professional and ideological association” with the party.Justice Chanda, during the proceedings, not only expressed his displeasure against Banerjee’s counsel for not citing “likelihood of bias” when the matter first came up before his court on June 18, but also quipped repeatedly about how he helped BJP in several legal wrangles before the high court when he was a lawyer.While Singhvi took justice Chanda through various news reports and photographs mentioning him as a counsel for BJP in political cases relating to permission for Amit Shah’s rally, and the conduct of panchayat polls in 2014, the judge retorted: “When I look back at these cases as a lawyer, it fills me up with joy that I appeared in these important cases. After Amit Shah’s rally was allowed by the high court, I was one of the last ones to join the rally in front of the Victoria House in Kolkata. I was given a grand welcome with garlands and applause. All newspapers in the state carried my name and photograph too.”As Singhvi continued showing the newspaper clippings, mostly from between 2010 and 2014 when justice Chanda was appearing for the BJP before the Calcutta high court, the judge recollected that the BJP was not a popular party in the state when he was initially representing it.“I can still remember the first matter when I appeared for the BJP. I told the division bench that I was appearing for Bharatiya Janata Party. The bench asked me twice – which party. I had to repeat – BJP. In those days, it was beyond the imagination of the high court that anybody from BJP would come to them,” he said.The high court judge also told Singhvi that the BJP got its first major publicity in West Bengal after it jumped in the fray in support of the state election commission, which was batting for panchayat polls in the state before the high court. “Anandabazar Patrika (newspaper) carried the BJP’s name on its front page...you are now showing me reports of Hindustan Times and Times of India too. I did not know national newspapers also carried this.”Singhvi conceded that BJP has come a long way and made great strides since 2010. The senior lawyer then proceeded to read out social media posts from TMC leader Derek O’Brien and advocate Prashant Bhushan with photographs of justice Chanda sharing a stage with West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh when he was a lawyer. Singhvi said that justice Chanda had also attended the party’s legal cell programmes.“There are some reactions to these tweets asking if these are my photographs or they are morphed. I can confirm these are my pictures.... Mr Singhvi, are you aware of the composition and structure of BJP? How the BJP functions? I was never the chairman of the legal cell though,” the judge said.Singhvi, on his part, told the judge that individual cases come and go, and that no case should be worthy of this much controversy. “With this plethora of materials, your lordship will only be elevating your stature by recusing from this case. Recently, two judges in the Supreme Court also recused from two cases in the state. Recusal is a normal thing. It is the perception of bias that should be enough. I should not have had to argue so much,” he added.To this, the judge asked Singhvi if it was not the duty of Banerjee and her legal team to raise their objections on the first date of hearing when the case was taken up on June 18, especially because she had by then already written to the chief justice of the high court to assign the election petition to a different bench.“You don’t say a thing before me when the case is taken up. But when the judge goes back home, he finds a flurry of social media messages and tweets, creating a furore. There is already a media trial going on before the matter is taken up by this court. Hundreds of tweets are there asking me to recuse. Is it not that there is already a media trial and I can’t decide this without getting influenced? If I recuse now, will I not be giving in to this media trial?” justice Chanda asked Singhvi.Singhvi submitted that public opinion does not matter for a judicial determination but the principal issue remained of perception of bias and the controversy surrounding the judge’s links with a party in opposition. He added that the CM had earlier this year also “conveyed her objections and reservations” about justice Chanda’s confirmation as permanent judge.Justice Chanda pointed out that while Singhvi was a member of Congress, he was being assisted in this matter by senior lawyer SN Mookherjee who was from BJP while the two appeared for a TMC leader. “If you both can appear together, why cannot the judge be trusted?” the judge asked Singhvi, who replied that judges had a higher duty than the lawyers.“I am only concerned about a case that has been assigned to me and there is a recusal application filed. I will decide this legally. Let me consider this and pass the judgment. Judgment is reserved,” said justice Chanda.Justice Chanda was designated as senior advocate in June 2014. He served as an additional solicitor general of India from April 2015 to September 2019 and was elevated to the high court as an additional judge in October 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-case-judge-reminisces-of-days-as-lawyer-reserves-order-101624559390521.html
25-06-2021||India||Centre throws door open to J&K election, statehood||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met mainstream leaders from Jammu and Kashmir at a landmark meeting in Delhi on Thursday, signalling the start of political engagement in the Valley after two years despite lingering disagreement over key issues, including the restoration of the region’s special status.Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah stressed on grassroots democracy and the importance of conducting elections in J&K, stating their commitment to restoring the region’s statehood, and urging mainstream leaders to participate in the ongoing delimitation exercise, a contentious process of redrawing poll constituencies.“Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory,” Modi tweeted shortly after the meeting.Shah said the Union government was committed to the “all-round development” of J&K and brought up the promise of restoring statehood.“The future of Jammu & Kashmir was discussed and the delimitation exercise and peaceful elections are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament,” he said, referring to his statement in the Lok Sabha in February this year.The event was the first such outreach of the Union government since August 5, 2019, when it controversially voided Article 370 of the Constitution, which bestowed special status to the region, and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union territories. Prominent leaders were detained, all communications snapped and curfew-like restrictions imposed for months. But local sentiment remained bitterly opposed to the decision.Also read | PM Modi meets J&K leaders, says he wants to remove 'Dilli ki Duri, Dil ki Duri'Thursday’s meeting was attended by 14 leaders from Jammu & Kashmir, including four former chief ministers and prominent members from the Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Everyone agreed that the talks happened in a cordial environment.“The PM said that he wants to remove Dilli ki Doori [distance from Delhi] as well as Dil Ki Doori [distance from the heart,” said a person familiar with the happenings at the meeting who asked not to be named.But politicians from the People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- a five-party alliance of parties in Kashmir -- indicated that crucial disagreements remained.Former chief minister and National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah said there was a loss of trust between J&K and the Centre, and it was the Union government’s duty to plug the breach. “We told PM that we don’t stand with what was done on August 5, 2019. We’re not ready to accept it. But we won’t take the law into our hands. We will fight this in court, and hope that we’ll get justice there,” he said. A batch of petitions challenging the effective abrogation of Article 370 are pending in the Supreme Court since 2019.Abdullah also questioned the delimitation exercise, and said the NC is yet to decide if it will take part in the process.Former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti said she told the PM that the people of J&K didn’t accept how Article 370 was nullified “unconstitutionally, illegally, and immorally”.“The people of J&K will struggle constitutionally, democratically, peacefully. Be it months or years, we will restore Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir as it is a matter of our identity. We did not get it from Pakistan, it was given to us by our country, by Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Patel,” she said.The all-party meeting appeared to have discussed four main issues: the delimitation exercise, which is currently being boycotted by NC and PDP; holding fresh elections in the state for the first time in seven years; restoring full statehood to the Union territory and development goals for the region. Reinstating Article 370 also came up.At the meeting, Modi assured that the demand for full statehood will be met but Kashmiri politicians pushed for its restoration before new elections are held, said a person aware of developments.The regional leaders were told that elections could not precede the delimitation exercise as the 2019 Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act laid down the conditions for carving out new constituencies for polls, said the person quoted above.“The home minister explained why the process of delimitation has to be completed before elections can be scheduled,” said Congress leader and former chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad.Azad said the parties were assured that delimitation would be carried out after extensive consultation down to the panchayat level. There is concern in the Valley that the exercise will shift the balance of power from Kashmir to Jammu. In the current arrangement, Kashmir has 46 seats while Jammu has 37.“The next important step in the democratic process in J-K is assembly polls and we have to move to it together. For this, the delimitation process will have to be completed swiftly…all parties participating in the meeting assured to be part of the delimitation process,” Union minister Jitendra Singh said.The issue of restoration of special status was also discussed. “The parties themselves said the issue is pending in the Supreme Court,” said the person cited in the first instance.On the issue of timing of assembly elections, the person quoted above said no time limit was set for the completion of delimitation and the commission has till March 2022 to wind up the exercise.“It is unlikely that elections will be held by the end of the year as winter sets in and the process of conducting elections is not feasible. At the same time, it is unlikely that the polls will be coincided with the five-state elections in early 2022 as J&K requires additional security detail which may not be possible if there are elections scheduled elsewhere. But the final decision will rest with the election commission,” the person added.The meeting – which happened after weeks of backchannel talks by national security adviser Ajit Doval and the home ministry -- represented a sharp change in the central government’s policy and was seen as an effort to break the ice with regional parties and reset the political process in the UT.Many of the other attendees hailed the event and said the PM expressed satisfaction with the acceleration of development in the region. “Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-throws-door-opento-j-k-election-statehood-101624559330571.html
25-06-2021||India||Kabul will fall to Taliban after US leaves: Intel||US intelligence has warned that Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, will fall to the resurgent Taliban within six months of the departure of the last of US and international troops, the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday, days ahead of a White House meeting between President Joe Biden and top Afghan leaders Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah.The warning comes at a time there is growing international concern about terror outfit Taliban making gains in Afganistan since May 1, when the US and allied troops began leaving the country in accordance with a timeline announced by President Joe Biden for complete withdrawal by September 11 this year -- the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks that brought on the invasion of Afghanistan.India, which is a key stakeholder in Afghan reconciliation and reconstruction, called for a UN-led “permanent and comprehensive ceasefire” in Afghanistan during a UN Security Council debate on Monday, pointing specifically to the sudden escalation in violence since May 1, to “ensure immediate reduction in violence and protection of civilian lives”.The Journal report said that US intelligence experts had earlier assessed that the government of President Ghani would survive for two years after the US withdrawal. This timeline was based roughly on the time it took for the fall of Saigon in Vietnam after US withdrawal in 1975.US intelligence and military analysts have since revised their assessment and now believe that Kabul could fall in six to 12 months after the departure of American troops, the Journal reported, adding that officials in other western countries have a far worse assessment of three months.US military has planned to wound up the withdrawal process by as soon as July, going down from the 3,500 troopers currently still there to zero, barring a small force left behind for the protection of American diplomatic missions and officials.“I will say that while, in general, we are seeing elevated attacks on ANDSF (Afghan National Defense and Security Forces) and Afghan government versus a year ago, we have not seen an increase in attacks on our military presence since February 2020,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Wednesdayin response to a question about the rapid military gains posted by the Taliban.“We also assess that, had we not begun to draw down, violence would have increased against us as well after May 1, because that was what the Taliban was clearly conveying. So, the status quo, in our view, was not an option,” she said.American lawmakers are also worried by Taliban’s advances and sought assurances from US defense secretary Lloyd Austin and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff General Mark A Milley at a congressional hearing on Wednesday.Milley said, “Yes, we’re concerned we’re watching it, but there’s a 300,000 plus or minus, military force” of the Afghanistan army and the police “and it is their job to defend their country”. The Taliban control 81 of the country’s 419 district centres, but not any of the provincial capitals yet ,he added.Secretary Austin sought to address concerns expressed by lawmakers about the US’s ability to prevent Afghanistan from sliding back under the control of terrorists after the withdrawal, saying America has a “very” effective over-the-horizon capability in keeping an eye on Afghanistan, currently from partner countries in the Gulf and platforms at sea, but they are from a distance.“What we’d like to do going forward is shorten the legs that were required to utilise by getting an agreement with one of the neighbouring countries to base some of our ISR (Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance) in one of those countries,” he said at the congressional hearing.Austin did not name these countries, but Pakistan may have been a leading candidate, as has been clear from repeated public protestations from Prime Minister Imran Khan, who first said that Pakistan will “absolutely not” agree to give US bases and expounded his reasons for doing so in an Oped in the Washington Post on Monday.Asked about Khan’s declarations, a State Department spokesperson told Hindustan Times, “As President Biden said, the United States will reorganise our counterterrorism capabilities and substantial assets to prevent reemergence of terrorist threats, in Afghanistan or anywhere else.The United States respects the sovereignty of other nations and their ability to make decisions about what is in the best interest of their national security.”Central Asian countries such as Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan are considered to be among the other candidates because of their shared boundaries with Afghanistan — US had bases there once, people familiar with the region said, adding that Russian President Vladimir Putin’s blessings might be a problem.Afghan President Ghani, who begins a visit to Washington on Thursday, has been pressing the Taliban to accept a role in some sort of interim unity government until elections can be held.But the insurgents, emboldened by their battlefield gains since May 1, appear to have little interest in further negotiation and are intent on taking full control and restoring Afghanistan to an emirate ruled by religious elders.They have recently issued several statements about how they would govern -- broadly outlined, but light on detail. And peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government remain stalled.New Delhi, too, has raised growing concerns over the recent surge in violence across Afghanistan, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar last month expressing unease about the withdrawal plan for “political expediency”.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kabul-will-fall-to-taliban-after-us-leaves-intel-101624559271299.html
25-06-2021||India||Leadership, asset split key concerns for air force on theaterisation move||The setting up of a high-powered government committee to iron out details of the theaterisation plan has turned the spotlight on the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) traditional resistance to the setting up of integrated theatre commands, and the need to bring IAF fully on board for speedy roll-out of new joint structures, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday.The panel was set up last week after a lack of consensus on the theaterisation model emerged earlier this month during a key meeting of top government officials who reviewed a draft Cabinet note on the new joint structures.Theaterisation has the full backing of the government, and it expects chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat to bring about jointness among the three services by January 2023.IAF has been arguing in favour of having only one single theatre as its assets are inadequate for more than one such construct, said one of the persons cited above, on condition of anonymity. Several top IAF officers and former chiefs have backed the one-theatre argument.Terming a theatre as land-centric or martime-centric essentially “treats airpower as an adjunct rather than a joint partner in war-fighting,” he said.But some experts point out that the three services cannot work in silos any longer, and air defence is integral to fighting future wars in an era of standalone aerial weapons such as armed UAVs, rockets, missiles, and swarm drones.The air force also has reservations about the division of its air assets, nomenclature of commands, leadership of theatre commands and dilution of powers of chiefs, as reported by HT on June 21. Put simply, it fears key commands will be led by army generals.“Deliberations are on to remove differences and build consensus. Theaterisation will be carried out within the prescribed timeline,” a top official said.IAF’s opposition to theaterisation also stems from its belief that it has the speed, reach and potential to project military power across geographies without being confined to theatres.“The operational tempo of the army and navy is relatively slow as compared to the reach and speed of the IAF which is many times faster. Fighter planes can be quickly deployed and redeployed for missions anywhere,” said the first person.A former IAF chief publicly flagged concerns over theaterisation three years ago. In April 2018, then IAF chief Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa disapproved of the concept of theatre commands, arguing it would require the creation of more assets. “Compartmentalising will require more assets. We believe in one country, one theatre,” Dhanoa said. The IAF currently has 30 combat squadrons with 16-18 fighters each, compared to a sanctioned strength of 44.While IAF’s resistance to the concept of theaterisation was well known, an explicit acknowledgment of that opposition by a serving chief was then seen as rare. In December 2018, then navy chief Admiral Sunil Lanba, who was also the chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC) at that time, acknowledged that the IAF was opposed to the creation of theatre commands.A senior IAF official, who did not want to be named, said the air force can operate from anywhere and carry out any mission assigned to it demonstrated three years ago during Exercise Gaganshakti-2018 that saw the IAF move its assets from the western to the eastern front in less than 48 hours.“Fighter planes can take off from a base in south India, hit targets in the Bay of Bengal and land in the east. Division of assets under the current theaterisation model will rob the IAF of its flexibility,” the official said.IAF is down to barely 30 squadrons and it’s not a good time to split its assets, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “India should have a single military theatre considering the threat it faces from the Western Theatre Command of China that covers a geographical area larger than the size of India. More deliberations are required between the services for creating a robust system,” Chopra said.But theaterisation is also how the forces of most countries, including the US and China are organised. It has obvious advantages: better command and control, faster decision making and superior cross-service synergy, and India is very keen on it.No service should feel that they will have an upper hand or become subordinate to another service, said Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd), who headed a top committee that recommended the appointment of CDS and creation of theatre commands in a comprehensive report on military reforms submitted in December 2016.“Such thinking does not reflect sound national strategic thinking. We should all be mature enough to take India’s long-term interests into account,” he said.Rawat on Tuesday said new reforms do face hurdles, but the three services were in agreement on taking theaterisation forward. He said hurdles were necessary as they underscored the need for holding more discussions to fine-tune plans.In March, Rawat said India’s military leadership will have to “more than match the political vision” that has mandated the creation of theatre commands to address future security threats. He said “service parochialism” will have to make way for “a combined services outlook” to take theaterisation forward, calling for the military’s transformation to “outthink and outfight” India’s adversaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leadership-asset-split-key-concerns-for-air-force-on-theaterisation-move-101624559270502.html
25-06-2021||India||HC pulls up Uttarakhand on Covid-19 deaths data||The Uttarakhand high court has called into question the state government’s Covid death figures and said it cannot accept them. The government had submitted a death audit in court on Wednesday following the HC’s June 9 directive.Uttarakhand has so far reported over 3.39 lakh Covid cases and 7,068 deaths. Of these deaths, 978 were ‘backlog’ deaths or deaths that were reported late by hospitals.A division bench comprising Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Verma punched holes in the state government’s report on the ground that the reason of death given by the chief medical officer of Almora for all 111 cases for the month of May was identical – ‘cardiopulmonary arrest’ or heart attack.“It is rather surprising that 111 persons have died due to the same cause…Moreover, if the report is supposed to mean that the heart had stopped functioning, it is common knowledge that a dead body does not contain a beating heart,” the court observed.It added that the cause of death is suspicious, so the court cannot accept the “veracity and validity of such documents”.HT has seen a copy of the order.The court also said that it had asked for the death audit to be accompanied by death certificates, but the order hasn’t been complied with. “Furthermore, it has not even been informed by the government as to how many persons have died of Covid-19 in the wake of the second wave…” the court said.The court was hearing a bunch of petitions covering different aspects about the fight against Covid-19 in Uttarakhand filed by individuals named Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, Anu Pant and Rajendra Arya.Anoop Nautiyal, founder of an NGO named Social Development for Communities Foundation (SDC), said there has been a lot of ambiguity about the Covid fatalities in the state with some hospitals delaying their reports. He said the backlog deaths were all reported between October 17, 2020, and June 23, 2021.He also doubted the death count of Haridwar, which hosted the Mahakumbh that attracted nearly 6 million pilgrims in April. “Haridwar reported 91 Covid deaths in April and 591 in May. We need more clarity on how Haridwar, which was visited by millions of people, had just 91 deaths,” Nautiyal said while appreciating the HC for raising doubts about the government’s figures.When contacted, Abhishek Tripathi, nodal officer for Covid in Uttarakhand, said the issues raised by the HC will be looked into and a reply will be filed in court.On Wednesday, while questioning the state government’s preparedness to check the spread of the pandemic and the Delta plus variant, HC directed the state government to file a detailed affidavit in this regard by July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-pulls-up-u-khand-on-covid-deaths-data-101624559030444.html
25-06-2021||India||As part of SCO framework: India proposes plan against Pak terror groups||National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval proposed an action plan against Pakistan-based terror groups Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) as part of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) framework. He said this during the meeting of national security chiefs in Tajikistan’s capital Dushanbe on Wednesday.Doval also said that there is a need to monitor new technologies used by terrorists, including drones for smuggling of weapons, and misuse of the Dark Web, artificial intelligence, blockchain and social media.Strongly condemning terrorism in all forms and manifestations, the NSA emphasised on the need for full implementation of United Nations resolutions and targeted sanctions against designated terrorist individuals and entities. He said perpetrators of terrorism including cross-border terror attacks should be expeditiously brought to justice.He also said that there is a need to preserve gains made in last two decades in Afghanistan and give top priority to the welfare of its people. “India fully supports SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan, which should be more active,” said Doval.“Though India became SCO Member in 2017, it has physical, spiritual, cultural and philosophical inter-linkages for centuries with countries that now make up SCO,” Doval further said.On the sidelines of the meeting of SCO’s national security chiefs, Doval had a long meeting with Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev. They discussed contemporary developments of bilateral, regional and global significance.The two leaders also exchanged their views on the evolving situation in Afghanistan and the Asia-Pacific region during the meeting.The Beijing-based SCO is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations.India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017.The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the Presidents of Russia, China and the four Central Asian countries of Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-part-of-sco-framework-india-proposes-plan-against-pak-terror-groups-101624558970444.html
25-06-2021||India||Twitter executive gets HC relief from arrest in Ghaziabad case||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday gave interim protection from arrest to Twitter India executive Manish Maheshwari in relation to a FIR that has been filed by the Uttar Pradesh police over a video showing an attack on a Muslim man in Ghaziabad. The police’s claim is that the video was manipulated to present a skewed communal narrative, and it was amplified by its spread on Twitter.The court also said that the police could “communicate” with Maheshwari by “virtual mode”, which saves the Twitter executive the trouble of appearing before the police in person as he was asked to. Maheshwari was expected to visit Loni Kotwali in Ghaziabad on Thursday at 10.30 am.“He did not arrive, and we came to know that he moved high court. So, we will now wait for the...directions of the court on the next date of hearing. In case the petitioner (Maheshwari) wishes to come on his own, he can come and give his statements to the police,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle officer of Loni.Maheshwari’s argument is that he is an employee of Twitter India, not responsible for circulating the video, nor uploading it, and in charge of sales and advertising in the region.“The order is no coercive action; let not the investigation be hampered; and the IO (Investigating Officer) is at liberty to record his (Maheshwari’s) statement through video conferencing after keeping him informed beforehand,” CV Nagesh, the senior counsel who appeared on behalf of Maheshwari told Hindustan Times.Nagesh said that on June 17, the investigating officer issued a notice under section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to the Managing Director of Twitter India but the fact is that Maheshwari is not managing director.Twitter India did not respond to mails and texts from Hindustan Times seeking comment. This is Maheshwari’s second brush with the law in recent weeks. In late May, he was questioned by the Delhi police’s special cell over the company tagging the post of BJP leader Sambit Patra “manipulated media”. That tweet spoke of a Congress social media campaign orchestrated to show the government in bad light. The Congress claimed this “toolkit” was forged. The police have said that because Twitter tagged the tweet “manipulated media” it must have some information on it. Maheshwari’s defence in that incident too is the same -- that he is not responsible for such tagging.According to Nagesh, a notice under section 160 can be issued by the investigator for a cognizable crime for securing the presence of a person as a witness in the prosecution.Maheshwari responded to this notice , pointing out he was only an employee and knew nothing of this case but offering to appear before the investigating authorities and record his statement through VC as he was in Bengaluru.“Then in the next two days, the investigator issued a notice under 41(A) ” Nagesh said.“Clarification given by you is inappropriate. Being the MD of Twitter in India, you are the representative of the company. Therefore, you are bound by the Indian law to cooperate in the investigation,” the notice sent by the police said, Hindustan Times reported on Thursday.“But the rider for the issuance of 41(a) is only against a person against whom the crime has been registered or suspected to have been involved in the commissioning of the crime . Otherwise they can’t issue a notice,” Nagesh said.The senior counsel stated that Maheshwari was willing to travel to Uttar Pradesh if the counsel representing the state gives an undertaking to the Karnataka HC that they will not arrest him.The case will next be heard on June 29 in Karnataka HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-executive-gets-hc-relief-from-arrest-in-ghaziabad-case-101624558910466.html
25-06-2021||India||HC seeks DRDO, Centre replies on Covid-19 drug||The Madras high court on Thursday directed the Centre to respond by Friday and explain why the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has tied up with only Dr Reddy’s Laboratory in Hyderabad to develop the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), a drug for Covid-19 treatment. The court wondered why the DRDO has not issued licences to other reputed labs to augment production of the oral drug since studies have shown that it is effective against all Covid-19 variants. Besides DRDO, the high court also sought a response from the ministry of defence and the Union health ministry. Justices N Kirubakaran and T V Thamilsevli issued the interim direction based on a public interest litigation (PIL) that contended that a monopoly over this drug would not be wise when lakhs of lives were being lost in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner, D Saravanan from Chennai, stated that it was ‘shocking’ that the licence for manufacturing was granted only to Dr Reddy’s after the Drug Controller General of India had authorised the 2-DG drug for emergency use as adjunct therapy for moderate to severely affected patients. Developed by DRDO’s Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, the lab planned to price it at ₹990 per sachet containing 2.34 grams. He insisted that it should be manufactured on war-footing. The drug comes in a powder form packed in a sachet. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had in May released the first batch of the 2-DG drug. The petition sought to urge DRDO to share the technical know-how for the production of the drug, the licence to be granted to multiple pharmaceutical companies, and to ensure that the pricing is affordable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-seeks-drdo-health-ministry-response-on-only-1-lab-to-produce-covid-19-drug-101624541449532.html
25-06-2021||India||House panel calls meeting with FB, Google and MEITY officials||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has called representatives of Google, Facebook, and the Union electronics and information ministry separately to discuss the protection of citizen rights and prevention of the misuse of social media with a special emphasis on women’s safety.The meeting with Google and Facebook has been scheduled for June 29. The ministry officials will meet the Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor-led panel on July 7.The agenda of the June 29 meeting uploaded on the Lok Sabha website said it has been scheduled to hear the views of representatives of Facebook India and Google India on “the subject ‘Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”.Also Read | HC refuses to stay CCI notice to Facebook, WhatsApp in privacy policy matterOn June 18, the panel met Twitter representatives over its “lack of compliance with the new intermediary guidelines”. The panel inquired about the application of Twitter’s policy with reference to the use of the manipulated media tag on posts by Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, people familiar with the matter said.The meeting lasted for nearly two hours and was followed by a session with officials from the ministry of electronics and information technology. The ministry officials informed the panel that Twitter was not in compliance with the new rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-calls-fb-google-min-officials-to-discuss-online-safety-of-women-101624536527016.html
25-06-2021||India||CBI books 18 policemen in 1994 Isro fake spy case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a First Information Report (FIR) against former Kerala police chief Sibi Mathew, former Intelligence Bureau deputy director R B Sreekumar and 16 other police personnel over an alleged conspiracy to frame Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan in a 1994 espionage case.The filing of the FIR comes two months after the Supreme Court ordered CBI to investigate the conspiracy behind the framing, calling the matter “serious” and requiring“deeper investigation” into the role of the officers responsible. It accepted the report of a committee constituted by the court in 2018 to probe the circumstances that led to the framing. Narayanan, 79, was arrested in 1994 in the alleged espionage case. He was exonerated two years later following a CBI closure report.The accused police personnel have been charged with conspiracy, framing of false evidence, and illegal custody. “As per the directions of the Supreme Court, the agency has registered a case against 18 persons,” CBI spokesman R C Joshi said.Narayanan said the country suffered badly due to the case. “The cryogenic project (of ISRO) was delayed. Let conspiracy come out,” he said.Some of the accused said they were not heard by the Supreme Court-appointed Jain Commission. “I will move the court,” said S Vijayan, who is among the accused and allegedly tortured Narayanan in police custody.Sreekumar, a former Gujarat cadre India Police Service officer who was on deputation with the Intelligence Bureau when the case surfaced, has said he had no role in it. HT could not reach Sreekumar for his comments on the FIR.Mathew said he was not heard by the Jain Commission. “Hope the CBI will give me enough time to put forward my contention,” said Mathew.Police arrested Narayanan and Sasikumaran Nair after their numbers were found in a dairy recovered from two Maldivian women arrested in 1994 on charges of overstaying in the country. Narayanan and Nair were later charged with espionage before they were acquitted in 1995 after a CBI inquiry.The Supreme Court ordered compensation for Narayanan and constituted the committee that recommended a central agency probe the conspiracy angle.The state government paid ₹1.80 crore to Narayanan as compensation. He was decorated with the country’s third-highest civilian honour, Padma Bhushan, in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-18-police-personnel-in-isro-spy-case-101624535507062.html
25-06-2021||India||Sultana flouted Covid norms, Lakshadweep admin tells Kerala HC||The Lakshadweep administration on Thursday informed the Kerala high court, through a special petition, that activist and filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who was summoned by the island police for her bio-weapon remarks, flouted the interim protection granted to her by the court. Last Sunday, the high court granted interim bail to Sultana and she appeared before Kavaratti police. The administration informed the court that the filmmaker was advised to stay in home quarantine except when called for interrogation. It said Sultana met people and talked to the media during her stay, flouting Covid-19 norms. She also visited the panchayat office and attended some functions, it said. “The violation of quarantine norms after giving assurance to the nodal officer shows that she has no respect for the law of the land and legal obligations,” said the administration’s petition, adding that Sultana had abused the protection granted to her by the high court. It requested the court to consider this while hearing her anticipatory bail application.Two days ago, Lakshadweep collector Askar Ali had also warned Sultana for allegedly flouting Covid protocol. But she said she was only accompanied by her lawyer while appearing for questioning, as permitted by the court. On June 11, the Kavaratti police registered a case against her under sections 124 (A) (sedition) and 153 (B) (acts against national interests) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR was based on the complaint of Lakshadweep BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji that in a debate on a Malayalam news channel, Sultana called the Union Territory administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, as a bio-weapon. While Haji said her words were in a bad taste, Sulatana expressed regret over her words. Both Lakshadweep administration and the Union government opposed her bail plea, her words were used by many foreign journals to show the country in a poor light.Residents of the archipelago have been protesting against the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) that includes developing the islands as a major tourist destination, saying that the changes “will affect unique culture and tradition” of the island. They allege it will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the protected scheduled tribe category. Many parliamentarians, former bureaucrats, artists and cine actors have described the draft regulations as “arbitrary” and aimed against the majority community of the islands. Earlier this week, the high court stayed two regulations -- closing down of dairy units and removal of meat from the midday meal scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filmmaker-violated-covid-protocol-lakshadweep-administration-tells-hc-101624531366582.html
25-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: Gujarat extends Covid-induced restrictions in 18 cities||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat extends Covid-induced restrictions in 18 citiesGujarat | Restrictions including night curfew will continue in eight Municipal Corporations of the state and a total of 18 cities including Vapi, Ankleshwar, Mehsana, and Gandhinagar. Night curfew in these 18 cities has been reduced by 1 hour from 10 pm to 8 am: CMO GujaratStrengthening grassroots democracy in J&K is a priority: PM Modi After concluding the J&K all-party meet the Prime Minister said the strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K is the government's priority. "Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory," ANI said quoting PM ModiMeeting with J&K leaders going on for over 3 hrs indicates success: BJP leader Ram Madhav The fact that J&K meeting has gone on for more than 3 hrs is in itself an indication of its success.NHA proposedto share details of indigenously developed COWIN app with partner countries around the world: MEADuring G7 Summit,PM offered to share India's experience&expertise in successful use of open source, digital tools,contact tracing&vaccination drive.NHA proposes to organise an event with partner countries across the world to share details of indigenously developed COWIN app:MEA pic.twitter.com/f8cKLbXiwEKarnataka HC begins hearing Twitter MD's petition against UP police noticeKarnataka High Court begins hearing Twitter Managing Director Manish Maheshwari's petition against notice issued by Ghaziabad, UP Police under Sec 41A CrPCGhaziabad Police had issued him notice in connection with the case where a man was thrashed & his beard chopped off in Loni pic.twitter.com/gbOcqOkpAdJ&K all-party meet called by PM Narendra Modi has begunThe J&K all party meet called by the Prime Minister has begun at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg, reported ANI. PDP's Mehbooba Mufti, National Conference's Farooq Abdullah, Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad, and other leaders of Jammu and Kashmir are in attendance.Reliance expresses commitment to Green energyReliance has pledged commitment to ushering in green energy at the 44th Annual General Meeting. Mukesh Ambani said the company will be ushering in the new energy business "with the aim of bridging the green energy divide in India and globally", just like Jio had bridged the digital divide. Reliance welcomes Saudi Aramco as strategic partnerReliance welcomes Saudi Aramco as a strategic partner in its O2C business, announces Yasir Al-Rumayyan as independent director on RIL board, the company announced during its 44th AGM.Defence minister Rajnath Singh conducts aerial survey of navy's Seabird projectDefence Minister Rajnath Singh conducting an aerial survey of the Indian Navy’s Project Seabird in Karwar of Karnataka. He is being accompanied by Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh. pic.twitter.com/wPozeVm4NLProtestors including BJP workers hold demonstration over Navi Mumbai Airport nameLarge group of protesters including BJP workers held a demonstration in Navi Mumbai on Thursday over the name of the international airport being built in the city. Heavy security has been deployed at the spot.National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah arrives in Delhi ahead of meet with PMNational Conference chief Farooq Abdullah arrived at his residence in Delhi on Thursday. He will participate in the all-party meeting of Jammu and Kashmir political parties, called by PM Narendra Modi, later on Thursday.Earthquake of 3.7 magnitude jolts Maharashtra's Palghar districtAn earthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale hit Palghar in Maharashtra at 11:57am on Thursday, said National Center for Seismology.Class 12 boards: SC tells state boards to frame internal assessment scheme in 10 days, announce results by July 31The Supreme Court on Thursday directed all state boards that have cancelled Class 12 examinations to frame an assessment scheme based on internal assessment at the earliest and notify the same not later than 10 days from today. The apex court directed all states to announce results by July 31, the same timeline as fixed by CBSE and ICSE.Calcutta HC takes up West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee's pleaCalcutta High Court has begun the hearing in the matter of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenging Nandigram results. Petitioner's lawyer Singhvi mentioned instances that showed Justice Chanda has connections with BJP and mentioned a case where the Judge moved the intervention application on its behalf. Justice Chanda in the response said that the petitioner has the full right to move for recusal and rest assured, the matter will be decided judicially.No agenda for all party meet with PM: J-K Congress chiefJammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir ahead of the meet with the Prime Minister said, "Unfortunately there is no agenda for (all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi). We have been told that it will be open and free debate." Ghulam Nabi Azad and Tara Chand will attend the meeting along with him, Mir informed.BJP president arrives at party's headquarters for meet with J-K leadersThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda has arrived at the party's headquarters to attend a meeting with the Jammu and Kashmir leaders of the party.PM Modi interacts with participants of Toycathon 2021Prime Minister Narendra Modi has begun the virtual interaction with participants of Toycathon-2021, which aims to make India a hub for ideation and production of toys.Rahul Gandhi arrives at Surat court over 'Modi surname' rowCongress leader Rahul Gandhi arrived at Surat court on Thursday to defend himself in a criminal defamation case over the 'Modi surname' remark.IMD predicts thunderstorm with light to moderate rain in Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad24-06-2021; 0925 IST; Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over Isolated places of Northest, East Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Indrapuram, Chapraula, Dadri, Bulandsahar, Sikandrabad, Khurja(U.P.) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/QQpYKaTrVMOver 6.4 million Covid vaccine doses administered in 24 hours: Govt#IndiaFightsCorona:📍𝑴𝒐𝒓𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒏 64 𝒍𝒂𝒌𝒉 (64,89,599) 𝒗𝒂𝒄𝒄𝒊𝒏𝒆 𝒅𝒐𝒔𝒆𝒔 𝒂𝒅𝒎𝒊𝒏𝒊𝒔𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒅 𝒊𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒍𝒂𝒔𝒕 24 𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒓𝒔.➡️Together we can win the battle against #COVID19.#We4Vaccine#LargestVaccinationDrive#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/PaLuh2yJQFIndia reports 54,069 new Covid-19 cases, over 1,300 fatalities in 24 hoursIndia on Thursday reported 54,069 new Covid-19 infections and 1,321 deaths. The case tally of the country rose to 30,082,778 in the last 24 hours, as per the Covid dashboard of the health ministry.Over 1.8 million samples tested for Covid on June 23: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/6fMEF3EdJYBrazil reports record daily high of 115,228 new Covid-19 casesBrazil reported a record daily high of 115,228 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Wednesday, pushing the national tally to 18,169,881, the country's health ministry said.Calcutta HC to take up West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee's plea todaySingle bench of Justice Kausik Chanda is scheduled to hear the case in the matter of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenging Nandigram results on Thursday at 11am.Covid-19 spread in Sydney grows, minister tests positiveAustralia's New South Wales, the most populous state, reported double digit increase in new Covid-19 infections for the third consecutive day. The state government minister also tested positive and health minister moved into self isolation. Mizoram reported 4,302 total Covid-19 active casesMizoram reported 4,302 total Covid-19 active cases, 1 death and 110 recoveries, yesterday.Total cases 18,398Total recoveries 14,010Death toll 87US agency allows some H-1B visa seekers to re-submit their applicationsA federal US body has announced that it will allow some foreign guest workers to re-submit their applications for the H-1B visa, the most sought-after non-immigrant visa among Indian IT professionals.Covid-19 cluster worsens in Australian cityA state government minister has been infected with Covid-19 and another minister is in isolation as a cluster in the Australian city of Sydney worsens.Mexico to donate 400,000 Covid-19 vaccine shots to Central AmericaMexico will donate over 400,000 AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine doses on Thursday to the so-called Northern Triangle Central American nations of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, the Mexican foreign ministry said on Wednesday.Indigenous group in Canada announces discovery of hundreds of unmarked gravesA Canadian indigenous group announced on Wednesday the "horrific and shocking discovery" of hundreds of unmarked graves at the site of a former residential school, just weeks after the discovery of other children's remains shook the country.WHO raises concerns over Sputnik V manufacturing plantThe World Health Organization (WHO) has raised concerns over a manufacturing plant responsible for filling the vials with the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-24-2021-101624491025455.html
