26-06-2021||India||Parliamentarian A Revanth Reddy appointed Telangana PCC chief||Congress parliamentarian Anumula Revanth Reddy has been appointed as the new president of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC), a communiqué from All India Congress Committee general secretary KC Venugopal said on Saturday evening. Revanth Reddy, who represents Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency in Hyderabad, will replace Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, who has been holding the PCC chief’s post since February 2015. Relatively a newcomer to the Congress, Revanth Reddy was a Telugu Desam Party legislator representing the Kodangal assembly constituency earlier before he defected from the Telugu Desam in 2017. He lost the assembly elections in December 2018 on a Congress ticket, but got elected to the Lok Sabha Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency in May 2019. He was later appointed as the working president of the TPCC, because of his aggressive approach and mass appeal. Venugopal said AICC president Sonia Gandhi also appointed five working presidents for the TPCC – Md Azharuddin, Dr J Geetha Reddy, M Anjan Kumar Yadav, T Jayaprakash Reddy alias Jagga Reddy and B Mahesh Kumar Goud. Besides, the party also appointed 10 senior vice-presidents for the TPCC – Sambani Chandrasekhar, Damodar Reddy, Mallu Ravi, Podem Veeraiah, Suresh Shetkar, Vem Narender Reddy, Ramesh Mudiraj, G Niranjan, T Kumar Rao and Javed Ameer. Former MP from Nizamabad Madhu Yashki Goud has been appointed as the chairman of the TPCC campaign committee and Syed Azmatullah Hussaini as its convenor. Former deputy chief minister Damodar Rajanarasimha has been appointed as the chairman of the TPCC election management committee and Alleti Maheshwar Reddy is the chairman of the AICC programme implementation committee “The party wholeheartedly appreciates the contributions of outgoing PCC president N Uttam Reddy and outgoing working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and Jetti Kusuma Kumar,” the AICC communiqué read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentarian-a-revanth-reddy-appointed-telangana-pcc-chief-101624731781111.html
26-06-2021||India||Schools, colleges, and cinema halls: Here's what won't open in Delhi this week||In a further opening up of the national capital, the Delhi government on Saturday permitted weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance and reopening of gyms and Yoga centres at 50% capacity. This is the part of gradual unlock process as the Covid-19 cases and deaths in the city-state are witnessing a decline, marking the end of fourt deadly coronavirus wave.As Delhi saw a surge in cases and deaths, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government ordered gyms and banquet halls to close on April 19. In second week of May, weddings were permitted at home and in courts with not more than 20 people in attendance.The Delhi Diaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order said the prohibited and restricted activities will continue till 5 am on July 5.Here is what is still not allowed in Delhi:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-and-cinema-halls-here-s-what-won-t-open-in-delhi-this-week-101624727813100.html
26-06-2021||India||Retd IPS officers write to PM Modi, praise his ‘dynamic approach’ to solve Kashmir issue||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with Jammu and Kashmir’s political leaders, more than a dozen retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officers wrote to him expressing their appreciation for the government’s “painstaking, courageous and decisive” efforts to resolve the Kashmir issue with a “dynamic approach to policy-making”.“The Central government’s most recent initiative at reaching out to political stakeholders and countering the twin elements of ‘Dil ki doori’ and ‘Dilli ki doori’, in order to enhance trust, is exemplary, reflecting a dynamic approach to policy-making,” the letter written by the group read.Called Track the Truth, the group includes SP Vaid and K Rajendra Kumar; both have served as Director General in Jammu and Kashmir Police. Former Uttar Pradesh DGP Vikram Singh and former CBI Director Prakash Mishra are also among the 15 signatories besides IPS officers K Singh, Badri Prasad Singh, Geeta Johri, K Aravinda Rao, K Rajendra Kumar, KB Singh, Nageswara Rao, PP Pandey, RKS Rathore, Shivanand Jha, SK Rout and Vivek DubeThe retired officers also listed some Union government initiatives towards J&K calling them “excellent achievements”. They added that enlisting them was “meant for some of those who are always unhappy with whatever your government does”.Besides listing the Centre’s initiatives towards J&K and praising the PM on conducting local body elections in the Union Territory, they also appreciated him for conducting “surgical strikes” on Pakistani militants and for striking a “terrorist training camp” at Balakot in Pakistan.The letter also lauded the government for “organising an impeccable system of managing external pressures” from western countries and the United Nations which it said was “interfering in India’s internal affairs regarding Kashmir”.It said that none of these international elements were able to create any “significant impact, except the appearance of articles in media of their choice.”Calling Pakistan a “permanent interloper”, the letter praised the PM for “boxing (Pakistan) into a difficult position”.“… Pakistan is now calling for the reinstatement of state-hood for J&K, which amounts to accepting J&K as part of the Union of India and reiterates the Union home minister’s announcement in Parliament to this effect,” the officers said adding that they hoped the Prime Minister would bring economic development to the J&K region with the “robust investment plans” that he has finalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retd-ips-officers-write-to-pm-modi-praise-his-dynamic-approach-to-solve-kashmir-issue-101624728840877.html
26-06-2021||India||Centre trying to snatch hard-earned money of 113 lakh employees: Congress hits back over Dearness Allowance||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre over Dearness Allowance that was suspended last year due the Covid-19 pandemic, accusing the government of trying to “snatch” hard-earned money from 113 lakh employees.“Instead of encouraging the 113 lakh employees engaged in the service during the coronavirus pandemic the central government is trying to snatch their hard-earned money," Gandhi tweeted."It is a crime to loot ₹37,500 crore from soldiers, government employees and pensioners," he added.Dearness Allowance or DA is a cost-of-living allowance paid to public sector employees and pensioners by the government to aid them financially in the wake of rising prices or inflation. The upcoming tranche of dearness allowance which is expected to be released from July 1 will benefit around five million central government employees and over six million pensioners.Also Read: 7th Pay Commission: Benefits given to central govt employees before June 26 meetCongress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi also raised this issue during an online press conference, stating that "This frequent shadow boxing by the central government, in respect of dearness allowance can only highlight and underline the mischievous, the malevolent and the Machiavellian approach of the government towards lakhs and crores of central government employees and lakhs of Army-related employees and pensioners within that category,"He urged the government to restore dearness allowance from July 1 as intended by the 7th pay commission. Terming the cuts made last year "a very weird irony and paradox" he alleged that the Central Vista Project was not stopped even though it is over half this money, reported PTI."This is a strangest, weirdest approach and definition, where you are attacking your own armed forces. You are doing a surgical strike on your own armed forces. You are speaking on a forked tongue of nationalism, in the same breath," Singhvi stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-trying-to-snatch-hard-earned-money-of-113-lakh-employees-congress-hits-back-over-dearness-allowance-101624725921398.html
26-06-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh scraps interviews for all recruitments to government departments||The Andhra Pradesh government has done away with interviews for all recruitments to be done through the state public service commission to fill up vacancies in various government departments. Orders to this effect were issued by chief secretary Adityanath Das on Saturday.The state government recently announced that it would hire for 10,143 jobs during the year 2021-22. In the order, the chief secretary said the government had taken the decision to dispense with interviews for recruitments to be done by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) for all categories of jobs, including for Group-I Services.The decision was taken in an attempt to maintain utmost transparency and in order to ensure complete trust of the competing candidates in the entire selection process. “The order to dispense with interviews is applicable for all the recruitments notified on or after June 26,” the order said.The chief secretary directed the secretary of APPSC to take necessary action in the implementation of the order.’In 2011, the erstwhile combined Andhra Pradesh government abolished interviews for filling up of various posts, except for Group-1 services (deputy collector and revenue divisional officer posts etc) and for those posts which were executive in nature and where articulation and public interface was required.After the bifurcation, the government for the residuary Andhra Pradesh in 2016 and 2017 re-introduced the interview system for filling up a few more top positions in the state government.“However, at a review meeting conducted to introduce reforms in recruitment in October 2019, it was proposed to abolish interviews for recruitment of any posts notified by the APPSC,” the chief secretary said, adding that the government, after careful examination of the proposal, decided to implement it from now.Andhra University professor S Prasanna Sree welcomed the decision of the state government to do away with interviews. “It will help candidates from rural backgrounds, who fail to get through interviews, despite doing extremely well in the written tests,” she said, adding that communication skills do not matter much if they have administrative skills.Prasanna Sree also said abolition of interviews would also eradicate corruption in recruitments. “It will make the recruitments more transparent and merit-based,” she asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-scraps-interviews-for-all-recruitments-to-government-depts-101624724641463.html
26-06-2021||India||'Covid-19 under control’: Madhya Pradesh CM Chouhan announces end of Sunday corona curfew||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday that the Covid-19 situation in the state is “under control,” and, therefore, “corona curfew” on Sundays is being lifted with immediate effect.Also Read | Vaccine hesitancy: Madhya Pradesh man climbs tree with wife’s Aadhaar card“Covid-19 is under control in Madhya Pradesh. There is not even a single new positive case in 35 districts of the state and, for the first time, cumulative active cases have fallen below the 1,000-mark. The positivity rate has come down to 0.06%. Therefore, it seems unreasonable to impose corona curfew on Sundays as well,” a rough translation of Chauhan’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.हम तत्काल प्रभाव से रविवार के #CoronaCurfew को समाप्त कर रहे हैं। जिन्हें अपनी दुकानें खोलना हों, आर्थिक गतिविधियाँ जारी रखना हों, वे नियमानुसार #COVID19 प्रोटोकॉल का पालन करते हुए अपनी गतिविधियाँ चालू रख सकते हैं। रात्रिकालीन कोरोना कर्फ्यू पूर्ववत जारी रहेगा। #MPFightsCorona“We are therefore ending Sunday corona curfew with immediate effect. Those who want to open their shops or continue their economic activities can do so in accordance with the Covid-19 protocol. Night curfew will continue as earlier,” the chief minister posted in a subsequent tweet.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh extends ‘corona curfew’ till June 15 with certain relaxations: CMChauhan further urged everyone to wear masks and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as “Covid-19 is under control but has not been fully eradicated.” On the vaccination front, he said that Madhya Pradesh has once again created a record. “Till 7:30pm today, a total of 964,756 vaccine doses have been administered under the Madhya Pradesh Vaccine Suraksha Abhiyan,” the chief minister tweeted.हम सावधान रहे, तो कोई और लहर नहीं आयेगी। सावधानी में ही पूरी सुरक्षा है।आप सभी से अपील है कि #COVID19 नियंत्रण में है, लेकिन पूरी तरह खत्म नहीं हुआ है; इसलिए निश्चिन्त न रहें, मास्क लगाएं और कोविड अनुरुप व्यवहार का पालन जरूर करें। #MPFightsCorona #IndiaFightsCoronaमध्यप्रदेश में आज वैक्सीनशन में फिर रिकॉर्ड बना है। आज सायं 7.30 बजे तक #MPVaccinationMahaAbhiyan के अंतर्गत 9,64,756 डोज़ेज़ नागरिकों को लगाये जा चुके हैं।हम जीवन की सुरक्षा के इस वैक्सीन के चक्र को तेजी से बढ़ा रहे हैं। #MPFightsCorona #IndiaFightsCoronaOn June 21, on the first day of the new vaccination regime, Madhya Pradesh vaccinated more than 1.6 million people, thus creating a national record. However, it was alleged later that the government knowingly “slowed down” its vaccination drive in the days leading up to June 21 to store vaccine doses for the day, a claim it has rubbished.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh accused of 'slowing' Covid-19 vaccine drive to reach record highMadhya Pradesh registered 46 new Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths due to the viral disease on Saturday, a health department bulletin showed. The cumulative infection tally has thus risen to 789,657 including 8,896 coronavirus related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-under-control-madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-announces-end-of-sunday-corona-curfew-101624721956089.html
26-06-2021||India||PM Modi to address country through Mann ki Baat tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat on Sunday. It will be the 78th episode of the radio show and will be streamed at 11am on PM Modi's official YouTube channel and on PMO. The programme is broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio and Doordarshan and also on the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile App.This Mann ki Baat by the Prime Minister comes after India began the next phase of the largest vaccination drive in the world, in which vaccine is being made available for free across the states and Union territories. It comes in the midst of preparations for the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). During the last Mann ki Baat, the Union government was facing huge criticism from the opposition parties for its mismanagement of the Covid pandemic as the daily cases recorded in the month of May reached as high as over 400,000.Also read: PM Modi chairs review meet on Covid-19 vaccination driveThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Saturday urged the party workers to listen to the Prime Minister's show on Sunday."Anand Swaroop ji has given many commendable suggestions in his letter. I request all the workers of Bharatiya Janata Party to listen to Mann ki Baat every month along with all the mates of their booth and after that hold a booth meeting there. Then in the next month, listen to Mann ki Baat at any other worker's house and on," the BJP national president said referring to a letter from a listener who praised the programme.In the last month's Mann Ki Baat, which coincided with the seventh anniversary of Modi-led central government, the Prime Minister highlighted the government's achievements and said that India's resolve to win the biggest of the challenges has always been strong.The monthly Mann ki Baat programme is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-country-through-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-101624718648375.html
26-06-2021||India||Vaccine hesitancy: Madhya Pradesh man climbs tree with wife’s Aadhaar card||At a time when more than 310 million doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been administered in the country, there are still some people who are hesitant in getting vaccinated against Covid-19. An example of this vaccine hesitancy was seen in Madhya Pradesh, where a man climbed a tree to prevent health workers from inoculating him.Also Read | India crosses milestone of carrying out 400 million Covid-19 testsThe incident took place in Patan Kalan village in Rajgarh district, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan. A team from the health department set up a vaccination camp in the village. While several villagers turned up to get vaccinated, a man, identified as Kanwarlal, was adamant he won't take the shot. Villagers somehow convinced his wife to get vaccinated and brought her to the vaccination centre but when Kanwarlal came to know, he climbed a tree with his wife's Aadhaar card.Also Read | After India, Delta variant driving South Africa's Covid-19 third waveAs an Aadhaar card is required to verify a beneficiary's identity at the time of vaccination, villagers asked Kanwarlal to come down. However, he came down only after the health department team left the village. Later, upon receiving information, medical officer Dr Rajiv from a nearby block arrived in the village to counsel Kanwarlal after which all his misconceptions about Covid-19 vaccines were cleared.It is said that Kanwarlal did not get vaccinated nor let his wife take the shot also because he was scared that vaccination leads to high fever, body ache and cold. Fever and body ache are common side-effects of a Covid-19 vaccine which go away in a day or two. Also, most people taking a vaccine shot do not develop these side-effects.Kanwarlal and his wife will now be vaccinated when another vaccination camp is set up in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-hesitancy-madhya-pradesh-man-climbs-tree-with-wife-s-aadhaar-card-101624714931616.html
26-06-2021||India||Planning a trip to Goa? Covid testing ramped up, curfew extended till July 5||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday made some key announcements pertaining to travel and Covid restrictions in the coastal state. In the latest development, the chief minister said that the government has decided to extend the 'corona curfew' in the state till July 5, 7am.The state government has also decided to ramp up testing at the borders of the coastal state as a precaution in view of the detection of the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 in a neighbouring state.Also read| Tourism activities can resume only after everyone gets Covid-19 vaccine: Goa CM"We have stepped up monitoring at all the borders after (cases of) the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 was reported in the neighbouring state," PTI quoted Sawant as saying.The chief minister said the person entering Goa, if detected with infection, is kept in an isolation facility or admitted to hospital. He said people entering the state might face some inconveniences but there is no option and this has been done to ensure the safety of all.“People entering Goa might face a little inconvenience but there is no option. This has been done to ensure the safety of the people against Covid-19,” Sawant said, according to the PTI report.While the state has not reported any case of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19, the neighbouring state of Maharashtra has reported 21 cases of the mutant strain, the highest in the country.Earlier, the Covid-induced curfew in the state was extended till June 28 as the number of daily cases were still high and the positivity rate stood at 8 per cent. The curfew, which was first imposed to contain the spread of the virus on May 9 has been extended several times since then. The positivity rate in the state had reached as high as 51 per cent before declining gradually, according to an official.Goa had permitted inter-state movement of persons for those carrying Covid negative report for a test done a maximum of 72 hours prior to entering the state. Those entering Goa for medical emergencies are allowed after producing proof of the same, the official said, as per an earlier report of PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/planning-a-trip-to-goa-covid-testing-ramped-up-curfew-extended-till-july-5-101624714230488.html
26-06-2021||India||India crosses milestone of carrying out 400 million Covid-19 tests||India on Friday crossed the milestone of conducting 400 million tests for Covid-19 since the pandemic began, with the last 50 million tests being conducted over the last 24 days, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The number of tests conducted per day started increasing in April and May when the cases of the viral infection were on the rise across the country.In June, the country has been conducting around 1.8 million tests a day, even as the number of Covid-19 cases is dipping across states.“This has been enabled by rapidly increasing testing infrastructure and capacity across the country. ICMR has been enhancing Covid-19 testing capability across the country by expanding and diversifying testing capacity by leveraging technology and facilitating innovation in affordable diagnostic kits,” the country’s apex health research body indicated.To increase testing during the huge second wave of infections, ICMR had allowed increase in the number of less accurate but fast and cheap rapid antigen tests. Prior to that, the ICMR guidelines said that at least 70% of the tests should be conducted using the more accurate RT-PCR or other molecular diagnostic technologies.The number of laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests across the country has increased to 2,675, of which 1,676 are run by Central or state governments. Efforts were also made to start high-throughput testing and testing in remotest areas using the TB diagnostic machines like TrueNAT and CBNAAT.Recently, ICMR has also approved India’s first self-use Rapid Antigen Test. These self-test kits can help to reduce queues in laboratories, reduce costs, dissipate the burden on existing manpower for sample collection from homes, and provide results without delay.“We have effectively responded to the evolving epidemic through focused and collaborative efforts of the Centre, state and union territory governments. Exponential increase in testing has led to early identification, prompt isolation & effective treatment of Covid-19 cases. These have eventually resulted in a sustained low fatality rate. This testing milestone is testimony to the fact that India has been successful in implementing strategy of 5T approach “Test, Track, Trace, Treat and use of Technology” efficiently, which will enable us to contain the spread of the pandemic,” said Dr Balaram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-milestone-of-carrying-out-400-million-covid-19-tests-101624715160317.html
26-06-2021||India||PM Modi chairs review meet on Covid-19 vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a review meeting of Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country amid rising cases of Delta plus variant which has infected more than 50 people so far, reported news agency PTI. The meeting has been called by the Prime Minister to discuss the progress of the vaccination drive in the country.The meeting was held via video-conferencing and comes over a month after the Centre extended the free vaccination drive to cover everyone above the age of 18 years.The highly transmissible Delta Plus variant was first detected in three states - Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Maharashtra earlier this week -- and in the following days, it has been traced in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan.The meeting by PM Modi comes a day after the Union health ministry urged eight states and union territories to rush and impose immediate containment measures including preventing crowds, conducting widespread testing.The health ministry has also pressed on increasing vaccine coverage on a priority basis in districts where the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus has been detected.Among these states are Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat and Haryana.Leading health experts have sought a label of 'Variant of Concern' for the Delta Plus saying that even though there is no data as of now which shows that the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 is spreading faster than Delta but the former should also be treated as a "variant of concern"Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said the reason for terming it as a variant of concern emanates from Delta which is also clubbed under the same category."There is no data as of now that says Delta Plus is spreading faster than Delta, basically Delta plus will prevail across we still don't have evidence. But Delta has spread a lot and Delta is a variant of concern for sure, since it's a variant of concern, you have to also treat Delta Plus as a variant of concern, but now this mutation has how much efficiency and can we add attribute to this particular mutation, we don't know," said Dr Gangakhedkar told ANI.The Union Health Ministry has warned that the Delta Plus variant has increased transmissibility, causes stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and has the potential of reducing monoclonal antibody response.India has administered at least 31,50,45,926 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from the start of the vaccination drive in January. A total of 61,19,169 vaccine doses were given in the last 24 hours.Pegged as the world's largest vaccination drive, India kickstarted this initiative on January 16 this year in a phased manner which prioritised the healthcare workers first. In the next stage, India vaccinated frontline workers (FLWs) on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-review-meet-on-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101624712471615.html
26-06-2021||India||Dragon fruit cultivated by Maharashtra farmers exported to Dubai||A consignment of Dragon fruit, which was renamed as Kamalam in India, cultivated by the farmers of Tadasar village in Maharashtra's Sangli has been exported to Dubai in what is being seen as a major boost to exotic fruit export, the ministry of commerce and industry said on Saturday. Though Dragon fruit is not a local product of India and grown mainly in Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines, the United States and Vietnam, production of the fruit began in India in the early 1990s. Its production was limited to home gardens initially but then farmers across various states took up its production increasing the popularity of the fruit.Dragon fruit goes to Dubai: In a major boost to export of exotic fruits, a consignment of the fibre & mineral rich Dragon Fruit (Kamalam) sourced from farmers of Sangli, Maharashtra has been exported to Dubai.📖 https://t.co/WEwqSm5LMt pic.twitter.com/xW6c9vTQR4States which grow Dragon fruit include Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Odisha, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. "The cultivation requires less water and can be grown in various kinds of soils. There are three main varieties of dragon fruit: white flesh with pink skin, red flesh with pink skin, and white flesh with yellow skin," the ministry said.In January, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said the state government has decided to rename the fruit as the word 'dragon' has a Chinese association. Since the fruit looks like the lotus flower, it was named Kamalam. Gujarat also applied for a patent to change the name, it was reported. The fruit is rich in fibre, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants and is also known for repairing cell damage caused by oxidative stress.In his Mann ki Baat in July 2020, PM Modi had congratulated the farmers of Kutch for the cultivation of the dragon fruit in his message for India's self-reliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dragon-fruit-cultivated-by-maharashtra-farmers-exported-to-dubai-101624711364768.html
26-06-2021||India||Delta plus variant cases do not indicate inception of third wave of Covid: ICMR expert||Focussing on the fears of the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the emergence of Delta Plus variant, the head of epidemiology department at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Samiran Panda on Saturday said only 49 cases of the variant have been reported from 10 states across the country. He said this does not indicate that the third wave of Covid has begun and calling it the onset of the third wave would be misleading, reported news agency ANI."So far, only 49 cases of Delta plus variant have been reported from 10 states. This doesn't indicate that the third wave of Covid has begun. Calling it the onset of the third wave would be misleading," ANI quoted Dr Panda as saying.Reiterating the results of a study conducted by the ICMR in collaboration with the Imperial College of London, the head of epidemiology said that the third wave of the virus would not be as severe as the second wave. Large-scale vaccinations and Covid appropriate behaviour could play an important role in mitigating the impact of the waves, he said, adding that a study on the efficacy of vaccines against Delta Plus variant is underway, reported ANI."Third wave of Covid won't be as severe as the second wave. More vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour could play an important role in mitigating these waves. Study on vaccine effect on Delta plus variant of Covid is underway," Dr Panda told ANI.The study, based on mathematical modelling analysis, showed that the new variant is unlikely to generate a new wave unless it results in a complete loss of immune protection from the previous infection.Multiple cases of the Delta Plus variant have been detected in three states of Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Maharashtra. The variant has also been traced in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan, according to an ANI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-variant-cases-do-not-indicate-inception-of-third-wave-of-covid-icmr-expert-101624708819012.html
26-06-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait announces plans to 'strengthen movement' as farmers protest completes seven months||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the farmer’s protest at Ghazipur border, told reporters that farmers’ union has decided to hold two more rallies, and planned a tractor rally for July 9, which is scheduled to reach Singhu border on July 10. Farmers from Shamli and Bhagpat in Uttar Pradesh will be a part of the rally.“In today's meeting, we have decided to strengthen our movement. We have decided to hold two more rallies; a tractor rally will be held on July 9 in which people from Shamli and Bhagpat will be present; it will reach Singhu border on July 10,” ANI said quoting Tikait.Farmers have been protesting all over the country against the newly implemented farm laws, which completed seven months on Saturday. In the national capital, Ghazipur, Singhu, and Tikri-the three borders, farmers have been camping since last year.Tikait also informed of another rally which will depart from Bijnor on July 24 and reach Ghazipur on July 25 after a night halt at Meerut.“Another rally will be held on July 24, people from Bijnor and Meerut will be present in it. On the night of July 24th, they will halt at Meerut toll and on 25th July the rally will reach here (Delhi-Ghazipur),” Tikait said.Elsewhere in Punjab and Haryana, too, farmers took out protest marches on Saturday, heading for Raj Bhavan, where they had planned on submitting a memorandum to the governor. Stringent security measures consisting of a heavy police deployment and barricades were put up on their way to prevent them from reaching Raj Bhavan.Protesters braved water cannons and barricades to march on and farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal Gurnam Singh Chaduni, and Yogendra Yadav were able to submit memorandums to Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner and other officials asking them to hand it over to the governor, after which the leaders requested the protestors to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-announces-plans-to-strengthen-movement-as-farmers-protest-completes-seven-months-101624711795136.html
26-06-2021||India||‘Moment of pride’, say railway employees involved in President Kovind’s train journey||Railway employees, who were involved in the operation of a special train which took President Ram Nath Kovind and first lady Savita Kovind to the former's native village Paraunkh in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur, have described their "once in a lifetime" experience as a "moment of pride."Sanjay Kumar Singh, the loco pilot of the train, called it his "moment of pride" and hoped that such a trip by Kovind will inspire more people to travel by trains, while the train's co-pilot, Anil Kumar Dixit, remarked that of all the trains operated by him, this was the one which made him the "happiest."Also Read: President Kovind takes train to his native village in UP"It was the most unforgettable moment of my life. Being the guard of the presidential train was an opportunity of a lifetime. It gave me the deepest sense of fulfilment, delight and happiness," Akshay Deep Chauhan, the guard of the train, said.Vivek Kumar, a gateman at a level crossing on the route, said that he felt "very excited" when the train passed.Also Read: I consider everyone from my district as an intellectual, says President Ram Nath KovindKovind left for Kanpur from Delhi's Safdarjung railway station on Friday in what marked the first train journey by an incumbent president in 15 years. The train arrived at Kanpur Central at around 8pm where the president and first lady were received by Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and state industries minister Satish Mahana.The couple will undertake another train journey when they leave for Lucknow on June 28. They will then return to the national capital on a special plane on June 29.Dr APJ Abdul Kalam was the last sitting president to travel on a train when he travelled from Delhi to Dehradun in 2006 to attend the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy (IMA). Dr Rajendra Prasad, the country's first president, often undertook train journeys.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moment-of-pride-say-railway-employees-involved-in-president-kovind-s-train-journey-101624705151516.html
26-06-2021||India||Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut says national opposition alliance incomplete sans Congress||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said that the alliance of opposition parties at the national level is incomplete without the Congress. He said that the work is on to bring all the opposition parties together at the national level, but the Congress will play a significant role in the alliance that aims to provide a strong alternative to the present dispensation."The Congress will play an important role in the alliance. It will be a strong alternative to the present dispensation...Work is in progress to bring all the opposition parties together, which will not be complete till the Congress is roped in," PTI quoted Raut as saying.Also read: Opposition’s Congress dilemma ahead of 2024The statement comes four days after the meeting of leaders of eight opposition parties, including Trinamool Congress (TMC), Samajwadi Party (SP), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Left with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in New Delhi. The leaders were reported to have discussed various issues being faced by the country.The agenda of the meet has been speculated to discuss a possible alliance, which could be an alternative to the BJP. No Congress leader was present in the meeting.However, Pawar on Friday refuted the speculations and said that the formation of a national alliance was not the topic of discussion for the meeting hosted by him. But he also said that if any such coalition emerges, its leadership will have to be "collective".A day after the meeting, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said that any attempt to form an 'anti-BJP' front without Congress will indirectly help the party at the Centre.Also read| Centre misusing CBI, ED for politics: Sharad PawarMeanwhile, on Friday the Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted raids at former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and Nagpur in connection to a money laundering case and also arrested his two aides. The aides have been remanded to the ED custody till July 1."The state investigation agencies can also probe important cases, but attempts are on to target NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress. We will also see," Raut said indirectly naming the BJP, reported PTI.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-says-national-opposition-alliance-incomplete-sans-congress-101624706452620.html
26-06-2021||India||Monsoon unlikely to progress for nearly two weeks: IMD||The monsoon is unlikely to progress to Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana, remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, and Punjab for nearly two weeks and is also likely to enter a “break spell” from June 29 onwards, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Heavy rain will be confined to northeast India while rainfall will be subdued in the rest of the country at least till around July 5, it added. “Models suggest monsoon entering into a break spell from July 29. Heavy rains to be confined mainly over northeast India at least till July 5 with suppressed rainfall over rest of India. Active-break spells are part of monsoon dynamics and decides quantum of seasonal rainfall,” tweeted M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences. He added break spells normally last for a week. But in some years, they have lasted over 10 days. Longer breaks can affect agriculture.India receives about 70% of its annual rain during the four-month monsoon that is crucial for rice, soybean, and cotton cultivation. As much as 60% of the sown area does not have access to irrigation in India, where over 150 million farmers and nearly half of the population are dependent on a farm-based income.From June 1 to June 26, the country recorded 20% excess rain. There was 43% excess rain in northwest India, 36% in central India, 3% in the east and northeast India, and 7% in the south peninsula. Out of 36 subdivisions, seven recorded large excess rain (60% or more above normal), 14 recorded excess rain (20 to 59% excess), seven recorded normal rain (-19% to 19%) and eight recorded deficient rain (-20% to -59%).The northern limit of the monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala, and Amritsar. It has been in the same position for a week. IMD, in its bulletin, on Saturday cited the prevailing meteorological conditions, atmospheric features, and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models and added they suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab over the next seven days.It added subdued rainfall activity is very likely in the northwest, central, and western parts of peninsular India during the next five days. A subdued rainfall phase will merge into the break monsoon phase likely to begin on June 29.Under the influence of strong moist south-westerly winds, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is very likely in West Bengal, Sikkim, and north-eastern states during the next five days. Subsequently, moist easterly winds are likely to pick up in strength, causing enhanced rainfall activity all along the foothill regions of north Bihar, north Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh around July 1 and 2. This will lead to increased inflow into the rivers which originate from these regions, IMD said.O P Sreejith, who heads IMD Pune’s Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group said normally break monsoon phase happens when the monsoon has already covered the entire country. “The monsoon trough moves to the foothills and wind flow is mostly westerly. There is little contribution from the Bay of Bengal and hence little convective activity. During break monsoon phases, rains are limited to northeast India. But this time the trough is not near the Himalayan foothills, but the monsoon flow itself has weakened.”He said up to July first week, there are no indications of monsoon revival. “The cross-equatorial flow has weakened, and the pressure gradient is less. Normally monsoon flow moves from high-pressure areas to low-pressure areas. The monsoon current itself has weakened. Monsoon onset is unlikely over remaining parts of the country till monsoon revives. It may revive when a low-pressure system forms over the Bay of Bengal. We have no information on when a low-pressure area is likely to form.”K Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre, IMD, said monsoon will not cover the remaining parts of the country until conditions become favourable. “Large scale features are not supporting monsoon progress and activity.” He said cross-equatorial flow has weakened and there is no convection over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal and wind is also unfavourable. Jenamani said mid-latitude westerlies have strengthened and the Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is also not over the Indo-Pacific region.MJO location and amplitude strongly modulate the intensity of tropical convection and features like low-pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean. It is currently in east Africa with amplitude greater than one, which is not favourable for enhancing the convection over the north Indian Ocean region and hence monsoon rainfall activities, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-unlikely-to-progress-for-nearly-two-weeks-imd-101624707119886.html
26-06-2021||India||Can Indians travel to Germany, South Korea, US? Check latest visa, vaccine rules||Most of the countries are continuing their travel restrictions on India in the wake of the threat of the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. This is the variant that was first reported from India and has now spread across the world. It is the variant responsible for 90 per cent of cases in the United Kingdom now. Given this situation, only a few countries are now welcoming travellers from India, leaving students in a lurch.Countries where Indians can travelRussia, Serbia, Costa Rica, Egypt, Ghana, South Africa, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Albania are the countries open for Indian travellers. People travelling from India do not need to be quarantined in these countries. Negative RT-PCR is all that a traveller will need to enter these countries.Turkey will require a negative RT-PCR test report and a mandatory 14-day quarantine for anyone travelling from India.South Korea has lifted the travel ban on India and done away with the mandatory two-week quarantine for those vaccinated with both the doses of Covishield vaccine. However, those who are vaccinated with Covaxin, which is yet to get approval from the World Health Organization, will have to remain in quarantine.The United States has not lifted its travel ban on India but those who have students' visa can travel to the country. Some other national interest exception categories are also allowed to travel. Mandatory vaccination is not yet a requirement but educational institutes, companies may have their different set of vaccine rules.Germany is also another popular destination for Indian students but it is not yet open for Indian students. German ambassador to India Walter J Lindner recently tweeted that against the backdrop of Delta variant spreading rapidly, easing travel restrictions for "virus-mutation countries" is not an easy decision to make. "Numbers of Covid cases are falling in parts of Europe, so some measures are being relaxed. At same time, case-numbers of potentially more transmissible and vaccine resistent variants (esp Delta) are growing in many countries and cause fear of a 4th wave which could reverse the achieved. Against this backdrop, easing travel restrictions from virus-mutation countries not easy case to make. We try to find realistic solutions. We see and hear students' plights, who would not understand them? But also job of virologists and health experts to protect own citizens against next wave," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-indians-travel-to-germany-south-korea-us-check-latest-visa-vaccine-rules-101624706050726.html
26-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Need more data to approve combining 2 Covid vaccines, says Dr Guleria and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Need more data to approve combining 2 Covid-19 vaccines: Dr Randeep GuleriaAs concerns rise over the possibility of vaccines being ineffective against various and more powerful variants of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that mixing doses of two different vaccines might increase its efficacy against Covid-19. Read moreCong demands immediate release of pending dearness allowance to govt employeesThe Congress on Saturday hit out at the government for not releasing the dearness allowance suspended last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, calling the suspension of its three instalments “cruel and insensitive”. Read moreCan't say Delta Plus is spreading rapidly: Former ICMR head Dr Raman GangakhedkarThe former chief of Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, on Saturday said there is not enough data to claim that Delta Plus is spreading rapidly in the country. Read moreWhy did Florida beachfront condo collapse? Here’s what reports suggestWhile Miami officials remain focussed on the search for dozens of people believed to be under the rubble of the residential building in South Florida, the speculations around the cause of the disaster have intensified. Read moreBCCI secretary Jay Shah hints at T20 World Cup shifting out of IndiaA day after reports emerged of the T20 World Cup being shifted out of India with UAE being the likely replacement, BCCI secretary Jay Shah on Saturday said the board is ‘monitoring the situation' and a decision will be taken soon. Read moreThere are two leopards in this viral picture. Can you spot both the big cats?The Internet is filled with different kinds of pictures showcasing wildlife. Usually, those images leave people impressed and at times surprised. Sometimes, however, such pictures end up presenting a challenge when they feature animals hiding in plain sight. Read moreNeena Gupta delivers her book to Gulzar at his home, asks 'padhoge?'Actor Neena Gupta is busy promoting her newly launched autobiography, titled Sach Kahun Toh. On Friday, she visited acclaimed writer Gulzar's home to hand deliver a copy. Read moreHow to download and play Battlegrounds Mobile India on your Windows PCKrafton rolled out Battlegrounds Mobile India beta to certain players who had pre-registered on the Google Play Store, so that means the official version of the game should roll out soon. However, when it does, it is going to be available on Android devices only. Krafton has not announced plans for iOS devices yet. Read moreWatch| 'Ayodhya should manifest our traditions': PM Modi reviews development plan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-need-more-data-to-approve-combining-2-covid-19-vaccines-says-dr-randeep-guleria-and-all-the-latest-news-101624704450649.html
26-06-2021||India||Cong demands immediate release of pending dearness allowance to govt employees||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the government for not releasing the dearness allowance suspended last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, calling the suspension of its three instalments “cruel and insensitive”. It demanded immediate restoration of the allowance.Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said the government should ensure that employees and pensioners receive the “actual real arrears”.The three instalments were due in January 2020, July 2020, and January 2021.Singhvi said the decision to cut the allowance until June 2021 would give the government only ₹38,000 crores at the cost of its employees, including armed forces personnel and pensioners.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has deducted ₹11,000 crore of the 15-lakh (1.5 million) serving armed forces personnel and nearly 26 lakh (2.6 million) military pensioners. What is their fault?”He said the cut was made retrospective in April. “But does not the government understand that people needed the money during the Covid-19 crisis?”He said the delay in the release of allowance is a reflection of the government’s “innate hypocrisy and double standards”. He said, on one hand, it talks about nationalism and on the other hand does not release the allowance and arrears of the employees serving the nation.He slammed the Central Vista project again. “They are cutting DA, but a penny would not cut from the Central Vista project budget or the bullet train budget because somebody’s ego is paramount.”Bhartiya Janata Party leader Gopal Agarwal said the government’s first priority is the welfare of the people. “The government will take an appropriate decision after considering all the aspects,” he said in response to the Congress demands.The Centre in March announced that central government employees and pensioners will receive full benefits of the allowance from July 1. It said all three pending instalments will be restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-demands-immediate-release-of-pending-dearness-allowance-to-the-government-employees-101624703579530.html
26-06-2021||India||CoWin to allow users to link Covid-19 certificates to passports: How to do it||CoWin, the country's Covid-19 vaccination platform, will now allow international travellers to link their vaccination certificates to passports. The information was shared on the official Twitter handle of the Aarogya Setu app."Now you can update your passport number in your vaccination certificate," the Aarogya Setu handle tweeted.In case name on certificate does not match name on passport, you can request for name correction as wellEntering passport number and requesting name change can only be done once, so please ensure there are no mistakes in entering the detailsHere is how to link passport to vaccination certificate:(1.) Login to cowin.gov.in and enter your credentials.(2.) Select "Raise an issue."(3.) Click on "Passport" and, from the drop-down menu, select the name of the person whose certificate is to be linked to the passport.(4.) Enter the passport number and click on "Submit."(5.) The user will receive the updated certificate "within seconds."(6.) If the name on the certificate does not match with that on the passport, you can request for the correction of name as well.(7.) Entering a passport number and requesting name change can be done just once. Thus, care should be taken while entering the details.How to edit personal details:(1.) Go to cowin.gov.in and login.(2.) Select "Raise an issue."(3.) Click on "Correction in certificate' and from the drop-down menu, select the person whose details you want o change.(4.) Click on all the options where corrections are to be made and edit the details.(5.) Click on "Submit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-to-allow-users-to-link-covid-19-certificates-to-passports-how-to-do-it-101624700273223.html
26-06-2021||India||Can't say Delta Plus is spreading rapidly: Former ICMR head Dr Raman Gangakhedkar||The former chief of Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, on Saturday said there is not enough data to claim that Delta Plus is spreading rapidly in the country. More data is required to comment on its virulence and probable antibody-escape characteristics, Dr Gangakhedkar said. On Saturday, Tamil Nadu reported the first death due to the Delta Plus variant o Covid-19 as a Madurai patient detected with the variant succumbed to the virus. At least 12 states in the country, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, J&K, Haryana and Karnataka have reported this variant.The mutant alone may not prove to be very harmful, Dr Gangakhedkar said. "This mutant was also present in the variants found in South Africa. This particular mutation was also seen with a few other mutations. The most important mutation among them was N501y. Two together were able to evade the vaccine response and produce escape mutants but if K417N is alone, then it would not be so powerful to escape vaccine response," the scientist said.#WATCH | Raman Gangakhedkar, ex-Head Scientist of Epidemiology & communicable diseases, ICMR speaks on #DeltaPlusVariant. He says, "...Delta has spread a lot & is a Variant of Concern. Since it is a Variant of Concern, you've to also treat Delta Plus as a Variant of Concern..." pic.twitter.com/eDLDqnKMWvThen why has it been classified as a variant of concern? "As Delta is a variant of concern, its all other mutations will be classified as variants of concern," Dr Gangakhedkar said.Also Read: How effective are Covishield and Covaxin against Delta Plus? Report in 7-10 daysThe Union health ministry on Friday said that the cases are very localised as of now to comment on the nature and the spread of the variant. Though more and more states are reporting the Delta variant, it can't be said that the variant is spreading as many of these cases are from April, May, which proves that the variant was there in the country for the past two months.Dr Gangakhedkar said that Delta Plus is a low transmissible strain and if it continues to remain so, then it will not replace the Delta variant, which is the predominant one now.Eight states have been alerted as this new variant has come to the surface. The effectiveness of the existing vaccines against this variant is also being tested, the Indian Council of Medical Research said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-say-delta-plus-is-spreading-rapidly-former-icrmr-head-101624701036597.html
26-06-2021||India||'It should manifest finest of our traditions': PM Modi reviews development plans for Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the development plan for Ayodhya in a virtual meeting with Uttar Pradesh government officials on Saturday. During the meeting, PM Modi was informed about various upcoming and proposed infrastructure projects to improve connectivity with the city, believed to be the birthplace of Lord Rama from Ramayana.The officials also discussed various infrastructure projects like airport, expansion of railway station, bus station, roads and highways, with the Prime Minister.During the meeting, PM Modi described Ayodhya as a city that is "etched in the cultural consciousness of every Indian," as he asserted that it should "manifest the finest of our traditions and the best of our developmental transformations."He also said that the city should be developed such that generations should feel the desire to visit Ayodhya at least once in their lifetime. The Prime Minister also pointed out that the developmental works in Ayodhya will continue in the foreseeable future, however, "the momentum towards heralding Ayodhya to this next leap of progress must begin now.""It is our collective endeavour to celebrate the identity of Ayodhya and keep its cultural vibrancy alive through innovative ways," he said at the meeting as per the government release.Ayodhya is both spiritual and sublime. The human ethos of this city must be matched by futuristic infrastructure, which is beneficial for everyone including tourists and pilgrims, PM Modi also said. "The way Lord Ram had the ability to bring people together, the development works of Ayodhya should be guided by a spirit of healthy public participation, especially by the youth," PM Modi said as he called for the skills of our talented youngsters to be leveraged in this development of the city.State chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, Dinesh Sharma and various other ministers of the UP Government were part of the meeting.Ayodhya’s development is being envisaged as a spiritual centre, global tourism hub and sustainable smart city. Authorities are planning to build Ashrams, Hotels, Bhavans of various states. A tourist facilitation centre, a world-class museum are also in the development plans for Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-should-manifest-finest-of-our-traditions-pm-modi-reviews-development-plans-for-ayodhya-101624701119470.html
26-06-2021||India||Military to go for indigenised clothing and equipment, time for gloves from Myanmar, rain bags from Sri Lanka over||The ministry of defence has a list of 209 items including cruise missiles, next generation corvettes, tank engines and towed artillery guns which have been placed under negative import list to boost Atmanirbhar Bharat programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Import restrictions on the second list of 108 items will progressively come into effect from December 2021 to December 2025. The first list of defence imports under negative category was issued in August 2020.While both the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) and Department of Defence (DOD) are on the same page as far as indigenisation is concerned, the fact remains is that Indian military still imports clothing and equipment from abroad despite a thriving textile industry in the country.The unsavoury truth is that Indian gloves for Siachen front is imported from a company in Myanmar, while the sleeping bags for the glacier are manufactured by a company in Sri Lanka. While a Kanpur based company is supplying military boots to Israeli army, the Indian Army is getting specialized boots made in Italy. The list goes on.During his tenure as secretary (defence production), the present defence secretary Ajay Kumar pushed for indigenisation of military clothing was back in 2018 but the Indian Army replied back with a long term indigenisation plan. Secretary Kumar told the military that since 100% FDI is allowed in defence sector, the companies from which the clothing and equipment was being imported should be asked to set up shop in India for impetus to the local textile and leather industry. He pushed for Indian shoe-makers for military as there was a thriving leather industry in Kanpur and Agra.With the military clothing now under department of military affairs (DMA), its secretary and present Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat is pushing for total indigenisation of clothing. In fact, recently the CDS visited a Bengaluru based clothing manufacturer to ask him whether he could supply sleeping bags, camouflage tents and jackets to the Indian military. The answer was that the qualitative and quantitative requirements of the military were designed in such a way that the Indian manufacturers found difficult to compete in an unfavourable environment. For instance, the heavy snow parkas were tested for being rain proof despite the fact that it never rains in Siachen Glacier with temperatures way below zero.“Even though military clothing budget would be between ₹200-400 crore for the Indian military, there is no reason for them to seek foreign manufacturers when the same quality is available with Indian textile manufacturers. Or, there is always an option of asking the company to set shop in India under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative,” said a senior defence ministry official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-military-to-go-for-indigenised-clothing-and-equipment-101624700078255.html
26-06-2021||India||News of Rakesh Tikait's arrest 'incorrect’, clarifies Delhi Police as farmers observe 7 months of anti-farm law protests||Delhi Police took to Twitter on Saturday to dispel rumours of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s arrest. Terming it fake news, police cautioned that action will be initiated against anyone spreading it."Fake news! News related to the arrest of Rakesh Tikait is incorrect. Please stay away from such fake news/tweets. Action will be taken for spreading such false news/tweets," read the tweet from the official handle of deputy commissioner of police (East) Priyanka Kashyap.Fake news! News related to arrest of Rakesh Tikait is incorrect. Pl stay away from such fake news/tweets. Action will be taken for spreading such false news/tweets #delhipolice#DP https://t.co/XWdVY5XWXsBKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told news agency PTI that Tikait was not arrested by the Delhi Police and he’s currently protesting at the Ghazipur protest site."Tikait was not arrested by police. He's still at the Ghazipur protest site where demonstration is underway against the farm laws. No conflict situation at the protest site," Malik said.Saturday marks the completion of seven months since farmers started protesting against the farm laws in three borders of the national capital-Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri. Delhi police have tightened security across borders of the national capital in anticipation of protests at all three sites. Following advice of the police, Delhi Metro has shut its three main stations on the Yellow Line for four hours on Saturday.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 40 farmer unions has decided to observe “Kheti Bachao, Loktantra Bachao Diwas” (save agriculture, save democracy day) across the country to mark the completion of seven months of farmers protest and 46 years since the 1976 Emergency was declared. Farmers will be marching to Raj Bhavan across the country and a similar march has also been planned in Massachusetts, SKM said. Farmers from Saharanpur and Sisauli in western Uttar Pradesh led by Tikait have reached Ghazipur Gate, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-related-to-arrest-of-rakesh-tikait-is-incorrect-clarifies-delhi-police-as-farmers-gear-up-for-protests-101624700073700.html
26-06-2021||India||Need more data to approve combining 2 Covid-19 vaccines: Dr Randeep Guleria||As concerns rise over the possibility of vaccines being ineffective against various and more powerful variants of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that mixing doses of two different vaccines might increase its efficacy against Covid-19."Fighting more infectious variants like Delta Plus and Delta is possible through mixing two different Covid-19 vaccines. However, more data is required before a final approval is given to combine two vaccines," Dr Guleria told NDTV."Early studies indicate that combining two different shots could be an alternative. We need to study which two vaccines could be combined for effective results. But certainly, this might increase vaccine efficacy," he further said.Last month, the Centre said that under its new vaccination policy, government scientists will study various combinations of Covid-19 vaccine doses to see if this could lead to more efficacy.Also Read | Covid-19: Centre panel to study mixing doses, Covishield single shotDr Guleria also dismissed concerns that vaccines would be ineffective against the Delta Plus variant. "We need more data to conclude that the mutated strain is capable of rendering vaccines ineffective," the AIIMS director said.Also Read | Effects of mixing two different Covid-19 vaccines under research, say expertsDelta plus is a mutation of the Delta variant, or the B.1.617.2 strain, which was first detected in India, and is said to be behind the devastating second wave which was at its peak in the country in April-May. Several experts have projected that the Delta plus variant might lead to a third wave in the near future, though the top doctor remarked that it is unlikely that a potential third wave would be as severe as the second.Dr Guleria further said that if someone has taken both doses of vaccine but is exposed to the virus, they might contract the viral disease, but it would only be "mild."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-more-data-to-approve-combining-2-covid-19-vaccines-dr-randeep-guleria-101624697430938.html
26-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports first death from ‘Delta Plus’ Covid variant as concern grows||Tamil Nadu has registered its first death due to the Delta plus variant of Sars-Cov-2 (Covid-19) after a patient from Madurai succumbed to the infection, according to the state health department. A more virulent version AY.1, also called Delta plus, is an offshoot of the Delta variant which has caused renewed concern about the capability to evade immunity built by vaccination or the previous infection.Ma Subramanian, minister for medical and family welfare of Tamil Nadu, on Saturday said that two of three identified cases of the new ‘Delta plus variant’ have recovered. The two recovered cases include a 32-year-old nurse from Chennai and another individual from the Kancheepuram district."After the death of the Madurai patient, the samples were collected, which confirmed that it was 'Delta plus' variant," Subramanian said.However, the patient's contacts have tested negative.Also Read | As Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully vaccinated to keep masks onAs of Friday, Maharashtra has reported maximum cases of Delta plus variant at 20, while nine people in Tamil Nadu tested positive for the new variant of concern. Nearly 30% of cases of Delta plus variant have been traced back to southern India in states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.The concern over the Delta plus variant prompted the Union health ministry on Friday to direct seven chief secretaries to take immediate containment measures where cases of the Delta plus variant have been found. Tamil Nadu’s Madurai, Kanchipuram and Chennai have been asked to strengthen their response after the Delta Plus variant was found in those districts.Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to chief secretaries asking them to implement immediate containment measures and ensure proper adherence to Covid-19 measures. Based on data received from the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia, a forum set up by the health ministry to study and monitor genome sequencing of circulating virus strains, the Delta Plus variants have three main characteristics - increased transmissibility; stronger binding to receptors of lung cells; and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-first-death-from-delta-plus-covid-variant-as-concern-grows-101624698944262.html
26-06-2021||India||'If you want elections in J&K...': Omar Abdullah says statehood has to be restored first||Former J&K chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Saturday said the political parties of J&K conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah that they want the restoration of statehood to J&K to happen first. Any other timeline is not acceptable, Omar Abdullah said. "Azad sa'ab (Ghulam Nabi Azad) had spoken on behalf of all of us that we don't accept this timeline. We don't accept delimitation, election, statehood. We want delimitation, statehood and then the election. If you want to hold polls, you will have to restore statehood first," he said to ANI.Also Read: What J&K leaders said after meeting PM ModiAfter the cordial meeting between J&K leaders --- many of whom were imprisoned for a long time after August 2029 -- and PM Modi, People's Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti said her party won't fight elections until Article 370 and 35A are restored.Echoing the same demand, the National Conference leader on Saturday said this is a demand of all the political parties in J&K. "Not only Mehbooba Mufti but Farooq sa'ab also said that it took 70 years for BJP to succeed in their agenda of abrogation of Article 370. We won't back off from our mission, even if it takes us 70 weeks or 70 months or more time," Omar Abdullah said.For the first time after the Union government scrapped Article 370 on August 5, 2019, and bifurcated the state into two Union territories, Jammu and Kashmir leaders were invited to Delhi for a meeting with PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah.Several issues, including elections, delimitation and the restoration of statehood, were discussed in the meeting. PM Modi and Amit Shah assured the J&K leaders that the Centre is committed to restoring statehood to J&K as the leaders conveyed to them that people were not happy. As PM Modi stressed bridging the gap between Dil (heart)/Dilli (Delhi) and J&K, he said delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that elections can occur.After the meeting, now National Conference and People's Democratic Paty have raised question over the government's will to restore statehood to J&K. While Mehbooba Mufti said her party won't take part in elections if elections are held before J&K is given back its statehood, Omar Abdullah on Friday said it is foolish to expect the restoration of statehood from this government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-wan-elections-in-j-k-omar-abdullah-says-statehood-has-to-be-restored-first-101624695409542.html
26-06-2021||India||Thousands of farmers march against contentious laws, mark seven months of protests||Marking the completion of seven months of protests against three contentious agri-marketing laws passed by the central government, farmers all across the nation are marching towards the governor houses in their respective states to set up a demonstration seeking a repeal of the new farm laws. In photos shared by news agency ANI, a large number of farmers assembled in Haryana's Panchkula were seen marching towards the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh, where they will submit a memorandum addressed to the President of India, meant to be sent through the governor.Also Read | Farmers' protest may be sabotaged by Pakistan's ISI, alerts intel reportThe farmers' protest, which has yet to make a breakthrough, has been consistent with its single-minded demand to repeal the three farm laws, even though seven have passed since the movement began.At the Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur borders of the national capital Delhi, farmers have been camping since winter last year. They will be marking June 26 as "Save Agriculture, Save Democracy Day", reported news agency PTI.On the other hand, the Delhi Police has received inputs from intelligence agencies suggesting that the farmers' movement is likely to be sabotaged by Pakistan-based Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). The officials have sent a letter to the police and the central armed forces, warning that ISI proxies based in Pakistan may try to sabotage the farmers' movement by instigating security personnel deployed at the site. Based on these inputs, the Delhi Police has beefed up security measures and deployed additional forces in and around reported sites of disturbance.The Chandigarh traffic police has also closed down as many as 13 entry and exit points in the city from 10am to 6pm as a precautionary measure. These are -- Mullanpur barrier, Zirakpur barrier, Sector 5/8 turn, Hirsa Singh Chowk, Sector 7/8 turn, Lake turn, Sector 7 residence cut opposite PRB, Golf turn, Gursagar Sahib turn, Maulijagran bridge, Housing Board near bridge, Kishangarh turn and Matour Barrier.Also Read | 3 metro stations to stay shut for 4 hours today"The general public is advised not to use these routes and to stay at home except in case of any emergency," the traffic advisory read.The farmers are demanding that three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-of-farmers-march-against-contentious-laws-mark-seven-months-of-protests-101624693028765.html
26-06-2021||India||'Inspirational, exemplary': JP Nadda shares letter from listener praising Mann Ki Baat||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda said on Saturday listeners keep track of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Mann Ki Baat as he talked about a letter from one such follower of the monthly radio programme. "Respected Prime Minister @narendramodi ji, I keep receiving several letters regarding your popular Mann Ki Baat. People listen to Mann ki Baat in every house just as they pay heed to their elders," Nadda tweeted along with a letter from Anand Swaroop Dwivedi, a listener from Uttar Pradesh's Banda."Anand Swaroop ji has given many commendable suggestions in his letter. I request all the workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party to listen to Mann Ki Baat every month along with all the friends from their booth and hold a booth meeting after that and another at their house the next month," Nadda's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Nadda said Dwivedi wrote that he listens to Mann Ki Baat every month and has been following it since the first episode. "The memoir or examples presented by Honorable Modi ji during the program are inspirational and exemplary," Dwivedi wrote.He also said that "we should respect the guests", invited by PM Modi on his monthly radio programme. Dwivedi talked about the episode that was broadcast on April 25 as the Prime Minister held discussions with various experts on the second wave of Covid-19 and said it shows "how sensitive and conscientious PM Modi is."Dwivedi wrote in his letter that he listens to the programme from a booth set up in the Banda district. "I am always excited for every episode of Mann Ki Baat," he told the senior BJP leader in his letter. "It feels nice to sit and listen to the show collectively," he added.PM Modi hosts a Mann Ki Baat on the last Sunday of every month. During this, PM Modi addresses the nation on various topics and invites experts who share their experiences. The first episode of the show was broadcast in 2014 and there are a total of 77 episodes so far.On June 27, PM Modi will address the 78th episode of the show. The show is streamed live on PM Modi's official YouTube channel, as well as on PMO. It is also broadcast in regional languages immediately after the Hindi broadcast on All India Radio. The regional language versions are repeated at 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-shares-letter-from-listener-praising-mann-ki-baat-101624694428863.html
26-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: First case of Delta plus variant detected in Rajasthan||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.First case of Delta plus variant detected in RajasthanThe first case of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus disease was detected in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district on Friday, officials said. Bikaner’s chief medical and health officer, Om Prakash Chahar said a 65-year -old woman was infected with Covid-19, she was asymptomatic and recovered completely without any institutional treatment. Read more.Ayodhya vision document: PM Modi reviews plan in meet with AdityanathPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed projects as well as a detailed plan for the development of Ayodhya and to promote the temple town as a global religious tourism site presented by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Read more.As Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully vaccinated to keep masks onThe World Health Organization (WHO) has said people who are fully vaccinated will have to continue wearing masks, follow social distancing and other safety measures to contain the spread of the more deadly and contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly across the globe. Read more.﻿'You have an absolute goldmine ready to be unearthed': Graeme Swann urges India not to change 'superstar' Rishabh PantWicketkeeper batsman Rishabh Pant faced a lot of criticism from former cricketers and Indian fans for playing the shot that led to his dismissal in India’s second innings of the World Test Championship final. Pant had moved to 41 with four boundaries in his usual style – trying to get on top of the bowlers – but perished trying to hoick Trent Boult for a six. Read more.Photographer captures touching proposal, takes Twitter’s help to track down coupleIn today’s edition of sweet stories that may leave you with a huge smile on your face, here’s the tale of how a photographer used Twitter to find the couple she unexpectedly clicked in the middle of their proposal. Chances are, the story will make you happy. Read more.When Rajinikanth's hilarious story about playing Aishwarya Rai's hero made Amitabh Bachchan LOL. WatchActor Rajinikanth has often been criticised for roping in much younger female actors opposite him in movies. However, he has never been oblivious to the criticism. Watch here.'Afghans now have to decide their future': Joe Biden on meeting Ashraf GhaniUS President Joe Biden assured visiting Afghan leaders of sustained American support. Biden's assurance to Ashraf Ghani, Abdullah Abdullah comes following withdrawal of troops. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-first-case-of-delta-plus-variant-detected-in-rajasthan-101624690060481.html
26-06-2021||India||India records highest weekly vaccination with over 3.3 crore jabs administered in last 5 days||On June 21, India vaccinated over 80 lakh people beginning a new phase of the vaccination drive where the Centre provides free vaccines to states and Union territories depending on the population, the Covid-19 situation among other factors. The number of people India vaccinated on a single day (on June 21) was equivalent to Switzerland's population and was more than any of the Nordic countries. Now, as the week comes to an end, India breached all its past records of highest weekly vaccination as it administered over 3.3 crore doses between June 21 and June 26, Union health ministry data said. The earlier record was of 2.47 crore doses, administered in a week between April 3 and April 9.Maharashtra 1st state to cross 3 crore Covid vaccinationsMaharashtra on Friday became the first state to administer over 3 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, West Bengal are also between two crore and three crore doses.India's vaccination not fast enough to foil Covid-19 3rd wave: ReportWhat pushed the vaccination drive?On the occasion of International Yoga Day, which marked the beginning of this new phase of vaccination drive in India, several states organised mega vaccination camps, which pushed the figure on June 21 to over 80 lakh. Many politicians and experts have questioned the deliberate push and argued that the pace is not likely to be sustained in the days to come. From 80 lakh, the daily vaccination figure dropped to around 60 lakh, but still made the record of the highest weekly vaccination.What next? Private hospitals to joinThe government has said that the number of vaccination will actually go up as both Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India are ramping up their vaccine production aiming at a much larger production in July, August. Private hospitals too will start purchasing vaccines from the vaccine makers from its 25 per cent quota.December deadline: ChallengesThe government earlier said it will vaccinate the entire population by December 2021. According to experts, vaccine hesitance in rural areas and any shortage in the supply may throw a challenge in the way of this deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-weekly-vaccination-with-over-3-3-crore-jabs-administered-in-last-5-days-101624691835640.html
26-06-2021||India||‘Drug abuse, trafficking increased manyfold since 2020’: NCB||Of late, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, drug abuse and trafficking increased manyfold since 2020 and this is evident from the activities by various drug enforcement agencies, especially by the NCB Patna zonal unit, Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) zonal director (Bihar and Jharkhand) Kumar Manish said on Friday. “We will continue to speed up our operations against drug traffickers and drug cartels to save people, especially youth from the drug menace,” Manish said. Putting up a united fight against the drug menace, Manish said the bureau is working on a ‘proactive’ approach to weed out drug abuse and illicit trafficking from Bihar and Jharkhand. On the occasion of International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Manish said that the day is observed annually on June 26 to raise awareness about the problems that illicit drugs pose to society as well as strengthen global action and cooperation to achieve the goal of a drug-free society. Drug abuse and mental health go hand in hand. The people who are under harmful addictions are not only putting their physical health at stake but can also suffer severe mental issues, he said. This year’s theme for the day is ‘Share facts on drugs, save lives’, set by the United Nations for combating misinformation and encouraging the exchange of drug facts. With better and real-time sharing of intelligence, the NCB and other drugs law enforcement agency like the DRI, customs and Bihar Police have been successful in curbing drug peddling. The NCB also released data showing an increase in the seizure of drugs in the state over the last few years. As per the data, the NCB seized 12.3 kg ganja, 1.9 kg opium and 2.02 kg charas in 2015 and 496.5 kg ganja, 8.18 kg opium and 31.5 kg charas in 2016. The figures jumped to 14.8 tonnes of ganja, 5.45 kg opium and 114.05 kg of charas in 2017 and 6.4 tonnes of ganja, 5.5 kg opium and 212.83 kg charas in 2018, respectively. In 2019, the NCB seized 6.67 tonnes of ganja, 7.5 kg opium and 33.3 kg charas while in 2020, 4.89 tonnes of ganja, 15 kg opium and 103.9 kg charas were seized in Bihar.This year, with six months still to go, the NCB has already seized 4.82 tonnes of ganja, 5.25 kg opium, Morphine 0.710 and 48.8 kg charas. “Seizure of increased drugs, especially ganja, also reflects effective crackdown by the law enforcement agencies. Liquor addicts also shifted towards drug abuse after prohibition in 2016,” said Manish. This year’s awareness drive in rural areas of Bihar has been undertaken by Husk Power Systems, a global rural clean energy services company. Many eminent personalities of Bihar, particularly from Bollywood, Bhojpuri and regional film and entertainment industry, such as Pankaj Tripathi, Sanjay Kumar Mishra, among others, have come forward and participated in the awareness campaign by giving video messages on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-abuse-trafficking-increased-manyfold-since-2020-ncb-101624692119245.html
26-06-2021||India||How an AR Rahman song got IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad blocked from Twitter||Twitter on Friday blocked Union information technology (IT) minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's account for nearly an hour over alleged violations of the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) amid the social media network's deteriorating ties with the central government in the context of the new IT rules in the country. However, the exact reason behind the microblogging website briefly denying the Union minister his account may seem incredulous to many: a 2017 tweet related to music director AR Rahman's famous song 'Maa Tujhe Salaam', which was found in violation of Twitter's copyright policy.The DMCA notice, related to AR Rahman's song 'Maa Tujhe Salaam', was sent by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) on behalf of Sony Music Entertainment back on May 24, according to the Lumen database. It was only received by Twitter on June 25, following which the social media platform took action, as per the document.Lumen database is an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content, and requests received by Twitter for withholding content are published on its site.The 2017 tweet, posted from Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's official handle, consisted of a tribute video to the Indian Army, where the AR Rahman's song was used in the background. It was posted on the anniversary of the 1971 war victory, said people familiar with the development.Twitter briefly blocking Ravi Shankar Prasad's account was the first instance of a Union minister being blocked from a social media network in India. The platform later restored access to the account and said that the action was taken on the basis of a DMCA notice and that the referenced tweet has been "withheld". "Per our copyright policy, we respond to valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorised representatives," it said.Under the DMCA copyright, owners can notify Twitter claiming that a user has infringed their copyrighted works.However, the IT minister condemned the incident and said that Twitter was only displaying its own brazen arbitrariness and running its "own agenda". The ministry claimed that Twitter is only taking these measures because the government has been asking it to strictly comply with the country's new IT rules.Earlier this month, Twitter lost its intermediary status in India -- meaning the social media network can directly be sued under the country's laws for posts on the platform -- for refusing to comply with the IT rules. According to Ravi Shankar Prasad, the government calling out Twitter's act has "clearly ruffled its feathers".(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-an-ar-rahman-song-got-it-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-blocked-from-twitter-101624687512421.html
26-06-2021||India||'Drugs bring darkness, destruction and devastation': PM Modi hails those fighting against the menace||On the occasion of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Prime minister Narendra Modi praised all those fighting the country's war against drug abuse and condemned drugs as a social evil that bring "darkness, destruction and devastation.""Today, on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, I laud all those working at the grassroots to eliminate the menace of drugs from our society. Every such effort to #SaveLives is vital. After all, drugs bring with it darkness, destruction and devastation," PM Modi tweeted.Let us reiterate our commitment to #ShareFactsOnDrugs and realise our vision of a Drugs Free India. Remember- addiction is neither cool nor a style statement. Sharing an old #MannKiBaat episode which contained many aspects of overcoming the drugs menace. https://t.co/0XJpOApzbXSharing an old episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat in which he talked about ways to fight the menace, PM tweeted, "Let us reiterate our commitment to #ShareFactsOnDrugs and realise our vision of a Drugs Free India. Remember- addiction is neither cool nor a style statement. Sharing an old #MannKiBaat episode which contained many aspects of overcoming the drugs menace."Union home minister Amit Shah also commented on the social issue on the occasion and applauded the efforts of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) personnel towards eliminating the drug menace in India. Amit Shah reiterated the government's commitment towards the zero-tolerance policy against all kind of narcotics."On International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, PM @narendramodi govt reiterates its commitment towards the zero-tolerance policy against all kind of narcotics. I applaud the efforts of our @narcoticsbureau personnel towards eliminating the drug menace in India," Shah tweeted.June 26 is observed as the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking every year. The day marks the efforts of activists and organisations that fight drug abuse and spread awareness about the global drug problem.This year, the day aims to make people aware of the damage misinformation regarding drugs could cause and encourage the exchange of facts related to drugs. The theme of the day this year is 'Share Drug Facts to Save Lives'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-bring-darkness-destruction-and-devastation-pm-modi-hails-those-fighting-against-the-menace-101624686315149.html
26-06-2021||India||Covid 3rd wave: Why is Maharashtra at greater risk from Delta Plus? Centre explains||A third wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra could infect 50 lakh people and 10 per cent of it -- 5 lakh -- could be children, while the active cases in the state may reach eight lakh at its peak. These are the probabilities the government has discussed with its experts and task force and in the cabinet meeting, before the government decided to bring back some of the restrictions to the state, partly reversing the unlocking process."About five lakh children may be infected, of which 2.5 lakh may need admission in government hospitals. All these possibilities were discussed during this week's cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray," Maharashtra food and drug minister Rajendra Shingne said, as reported by news agency PTI.Why Maharashtra is at greater riskHealth ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal on Friday explained that Maharashtra may be at greater risk from the 3rd wave and that's why the state was already alerted. "When a virus replicates, some mutations aid to the virus' additional survival. When there are many cases, the virus may get more scope to get replicated," Lav Agarwal said, adding that waves are less of a concern now. "That we have allowed the waves to aggravate by our negligent behaviour is more of a concern," Agarwal said.Districts of concern in MaharashtraDirector-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava on Friday said some districts in Maharashtra still have over 5 per cent positivity rate, which is concerning. The districts include Raigad, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Kohlapur, Palghar, Osamanabad. "This is a good step that the state has brought back restrictions in Maharashtra," Dr Bhargava said.Delta Plus in MaharashtraThe first Delta Plus variant in India was detected from a sample in Maharashtra in April, which proves that the variant has been there for quite some time. Now, the state has the highest number of Delta Plus cases and an 80-year-old woman, detected with Delta Plus, succumbed to Covid on Friday, recording the first death from Delta Plus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-why-is-maharashtra-at-greater-risk-from-delta-plus-centre-explains-101624684705808.html
26-06-2021||India||Kolkata vaccine fraud: BJP's Suvendu Adhikari demands immediate probe||West Bengal's leader of opposition Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday wrote to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan over the vaccination camps in Kolkata where fake Covid-19 vaccines were allegedly administered. In his letter, Adhikari demanded central agencies to investigate the alleged fraud. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader began the letter by taking potshots at the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government. He said that "due to lack of enthusiasm" from the present state government, West Bengal is "failing to catch up" in the vaccination drive."In certain places, political affiliation is also being looked into by the ruling party before allowing the vaccines to be administered to eligible priority population even," Suvendu Adhikari added in the letter. "Vaccination coupons are also being reportedly issued by the ruling party like a voter slip," he also claimed.Speaking on the alleged fake vaccination camps, Adhikari said the fraud can not take place without the "complicity of top civic authorities." He also questioned the pilferage of Covid-19 vaccines from the government stock."The big question is - Were these shots really Covishield vaccines as being claimed by the accused? If so, then this raises a big question on pilferage of Covid vaccines from government stock and this cannot happen without complicity of top civic authorities," Adhikari stated. "If these were not Covid vaccines, then immediate investigation needs to be done as to what was being administered at such a large scale?" he also wrote.He further emphasised that if people who thought to have been vaccinated died from this medicine or contracted Covid-19 and died from the disease, it would "severely dent the credibility of this historic vaccination drive" being undertaken by your government."A thorough investigation needs to be done, prioritising public health and safety," Adhikari demanded.Kolkata Police on Friday arrested Debanjan Deb, who was pretending to be an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, for duping thousands of people of lakhs of rupees on the pretext of helping them get tenders of the civic body. It is alleged that Deb used the money to organise fake Covid-19 vaccination camps, pay salary to his employees and rent for the office.According to a PTI report, Deb was impersonating as a joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), while lying to his family about being an IAS officer.As the case came to light, Trinamool Congress lawmaker Dr Santanu Sen said strict action will be taken against Deb. Sen who is also the Indian Medical Association’s West Bengal secretary said that the incident was part of an organised crime and Kolkata Police are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-vaccine-fraud-bjp-s-suvendu-adhikari-demands-immediate-probe-101624684502208.html
26-06-2021||India||Fearing Covid-19, Indian woman kills minor daughter in UK||A 36-year-old Indian woman in the UK has pleaded guilty to manslaughter by diminished responsibility after she admitted killing her five-year-old daughter at their home because she was terrified of dying from Covid-19 and thought the little girl could not live without her, according to a media report.Sutha Sivanantham stabbed her daughter Sayagi in the bedroom of their south London flat 15 times before severely injuring herself on June 30 last year, the Metro.co.uk reported.Her husband said she had been 'petrified' about catching the virus and the lockdown restrictions may have 'pushed her over the edge,' the report added.Appearing at the Old Bailey on Thursday, Sivanantham denied murder but admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility and will be kept in hospital indefinitely.Sivanantham, who had been living in the UK since 2006 after an arranged marriage, complained of mystery ailments for almost a year before the tragedy.She developed a 'morbid concern' she was seriously ill and had become convinced she was going to die, prosecutors said.On the day of the attack, she begged her husband not to go to work and called friends to tell them she was unwell.At around 4 pm neighbours went to the flat in Monarch Parade, Mitcham, and found Sivanantham with stab wounds to her abdomen.Sayagi, who was lying on the bed, had been stabbed several times in the neck, chest and abdomen.Sutha was also found to have suffered self-inflicted stab injuries and was taken to hospital, where she remained for more than two months receiving treatment before being discharged into police custody.Sainsbury’s worker Suganthan Sivanantham was called at the supermarket to be told that his wife had killed their daughter at their home, the report said.He sobbed loudly in the dock as his impact statement was read to the court.It said: ‘I get very emotional having to relive what has happened to my daughter and my wife.’He said before the killing the family had lived a ‘happy fulfilling and blissful life.’ Since then he has had to give up work and ‘each day is a struggle.'Sivanantham said he has not spoken to his wife but accepts she was not responsible for her actions.‘I know that if she was well she would not have been able to kill our daughter,’ he said.One psychiatrist who has treated Sivanantham found that the social isolation and stress caused by the Covid-19 lockdown contributed to her serious mental illness.She was sent to be treated in hospital under sections 37 and 41 of the Mental Health Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fearing-covid-19-indian-woman-kills-minor-daughter-in-uk-101624683872318.html
26-06-2021||India||Ahmedabad, Pune among 9 cities to get 4-star rating for climate initiatives||Nine Indian cities have taken significant measures to mitigate the impacts of the climate crisis and inculcated a climate-sensitive approach to urban planning, according to the cities’ readiness report on Climate-Smart Cities Assessment Framework (CSCAF) released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (HUA) on Friday.Ahmedabad, Indore, Pimpri Chinchwad, Vadodara, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Pune, Rajkot, and Surat were adjudged top performers among 126 cities that participated in the second edition of the assessment launched in September.Kunal Kumar, joint secretary and mission director of Smart Cities Mission, HUA, said, “The CS (Climate-Smart) is a unique national framework that covers almost every aspect that impacts climate in the cities. Water management, mobility (especially increasing public transport), green buildings, and urban planning are areas where there are lacunas that need to be improved. The good things about this assessment framework help in improving all these indicators in an integrated manner. Now, cities have a real-time dashboard on how they are performing on climate aspect, which will help them in better planning.”While cities are facing infrastructure challenges and environmental degradation due to rapid urbanisation, they are also struggling to tackle extreme events such as flooding, heatwaves, and cyclones. India was the seventh most affected by the devastating impact of climate crisis globally in 2019, according to the Global Climate Risk Index 2021.A ministry official said CSCAF is aimed at providing a roadmap for Indian cities towards mainstreaming climate action in their policies and development plans. The Coronavirus pandemic has further highlighted the need to prepare cities for climate, environmental, and public health risks.The cities were assessed on five key themes (with 28 indicators): urban planning, green cover and biodiversity, energy and green buildings; mobility and air quality, water management, and waste management. The performance was rated on five levels (1 to 5 stars).Kumar said the assessment is only ranking cities based on their performance, “In the times to come, we plan to move towards outcome-based funding….Cities that improve their ranking will get more funds. We incentivize improvement of ranking for cities in the framework.”In urban planning and waste management themes, some cities have shown positive impact and were given 5 stars in performance level. But in mobility and air quality, water and energy themes, no city got 5 stars, indicating that a lot of work needs to be done before results are visible on the ground.As per the report, 43 smart cities in India are facing poor air quality that poses serious health concerns. To address the issues of air pollution and water-related problems in cities, increasing the green cover, rejuvenation of water bodies, encouraging the use of public transport and non-motorized vehicles, etc are essential.Indore, Surat, and Visakhapatnam were adjudged top performers in the urban planning, green cover, and biodiversity theme, as they have taken concrete steps not only in planning but also in making budgetary provisions, ensuring implementation on the ground, and setting up monitoring and review mechanisms. Of the 126 cities, 65 cities, including Thane, Pune, Agra, Coimbatore, etc meet the norms for 12-18% green cover.While a large number of cities have taken initiatives for the rejuvenation of water bodies and increasing the green cover, not much has been done in mainstreaming and addressing the climate crisis by making provisions in urban development policies. As per the report, 96 out of 126 cities are yet to form climate coordination cells within the local bodies. Surat, Rajkot, and Udaipur are among the nine cities that have prepared CCAP.To improve the air quality in cities, the Centre has pushed for encouraging the use of public and non-motorised transport to reduce air pollution.One of the key indicators to assess mobility and air quality is the development of non-motorised transport networks. As per the report, a large number of cities have done little in this regard. During the pandemic, several cities reported a sharp rise in bicycle sales, indicating people’s willingness to use non-motorised transport.Various studies have shown that close to 74% of people walk or rely on non-motorised transport for at least part of their daily commute. But most cities don’t have proper infrastructure for pedestrians and non-motorised transport. As per the report, 94 cities have less than 15% of road network with non-motorised transport infrastructure, while just six cities namely Kalyan Dombivali, Mysore, Naya Raipur, Ranchi etc have 50% or more.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture, said, “It is easier for cities to develop NMT (non-motorised transport) infrastructure in greenfield developments. To address issues related to air pollution due to transport, there is a need to increase public transport and develop NMT infrastructure. But in most cities, we have to do retrofitting. There is a need to provide assistance to cities to develop the infrastructure.”Of the 126 cities, including 100 smart cities, 44 cities are yet to initiate regular monitoring of air quality. Amaravathi, Bilaspur, Mangalore, Nashik, Pimpri Chinchwad, Rajkot, and Vijayawada are the cities that have achieved the National Air Quality standard in all the four main pollutants (PM10, PM2.5, NOx, SOx).Only Pune has managed to progress beyond implementing the identified actions under Clean Air Action Plan (planning and monitoring) indicator for air quality and has documented the impact, as per the report.The Delhi government’s Electric Vehicle Policy is an example of efforts made by cities in addressing mobility and air quality concerns. The national capital’s performance on various parameters was judged largely based on information provided by the New Delhi Municipal Council, which is part of the smart cities’ mission.Officials said that in some categories, overall data available in the public domain was considered.While the national capital was given a five-star rating in waste management (which was assessed based on the performance of Swachh Survekshan 2020), the city got a three-star rating in mobility and air quality, energy, and green buildings and urban planning, green cover and biodiversity themes.Water management is one area where a large number of cities have to do a considerable amount of work. Ahmedabad, Surat, and Vijayawada are the only three cities that have considered the climate change aspect in water management and are in the process of implementing it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-pune-among-9-cities-to-get-4-star-rating-for-climate-sensitive-initiatives-101624681018279.html
26-06-2021||India||Covid in India: Deaths near grim milestone of 400,000, fresh cases fall further||India on Saturday recorded as many as 48,698 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,183 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. With this, the country's total infection tally was pushed to 30,183,143 and the death toll neared the grim milestone of 400,000.The health ministry data further showed that the number of active cases declined to 595,565, or 2.03% of the total cases and the total number of recoveries stood at 29,193,085, with 64,818 people being discharged in the last 24 hours. The total number of tests done during the previous day was 17,45,809.Also Read: Delta Plus cases now in 12 states, Maharashtra has maximum, says governmentMeanwhile, the cumulative vaccinations against Covid-19 reached 31,50,45,926, with 61,19,169 people being inoculated on Saturday.India reports 48,698 new #COVID19 cases, 64,818 recoveries, and 1,183 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry.Total cases: 3,01,83,143 Total recoveries: 2,91,93,085Death toll: 3,94,493 Active cases: 5,95,565 pic.twitter.com/NIfDeKqKMmAs the country comes out of the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, speculations regarding the third wave led by various mutations of the virus including the Delta Plus, which has been found in 12 states so far, are rife.Out of the total 51 cases of Delta Plus in the country, 22 were reported in Maharashtra, followed by nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Karnataka.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, the Centre has said that the new variant is very limited and it cannot be said that it is showing an upward trend."There are nearly 50 cases that are found in 12 districts and this has happened in the last three months. It cannot be said that in any district or state it is showing an increasing trend. Till the time we don't correlate this we will not say this is a rising trend because its mutations are the same as Delta variant," Sujeet Singh, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said during a health ministry briefing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-in-india-deaths-near-grim-milestone-of-400-000-fresh-cases-fall-further-101624674056392.html
26-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delta Plus cases now in 12 states, Maharashtra has maximum and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delta Plus cases now in 12 states, Maharashtra has maximum: GovtDelta Plus variant of the coronavirus has spread to 12 states in the country, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of cases at 22, the Centre said on Friday. Read MoreFarmers' protest may be sabotaged by Pakistan's ISI, alerts intel reportThe ongoing farmers' protest around Delhi's borders, which is now ongoing for seven months, is likely to be sabotaged by Pakistan-based Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), reported news agency ANI on Saturday, citing alerts issued by intelligence agencies. Read MorePetrol, diesel costlier by 35 paise each, 14th hike in fuel rates this monthPetrol and diesel prices in India continue to reach record highs as the fuel rates were jacked up again by 35 paise each in national capital Delhi on Saturday, the 14th hike this month. Read MoreDoubts about China's transparency on Covid-19 origins piling up: ReportReports of deletion of some early sequences of coronavirus from Wuhan have surfaced, casting shadows over China's transparency on Covid-19 origin once again, news agency ANI reported. Read More'Kohli once-in-a-generation player, see shades of Richards and Ponting in him'Ever since India lost the ICC World Test Championship final against New Zealand in Southampton, a lot has been spoken about their team selection and Virat Kohli's leadership. Read MoreWhen Arjun Kapoor spoke of weight loss journey, how Hrithik Roshan's abs made him sad: 'I'd be sitting with my tond'Actor Arjun Kapoor celebrates his 36th birthday on Saturday. The Bollywood star was recently seen in films such as Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar and Sardar Ka Grandson. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delta-plus-cases-now-in-12-states-maharashtra-has-maximum-and-all-the-latest-news-101624678273191.html
26-06-2021||India||Petrol, diesel costlier by 35 paise each, 14th hike in fuel rates this month||Petrol and diesel prices in India continue to reach record highs as the fuel rates were jacked up again by 35 paise each in national capital Delhi on Saturday, the 14th hike this month. With today's rise, petrol and diesel rates have crossed ₹100 per litre in more state capitals, days after the fuel prices crossed the ₹100-mark in Mumbai, Bhopal, Jaipur, and Bengaluru, along with several other cities.According to a notification posted by state-owned oil retailers on Saturday, petrol is currently selling at ₹98.11 per litre in Delhi, while diesel costs ₹88.65 per litre. On the other hand, petrol reached a record high of ₹104.22 per litre in Mumbai, and diesel hit ₹96.16 per litre.Patna, where it was reported that a single hike will take the fuel prices past the ₹100 per litre mark has finally crossed it. After today's revision, petrol is selling at ₹100.14 per litre in Patna, while the Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala has also breached the ₹100-mark when it comes to petrol. The fuel is selling for ₹100.09 per litre in the capital of Kerala.Cities, where the petrol prices had already breached the ₹100-mark, include Mumbai, Jaipur, Bhopal, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad. According to reports, after today's revision petrol prices have crossed the ₹100 per litre mark in as many as 11 states and union territories. These are -- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Odisha, Ladakh, Bihar, Karnataka, Telangana, Rajasthan, and Jammu and Kashmir.Diesel prices, on the other hand, have remained below the ₹100 per litre mark in most cities so far. The diesel rates had only breached the ₹100-mark in cities such as Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan earlier this month. Now they're the past the same in a few regions in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-costlier-by-35-paise-each-14th-hike-in-fuel-rates-this-month-101624676476617.html
26-06-2021||India||Delta Plus cases now in 12 states, Maharashtra has maximum: Govt||Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus has spread to 12 states in the country, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of cases at 22, the Centre said on Friday. The government said there are now 51 cases of Delta Plus, emphasising their number is very limited and it cannot be said that it is showing an upward trend.Sujeet Singh, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said there is a very limited number of cases of the Delta Plus mutation. There are 22 cases of Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus in Maharashtra, followed by nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Karnataka, Singh added."There are nearly 50 cases that are found in 12 districts and this has happened in the last three months. It cannot be said that in any district or state it is showing an increasing trend. Till the time we don't correlate this we will not say this is a rising trend because its mutations are the same as Delta variant," Singh said during a health ministry briefing on Friday.Also read | Testing vaccine efficacy against Covid-19 Delta+ variant: CentreThese 51 Delta Plus cases were detected from over 45,000 samples sequenced so far in the country. Singh said the Delta Plus variant signifies the Delta variant with an additional mutation - B.1.617.2.1. This specifically refers to the acquisition of the K417N genetic variant in the background of Variant of Concern (VoC) Delta (B.1.617.2) and that K417N is of public significance as this mutation is also present in the Variant of Concern Beta (B.1.351), he added."This does not mean...that severity of transmission is more or lead to more severe disease. If scientific evidence does (suggest) that then we will definitely let you know," he said adding that since the Delta variant is already a Variant of Concern, its sub-lineage can also be called a VoC.Singh said Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Telangana and West Bengal have Delta variant in more than 50 per cent of the samples sequenced.Also read | Delta Plus variant: Health ministry writes to 8 states, alerts 10 districts"After that, we came to a conclusion that exponential surge during the second wave was to a large extent driven by this variant. Ninety per cent of the cases (of the samples sequenced) are being driven by B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant of SARS-CoV2," Singh said.Coronavirus variants of concern have been found in 174 districts in 35 states and Union territories with the highest number of such cases seen in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat, Singh said. The proportion of Covid-19 cases with variants of concern rose from 10.31 per cent in May to 51 per cent on June 20, he added.Also read | Nearly 30% of India's Delta Plus cases are in south IndiaIndian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR's) director general Balaram Bhargava said Delta Plus variant has now been reported in 12 countries and that it has been found in 12 states in India but are very localised. "Delta Plus variant has also been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV and laboratory tests to check vaccine effect on Delta Plus variant. We should have these results within 7-10 days whether the vaccine is working against the Delta Plus," Bhargava said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-cases-now-in-12-states-maharashtra-has-maximum-govt-101624676066300.html
26-06-2021||India||Govt extends last date for Aadhaar-PAN linking: Here is how to do it||The government has extended the deadline for linking the Permanent Account Number (PAN) with the Aadhaar card by another three months, in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The revised deadline is now September 30, changed from June 30, Anurag Thakur, Union minister of state for finance announced on Friday.This is the third time that the government has revised the last date for linking the Aadhaar and PAN documents. Earlier, the last date was set as March 31 and it was then extended to June 30. Now the government has extended the deadline once again to provide relief to taxpayers amid the pandemic.Aadhaar is the Unique Identity number of the 12-digit number and is issued by the Unique Identification Authority of India or UIDAI. It is one of the most significant identification document for Indian citizens. Whereas, PAN is a 10-digit alphanumeric number and is allotted by the Income Tax department. A PAN card is needed for completing finance-related work.In case one fails to link both of the documents, the PAN card will become 'inoperative' and a penalty of ₹1,000 will be levied. Linking PAN with Aadhaar can be done digitally in just a few minutes.Here's how to link the Aadhaar with PAN:Through SMS> In order to link the PAN with the Aadhaar number, type a message UIDPAN<space><12 digit Aadhaar><space><10 digit PAN>. The message will be sent to 567678 or 56161.> For representation, this SMS can be referred to: UIDPAN 0000011112222 AAAPA7777Q.> After sending the SMS to the above-mentioned numbers, the Aadhaar number shall be linked to the PAN number.Through website> Visit the new e-filing portal of the income tax department- incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in.> The portal will show a 'Link Aadhaar' section on the list of services, click on that.> You will then be redirected to a page asking the user's personal details like name, PAN card number, Aadhaar number.> Enter the details in the designated fields. After this, you will be required to enter the correct captcha.> Click on the 'Link Aadhaar' button at the end of the page. It shall be done after this step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-last-date-for-aadhaar-pan-linking-here-is-how-to-do-it-101624675473810.html
26-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest may be sabotaged by Pakistan's ISI, alerts intel report||The ongoing farmers' protest around Delhi's borders, which is now ongoing for seven months, is likely to be sabotaged by Pakistan-based Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), reported news agency ANI on Saturday, citing alerts issued by intelligence agencies. According to the report, officials have alerted the Delhi Police and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) regarding the potential threat to the farmers' stir.Also Read | Farmers to protest on June 26 to mark 7 months of their stirThe officials have sent a letter to the police and the central armed forces, warning that ISI proxies based in Pakistan may try to sabotage the farmers' movement by instigating security personnel deployed at the site, ANI reported. To this end, the news agency said that the Delhi Police have tightened security measures and taken "adequate arrangements". Additional manpower will also be deployed outside Metro stations, the police said.Moreover, as a precautionary measure, three Delhi Metro stations will remain shut from 10am to 2pm on Saturday. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) reportedly took the step on the advice of the Delhi Police, in view of the potential threat to security.There were isolated reports of disturbances across protest sites over the past few weeks, as the police blamed the farmers. The protesters, in turn, said that their movement has been largely peaceful, yet the police used force to disperse them. Protesting farmers have also been opposing the public functions of BJP-JJP leaders in Haryana over the farm laws.Also Read | We don’t engage in violence: Rakesh Tikait defends protesting farmers after Delhi Police’s complaintThe Delhi Police alleged earlier this month that several protesters assaulted two of its special branch officers at the Singhu Border who were at the site for ground analysis. An FIR against unknown protestors was also lodged at the Narela police station. Decrying the allegations, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait had said that the intention of the police and government is to instigate farmers. Earlier, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav, too, said that the government has failed to address the grievances of farmers and it is trying to break the farm stir by using different tools.Yadav said Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar claimed that he is just one call away from the farmers to discuss their issue but the protesters are yet to get his call.Farmers across the nation are slated to hold a protest march on Saturday, June 26, to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation against the central government's three farm laws. The farmers' protest, which has yet to make a breakthrough, has been consistent with its single-minded demand to repeal the three farm laws, even though seven have passed since the movement began. They have demanded that the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday urged all farmers' unions to conclude their agitation against the government, insisting, once again, that the farm reforms will better their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-may-be-sabotaged-by-pakistan-s-isi-alerts-intel-report-101624670135184.html
26-06-2021||India||India successfully test-fires Pinaka rockets, can destroy targets up to 45km||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday said it has successfully test-fired enhanced range versions of indigenously-developed Pinaka rockets and 122mm Caliber rockets from a Multi-Barrel Rocket Launcher (MBRL) at the Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur off the coast of Odisha.Twenty-five enhanced Pinaka rockets were launched in quick succession against targets at different ranges on Thursday and Friday. All the mission objectives were met during the launches. The ministry of defence in a statement that the enhanced range version of the Pinaka Rocket System can destroy targets at distances up to 45km.News agency PTI cited an official as saying that the development of the enhanced Pinaka system was taken up to achieve longer range performance. All the flight articles were tracked by various range instruments in order to check the accuracy of the rockets hitting the target.Also watch: Indian Pinaka rocket's enhanced version successfully test-fired by DRDOFour enhanced range version of 122mm Caliber rockets, developed for the Indian Army and which can destroy targets up to 40km, were also test-fired with full instrumentation and they too met all mission objectives. This enhanced rocket system would replace the existing 122mm Grad rockets.Defence minister Rajnath Singh has congratulated DRDO and the industry on the successful launch of the enhanced Pinaka rockets and 122mm Caliber rockets.The rocket system has been developed jointly by Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE) in Pune and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) with manufacturing support from M/s Economic Explosives Limited in Nagpur.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-pinaka-rockets-can-destroy-targets-up-to-45km-101624664939787.html
26-06-2021||India||Third wave unlikely to be as severe as second: ICMR study||The third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic may not be as severe as the second wave, and scaling up the vaccination drive may help mitigate it, says a study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in collaboration with Imperial College of London.The study, based on mathematical modelling analysis, shows that the new variant is unlikely to cause a new wave unless it leads to a complete loss of immune protection from a previous infection. A more transmissible variant would have to cross the reproduction number threshold of 4.5 to cause a third wave, said the study.“Rapid scale-up of vaccination efforts could play an important role in mitigating these and future waves of the disease,” the study added.“This study demonstrates plausible mechanisms by which a substantial third wave could occur, while also illustrating that it is unlikely for any such resurgence to be as large as the second wave. Model projections are, however, subject to several uncertainties, and it remains important to scale up vaccination coverage...” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-unlikely-to-be-as-severe-as-second-icmr-study-101624662186011.html
26-06-2021||India||‘Great potential’: Serum Institute begins production of 1st Covovax batch||The Serum Institute of India announced on Friday that it has started the production of the first batch of Novavax’s Covid-19 vaccine, which will be locally manufactured under the brand name Covovax, calling it “a new milestone”.“Excited to witness the first batch of Covovax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia! (sic),” said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla in a Twitter post on Friday.US biotechnology company Novavax’s protein-based vaccine, NVX-CoV2373, has demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and 90.4% overall efficacy, in its Phase 3 trial.The Centre, too, termed the vaccine efficacy trial promising.“What we’re learning from data available in the public domain that this vaccine is very safe and highly effective,” said Dr VK Paul, member-health, Niti Aayog said earlier this month.So far, three vaccines — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the SII’s Covishield and Russia’s Sputnik V — have been cleared by the Indian government.Poonawalla earlier said the vaccine could be launched in India by September, subject to necessary regulatory clearances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-potential-serum-institute-begins-production-of-1st-covovax-batch-101624661528426.html
26-06-2021||India||At least two members of Delhi O2 audit panel did not sign off on findings||Two members of a Supreme Court-appointed panel looking into Delhi’s oxygen situation during the last wave of Covid-19 expressed crucial objections when an interim report, in which the panel appeared to suggest that officials in the Capital had inflated the need for medical oxygen, was being drafted.According to documents seen by HT, these two members — Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director, Max Healthcare, and Bhupinder S Bhalla, principal secretary (home), Delhi government — said that they were not in agreement with some key findings of the report, which suggested that the state government had grossly overstated its medical oxygen requirements during the second wave of the pandemic.One of them, Bhalla, in an internal note on Friday, expressed dismay that the report was submitted to the Supreme Court, and wrote that his objections and corrections were not inserted, and that the report “does not have the approval of all the members of the subgroup”. The data on LMO (liquid medical oxygen) consumption, Bhalla said, was a mere collation from hospitals and “was not claimed by government of NCT of Delhi”. His reference was to the 1,140MT that the panel contended the Delhi government listed as the city’s consumption.In annexures attached with the report, too, Bhalla had, in a letter dated May 31, expressed displeasure at the “manner in which the proceedings of the subgroup were conducted” and alleged that it was trying to justify “preconceived and predetermined conclusions”.The other member, Dr Budhiraja, also sought changes and additions in the interim draft report, and wanted the quantity of allocation of medical oxygen to be made to Delhi to be left to the oxygen commissioner. In a letter in response to the interim draft report, he also pointed out that the minutes of the May 15 meeting were not shared for approval, leading to his not attending a crucial meeting on May 18.The panel is a subgroup headed by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria. Its other members are Dr Budhiraja, Bhalla, Subodh Yadav, a joint secretary in the Jal Shakti ministry, and Sanjay Kumar Singh, the controller of explosives at the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO). It met seven times between May 11 and May 21.The official and internal documents made it unclear if the report was meant to be submitted to the court in this form -- particularly since the next date of hearing in the matter has not been set by the Supreme Court -- and if it had been approved by all the members.The copy of the interim report presented to the Supreme Court also did not carry signatures of the panel members, which is a routine practice.None of the members of the panel were available for comment despite several attempts to reach them.“The detailed objections/comments of the undersigned have been added at the end of the Interim Report (pages 110-119) just for posterity, leaving it to the reader to make the effort, if he/she so decides, to interpret the entire report together and make his/her conclusions,” Bhalla said in the internal statement on Friday.“The interim report seems to have been sent to Government of India without making the requisite changes, without sharing again with the members of the subgroup, and without their formal approval,” he added.Bhalla’s statement suggested that several corrections made during the deliberation as to demand and consumption of oxygen in Delhi did not reflect in the interim report despite his insisting categorically to revise the draft report to present a clear picture.The letters sent last month by Bhalla and Budhiraja to the panel have been attached as separate documents at the bottom of the interim report submitted in the apex court.On May 31, Bhalla wrote to the subgroup that the entire proceedings of the panel were “vitiated” since it had transgressed into jurisdiction of the 12-member national task force appointed by the top court for the purpose of revisiting the oxygen allocation formula for each state.“The manner, in which the proceedings of the subgroup have been conducted, suggests that the purpose of proceeding was to justify a preconceived and predetermined conclusion and narrative to recommend a lower quantity of oxygen to Delhi and to further portray an impression that the assessment by the Delhi government before the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court was exaggerated and not genuine,” he said in the letter.The other member, Dr Budhiraja, maintained in his letter that the actual requirement of oxygen had come to around 490MT per day when the calculation did not take into account oxygen cylinder refilling and non-Covid requirement of hospitals.These facts have not been mentioned in the interim report submitted to the court. Instead, the report has recorded a finding that 400 MT per day (and not 490 MT as Budhiraja claims to be the actual requirement for Delhi) was adequate for the national capital.The report was submitted to the court through the Union health ministry. An official, who asked not to be named, said the ministry had no role to play in the findings, and it only acted as a “messenger”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-two-members-of-o2-audit-panel-did-not-sign-off-on-findings-101624651075873.html
26-06-2021||India||Opposition’s Congress dilemma ahead of 2024||The latest assembly election cycle that included the states of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu coincided with two years of the second Narendra Modi government at the Centre.The results have thrown an interesting challenge to the Opposition in the country. It has realised that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) can be defeated, even when it seems to have an edge.The All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) bounced back from a position of perceived weakness in West Bengal. However, the Congress seems incapable of delivering on this task at present. The Assam results are a case in point.What is even worse for the Congress is the fact that its vulnerabilities go beyond fights against the BJP.The Congress’s Kerala defeat defying a four-decade trend is a proof of this. To be sure, the next general elections are still three years away. However, if the meeting of opposition leaders at Sharad Pawar’s residence in Delhi – Aam Aadmi Party, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), All India Trinamool Congress and Samajwadi Party attended, the Congress did not – is any indication, the opposition camp is already trying to build a strategy for 2024.Any such strategy, as was obvious in the initiative at Pawar’s residence, will have to grapple with the question of what to do with the Congress.Here are five charts that explain this -1) Congress has been the weak link in the BJP’s rise since 2014In 2014, the BJP became the first party to get a majority in the Lok Sabha since 1984. It replicated this feat, with an increased majority, in 2019. An HT analysis of the Trivedi Centre for Political Data (TCPD) database shows that the Congress’s weak performance has played a major role in this.The BJP won 282 and 303 Lok Sabha seats in 2014 and 2019; 166 and 175 of these were in constituencies where the Congress was the runner-up. The Congress’s tally was just 44 and 52 in 2014 and 2019.While its seat tally improved marginally between 2014 and 2019, its performance against the BJP went down. In 2014, the Congress defeated the BJP to win 23 Lok Sabha segments. This number came down to just 15 in 2019.The fact that more than half of the BJP’s seats have come in direct contests against the Congress and the latter is increasingly finding it difficult to challenge the BJP is the biggest challenge before the anti-BJP opposition in India. To be sure, the BJP has always had an edge vis-a-vis the Congress except in 2009. But the gap is much bigger today.2) To purge or protect Congress is the questionAn all-in-unity national tactic in politics, especially in a parliamentary federal polity in India, is easier said than done. The biggest reason for this is a mismatch in national and regional political aspirations. This dilemma is the biggest when dealing with the Congress.As a hegemonic party of the bygone days, it has roots in almost every region of the country. But that does not necessarily translate into current strength. Some of the erosion or perhaps atrophying of the Congress has been recent.Andhra Pradesh, a state which played a strategic role in the Congress’s 2004 and 2009 victories, is one such example. West Bengal, where the Congress has drawn a blank in the latest assembly elections, is another. Maharashtra, where the local Congress leadership is posturing to walk out of the current post-poll alliance with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) will be a major dilemma, unless of course, the Sena itself goes back to the BJP.The Samajwadi Party (SP) seems to have decided against allying with the Congress in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. There were many rounds of fruitless negotiations between the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) about an alliance in Delhi and Haryana before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.The AAP is now making efforts to expand into Gujarat, which will go to the polls in 2022, and where the Congress is the major opposition party.This challenge is best seen in a comparison of Congress strike rates with those of other partners in the seven assembly elections it has contested in alliance in states after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.The Congress’s strike rate has been lower than that of allies in all states except Tamil Nadu. That the Congress has lost state governments such as Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh and MLAs ahead of crucial Rajya Sabha polls in many other states to the BJP’s manoeuvres and is facing intense factionalism in states such as Punjab and Rajasthan only increases its liability quotient in any strategy to counter the BJP.3) Congress does not even bring the resource cushion anymoreAn overwhelming majority of Indian voters are anything but rich. An HT analysis had looked at this question in detail. It looked at data from the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) and found that out of 356 million workers in India, 90 million were salaried (the best of the lot). According to the 2018-19 PLFS, average monthly wages for even the top 10% of salaried workers in India were below ?50,000. Even for the top 5%, this number is ?61,334; 80% of salaried workers do not even earn more than ?20,000 per month, the data shows. However, Indian elections are among the most expensive in the world. A Bloomberg Quint report based on a study from the Centre for Media Studies estimated that around ?55,000 crore was spent on the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, making it the most expensive election in the world. While money is no guarantee of winning elections in India, it definitely helps.Historically, the Congress has been a resource-rich party and allying with it provided a financial cushion to the smaller regional players. With the BJP surging far ahead of the Congress in terms of financial resources, even that advantage is not significant anymore.4) The Congress needs to reinvent its politicsTo be sure, the Congress’s resource and organisation problems, especially the latter, are also a result of its overall political crisis, which is making it difficult for the party to accommodate political ambitions of individual leaders. This only increases the importance of strategising to revive the party’s political fortunes. The Congress has been experimenting with unconventional tactics. Its alliance with the All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam elections is one such example. However, the move seems to have backfired politically, as can be seen in a decline in support from Hindus, both Assamese and Bengali speaking, between the 2016 and 2021 elections in the state. Winning back the Hindu vote is crucial to reviving the Congress’s fortunes, and unless the leadership figures out a way to do that, the party will continue to face an existential challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppositions-congress-dilemma-ahead-of-2024-101624649874127.html
26-06-2021||India||Akhil Gogoi, in jail for 18 months, gets 2 day parole to meet mother and son||Guwahati: Sibsagar MLA Akhil Gogoi, who has been in jail for the last 18 month, was allowed by a court to step out of the jail on parole to visit his mother and teenage son. The 45-year-old chief of the Raijor Dal, a political party that he founded while in custody, was arrested in December 2019 for his alleged role in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests.Gogoi had asked the court for permission to meet his family and constituents who elected him to the assembly last month. The judge granted parole for 48 hours but barred him from meeting the public.“The court granted him permission to visit his son in Guwahati and his mother in Jorhat. We had sought permission as Gogoi’s son, who is 14 years old, had contracted Covid-19 and his mother hasn’t been keeping well. His son has recovered now,” said Gogoi’s lawyer Shantanu Borthakur. A police team escorted Gogoi, who is at present lodged in Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), and will bring him back after the visit. He, however, will not be able to meet his constituents.Since Gogoi was under custody, his mother Priyada, 84, had played a crucial role in his victory from the Sibsagar seat in this year’s assembly polls. Despite her age and ailments, she campaigned relentlessly for her son resulting in a victory for Gogoi without ever visiting his constituency. Last month, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court granted him permission to take oath in the state assembly as the newly elected legislator from Sibsagar. The NIA probed two cases against Gogoi in connection with the anti-CAA protests. One was related to Chabua police station in Dibrugarh and the second, relates to Chandmari in Guwahati. The NIA invoked provisions of the anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act against him.He was discharged in the Chabua case on Tuesday. The second case is yet to be decided by the court.Gogoi was granted bail in connection with the Chabua case by the NIA court in October last year. But the investigation agency approached the Gauhati high court challenging the bail order. In April this year, the Gauhati HC held the NIA court was right in granting bail to Gogoi and dismissed the appeal by the investigating agency. He, however, was not released because of the second case in which he was not granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhil-gogoi-in-jail-for-18-months-gets-2-day-parole-to-meet-mother-and-son-101624648917525.html
26-06-2021||India||Custodial death of Dalit woman: KCR orders DGP to probe case, dismiss guilty officials||Hyderabad Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday ordered, after due inquiry, the dismissal of the police personnel responsible for the custodial death of 40-year old Dalit woman identified as Ambadipudi Mariyamma at Addaguduru police station in Yadadri Bhongir district on June 18. The decision comes while the chief minister was responding to a representation given by a delegation of Congress MLAs at his camp office Pragathi Bhavan in the evening. This is for the first time after taking over as the chief minister of Telangana in 2014 that KCR had given an appointment to Congress MLAs. He asked Director General of Police (DGP) M Mahender Reddy to personally inquire into the issue and take stringent action against the erring police officials – sub-inspector of police Mahesh and constables Raheed and Janaiah who are already under suspension. “After due inquiry, dismiss them from service as per the procedure,” KCR directed the DGP. The DGP will now will visit the victim’s place to conduct an inquiry.The chief minister also announced an ex gratia of ₹15 lakh to Mariyamma’s son Uday Kiran and ₹10 lakh to each of her two daughters. He also offered a government job to Uday Kiran, besides a residential house. He asked chief secretary Somesh Kumar to implement the decisions at the earliest. Mariyamma, who hailed from Chintakani village of Madhira block in Khammam district, was working as a domestic help at the residence of a church priest Father Balashouri at Govindapuram village of Addaguduru block in Yadadri Bhongir district. On June 15, Balashouri lodged a complaint with the police alleging that Mariyamma had stolen ₹2 lakh from his house. The police arrested Mariyamma, her son and his friend Shiva from their village in Khammam on June 17 and she died in the police custody the following morning. The custodial death of Mariyamma triggered an uproar in the state in the last one week with the Dalit organisations, civil liberties activists and the opposition parties raising hue and cry. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee SC Cell chairman N Preetham alleged that Mariyamma had died because of torture by the police and that her son Uday and his friend Shiva were also beaten up in the police custody. The police, however, said Mariyamma had lost consciousness while she was being taken to the police station on June 18 and when she was taken to Bhongir hospital, the doctors declared her brought dead. On Tuesday, Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat admitted that preliminary inquiry had confirmed that Mariyamma had died while she was in police custody and that the erring SI and two constables were suspended. Meanwhile, the state high court on Thursday, acting on a public interest litigation petition filed by People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) ordered a second post mortem examination, if necessary, apart from a judicial inquiry. The case was adjourned to June 28. With the custodial death of Mariaymma snowballing into a major controversy, the chief minister called the Congress delegation on Friday evening to discuss the issue. He assured that the government would take stringent action against the police officials responsible for the incident. He asked transport minister P Ajay Kumar, MP Nama Nageshwar Rao and district officials to accompany Congress legislature party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka to the victim’s family in Khammam and extend the financial assistance. Earlier in the afternoon, the Congress delegation met Governor Tamilisai Soudrarajan at Raj Bhavan and submitted a similar representation seeking appropriate action in the lock-up death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/custodial-death-of-dalit-woman-kcr-orders-dgp-to-probe-case-dismiss-guilty-officials-101624648135632.html
26-06-2021||India||9 cities took key steps to curb climate crisis: Study||Nine Indian cities have taken significant measures to mitigate climate change impacts and inculcate climate-sensitive approach to urban planning, according to the cities’ readiness report on Climate Smart Cities Assessment Framework (CSCAF) released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Friday.Ahmedabad, Indore, Pimpri Chinchwad, Vadodara, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Pune, Rajkot and Surat were adjudged top performers among 126 cities that participated in the second edition of the assessment, which was launched in September last year.Kunal Kumar, mission director of the ministry’s Smart Cities Mission, said the assessment currently only involves ranking cities based on their performance. “In the times to come... cities that improve their ranking will get more funds. We incentivise improvement of ranking for cities in the framework.”This year, the cities were assessed on five key themes (with 28 indicators): urban planning, green cover and biodiversity, energy and green buildings; mobility and air quality, water management and waste management. The performance was rated on five levels (1 to 5 stars).In urban planning and waste management themes, some cities have shown positive impact and were given 5 stars in performance level. But in mobility and air quality, water and energy themes, no city got 5 stars, indicating that a lot of work needs to be done before results are visible on the ground.According to the report, 43 smart cities in India face poor air quality that poses serious health concerns. Indore, Surat and Visakhapatnam were adjudged top performers in the urban planning, green cover and biodiversity theme, in some measure because they not only took concrete steps to plan but set aside money in their budget and ensured implementation on the ground.Of the 126 cities, only 65 cities including Thane, Pune, Agra and Coimbatore meet the norms for 12-18% green cover.The report also underscored the absence of a road network for non-motorised transport (NMT), which along with use of public transport can reduce air pollution. It said 94 cities have less than 15% of the road network with NMT infrastructure. Six cities, Kalyan Dombivali, Mysore, Naya Raipur, Ranchi, stand out, with over 50% NMT infrastructure. This is important because studies show that close to 74% of people walk or rely on NMT transport for at least part of their daily commute.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture, said, “It is easier for cities to develop NMT infrastructure in greenfield developments. To address issues related to air pollution due to transport, there is a need to increase public transport and develop NMT infrastructure. But in most cities, we have to do retrofitting. There is a need to provide assistance to cities to develop the infrastructure.”The Delhi government’s Electric Vehicle Policy is an example of efforts made by cities in addressing mobility and air quality concerns. The national capital’s performance was largely assessed on information provided by New Delhi Municipal Council, which is part of the smart cities mission.While Delhi was given a five-star rating in waste management (assessed on the performance on Swachh Survekshan 2020), the city got a three-star rating in mobility and air quality, energy and green buildings and urban planning, green cover and biodiversity themes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-cities-took-key-steps-to-curb-climate-crisis-study-101624647955645.html
26-06-2021||India||Modi to check Ayodhya development plan today||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will present a vision document for Ayodhya’s development to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a virtual meeting on Saturday in which construction work on the Ram temple will also be discussed, officials said on Friday.LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited has prepared the vision document with the help of the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). LEA Associates is an international consultant hired by the state government for preparing Ayodhya’s vision document for overall development of the temple town.Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects are assisting the international consultant in executing the project, said Deepak Kumar, chairman, UP Housing and Development Board of the Uttar Pradesh government.According to ADA officials, the document was finalised after several rounds of meetings between the development authority and the consultant. Before finalising the plan, the consultant had taken the vjews of around 5,000 locals, saints of Ayodhya and prominent citizens.The development plan has incorporated 18 big projects. Of these, the detailed project report of 16 projects will be prepared by August this year. The vision document also includes creation of employment opportunities, branding of local products and promotion of religious tourism and plantation of Ramayan-era trees in Ayodhya.The chief minister is also likely to apprise Modi of a proposed new township to decongest Ayodhya. Besides, a provision of ₹300 crore has been made for the construction of an approach road to the Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya. Also, a provision of ₹100 crore has been made for the development and beautification of tourism facilities in Ayodhya.Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Ram temple construction committee, is also likely to be present at this virtual meeting. PM Modi had presided over the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 last year.Key elements of the development plan will cover the Ayodhya main road, the road leading to the Ram temple, Panchkoshi parikrama, Ayodhya green field township, gates at all entry points of the city, resthouses for devotees at entry points, Shri Ram International Airport, tourist centre, international museum, Saryu riverfront, renovation of five water bodies, an integrated traffic management system, multi-level car parking, scheme for rehabilitation of animals, ring road, and plantation of trees from the Ramayan era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-check-ayodhya-development-plan-today-101624647896874.html
26-06-2021||India||1 address used for 3,825 Covid tests at Kumbh: Officials||An intersection on the Dehradun-Haridwar highway was used as the address of 3,825 people who were shown to have got tested for Covid during the Mahakumbh in April, investigators looking into allegations of large-scale fake rapid antigen tests during the holy event said on Friday.The address entered in the official records is ‘Nepali Farm, on Haridwar-Dehradun-Rishikesh highway’ and lies in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun district, just 11 kms away from Har-Ki-Pauri ghat, one of the principal sites of the Kumbh.A special investigation team (SIT) spotted this address against the names of 3,825 tests. “Apart from using single phone number multiple times, a single address against the names of several people has also come into light. We are tracing and contacting each and every phone number and verifying addresses also.,” said SIT investigating officer Rajesh Shah.Investigators said the incident underlined the scale of fake testing at the event, which was attended by 9.1 million people amid a devastating surge of Covid cases across the country. Weeks after the event, officials in several states traced local infections to Kumbh returnees.Allegations of fake testing at the Kumbh surfaced two weeks ago after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Three firms – Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs, Hisar-based Nalwa Labs and Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services – were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act last week. Days later, all three firms approached the high court separately to quash the FIR and denied the charges.At present, three separate probes are looking at the allegations: one by the police, one by the district administration and one by the mela administration.Nepali Farm is an intersection on the highway from where one can head to Dehradun or Rishikesh while coming from Haridwar. Many local residents said that during the Mahakumbh, some private labs set up testing camps there but didn’t provide any authorised slip of testing details or even the name of the lab..“We were handed out a white paper slip on which, with a ball pen, testing lab personnel put on the date April 10, 2021 and said if anyone asks for Covid report while entering Haridwar, you can show this slip. As there was no number or related information, we could also not check the report status. It was the same for other passengers and local people,” said Shikha Rawat, a local resident who was tested for Covid on April 10.Haridwar chief medical officer Shambhu Kumar Jha said that mass irregularities in Covid-19 testing have come to light during the Mahakumbh.Sharad Pant, owner of Max Corporate Services, denied the allegations. “We were there only as facilitators and as service providers, real data feeding, testing was done by the said two agencies Nalwa and Lalchandani. Whatever irregularities or multiple usage of addresses or phone numbers was done during the Mahakumbh testing can only be answered by these laboratories,” he said.Both Lalchandani labs and Nalwa labs were unavailable for comment. Both labs have denied the charges.Activists questioned how the irregularities went unnoticed. “It’s a matter of serious concern as they put lives of people in danger through such wrong entries and testing malpractices when the country was battling second wave,” said Anup Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun based Social Development for Communities Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-address-used-for-3-825-covid-tests-at-kumbh-officials-101624647837510.html
26-06-2021||India||Testing vaccine efficacy against Covid-19 Delta+ variant: Centre||Both Covishield and Covaxin work against the Sars-Cov-2 variants Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta, and the Indian Council of Medical Research is now examining their effectiveness against the emerging Delta Plus variant, said director general Balram Bhargava on Friday.“Very recently we have cultured the delta plus variant, and now we are testing in the laboratory whether the vaccine are effective against the delta plus variant. We have enough data against alpha, beta and delta... and we are doing the same laboratory tests on this variant that we did on others; it is called looking the laboratory tests to check the vaccine effect. This is ongoing and we should have results in about seven to 10 days time,” said Dr Bhargava.The Union health ministry classified the Delta Plus as a variant of concern on Tuesday.Bhargava said the variant is present in 12 countries, and India has reported 51 “very localised” cases from 11 states and Union territories. “The Delta Plus variant has also been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV, and laboratory tests to check vaccine effect on Delta Plus variant are ongoing. We should have these results in seven-10 days as to whether the vaccine is working against the Delta Plus variant.”The Delta variant has about 15-17 mutations and was first reported in October last year, and it was responsible for more than 60% of cases in Maharashtra in February.Also read | Maharashtra tightens curbs amid Delta Plus Covid casesAccording to Dr SK Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), out of the nearly 65,000 samples sent for genome sequencing from across the country, 21,156 were found to be variants of concern.“Eight states are important where we have found the delta variant of concern in more than 50% of the samples of Covid-19 positive people. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Telangana, and West Bengal. And it has been clearly established that the exponential surge in Covid-19 cases that we saw in the second covid-19 wave is largely due to the presence of this variant of concern,” added Singh.He, however, also said that the variant’s clinical co-relation is still being investigated, and at this stage it cannot be termed as more virulent.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday wrote to the above mentioned eight states asking them to have more focused and stringent public health response.“The Public health response, in this case while broadly remaining the same, has to become more focused and stringent. Thus, you are requested to take up immediate containment measures in these districts and clusters including preventing crowds, and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing, as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis,” read the letter by Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan.“You are also requested to ensure that adequate samples of positive persons are sent to the designated laboratories of INSACOG promptly so that the clinical epidemiological correlations can be established,” the letter further read.Experts, however, say it is important to take the vaccine irrespective of the variant.“There are studies to show vaccines work in overall reduction in chances of the disease progressing to severe levels. Therefore, people should come forward to get vaccinated. All vaccines are safe,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-vaccine-efficacy-against-delta-centre-101624647777670.html
26-06-2021||India||Maha tightens curbs amid Delta+ concerns||Mumbai Maharashtra on Friday tightened restrictions necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, citing fears of a “more severe third wave” and expressing concern over variants of the virus that could pose a challenge in keeping the public health crisis under control.The move comes less than a month after Maharashtra eased restrictions in most districts as cases of the infectious disease declined following the peak of the raging second wave of infections. It announced a five-level easing in restrictions, categorising regions for relaxations according to the trajectory of the infections.On Friday, the state government scrapped the first two levels, where there were wide relaxations in restrictions, and the said that the minimum level of easing in restrictions will begin from the third category.Under the new guidelines, malls and theatres in Maharashtra will remain closed, while restaurants will be permitted to operate on weekdays at 50% capacity until 4pm. Gyms, salons and shops will have to be closed at 4pm, while a limit of 50 guests will be imposed on weddings.The decision came days after the Union health ministry called Delta Plus a “variant of concern”, citing its increased transmissibility and ability to bind to lung cell receptors more easily. India has recorded 51 cases of the variant so far, with Maharashtra reporting 22 infections.“Given that the virus causing Covid 19 is undergoing mutations in various geographies, and that these mutations are displaying more transmissibility and potential reductions in monoclonal antibody response, a state-level trigger mandating all the administrative units, irrespective of values of the indices of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage, to remain at a level not below 3 is to be in operation till withdrawn by specific order of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said.“New variants like Delta, Delta plus etc. have come to spread and are fuelling the potentiality of imminent (4-6 weeks), more severe third wave with wider geographical area,” it added.Based on the trajectory of the infections, Mumbai is already in the third category, which means there will be no change in the restrictions in the state capital, an official said.Section 144 has become applicable and not more than five people can gather at a public place, while movement should be minimal after 5pm, the notification said.The state task force on Covid-19 and the ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW) have directed Maharashtra not to let its guard down, following which it was decided to cut down the relaxations, said Aseem Gupta, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.“It simply means that of the five-level relaxation plan, we have removed the first two levels having maximum relaxations. It also means all the districts and cities will get maximum relaxations that are provided under the level 3 plan,” Gupta said.The state has found 21 cases of the Delta Plus variant so far in six districts.“Before the second wave hit the state, cases started rising in Amravati and then it spread across the state. This time we have decided to be more careful considering the Delta plus variant cases have been found in a few districts. We cannot be at peace when there is a threat of a possible third wave looming large,” the relief and rehabilitation secretary said.In its new order, the state government said that districts cannot reduce restrictions based on weekly positivity rate. They will have to observe the trend for two weeks. But for increasing restrictions, they won’t have to wait for two weeks and the decision can be taken within a few days. “While coming down to a lower level, the district disaster management authority (DDMA) shall look into two weeks’ trend before accepting a lower level of restrictions. When there is an upward trend in the number of positive cases being identified daily and requiring a higher level of restrictions than the current one, DDMA however shall do so without waiting for two weeks’ trends,” the notification said.It said that the weekly positivity rate, a criterion for deciding the restriction levels, should be determined only on the basis of RT-PCR tests. This was done as many districts were conducting rapid antigen tests (RAT), which are less accurate compared to RT-PCR tests. “There are districts which have a 12% positivity rate going by RT-PCR tests and less than 5% going by RAT tests which is the reason the change has been adopted,” the relief and rehabilitation secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-tightens-curbs-amid-delta-concerns-101624647776249.html
26-06-2021||India||‘Will continue to raise Article 370 issue for however long it takes’: Omar Abdullah||Former chief minister and National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah participated in the high-stakes all-party meeting on Jammu & Kashmir chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24. He gave his sense of the discussions in an interview with Harinder Baweja.Edited excerpts: Both you and your father, Farooq Abdullah – a sitting Lok Sabha MP – were detained after the nullification of Article 370. What made you trust Prime Minister Narendra Modi after what happened? They are the ones who detained us, and they are the ones who invited us. They should answer the question. It is quite clear that there is a trust deficit between us and the Centre, and I think this was acknowledged in the all-party meeting when the Prime Minister said that there was a need to address “dil ki doori and Dilli se doori” (distance from the heart, and distance from Delhi) What does this mean? It means that there is no meeting of hearts and minds, and that there is a gap, a trust deficit that needs to be addressed.Are you feeling less “dil ki doori” after attending the meeting? It is a beginning. Nobody expects one meeting to resolve everything. It is a part of a longer process.You met Modi just a few days before the fortunes of Jammu & Kashmir were changed on August 5, 2019 and said that you “left the meeting with a very different impression about what was going to unfold”. Was there any reference to that meeting, directly or indirectly? I did not bring it up. There were wider issues about Jammu & Kashmir to be discussed. The participants spoke without fear or reservation, and the Prime Minister and the home minister heard us without interruption.It is quite apparent from the home minister’s tweet that the chronology the Centre has in mind is this: first delimitation, then elections, and then the restoration of statehood. Are you comfortable with this sequence?Ghulam Nabi Azad spoke for most of us when he said that statehood should be restored first. He outlined the chronology that we would like to see. Look, why should there be a separate yardstick for Jammu & Kashmir even for the delimitation exercise? If the purpose of what happened in August 2019 was to integrate Jammu & Kashmir with the rest of the country, then why are we being singled out for delimitation? The rest of the country will see the delimitation process according to the 2021 census but J&K is going ahead with a 10-year-old data from 2010-11. Even in Assam, the delimitation exercise was stopped so assembly elections could be held. Why treat us differently? You can’t have two systems for the country.Let me ask again, statehood before elections or elections before statehood? I ask because the National Conference took part in the civic body elections last year. We will take stock as and when we move forward. As far as I’m concerned, I have already said that I will not contest elections till Jammu & Kashmir stays a Union Territory. That is my personal decision. It was made clear in the meeting that statehood means full statehood, with all powers that were available to us earlier and are available to all other states now. We don’t want truncated statehood.You have often said that Article 370, which gave the state its special status, should be restored. But would it be accurate to say that you seem to have left it to the court to decide?The restoration of Article 370 is very much part of our political discourse and is an important ongoing issue for us. Look, it was pointed out in the meeting too that the Sangh Parivar’s struggle for the abrogation of 370 was 70 years long. We will continue to raise it for however long it takes, 70 weeks, 70 months, or 70 years.You really think that the Modi government, which was responsible for its revocation, will be the one returning it? We are not pandering to optics, and we are not asking the Prime Minister to return it, and they have given no such indication. We pick our battles. We will continue with our struggle to see it restored, constitutionally, legally, and politically.Don’t you think the argument that Article 370 and its restoration cannot be discussed because it is “sub judice”, is an argument that suits the Centre? To be fair, Azad Saab made the sub judice argument; the Centre did not. The government understands that we disagree and we agreed to disagree.What would you say to your constituents who feel that you have betrayed them by agreeing to attend the meeting? You and other mainstream leaders were also blamed for what happened in August 2019. Our wider constituency knows what we stand for. We have not been silent on Article 370. There were no preconditions on what he could or could not say in the meeting. There is no question of surrendering our ideology. I have not surrendered my identity, my political ideology, or my thought process.Do you think the invite for the meeting was an acknowledgement by New Delhi that it cannot move ahead without Jammu & Kashmir’s mainstream political parties? I don’t want to blow my own trumpet. A year ago, nobody would have put their money on such a meeting being held. It is not for me to have asked the host (PM) that question , you should ask them. The Prime Minister, to be fair, did say that he wanted such a meeting to take place earlier; soon after the civic body elections but that the window opened up only now. Covid did not make it possible for the meeting to be held earlier, he said. What I can say is that we are relevant and you cannot wish us away.The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration – an amalgamation of political forces – was mocked as the “Gupkar Gang”. You have also been called “corrupt dynasts”. Did any of this come up in the meeting, and are you hurt by these comments? I have spent eight years in boarding school, and have a thick skin. I am a lot more pragmatic about these things. The important thing is that I have not been told to surrender my ideology. We had wide-ranging discussions and spoke our minds.Did you leave the meeting feeling optimistic or are you circumspect? I am not given to either in large doses. I operate with a healthy dose of realism. It is one meeting; the start of a process; let’s welcome it.Were back-channel talks held to set up the all-party meeting? I can’t comment on something I don’t know about.When you look ahead, how do you see your political future? ﻿I don’t have a crystal ball. If I had one, I would have seen August 2019 coming. I am but one wheel in a large machine. As I said, it is a process and we have had only one meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-raise-article-370-issue-for-however-long-it-takes-101624647536300.html
26-06-2021||India||62-year-old man is Odisha’s first Delta Plus variant case. He has recovered||Bhubaneswar: Odisha on Friday reported its first case of Delta Plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, classified by the Union health ministry as a variant of concern, prompting the government to reassure people that they need to continue taking precautions but there is no cause for concern.Additional chief secretary, health department, PK Mohapatra said a 62-year-old male from Deogarh district was among the 48 cases of Delta Plus in the country after genome sequencing of the virus was done by laboratories.“The person did not receive any vaccination when his swab sample was taken for test and subsequent genome sequencing... He has recovered from the infection,” said Mohapatra.Scientists at Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, where the genome sequencing was done in the second week of May, however did not find any other case of Delta Plus variant even though genome sequencing of 600 samples was done after this case.So far, Maharashtra, which was the worst-hit state in the second surge of the virus cases has detected 20 cases, the maximum in the country that appears to have contributed to the state government’s decision to tighten restrictions citing fears of a “more severe third wave” and concern over variants of the virus that could pose a challenge in keeping the public health crisis under control.Director of health services Dr Bijay Moahapatra said there was no cause for concern in Odisha as the state expects the trend of cases surging in states like Delhi and Maharashtra before they rise in Odisha. The effects of the first wave and second wave were felt in Delhi and Mumbai first and later on in Odisha. “So we can predict the arrival of the third wave. But we have to be cautious and prepared,” he said.On Friday, Odisha reported 2,912 new Covid cases. The total positivity rate has also dropped to 4.53% but there are districts like Khurda, Jajpur, Balasore and Cuttack which have a TPR of more than 5%.The daily death toll has also remained over 40 since June 1 with 2,000 deaths reported in the last 3 months. Of the 29,500 active cases in the state, around 22% are under treatment at various hospitals while 8% are in ICUs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/62yearold-man-is-odisha-s-first-delta-plus-variant-case-he-has-recovered-101624647296108.html
26-06-2021||India||Male tiger raises 4 cubs after death of their mother tigress||Forest department officials in Madhya Pradesh have found that a tiger has been taking care of four cubs for the past month in the Panna Tiger Reserve after their mother died following a prolonged illness.A study of camera trap pictures and videos, recorded over a month, has revealed that the tiger, P243, rarely left the territory of the cubs and was even killing prey for them, a forest official said.The mother of the four cubs died on May 15. Two days later, when the forest department located the cubs, they found the tiger taking care of them, US Sharma, the field director of Panna Tiger Reserve said.The forest department decided to set up cameras to study the behaviour the tiger was displaying.“The forest department observed the tiger and the cubs for a month between May 20 and June 20 by setting up cameras in the territory of cubs and found that the tiger killed animals and left [the prey] for the cubs,” Sharma said.Though he was roaming in a large area, he did not remain away from the cubs’ territory for more than two days, the forest department found in its observations.The department found that while the tiger was killing prey for the cubs, he did not take them along for the hunt. “The tiger made all the kills away from their territory and brought the dead prey for them,” the field director said.“On May 21, he killed a sambhar and shared the kill with the cubs. On June 6, the tiger killed a cow early in the morning a little distance from the cubs’ territory, but it did not eat it,” the forest department found through the photos.Wildlife experts called the tiger’s behaviour rare. “Such a phenomenon was seen in Ranthambore many years ago but is a rarest one. The forest department should do more study on change in behaviour of the tiger,” said SK Mandol, former chief warden of the forest.The next few months are very crucial for the survival of the cubs, experts said. “Next two to three months are very crucial for gaining skills for surviving the wild. The average weight of the cubs is around 50kg, which ideally should increase to 80-90kg by the time they turn one. Currently, all the four cubs are healthy and making good progress in the wild. They don’t seem to be stressed, instead they are playful and quite active. All four cubs are staying and roaming together,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest, wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/male-tiger-raises-cubs-after-death-of-their-mother-101624646455570.html
26-06-2021||India||NHRC team meets family of BJP worker killed in Bengal poll violence||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) team, set up on the orders of the Calcutta high court to probe post-poll violence cases in West Bengal, visited Kolkata and Sitalkuchi in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district on Friday, police officials said,On June 21, the Calcutta high court’s five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal dismissed a petition by the state government seeking recall of the June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during alleged violence after the recent assembly polls.The NHRC constituted a seven-member panel headed by commission’s member Rajiv Jain to probe incidents of violence that took place after the assembly polls. A part of the team reached north Bengal on Thursday. Another team reached Kolkata on Wednesday.On Friday, the team in Kolkata recorded statements of the family of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker, Abhijit Sarkar, who was allegedly strangled to death by a mob in the Narkeldanga area Kolkata on May 2, the day the assembly poll results were declared, police officials saidThe victim’s brother, Biswajit Sarkar, who is among the petitioners who earlier moved the Supreme Court in May praying for a probe into incidents of post-poll violence by a special investigation team, told the NHRC team that on May 2, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters attacked and vandalised their house as well as the local BJP office, located nearby. He said that his brother and their mother were assaulted and the attackers tied a cable television wire around Abhijit’s neck and dragged him along the road till he died, adding that the incident took place shortly after the local TMC candidate, Paresh Pal, was declared winner.TMC leaders did not comment on the team’s visit to Narkeldanga saying the matter was sub-judice.A second team of the NHRC that visited Sitalkuchi met the family of a BJP worker whose son was abducted and killed. The team also visited the home of Ananda Barman, a young party supporter shot dead on April 10.One man was allegedly murdered while four others were shot dead by the central armed police forces, at the Sitalkuchi assembly segment during the fourth phase of polling on April 10. A special investigation team (SIT) of the CID is probing the CRPF firing incident.The team that visited Narkeldanga in Kolkata, also went to Amdanga and Jagaddal in the adjacent North 24 Parganas district. They met three families, including that of a student killed at Jagaddal after the polls.The NHRC team members did not talk to the media. Numerous other complaints have been received and the team would look into them, said one of the team members, requesting anonymity.Police said two NHRC teams, which are part of a committee, will be touring parts of north and south Bengal over the next few days. The team has been asked to submit its report before the court by June 30, the next date of hearing.The BJP has been mounting a relentless campaign against the Mamata Banerjee government, alleging that the BJP supporters are being targeted. The party has alleged that more than 30 people have been murdered and women have been raped and molested as well for supporting the saffron camp.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has earlier said all the violence took place when the Election Commission was in control of the police administration. After taking oath on May 5, she said 16 people died in post-poll violence and half of them were TMC workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-team-meets-family-of-bjp-worker-killed-in-bengal-poll-violence-101624646336890.html
26-06-2021||India||Ladakh leaders raise pitch for elected House after J&K meet||It’s been 22 months after their long pending demand for being designated a separate union territory was met, and as the Union government and parties active in Jammu & Kashmir work on restoring the political process in the UT of J&K, some leaders in Ladakh have raised a demand for an elected legislature too.After the state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated in 2019, J&K and Ladakh were designated as UTs, but while the former has an assembly, the latter is without one. The Union government’s stated position is that J&K’s statehood will be restored when the time is right.Former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang said that at a meeting of representatives from political, social and religious bodies that was held on Wednesday under the aegis of an apex body, it was decided to reach out to the union government with its demand for a legislature. The meeting was also attended by BJP MP from Ladakh, Jamyang Tsering Namgyal.“We have been demanding safeguards for the protection of our land, jobs, environment, culture and language that existed prior to the formation of the UT, but the Centre has not met any of these demands despite assurances,” Chhewang said over phone from Ladakh.Namgyal was not reachable for a comment on the issue.Chhewang said at the last meeting in January with Home Minister Amit Shah, that the delegation from Ladakh was assured that a committee would be formed under the chairmanship of the Minister of State for home G Kishan Reddy to address local concerns for protection of rights under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution within two months.A panel of names for the committee, including representatives from Kargil and Leh divisions, and the autonomous hill development councils has also been forward to the centre, he said.“We understand that Covid and assembly elections took up the government’s time, but our demand primarily was either protection under the Sixth Schedule or a separate schedule of the Constitution for safeguarding the interests of the residents of Ladakh in respect of land ownership, job reservation, environmental protection, cultural and language preservation,” he said. There has been concern in the UT that with domicile rules not defined, land and government jobs will be available to outsiders depriving the residents, a large percentage of whom are from Scheduled Tribes.The demand for a legislature, he added, has been raised because the centre has “failed to offer protection” to the people by reserving jobs and ensuring land rights. “They have completely undermined the autonomous hill district councils that are elected by the people and whatever power they had is being usurped by the bureaucrats in the UT.”Ladakh has two autonomous district councils that have the mandate to decide on issues such as economic development, healthcare, education, land use, taxation, and local governance.As per the provisions of the Sixth Schedule, autonomous development councils can frame laws on land, public health, and agriculture to protect the tribal population and provide autonomy. These laws, however, require the approval of the lieutenant governor.Pawan Raina, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Ladakh L-G, RK Mathur did not respond to calls.“In the absence of elected representatives, the administration has taken over. And as Kashmiri leaders have been saying, bureaucracy is not a substitute for democratically elected administration. What is happening in Ladakh is that people’s representatives have no say,” Chhewang said.The former MP also said there has been little by way of development and employment in the UT in the past 22 months. “Not a single recruitment drive has been carried out. The domicile law has not been framed,” he said.However, the apex body’s demand will need endorsement from the Kargil division as well. So, it will now reach out to leaders from the Kargil division to second their demand for the legislature. Leaders in Kargil have been demanding the restoration of Article 370 and statehood.“There is a demand in the Kargil region that they should be merged with J&K since they have more in common in with Kashmir including the language than Leh,” said a leader from J&K, who asked not to be named.Chhewang, however, said the Apex Body will call on the leaders from the Kargil region in the next few days so that a consensus is built on the issue.BJP’s national genral secretary, Tarun Chugh, who is in-charge of the UT said, “The BJP is committed to safeguarding the rights of the tribal people in Ladakh. We will see to it that their languages, customs, traditions and ecology are all protected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-leaders-raise-pitch-for-elected-house-after-j-k-meet-101624646335502.html
26-06-2021||India||India Smart Cities Awards 2020: UP best smart state, Surat, Indore best cities||Uttar Pradesh is the top performer among all Indian states in rankings given by the Centre’s Smart Cities Mission project, followed by Madhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the Union government said on Friday, releasing the results of the India Smart Cities Awards Contest (ISAC) 2020.Among cities, Indore and Surat were adjudged joint winners, and Chandigarh was ranked first among Union territories, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs said.The awards were announced on Friday to commemorate six years of the central government’s three initiatives to spur urban development: Smart Cities Mission (SCM), Atal Mission for Urban Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U).These rankings were arrived at by the government on the basis of several parameters such as social aspects, governance, culture, urban environment, sanitation, economy, built environment, water, urban mobility. For the year of the pandemic, additional parameters of sustainable business model of Integrated Command and Control Centres and innovation in Covid-19 management were also counted for the awards.According to officials aware of the matter, UP won the best state award for shortlisting seven more cities apart from the existing 10 to transform them into smart cities: Ayodhya, Mathura, Meerut, Shahjahanpur, Firozabad, Gorakhpur, Ghaziabad).“It showed good physical and financial progress in some cities such as Agra, Varanasi, Lucknow, Prayagraj. UP was also able to complete the transfer of state supporting funds to cities... Lucknow and Ghaziabad also issued municipal bonds last year, becoming the first cities in North India to do so, in a Covid year,” a ministry official said on condition of anonymity.Surat has been adjudged the best city for the second consecutive year, while the categories for the best state and Covid-19 management did not exist in the previous rankings.“The contest is an opportunity for smart cities to showcase their most innovative, impactful projects and for us to recognise and learn from their best practices. This year’s best proposals range from the use of Integrated Command and Control Centres in governance or in response to Covid-19, enhancing safety and security of citizens, intelligent traffic management, innovative use of open spaces, enhancement of urban environment, innovations in the improvement of urban mobility, smart water management, waste-to-energy generation and many others,” Union housing affairs minister Hardeep Puri said at an online event on Friday.The Union ministry noted Indore’s consistent top performance in the list, saying in a statement: “Indore has been a forerunner among the smart cities in the past year and has consistently featured among the top ranked cities in the year 2020. The city is implementing projects worth ₹5,099.6 crores under the Smart Cities Mission... The smart city has made visible gains in a timebound manner.,” the ministry said.On Surat’s ranking, it said: “Having achieved a certain degree of success in providing essential urban infrastructure and services to its citizens, Surat has shifted focus towards using technology for operational improvements.”The urban affairs ministry on Friday also underscored the importance of cities across India using Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCCs) as war rooms for Covid-19 management. So far, 69 cities in India have operationalised these ICCCs under the Smart Cities Mission and these are being developed across all 100 smart cities, the ministry said.Agartala, Indore and Vadodara were ranked best for the sustainable business model of ICCCs.At present under Smart Cities Mission, 5,924 projects worth ₹1,78,500 crore have been tendered so far and 2,665 projects worth ₹45,080 crore have been fully completed, data by the ministry shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-smart-cities-awards-2020-up-best-smart-state-surat-indore-best-cities-101624646336113.html
26-06-2021||India||Twitter blocks IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for 1 hour||Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday criticised Twitter after he was locked out of his account on the platform for almost an hour over alleged copyright infringement -- a development that comes amid a dispute between the social media company and the central government over the issue of compliance with new IT rules.Prasad said that the company denied him access on the grounds that he violated the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). The access to the account was subsequently restored.“It is apparent that my statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of Twitter, particularly sharing the clips of my interviews to TV channels and its powerful impact, have clearly ruffled its feathers,” he said in a series of posts on Koo, which positions itself as India’s alternative to Twitter.Prasad added that Twitter’s actions were in gross violation of Rule 4 (8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, as it failed to provide him any prior notice before denying him access.Twitter said that as per its copyright policy, it responds to “valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorized representatives”. “We can confirm that the Honourable Minister’s account access was temporarily restricted due to a DMCA notice only and the referenced Tweet has been withheld,” a spokesperson for the company said.According to Twitter’s disclosure of the notice details on Lumen Database, a Harvard University project that collects and analyses legal complaints and requests for removal of online materials, the actioned tweet contained a post by the Union minister with a link to the AR Rehman song “Maa tujhe salaam”.The contents of the tweet, which was posted in 2017, are no longer available in the public domain.The social media firm’s action comes at a time when it is at loggerheads with the government over the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The Centre has asserted that the company failed to comply with the guidelines, which can result in it losing the safe harbour protection granted to intermediaries under the IT Act. Twitter, in turn, raised concerns about the safety of its employees in India and flagged intimidation by the police. There have been several run-ins between the social media firm and the government over orders to block access to content and marking of posts by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders as manipulated media.After Twitter briefly blocked Prasad from accessing, the chairman of the parliamentary panel on information technology, Shashi Tharoor, said the same issue occurred with him and the standing committee will seek an explanation from the social media firm over the temporary locking of their accounts and the rules it follows while operating in India.Indians creatively make videos using short snippets of foreign music and most people would consider that “fair use”, Tharoor said.Prasad previously said what happened with his account was very peculiar. “Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account.”“Twitter’s actions indicate that they are not the harbinger of free speech that they claim to be but are only interested in running their own agenda, with the threat that if you do not tow the line they draw, they will arbitrarily remove you from their platform,” the minister added, saying “no matter what any platform does they will have to abide by the new IT Rules fully and there shall be no compromise”.Twitter, in its communication to the minister, said that the “account has been locked because Twitter received a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Notice for content posted to your Twitter account”. “Under the DMCA copyright owners can notify Twitter claiming that a user has infringed their copyrighted works. Upon receipt of a valid notice, Twitter will remove the identified material. Twitter maintains a repeat copyright infringer policy under repeat infringer accounts will be suspended. Accruing multiple DMCA strikes may lead to suspension of your account,” the company said in a communication sent to Prasad, according to his post on Koo.The minister said that in the past several years, “no television channel or any anchor has made any complaints about copyright infringements with regard to these news clips of my interviews shared on social media”.According to Raman Chima, Asia Pacific policy director at Access Now, because Twitter is ultimately operated as a service by Twitter Inc, the DMCA applies to it internationally. “That is how Twitter is structured,” he said.He added that it was ironic that the minister was complaining about a regime that was too strict in terms of its enforcement. “The problem with creating a broad order of takedown regimes is that such situations will arise. It is ironic that the minister is complaining about a regime that is too strict when the government is trying to create a similar situation in India with the new IT rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-blocks-it-minister-for-1-hour-101624646216234.html
26-06-2021||India||Good start... will keep up struggle to restore 370: Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah on Friday said that his party will continue to push for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status but didn’t expect Prime Minister Narendra Modi to return it because it was the latter’s government that decided to scrap it in 2019.Abdullah’s comments came in an interview to HT, a day after attending a landmark meeting of J&K politicians with the Centre.Article 370, which bestowed special status to J&K but was controversially voided in August 2019, was brought up by several leaders at Thursday’s meeting, which marked the resumption of political engagement in the region after two years. But Abdullah said he will not raise the issue before Modi just “for the sake of optics”.“We are not pandering to optics and we are not asking the Prime Minister to return it and they have given no such indication. We pick our battles. We will continue with our struggle to see it restored, constitutionally, legally and politically,” the former chief minister said, one day after the all-party meeting.Petitions by several political parties, including the NC, demanding restoration of Article 370 are pending before the Supreme Court since 2019. “The restoration of Article 370 is very much part of our political discourse and is an important ongoing issue for us,” Abdullah said.“We will continue to raise it for however long it takes, 70 weeks, 70 months, or 70 years.”He emphasised that full statehood to J&K needs to be restored in its entirety. “It was made clear in the meeting that statehood means full statehood with all powers that were available to us earlier and are available to all other states now. We don’t want truncated statehood,” Abdullah said.On August 5, 2019, sweeping changes saw J&K’s special status revoked and the region bifurcated into Union territories. Its officer cadre were done away with.Abdullah said the meeting with the PM was a step forward, and that he welcomed it. He pointed out that there were no preconditions on what could or could not be said in the meeting but he was clear about his political goals. “There is no question of surrendering our ideology. I have not surrendered my identity, my political ideology or my thought process,” he said.The meeting was attended by 14 J&K leaders and also touched upon the ongoing delimitation exercise to redraw poll constituencies, grassroots democracy, development goals and preventing loss of life. All parties said the talks happened in a cordial atmosphere.Abdullah said he was neither overly optimistic nor overly circumspect about the event. He said he would move forward with a “healthy dose of realism”.Asked if the invitation for the meeting acknowledged the fact that the Centre could not move ahead without the support of the region’s mainstream parties, Abdullah said, “I don’t want to blow my own trumpet. A year ago, nobody would have put their money on such a meeting being held.”“I have always said we are relevant and you cannot wish us away,” Abdullah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-start-will-keep-up-struggle-to-restore-370-omar-abdullah-101624646035551.html
26-06-2021||India||Journalist made false claim of loot: Police||Noida The Noida Police on Friday claimed that senior journalist Atul Agrawal, who claimed to have been looted at gunpoint by assailants in Greater Noida west on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, had lied about the incident. Agrawal, the editor-in-chief of Hindi Khabar channel, however, stuck to his claims, adding that he doesn’t want to comment on “the police theory”.Pointing to his call detail records (CDR), route map and CCTV camera footages, deputy commissioner of police (Noida central) Harish Chander and additional DCP Ankur Agarwal, addressing a press conference, said that there were discrepancies in the events described by Agrawal. Police also claimed Agrawal was at a guest house in Noida when the alleged incident took place. In a social media post on Monday, Agrawal claimed that five persons on two motorcycles robbed him of ₹5,000-6,000 when he stopped his car about 300 meters from Rise police check post, when he was returning from office to his home in Supertech Eco Village in Greater Noida west at around 1am. He had claimed that the robbers returned his phone and car as they came to know that he was a senior journalist.“First, Agrawal had narrated the incident in a Facebook post (on Monday) almost 23 hours after the incident. The police team reached the spot after getting the information and called him but he refused to come to the crime spot,” Chander said. Later, on Monday evening, Agrawal visited Bisrakh police station and narrated the incident, but again refused to file a complaint, police said. Police, however, took suo motu action and registered a case against unknown suspects under IPC section 392 (robbery).According to police, at 7 pm on June 19, Agrawal had visited a friend for dinner in Noida’s Sector 45. “He had left Sector 45 when his wife called him to come home. His friend informed police that Agrawal had called last at 1.20 am but did not talk of any incident of loot,” Chander said.Addl DCP Ankur Agarwal said that five teams were formed to investigate the matter. “We recreated the crime scene and found a mismatch of evidence and allegations. Agrawal had claimed that he was passing through Rise police check post when he stopped to plug his pen drive to play music in the car at 1 am. However, Agrawal’s call records and CCTV footage showed his car passed through Rise police check post at 10.53pm. He reached home soon after,” he said.Police said Agrawal again left home again after midnight, and his car was spotted at 12.40am near the ATS roundabout in Greater Noida. He crossed Charmurti roundabout at 12.53 am and then reached a guesthouse in Noida Sector 121, they added.“He checked in there at 1.07am and checked out at 11.46am as per CCTV camera records and the visitors ledger at the guest house. It is unlikely that he was robbed on the way since the Rise police check post and the guest house are not in the same direction from Charmurti,” ADCP said.Chander said that police will collect more information and, if the allegations are found to be false, expunge the FIR. “We will inform the court about the matter,” Chander said. When contacted, Agarwal said that the incident posted on Facebook was true. “I had stayed in the guest house alone. I work in media and I need to travel at night. I did not file a complaint then as the suspects are free and I feared for my safety. I do not want to comment on police theory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-made-false-claim-of-loot-police-101624645975557.html
26-06-2021||India||3 Assam districts, 247 localities to be containment zones from Monday||The Assam government on Friday declared three of its districts as total containment zones to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The new restrictions, which would be applicable from Monday and continue for a week, were announced after chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held a meeting with deputy commissioners to review the situation.“We found that 247 localities or regions had over 10% test positivity rate in the past week. These areas will be declared as total containment zones with immediate effect,” said health minister Keshab Mahanta.Mahanta described the situation in four districts, Biswanath, Goalpara, Morigaon and Golaghat, as alarming. “Of these, Biswanath, Goalpara and Morigaon, will be declared a total containment zone for a week beginning Monday,” he added.In Kamrup (Metropolitan) district, which includes Guwahati, curfew will be relaxed by two hours. From Monday, the district will have curfew from 5 am to 4 pm daily. Shops, offices and business establishments will have to shut down an hour earlier, at 3 pm.In Hailakandi district curfew would remain from 5am to 5pm daily. In all other districts, curfew will be applicable from 5am to 1pm daily. The ban on inter-district movement will continue.“Those who took two doses of Covid vaccine won’t have to undergo tests at airports, railway stations from now on. They would be allowed to proceed on furnishing their certificates,” said Mahanta.Government employees who have taken one dose will have to come to office from now. Employees who are pregnant, women employees who have children under 5 years and those with disabilities are exempt from this order but they have to work from home. “We have urged frontline government employees who deal with the public to get vaccinated immediately and provisions have been made to ensure they get their doses,” the minister said, adding that their salary would be held back if they don’t get vaccinated.“Every month we collect 300 samples from the 10 government labs in Assam and send them to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kolkata. Our reports for April and May indicate that 77% of the samples were of Delta variant. Only one of those affected with Delta variant has died and all others have recovered,” Mahanta added.On Friday, Assam recorded 2793 new cases and 26 deaths. The test positivity rate in the state was 2.01%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-assam-districts-247-localities-to-be-containment-zones-from-monday-101624645856767.html
26-06-2021||India||Navy deployment after Galwan clash showed India was ready, says Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that the Indian Navy’s proactive forward deployment after the Galwan Valley skirmish with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh last year signalled that India wanted peace but was ready for any eventuality.The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020, was the first deadly skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades, and pushed the bilateral relationship to breaking point. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead.“Indian Navy remains poised and combat-ready to tackle any challenge,” the minister said.His comments in Kochi come at a time when the Indian and Chinese armies are negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process in eastern Ladakh to reduce tensions along the LAC where both sides have been locked in a standoff for more than 13 months. Singh was in Kochi to review the construction of India’s first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant, which is likely to be commissioned into navy in the first half of 2022, the defence ministry said in a statement.The minister was briefed about the carrier’s successful basin trials completed last November and its upcoming sea trials later this year. It is the biggest warship to be ever built in the country.“The IAC boasts of nearly 75% indigenous content, from design to steel used in construction, to key weapons and sensors,” Singh said, calling it a “shining example” of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). He said the aircraft carrier would bolster the navy’s capabilities and help secure India’s maritime interests. He said its commissioning next year would be a befitting tribute to 75 years of India’s independence.The ship will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, soon-to-be inducted MH-60R multi-role helicopters and the indigenous advanced light helicopters. Vikrant will weigh 37,500 tonnes. It has been named after aircraft carrier INS Vikrant operated by the navy from 1961 to 1997.“It would offer an incomparable military instrument with its ability to project air power over long distances, including air interdiction, anti-surface warfare, offensive and defensive counter-air, airborne anti-submarine warfare and airborne early warning,” the statement said.India currently operates a solitary aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, bought from Russia for $2.33 billion. China currently operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-deployment-after-galwan-clash-showed-india-was-ready-says-rajnath-101624644776541.html
26-06-2021||India||LAC standoff: India, China agree to hold another meeting||India and China agreed on Friday to hold the next meeting of senior military commanders as soon as possible to discuss complete disengagement at friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while working to maintain stability on the ground.This was the only tangible outcome from a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which resulted in what the external affairs ministry described as a “frank exchange of views” on the situation along the LAC in the western sector. The last meeting of the military commanders at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point was held on April 9.Following a drawdown of troops and armoured units from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February, India and China haven’t made any headway on disengagement and de-escalation at other friction points such as Depsang, Gogra and Hot Springs. The two sides have also engaged in a war of words this week, blaming each other for the year-long standoff on the LAC.On Thursday, India blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to unilaterally change the status quo on the LAC for the standoff, and dismissed Beijing’s contention that New Delhi’s policies were to blame for the tensions.Following the WMCC meeting, a statement issued by the external affairs ministry said: “The two sides agreed to hold the next (12th) round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the Western Sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols.”The two sides also agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a “mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity to enable progress in the bilateral relations”, the statement said.In the interim, the two sides will “continue to ensure stability on the ground and prevent any untoward incident”, the statement said. It added that both sides also agreed on finding an early resolution to remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in line with the agreement reached between the two foreign ministers in September 2020.This was the eighth round of diplomatic talks under the WMCC mechanism since the standoff began in May last year.The Indian delegation was led by additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava, and the director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry, Hong Liang, led the Chinese delegation.A separate readout in Mandarin from China’s foreign ministry described the discussions as a “candid and in-depth” exchange of views and said the two sides agreed to “consolidate the results of the disengagement of border troops” and “properly resolve the remaining issues” in the western sector of the border.The Chinese readout also referred to the consensus reached by the foreign ministers, and said the two sides will continue to “promote further de-escalation of the situation at the border, avoid the recurrence of the situation on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity”.It added that specific time and arrangements for the next round of military talks will be determined through the “border hotline as soon as possible”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lacstandoff-india-china-agree-to-hold-another-meeting-101624644775410.html
