27-06-2021||India||Jammu IAF station hit by 2 explosions||Security agencies were investigating the suspected use of drones by terrorists after two “low-intensity” explosions hit an Indian Air Force station in Jammu on Sunday, leaving two IAF personnel injured and prompting multiple teams to join the probe.The explosions hit the station a little after 1:30am on Sunday and caused minor damage to a building, with security experts and officials saying this could be the first time drones were used in an attack on a major installation in the country.Jammu and Kashmir’s director general of police Dilbag Singh said that the twin blasts at the IAF’s technical airport was a “terror attack”. It was reported at the high-security technical area of the Jammu airport that is manned by the IAF in Satwari area on the outskirts of the city.“A drone with payload in both the blasts at Jammu airfield is suspected to have dropped the explosive material. The police have registered an FIR and investigation is on,” Singh said.The first blast at the airport, which is used for VVIP movement and armed forces’ strategic operations, took place at 1:37am, causing minor damage to the roof of a building, and the second one – said to be weaker in intensity – was reported at 1:42am in an open area, according to an IAF official.Singh said the police and other agencies were working with IAF officials to ascertain the specifics. A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) was also at the spot.The air force said the blasts were also being probed by a high-level IAF team. “There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies,” the IAF’s official Twitter handle said.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. But experts indicated that drones have previously not been engaged by terrorists to carry out attacks.Following a series of back-channel contacts between Indian and Pakistani security officials, the two countries recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in February. The truce has largely held, helping to ease bilateral tensions, though recent reports have suggested the back-channel contacts have stalled.Pakistan has also issued several strong statements in recent weeks about what it claims were the Indian government’s plans to carry out more changes in Jammu and Kashmir. India has rejected these statements, noting that Kashmir is an integral part of the country and Pakistan’s comments amounted to interference in internal affairs. On Sunday, the J&K Police said they had detained two people for questioning over the blasts. An official, who asked not to be named, said the “possible target of the drones was the aircraft parked in the dispersal area”.Another official said that the first blast created a hole in the rooftop of the building, indicating the use of “adequate amount of explosives”. Soon after the second blast, a bomb disposal squad and forensic experts rushed to the site, the official said on condition of anonymity.The incident comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir that elections would be held there once delimitation is carried out, two years after the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked.Defence minister Rajnath Singh is currently in Leh to take stock of the security scenario. A senior official said in New Delhi that the defence minister was expected to review the security situation in Jammu. The defence minister’s office said he spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal HS Arora, over the airport incident.It was not immediately clear from where the drones took off and investigations were underway to track their flight path, an official told news agency PTI.Investigators scanned CCTV footage, including from cameras installed on the boundary walls of the airport. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is about 14km, the official said.While officials were investigating the drone attack, a person, suspected to be linked to Lashker-e-Taiba, was arrested along with an improvised explosive device (IED) weighing around 6kg, the DGP said.“The suspect has been detained and is being interrogated. More suspects are likely to be picked up in this foiled IED blast attempt,” Singh said.The Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC (air traffic control) under the IAF.Jammu airport’s director Pravat Ranjan Beuria told PTI there was no disruption in flight operations due to the explosions. “Flights to and from Jammu airport are operating as per schedule,” he said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-blasts-at-jammu-airport-injure-two-101624818309581.html
27-06-2021||India||Localised infection, more affinity for lung tissues: 10 things we know about Delta Plus||Ludhiana and Chandigarh reported the first case of the Delta Plus virus in the last two days, joining the list of states which have reported this new variant in India so far. Deaths from this variant have also been recorded in the country. Experts have said more study is required to find out more about this variant, but within a week after the variant was classified as a variant of concern, experts have gathered some new information regarding the variant.Here are 10 things to know about Delta Plus1. The variant has a greater affinity to the mucosal lining in the lungs, but it does not mean that the virus will affect the lungs more -- more than other variants.2. The disease is mild in those who are vaccinated. Even a single dose of vaccination has made the variant less severe. A fully vaccinated woman from Rajasthan was affected with the Delta Plus variant. She was asymptomatic and she has already recovered.3. At present, there are around 50-55 Delta Plus cases identified in the country. The number could be higher as many individuals may be asymptomatic.Delta Plus variant has greater affinity towards lung tissues, says govt body head4. It was earlier said the Delta Plus resists monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy, in which antibody is artificially produced in the body. Experts have said that this characteristic does not confirm that the variant will also resist antibodies produced by vaccines.5. In India, the spread of the infection is localised and sporadic. Some states have reported the variant but it is concentrated in particular areas of those states. So the distribution is not widespread.6. The variant has been there in the country as early as April. The first sample in which Delta Plus was found was collected in April in Maharashtra.7. So, it can not be said that the variant is highly transmissible, experts said, as the variant, for the last two months, have not spread beyond 50 cases.8. The mutant present in Delta Plus was also present in the variant first found in South Africa. It may not prove to be very virulent alone. N501Y and K147N (the mutation present in Delta Plus) together may become immune-escape.9. The plus in Delta Plus does not denote that this variant is stronger than Delta. It only denotes an addition to the same variant.10. So far, Delta Plus remains less transmissible than Delta. If the number of cases remains like this, then Delta Plus will not emerge as a dominant variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/localised-infection-more-affinity-for-lung-tissues-10-things-we-know-about-delta-plus-101624814079636.html
27-06-2021||India||Can vaccine composition be changed according to Delta, Delta Plus? Here's what ICMR chief says||The Indian Council of Medical Research is studying the effect of vaccines against various variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus as at a later stage a change in vaccine composition can be suggested according to the circulating variants of concern and variants of interest, ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava has recently said. Vaccine composition is easily modifiable, especially that of the mRNA vaccines, but whole virus inactivated vaccines can also be modified. But this is only a need-based solution that the ICMR has thought of as a way forward, Dr Bhargava said.As the Covid-19 virus is replicating, its variants have become a reason for concern as every variant appear to be stronger than the previous one. For example, the Alpha variant which was first reported in the United Kingdom has now got overpowered by the Delta variant, first reported in India. Now, the Delta variant is responsible for 90 per cent of Covid-19 cases in the United Kingdom. Several other countries have now reported this variant.It is crucial to study whether the existing vaccines are equally effective against these emerging variants, whether there is any change in the severity in the cases, or in the requirement of hospitalisation. A comparative study of vaccines' performance against Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta is available, according to which Covishield and Covaxin are effective against all these variants.The ICMR is studying the impact of the vaccines against the Delta Plus variant, which is being sporadically reported from various states in the country. In other countries too, the variant has been reported. India has classified the variant as a variant of concern though there is not enough evidence to suggest whether Delta Plus is more transmissible than Delta. Experts have said that the very localised cases in India are not enough to claim that Delta Plus is spreading rapidly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-vaccine-composition-be-changed-according-to-delta-delta-plus-here-s-what-icmr-chief-says-101624810044034.html
27-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Zydus Cadila Covid vaccine for teens to be out by August and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Zydus Cadila’s Covid vaccine for children above 12 years could be out in AugustThe National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) chairman Dr NK Arora on Sunday said that the Covid-19 vaccine developed for children above the age of 12 years by pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila will be available by August. Read more here.Shafali Verma leaves behind Mandhana, Ishant and Pant to make India record on ODI debutThe Haryana girl took 17 years and 150 days to make her debut across all format, making her the fifth-youngest cricketer overall in the list, headed by Afghanistan's Mujeeb Ur Rahman. Read more here. Little girl’s adorable rendition of Bohemian Rhapsody wins hearts. Watch viral clipThe video shared on Twitter by Rex Chapman shows the kid singing Bohemian Rhapsody. Her adorable performance is bound to leave you with a smile.Skoda Kushaq vs Hyundai Creta vs Kia Seltos: Specs comparisonSkoda Kushaq is available in petrol engine options only, compared to Hyundai Creta and Kia Seltos that are available in both petrol and diesel engine options. Read more here. Ankita Lokhande slams Bigg Boss 15 rumours: 'People have been quick to send their hatred'Ankita Lokhande has dismissed rumours of her Bigg Boss 15 participation. The actor issued a clarification on Instagram. Read more here. Neena Gupta on practising Yoga pose Ardha Matsyendrasana: 'Koshish jari hai'From stellar acting skills to now an author with her recently released biography ‘Sach Kahun Toh’, Neena Gupta is now foraying into laying fitness goals and we are inspired by her energy in her latest workout video. Read more here. Watch: Rajnath Singh meets army veterans in Ladakh during 3-day visit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-zydus-cadila-covid-vaccine-for-teens-to-be-out-by-august-101624806679860.html
27-06-2021||India||Twitter's interim grievance officer for India quits amid disagreement with Centre: Report||Amid the ongoing row between Twitter and the Union government, Twitter's interim resident grievance officer for India has stepped down, news agency PTI has reported. The San Francisco-based microblogging company, which is under fire in India for not "complying" with local rules, did not comment on this development, the news agency said. This one again leaves Twitter without any local officer, while keeping a local officer for grievance redressal is a mandatory provision under the new IT rules of India.For long, Twitter did not have any grievance redressal officer in India. As the government mandated that all social media intermediaries operating in India will have to mention the name of the resident grievance officer on their sites, Twitter appointed Dharmendra Chaturas the interim grievance officer. But now his name is no longer displayed on the site, PTI reported.How an AR Rahman song got IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad blocked from TwitterThe disagreement between Twitter and the Centre has been going on since January this year when the government asked Twitter to take action against accounts that trended #farmersgenocide during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. As the row escalated in the following months, Twitter temporarily removed the 'verified' badge from President Ram Nath Kovind's personal Twitter account and from several accounts of RSS leaders including Mohan Bhagwat's. Then it flagged a tweet of BJP leader Sambit Patra as manipulated media and very recently it blocked IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's Twitter account for an hour over alleged copyright infringement.Parliamentary panel on information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, recently met Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor and said that the platform has to follow the rule of the land. The committee will seek an explanation from Twitter for locking out the I-T minister, Shashi Tharoor said adding that the same happened with him as well.Meanwhile, the microblogging platform has lost its intermediary status in India and is now editorially responsible for what users post on the platform. After this, Ghaziabad Police lodged an FIR against Twitter over an incident that took place in Loni, for which Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari was called by the Ghaziabad Police to join the probe, but Karnataka high court has granted Maheshwei relief and said that no coercive action can be taken against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitters-interim-grievance-officer-for-india-quits-amid-disagreement-with-centre-report-101624805607754.html
27-06-2021||India||Jammu air base blasts: 2 injured personnel fine now; to remain under observation||The two soldiers who suffered minor injuries in Sunday's twin explosions at Jammu air base are doing fine now, news agency ANI reported quoting Indian Air Force officials. They are still under observation and will be discharged after doctors' nod, the officials also said.Two IAF personnel were injured when two explosives-laden drones crashed into the station around 1.40am. The blasts took place within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground.Earlier in the day, air chief marshal RKS Bhaduria, who is on an official visit to Bangladesh, telephoned the two injured personnel and asked about their condition. He is also monitoring the situation in Jammu constantly and is in touch with the officials regarding any development.According to the initial probe, a shaped charge (explosive device) was used for the attack, news agency ANI reported quoting officials.Meanwhile, a team of National Investigation Agency (NIA), Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) are at the scene to probe the matter. The officials are probing all possible angles into the incident.Earlier in the day, director-general of police, Dilbag Singh termed the explosions a "terror attack." He also informed about a person being arrested who was carrying 5-6 kgs of an improvised explosive device (IED). The arrested man is suspected to have an affiliation with the UN-designated terrorist organisation, Lashkar-e-Taiba." This recovery has foiled another major terror attack. The suspect is being interrogated and more suspects are likely to be arrested in connection with the foiled attempt," Singh said to the media.There are also reports that claim the blasts were carried out with the help of drones, if true, this would be the first-ever drone strike at an Indian military installation.So far, it is not clear where the drones took off for the air force station. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-air-base-blasts-two-injured-personnel-doing-fine-under-observation-101624804831462.html
27-06-2021||India||No, Netaji's cap is not missing, says govt as Chandra Kumar Bose complains||The grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Chandra Kumar Bose, on Sunday alleged that the historic cap of Netaji that was handed over to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be kept at the Red Fort museum has gone missing. Tagging PM Modi, Chandra Kumar Bose requested him to ensure that the cap is placed in its original place.#NetajisCapMissing Bose family had handed over #Netaji's historic cap to Hon’ble PM-Shri @narendramodi ji to be kept at #RedFort Museum &not to be shifted around.Request Narendra Modiji to instruct placing cap in its original place. @prahladspatel @ProfKapilKumar @GeneralBakshi pic.twitter.com/BmSRpkb6kEReacting to the allegation, the government said the cap was loaned from the Red Ford museum to Victoria Memorial for the exhibition on Netaji which took place in the Victoria memorial on January 23. Both the institutes come under the ministry of culture. "This loan was done with proper documentation and a formal memorandum of understanding was signed. Under the MoU, the loan is valid for six months and can be extended to one year," an official said. The artefacts were sent with proper escort and insurance, the government said.As the agreement expires on July 18, further steps on where the cap will remain will be decided after the expiry.The cap was gifted by Netaji's family when a museum dedicated to Netaji was inaugurated at Delhi's Red Fort on January 23, 2019. This year, the government started a year-long programme to mark the 125th birth anniversary of the freedom fighter, which was inaugurated by PM Modi on January 23 in Kolkata. It was then that the cap was transferred from the Red Fort museum to the Victoria Memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-netaji-s-cap-is-not-missing-says-govt-as-chandra-kumar-bose-complains-101624804706169.html
27-06-2021||India||5 ministers inducted into Puducherry cabinet; PM Modi tweets his 'best wishes'||Puducherry's first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was sworn-in on Sunday as five legislators were inducted as ministers into chief minister N Rangasamy's cabinet. The five MLAs, three from Rangasamy's All India NR Congress (AINRC) and two from ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), were administered oath of office by lieutenant governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Raj Nivas.Also Read: Puducherry’s first NDA ministry to be sworn in todayWith this, the strength of the Rangasamy-led cabinet has risen to six, including the chief minister, who was sworn-in alone on May 7, five days after the AINRC-led NDA emerged victorious in the single-phase Puducherry assembly elections, which were held on April 6.Also Read: Puducherry CM submits list of ministers to L-GThe five legislators who were administered oath of office are A Namassivayam and Sai Sarvanan Kumar of the BJP, along with K Lakshminarayanan, C Dijeacoumar and Chandira Priyanga of the AINRC. Their respective assembly constituencies are Mannadipet, Ossudu, Raj Bhavan, Mangalam and Nedungadu. Priyanga, in fact, is the first woman minister in the Union territory in more than four decades, according to news agency PTI.Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to congratulate the new ministers. "Best wishes to all those who took oath as ministers in Puducherry today. May this team work with determination and fulfil the aspirations of the wonderful people of Puducherry," Prime Minister Modi tweeted.Best wishes to all those who took oath as Ministers in Puducherry today. May this team work with determination and fulfil the aspirations of the wonderful people of Puducherry.Earlier, the cabinet formation was delayed to various reasons. A day after his swearing-in, CM Rangasamy contracted Covid-19 and was hospitalised at a private hospital in Chennai. Negotiations between the AINRC and the BJP over cabinet portfolios also contributed to this delay.Also Read: Internal rift delays Cabinet formation in PuducherryTogether, the coalition has 16 directly elected members in the Puducherry legislative assembly: 10 from the AINRC and six from the BJP. While the former contested on 16 seats, the latter fielded candidates on nine seats. The total strength of the assembly is 33, of which 30 are elected by the voters and the remaining three are nominated by the central government. Since the BJP is in power at the Centre, the party nominated three of its members as MLAs, taking its total strength in the House to nine.In February, the previous Congress-led government collapsed just months before the completion of its five-year term. Since no party or coalition staked claim to form government, Puducherry was put under President's Rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-ministers-inducted-into-puducherry-cabinet-pm-modi-tweets-his-best-wishes-101624800714041.html
27-06-2021||India||Zydus Cadila’s Covid vaccine for children above 12 years could be out in August||The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) chairman Dr NK Arora on Sunday said that the Covid-19 vaccine developed for children above the age of 12 years by pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila will be available by August.Dr Arora also said that the trials are likely to be completed by July-end. “The trials will almost be complete till July-end. We will be able to vaccinate children aged between 12-18 years in August,” Dr Arora said.Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D will be the first DNA vaccine in the world and will be India’s fourth addition to the vaccine arsenal. DNA-Plasmid based ZyCoV-D will be a three-dose vaccine, according to a report published by news agency PTI. India has granted emergency use approval to the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Russia’s Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology-Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) developed Sputnik-V. India is also looking forward to Biological E’s Corbevax.People familiar with the development of the vaccine told news agency PTI that Zydus Cadila is likely to apply to the central drugs regulator seeking emergency use approval for their Covid-19 vaccine later this month. The vaccine is already being tested on children. “When Zydus comes for licensure, hopefully in the next two weeks, maybe we have enough data to take a view on whether the vaccine can be given to children,” NITI Aayog member (Health) VK Paul said earlier.Dr Arora also said that the government is planning to administer 1 crore doses every day in a bid to immunise everyone within six to eight months while commenting on an ICMR study that said that the third wave is likely to hit the nation late. He said based on the ICMR study India has a window of 6-8 months to immunise everybody. He said it is necessary for people to come out and vaccinate themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-s-covid-vaccine-for-children-above-12-years-could-be-out-in-august-101624801960943.html
27-06-2021||India||'Efforts at highest political, diplomatic level': Govt on deals with Pfizer, J&J, Moderna||In the 380-page affidavit that the Central government has submitted to the Supreme Court detailing its vaccination roadmap, the government mentioned its ongoing attempt to import foreign-made vaccines in the country. If Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna can be added to the vaccination drive, then the drive will obviously get a boost, the Centre said. Efforts are going on at the level of the highest political executive in the country and also at the highest diplomatic level."It is submitted that since these efforts are at a very advanced stage, it is neither desirable nor possible to give comprehensive details of these facts. As and when these efforts materialise, the speed of vaccination will be further augmented and enhanced," it said.Pfizer says its vaccine highly effective against Delta variantGovernment sources earlier told that the agreement with foreign vaccine makers is being finalised as Pfizer is ready to supply vaccines to India. Moderna has already clarified that it won't be able to supply vaccines to India this year.The Centre has already modified its rules for foreign vaccines and decided that vaccines which already are authorised by WHO and other national regulators will be given emergency use authorisation in India without a local clinical trial. Instead of a pre-approval trial, the government has made provision for a post-approval parallel bridging clinical trial.But the foreign vaccine makers have sought legal protection from the government, which reportedly is the bottleneck where the agreement is stuck, as no vaccine maker in India enjoys legal indemnity. If the government extends this provision to foreign vaccine makers, it may have to do the same to Indian vaccine makers. Pune's Serum Institute of India has already approached the government seeking this protection.Pfizer CEO Dr Albert Bourla has recently said that the deal will get finalised very soon. "My hope is that very soon we will finalise the approval of the product in India by the Indian health care authorities and the agreement with the government so that we can also start sending vaccines, on our side,” Bourla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-at-highest-political-diplomatic-level-govt-on-deals-with-pfizer-j-j-moderna-101624801455382.html
27-06-2021||India||Odisha rape accused absconding for 2 years arrested from vaccination centre||A 24-year-old man in the western Odisha district of Bolangir who was accused of rape and has been absconding for more than 2 years now, landed in the police net while he was waiting to take his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.According to the police, Arun Podha of Bhainsar village who was accused of rape since March 2019 had queued up at a Covid-19 vaccination centre under Patnagarh police station on Saturday when a waiting police team arrested him.Podha in March 2019 was accused of raping a 20-year-old girl. However, the local police could not trace him as he fled to Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu.“We had got information a few days ago that he had come to his house after lockdown and we raided it, but he escaped. Then we got another tip-off that he would be coming to take the Covid-19 vaccine and waited. He was arrested soon after taking the jab,” said Patnagarh sub-divisional police officer Jyotirmay Bhukta.The family of the accused had tried to influence the victim, but did not succeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-rape-accused-absconding-for-2-years-arrested-from-vaccination-centre-101624800427120.html
27-06-2021||India||No national coalition against BJP can work without Congress, says Tejashwi Yadav||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday said the Congress is the main opposition to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and it should focus on a direct fight against the ruling party in 200 Lok Sabha seats, letting regional parties be in the driver's seat in their respective constituencies to help root out the BJP."From past experiences, I think the Congress must focus on those seats wherein it is in direct fight with the BJP and on remaining seats with an open heart and mind it should let regional parties be in the driving seat in their respective strongholds to root out the BJP," remarked Tejashwi YadavThe RJD leader opined that all like-minded opposition parties should come together to defeat "this most oppressive, divisive, authoritarian and fascist government" on the basis of a common minimum program.Also Read: ‘Bihar govt to fall in 2-3 months’, claims Tejashwi Yadav, NDA rejects theoryYadav reiterated Lalu Prasad Yadav’s past comments made before the 2014 general elections, insisting that his words ring true today for the opposition parties and citizens like never before"Our leader Lalu (Yadav) Ji had forewarned in the run-up to 2014 election- 'Ye chunav tay karega ki desh tootega ya bachega (this election will decide whether the country will remain or be divided)', and I think most of the parties and citizens of our country have realised this today like never before," he told PTI.When asked about the ‘Rashtra Manch’ meeting held in Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar’s residence in Delhi, which representatives from the grand old party did not attend, Yadav said he was unaware of what actually transpired in the meeting but insisted that Congress "should be the fulcrum of any national coalition against the BJP-led NDA".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-national-coalition-against-bjp-can-work-without-congress-says-tejashwi-yadav-101624797675409.html
27-06-2021||India||Another IED recovered in Jammu, major terror attack averted: DGP Dilbag Singh||Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Sunday that a major terror attack was averted in Jammu with the discovery of another improvised explosive device (IED). Singh’s revelation came even as security agencies continued their probe into twin explosions inside an Indian Air Force (IAF) station at the Jammu airport which took place after midnight.Also Read: 2 blasts rock Indian Air Force’s highly secured technical airport in Jammu“Jammu Police recovered another IED weighing around five-six kilograms. It was recovered from a suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operative which he was tasked with crowding at a crowded place. This recovery has foiled another major terror attack. The suspect is being interrogated and more suspects are likely to be arrested in connection with the foiled attempt,” Singh said to the media.The senior officer, who earlier called the IAF station blasts a “terror strike” while speaking to news agency PTI, further said his force is coordinating with other agencies in probing the suspected terror strike.Also Read: Govt probes attack at Jammu air base, Rajnath Singh to review situationTwo IAF personnel sustained non-life threatening injuries in the explosions which took place at the IAF station, housed inside the Jammu airport, at 1:37am and 1:42am. There are also unconfirmed reports that the blasts were carried out with the help of drones; if true, this would be the first-ever drone strike at an Indian military installation. Probe agencies are yet to rule out a terror angle into the strikes, which, it has been further reported, were aimed at the aircraft parked in the dispersal area.Also Read: Police register FIR under UAPA after blasts in Jammu IAF stationEarlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh took cognisance of the incident and rushed senior IAF officials to the blast site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-air-base-explosion-another-ied-recovered-in-city-major-terror-attack-averted-101624794642975.html
27-06-2021||India||7 crucial changes to come into effect from July 1: Check details here||From July 1, people will witness changes in banking services and other areas which will have a direct bearing on the lives of common people. Apart from banking services, these changes will also impact those who haven't filed their income tax returns.The changes in banking services have been approved by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and will also include free transactions that are carried out by users of banks at Automatic Teller Machines or ATMs.Here is a list of changes which will come into effect from July 1:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-changes-to-come-into-effect-from-july-1-check-details-here-101624796475968.html
27-06-2021||India||Sports track turned into parking lot? Maharashtra sports department apologises||BJP MLA from Maharashtra's Pune, Siddharth Shirole, on Sunday posted a video on Twitter accusing the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of hurting the spirit of India's sportspersons by parking their cars on the sports track of Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex. A meeting was held on Saturday at the sports complex to review the progress of the under-construction International Sports University. The meeting hall was barely 15 steps away from where they got down from their cars, but they chose to use the athletes' track as their parking lot, the MLA said, adding that there was also a provision to use an elevator to reach the meeting hall. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra sports minister Sunil Chattrapal and minister of state Aditi S Tatkare were present at the meeting.Maharashtra sports department reacted to the accusation and apologised. It also clarified that only Sharad Pawar's vehicle was allowed to park there so that he doesn't have to walk. And permission was given to park on the concrete road near the track. But suddenly some vehicles reached there, Om Prakash Bakoria, Sports Commissioner of Maharashtra told ANI."The sports minister has taken note of the incident and instructions have been issued to make sure that vehicles are not allowed at the athletic track," the sports department said.After the MLA posted the photographs that he sourced from local media, Union minister of sports Kiren Rijiju hit out and wrote, "As it is we are lacking in sufficient sports facilities in our country. All the sports centres need proper care."Not only has the Athletic Track worth crores of rupees at ShivChaptrapati Sports Complex #Pune been damaged, but the spirit of Sportspersons who bring glory to our nation has been severely dented by the shameful & arrogant actions of #MVA leadership.Watch to know full story. pic.twitter.com/H6YlloJrcYThe BJP MLA also questioned what would have happened had a cricket ground been turned into a parking lot. "Don't get me wrong.. I love Cricket but imagine the uproar if SUV's drove and parked over the center pitch of an International Cricket ground..That is what the MVA Leadership did...disrespected & destroyed an International Athletic track and with it the morale of our athletes," Siddharth Shirole tweeted.#VIP Culture & Arrogance of the #MVA...Athletic track at Shivchhatrapati Sports Complex (#PUNE ) being used as a parking lot for Cars belonging Ex. IOA President @PawarSpeaks ji, Sports Cabinet Minister @SunilKedar1111 ji and MoS Sports @iAditiTatkare jiCourtesy : @mataonline pic.twitter.com/T2P5X9oPeOThe MLA also said that the athletic track is worth crores of rupees. "Not only has the Athletic Track worth crores of rupees at ShivChaptrapati Sports Complex #Pune been damaged, but the spirit of Sportspersons who bring glory to our nation has been severely dented by the shameful & arrogant actions of #MVA leadership," he wrote."At a time when PM Modi is inspiring our sportsperson to bring glory for our country, the tall leaders of Maha Vikas Aghadhi government are doing such shameful acts. I demand immediate apology from them and an impartial inquiry into the entire incident," the BJP MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sports-track-turned-into-parking-lot-bjp-leader-questions-vip-culture-kiren-rijiju-comments-101624795565762.html
27-06-2021||India||Making Covid-19 vaccines available for kids would be 'milestone achievement', says Dr Randeep Guleria||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria has said making vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) available for children would be a "milestone achievement," as concerns persist over the impact of a potential third Covid-19 wave on those under the age of 18, including children.Also Read | Covaxin likely to be approved for children by Sept: Dr Randeep Guleria"If the Zydus Cadila vaccine gets approval it would be an option," Dr Guleria told news agency PTI. The senior doctor also reiterated his comments from earlier this week, saying that data from phase 2 and 3 trials of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on the 2-18 age group is likely to be available by September following which the vaccine might receive approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).Also Read | Zydus Cadila to seek emergency approval for its Covid vaccineIf the Pfizer vaccine is approved before that, it could also be an option, Dr Guleria further reiterated. "Availability of Covid-19 vaccine for children would pave the way for the reopening of schools and outdoor activities. Schools have to be reopened as there has been a major loss in studies in the last 18 months due to the pandemic," he stressed.Also Read | Pfizer CEO says Covid-19 vaccine in final stages of approval in IndiaDr Guleria also cautioned that though children have mild Covid-19 infections and some are even asymptomatic, they can be carriers of the viral disease.While experts are near unanimous that a third wave of Covid-19 would hit India in the near future, they are divided over its impact on kids. While some say that this age group would be the most vulnerable, others, including Dr Guleria, have dismissed this theory.Also Read | Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero surveyCurrently, every Indian citizen above the age of 18 is eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine shot. On Friday, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) DG Dr Balram Bhargava said till there is more data, "we won't be able to vaccinate children at large."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/making-covid-19-vaccines-available-for-kids-would-be-milestone-achievement-says-aiims-chief-101624789369444.html
27-06-2021||India||Govt probes attack at Jammu air base, Rajnath Singh to review situation||The Jammu air base was hit by two "low-intensity explosions" in the early hours of Sunday. The blasts took place in the span of five to six minutes and injured at least two personnel of the Indian Air Force (IAF), according to the police. The blasts have caused concern in security circles as they could mark the first time that drones have been used in an attack in India.“The attack at the IAF station in Jammu is a terror attack,” Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh told news agency PTI. Officials said that defence minister Rajnath Singh is expected to review the security situation, news agency Reuters reported, quoting government officials.What happened?According to the police, two explosives-laden drones crashed into the station around 1.40 am on Sunday. The blasts took place within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground area behind the building.No damage has been reported to be caused to any equipment. But it is being suspected that since the blasts took place in the technical area, helicopters kept at the building may have been the targets.According to a report by news agency ANI, a shaped charge (explosive device) was used for the attack, the initial probe suggests.So far, it is not clear where the drones took off for the air force station. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km.Investigation so farAn investigation into the twin explosions was immediately launched and officials are exploring all possible angles to the incident including a "terror attack." “The attack at the IAF station in Jammu is a terror attack,” Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh told PTI.The J&K police, meanwhile, have registered a First Information Report (FIR) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, as per the report by news agency ANI.The Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is also at the station for investigation. A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) also arrived at the Air Force Station earlier in the day.The authorities are also working to ascertain the flight path of the drones.A major tragedy averted?Earlier in the day, police arrested a person, suspected to have an association with Lashkar-e-Taiba, a United Nations-designated terrorist outfit, the director-general of police Dilbag Singh confirmed. He was taken into custody along with an improvised explosive device weighing around six kg, Singh said said.The person was tasked with triggering the IED in a crowded place. "The suspect has been detained and is being interrogated. A major terror attack has been averted with this recovery. More suspects are likely to be picked up in this foiled IED blast attempt," Singh also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-probes-attack-at-jammu-air-base-rajnath-singh-to-review-situation-101624793513108.html
27-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gupteshwar Pandey who handled Sushant Singh Rajput case is now seeking God and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gupteshwar Pandey who handled Sushant Singh Rajput death case says he will only serve God nowBihar's former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey who was in the thick of Bihar versus Maharashtra government tussle in the investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput's death in 2020 is now a religious preacher. Read MorePolice register FIR under UAPA after blasts in Jammu IAF stationThe Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police registered a First Information Report (FIR) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after two low-intensity explosions took place at the Jammu Air Force Station on Sunday, news agency ANI reported quoting officials. Read MoreChhattisgarh Maoist involved in 25 cases and carrying award on his head killedChhattisgarh Police said it gunned down a Maoist, who was involved in 25 criminal cases and carried a reward of ₹500,000 on his head, in an encounter in Dantewada district on Sunday. Read More'When you're unplayable, you're bound to have success': Razzaq talks about his delivery that troubled Sachin TendulkarWhen it comes to discussing bowlers, who have dismissed Sachin Tendulkar most times in international cricket, the legendary James Anderson, Glenn McGrath and Brett Lee come to mind. Read More'Kareena Kapoor was so excited': Mona Singh on Laal Singh Chaddha's co-star's reaction to her weddingActor Mona Singh will soon be seen in Aamir Khan's Laal Singh Chaddha. It will be her second movie with both Aamir and Kareena Kapoor after 2009's 3 Idiots. Read MoreWatch: How Md Shami, Virat Kohli, Anupam Kher and a rainbow snake amused netizens||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-gupteshwar-pandey-who-handled-sushant-singh-rajput-case-is-now-seeking-god-and-all-the-latest-news-101624792568885.html
27-06-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Maoist involved in 25 cases and carrying award on his head killed||Chhattisgarh Police said it gunned down a Maoist, who was involved in 25 criminal cases and carried a reward of ₹500,000 on his head, in an encounter in Dantewada district on Sunday. Dantewada superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Pallava said the encounter took place in Pordem forest at around 12.30 pm when a team of the District Reserve Group (DRG), out for an anti-Maoist operation, was fired upon. “The firing lasted for about 25 minutes after which the Maoist fled into the jungle. Later, during a search operation, we found the body of a Moaist and a pistol,” said the SP. Police said security forces were currently searching the jungle for the remaining Maoists. The police officer said the body was later identified as that of Santosh Markam, a member of the Malangir Area Committee of the banned CPI (Maoist) group. “He was carrying a cash reward of ₹500,000 on his head and was wanted in about 25 cases of Maoist violence,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-maoist-involved-in-25-cases-and-carrying-award-on-his-head-killed-101624792206367.html
27-06-2021||India||Assam: 65-year-old cleric arrested for rape and murder of 9-yr-old girl||Assam Police on Saturday arrested a 65-year-old cleric accused of raping and murdering a 9-year-old girl on June 20 from Morigaon district. The arrest comes after chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s visit to the victim’s family on Friday, when he directed the police to speed up investigations. “The accused was arrested on Saturday night and will be produced in court later on Sunday. We are in the process of interrogating him, but he has not confessed [his] involvement yet,” said Aparna N, superintendent of police (SP), Morigaon. The police officer added that the victim’s post-mortem confirmed sexual assault.“Report of the victim’s post mortem has revealed that there was sexual assault and [the] cause of death was strangulation. We have sent her viscera samples for forensic test and its report is awaited,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-65-year-old-cleric-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-9-yr-old-girl-101624790646426.html
27-06-2021||India||Gupteshwar Pandey who handled Sushant Singh Rajput death case says he will only serve God now||Bihar's former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey who was in the thick of Bihar versus Maharashtra government tussle in the investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput's death in 2020 is now a religious preacher. His only interest now lies in God and this transformation is not sudden, as he has told news agency ANI.Months after Sushant Singh Rajput's death on June 14, 2020, his father registered an FIR in Patna. Gupteshwar Pandey, who was a well-known IPS officer of Bihar, then came to the national limelight as he sent a Bihar Police team to Mumbai for a parallel investigation. This was followed by his regular diatribe against Mumbai Police regarding the investigation. He was also criticised when he said actor Rhea Chakraborty has no 'aukat' to comment on Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.In September, Pandey took voluntary retirement from his service and joined the JD(U). Bihar went to elections in October, but without Pandey getting a ticket from his hometown Buxar as the seat went with the BJP. In between all these, Gupteshwar Pandey became viral because of a video made featuring him as'Robinhood Bihar Ke'. This was not his first attempt in politics. In 2009, he wanted to contest the Lok Sabha election on a BJP ticket for which he took retirement from his service but finally was not granted one.Now it's all water under the bridge as the 'Robinhood' of Bihar has become a katha vachak, reading sermons from Bhagwad Gita. As he said, the transformation is not sudden and he used to do the same when he was in the service, but not in the public because of his service code of conduct. Recently, he addressed quite a few religious sessions for the Ayodhya Ram Mandir Trust, which brought his new avatar to the public."There comes a point when you want to know the purpose of life, and in knowing God. I am no exception. We think that material achievements will make us happy, but the real happiness lies in God. I only want to serve God now," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupteshwar-pandey-who-handled-sushant-singh-rajput-death-says-he-will-only-serve-god-now-101624789342332.html
27-06-2021||India||Delta Plus variant has greater affinity towards lung tissues, says govt body head||The Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 has a greater affinity towards lung issues as compared to other strains, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) head Dr NK Arora has said, but it does not mean that it can cause severe lung disease or has higher transmissibility, he has clarified.The Delta Plus variant which was identified on June 11 was recently classified as a variant of concern by the Union health ministry on Tuesday. India has detected 51 cases of Delta Plus across 12 states with Maharashtra reporting maximum cases. “Delta plus is having greater affinity to mucosal lining in the lungs, higher compared to other variants, but if it causes damage or not is not clear yet. It also does not mean that this variant will cause more severe disease or it is more transmissible,” Dr Arora was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also pointed out that the disease is generally mild in all those who have vaccinated with either a single or double dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.Arora said that the number of identified cases of Delta plus variant could be higher as asymptomatic individuals with Covid-19 may be spreading the virus. He highlighted that there is a need to keep a very close watch on the spread to understand the transmission efficiency.He said that it is important to note that the genomic surveillance component has picked up at the right time and early enough. Since the government has identified the variant of concern, it means that states can now take action based on data shared with them. State governments can make micro plans for districts where the virus has been identified in order to contain its spread.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has already written to chief secretaries of 7 states and a Union Territory on Friday sharing the names of districts where cases of Delta Plus variant has been found and asked them to initiate widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis.Dr Arora said that it is too early to assess whether the Delta Plus variant can trigger the third wave of Covid-19. He also said that if one observes closely, they can see that for the last 8-10 days the number of Covid-19 cases is stuck at 50,000 and some places are reporting higher numbers of cases. The wave has not settled down, Arora said.Dr Arora said the second wave will influence the community’s response to another variant and the third wave will depend on what amount of the population were infected in the second wave. He highlighted that if a large proportion of people were infected then they may develop a 'common cold-like illness’ and may not develop any 'serious or fatal illness’.Arora also said that vaccination is necessary to neutralise damages that the probable third wave of Covid-19 can cause. He said if vaccination can be coupled with appropriate usage of masks and strict adherence to Covid-19 preventative measures then the damage caused by the variant as well as the probable third wave can be effectively contained.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-strain-shows-greater-affinity-towards-lung-tissues-101624787049492.html
27-06-2021||India||Police register FIR under UAPA after blasts in Jammu IAF station||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police registered a First Information Report (FIR) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after two low-intensity explosions took place at the Jammu Air Force Station on Sunday, news agency ANI reported quoting officials. The Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is also at the station for investigation, it also reported. A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) also arrived at the Air Force Station earlier in the day.This comes after director-general of police in J&K, Dilbag Singh termed the blasts 'a terror attack,' as per PTI report. The police, Indian Air Force (IAF) and other agencies were investigating the attack, PTI reported Singh as saying.Two IAF personnel were injured when two explosives-laden drones crashed into the station around 1.40am. The blasts took place within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground.According to a report by ANI, a shaped charge (explosive device) was used for the attack, initial probe suggests.After the twin explosions, Union minister of defence, Rajnath Singh spoke to vice air cief, air marshal HS Arora, earlier in the day. He also informed the officials at the station that marshal Vikram Singh would soon be reaching Jammu to take stock of the situation.Chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, who is in Bangladesh on an official invitation, is also monitoring the situation constantly, the news agency also reported.Meanwhile, Jammu airport officials said that all flight operations are normal and 16 flights scheduled for the day departing to Delhi, Srinagar, Leh and Gwalior. Only two flights G8 185 and SG 963 cancelled for the day due to operational reasons.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-register-fir-under-uapa-after-blasts-in-jammu-iaf-station-101624787084331.html
27-06-2021||India||Never imagined a 'village boy' like me could hold highest post of India: President Kovind in his native village||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday visited his native village in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, where he interacted with old acquaintances. Speaking at the Jan Abhinandan Samaroh, the President delivered an emotional speech and said he had never imagined that an "ordinary boy like me" would hold the highest post of the nation. "I had never imagined even in my dreams that an ordinary boy like me from a village would get the privilege of discharging responsibilities of the highest office of the country. But our democratic system has made it possible," he said at Paraunkh village, situated in Kanpur Dehat district.He also thanked the people of the village for the same. "As far as I have reached today, the credit goes to the soil of this village and the love and blessings of all of you," he said at the gathering.Upon arriving at his birthplace, President Kovind also bowed and touched the ground to pay obeisance in a rarely seen gesture. President Kovind also paid tributes to freedom fighters of the country and the drafting committee of the Constitution for their sacrifice and contribution.President Kovind also said that the scent of soil of the village and the memories of its residents has always remained etched in his heart. "For me, Paraunkh is not only a village, it is my 'maatribhoomi' (motherland) from where I get inspiration to serve the country," he said at the gathering. "This inspiration has made me reach from the high court to the Supreme Court to the Rajya Sabha. From the Rajya Sabha, I moved to the Raj Bhavan and from there to the Rashtrapati Bhavan," the president said.The President was welcomed by Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said Vikas Rai, the PRO to SP Kanpur Dehat. During the visit, President Kovind took a round of the village along with Patel and Adityanath. Accompanied by his wife, Savita Devi, and daughter, President Kovind also visited the Pathri Devi temple and offered prayers there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-imagined-a-village-boy-like-me-could-hold-highest-post-of-india-president-kovind-in-his-native-village-101624786918825.html
27-06-2021||India||Encouraged by PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat, man takes Covid-19 vaccine shot||A man in Madhya Pradesh's Betul got himself and his entire family vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after being encouraged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rajesh Hirave, from Dulariya village in Betul district, was one of the people the Prime Minister spoke to during his Mann Ki Baat address and urged to shun vaccine hesitancy.The chat between PM Modi and Hirave was pre-recorded and aired on Sunday as part of Mann Ki Baat programme.Forty-three-year-old Hirave told PM Modi that dangerous information is being spread about the vaccines being administered in the country. Hirave said he has received messages on WhatsApp claiming that people are dying after being vaccinated. But the Prime Minister said this information is false. PM Modi gave his own example and urged Hirave to take a shot of the vaccine which he said is the only way to stop the infection from spreading."After talking to the prime minister on Friday, I along with my family members got the vaccine shot for prevention from the coronavirus infection on Saturday," Hirave told news agency PTI.After bring prodded by the Prime Minister, Hirave also encouraged other people in his village to take the vaccine shot. He claimed that 127 people from his village got vaccinated.PM Modi also interacted with Kishorilal Dhurve, who lives in Hirave's village. The Prime Minister said that his nearly 100-year-old mother has also taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine, and asked him to trust science."The threat of Covid-19 remains and we have to focus on vaccination as well as follow Covid-19 protocols," PM Modi said.India launched the nationwide vaccination programme against Covid-19 on January 16 this year and till now, has inoculated more than 320 million people.India, meanwhile, recorded 50,040 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry data, which took the nationwide tally to 35.51 million. The Covid-19 death toll rose by 1,258, including 511 deaths reported from Maharashtra, the health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encouraged-by-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-man-takes-covid-19-vaccine-shot-101624786459914.html
27-06-2021||India||Shiv Sena claims misuse of CBI, ED; questions why no probe in Ayodhya land deal||The Shiv Sena on Sunday again alleged that the Central investigation agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) were being misused to target political opponents instead of probing the alleged scam in land deal for the construction of the iconic Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.“Our freedom fighters did not fear the tyranny of the British government but in independent India, political activists fear the Central investigation agencies. The freedom fighters bravely went to prison and to the gallows but political activists are forced to surrender to harassment by the Central agencies,” Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said in his weekly column Rokhthok in Saamana, a Shiv Sena mouthpiece.Raut’s editorial comes in the backdrop of ED raids on former state home minister Anil Deshmukh in the money laundering and bribery case and the Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s allegation of harassment by the Central agency in a case of money laundering. Sarnaik recently wrote to Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray claiming his “harassment” could end if the Shiv Sena re-aligned with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The raid on Anil Deshmukh’s house resembled as if he was a dacoit from Chambal. These agencies are riding roughshod over the state governments and it appears that they have been told to harass Maharashtra and West Bengal,” said Raut.Claiming that the Central agencies have become a political tool for the ruling parties since 1975, Raut said, “The [Telugu Desam Party or the TDP] MPs Y S Chowdary and C M Ramesh defected to the BJP in 2019 after the Income Tax (IT) department raided them for [alleged] tax evasion and money laundering. Their harassment stopped after they joined the ruling party and today they are relieved. Such incidents have forced an aggressive leader like Sarnaik, who had initially pledged to fight such agencies, to surrender, as his family is being dragged into this,” said Raut.Raut said even PM Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah had faced similar ordeal when the Congress-led government was ruling the Centre.Raut said that such tactics do not augur well for the country and questioned how Central agencies “swept the cases” registered against political leaders under the carpet if they joined the ruling party.The MP questioned why CBI or ED was not probing the alleged land deal in Ayodhya. “The biggest land scam has taken place in the Ram Temple deal in which relatives of the Ayodhya mayor sold the land parcels for crores after buying them at much cheaper prices. This needs to be probed by the Central agencies, but until now it’s untouched,” he said.The BJP said Sena’s allegations of a witch hunt by Central agencies was a “ploy to save corrupt leaders”. “The Sena is using the Ram Mandir ploy to save its corrupt extortionist leaders from action. They are trying to divert attention from the corruption issue,” party MLA Ram Kadam said.However, political analyst Surendra Jondhale said there was a perception that Central agencies were being misused and the government should understand that this was likely to be “counter-productive” in the long run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-claims-misuse-of-cbi-ed-questions-why-no-probe-in-ayodhya-land-deal-101624786625640.html
27-06-2021||India||'Covid 3rd wave will depend on...': Govt's expert panel chief NK Arora lists 3 points, talks about Delta Plus||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India is receding and Delta Plus, the new variant of Delta, has created fresh concerns as all epidemiologists have predicted a third wave of the pandemic as almost inevitable. But Delta Plus can not be yet linked to a third wave of the pandemic, Covid-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation chief Dr NK Arora has said. But he asserted that as variants are linked to new waves, the possibility can not be dismissed at all."Waves are linked to new variants or new mutations so there is a possibility as this is a new variant, but whether it will lead to a third wave it is difficult to answer as it will depend upon two or three things," Dr Arora told PTI.Explained: Delta Plus variant symptoms and how to protect yourselfThe variant alone may not hit the country hard, Dr Arora said, as there are three other factors that will also control the new wave of the pandemic if it comes.First, the third wave will depend on what proportion of the population got infected in the second wave. "If a large proportion is infected then in the next wave people can develop a common cold-like illness but may not develop a serious or fatal illness," Dr Arora said.Second, if the vaccination drive goes on with this speed, then a huge number of people will become immune by the time the third wave comes. "...the rapidity with which we vaccinate...even single dose is effective and the way we are planning, if we rapidly immunise then the possibility of a third wave becomes very less," Dr Arora said.Third, strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing of the masks, maintaining physical distance, will protect from any variant, a point that experts have been emphasising.Delta and Delta PlusWhile Delta, the variant first reported in India, is highly transmissible, the same can not be said about Delta Plus as the variant has been present in India for the last two months. The presence of the variant is localised and experts have said there is not enough evidence to corroborate that the variant is spreading vast or is more dangerous than Delta, or is immune-escape.Delta, on the other hand, was one of the major factors behind the second wave of the pandemic in India, scientists have agreed and now it has spread across 174 districts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-will-depend-on-govt-s-expert-panel-chief-nk-arora-lists-3-points-talks-about-delta-plus-101624784411136.html
27-06-2021||India||Surat businessman Mahesh Savani joins AAP ahead of Gujarat assembly elections||Mahesh Savani, a Surat-based businessman and a social worker, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday, ahead of the state assembly elections as the ruling party in Delhi is aiming to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state and take its national ambition further."The AAP is like a vacant plot in Gujarat, where a house of new and modern politics of the state can be built. To lay the foundation of this, we welcome Mahesh ji to the Aam Aadmi Party," senior AAP leader Manish Sisodia said at a press conference in Surat. "In Gujarat, the AAP is growing day and night at quadruple speed," Sisodia, who is the deputy chief minister in Delhi, said.Sisodia also praised AAP councillors, who were elected through civic body elections in February. "Now it is not only the work of Delhi, but the work of Gujarat has also started speaking… the work of the councillors has started speaking," he said, adding, "Impressed by all that, Mahesh bhai decided to join the AAP family."Addressing Gujarat's residents, Sisodia also said that the state hopes that these people of the AAP "will realise the dream of new and successful politics," which the Congress and the BJP have been promising for over the years.Speaking on the next year's assembly elections, Sisodia said it "will be held between the party that is sitting in the middle of a power and a party that came out of the public." "Wherever you go on seeing Aam Aadmi Party, there you will go on forgetting the Congress and BJP, it is our claim," he also asserted.After making inroads in civic body elections by winning 27 out of 120 seats, the AAP is planning to out the BJP in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state. In June, AAP national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the party will contest all seats in the Gujarat assembly elections to be held next year. The Delhi-based AAP is taking small steps to achieve its national ambition. It has already announced its plan to contest in assembly elections of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-businessman-mahesh-savani-joins-aap-ahead-of-gujarat-assembly-elections-101624783381249.html
27-06-2021||India||Fuel rates jump over ₹8 a litre in 55 days||The rally of petrol and diesel rates continued unabated on Sunday by 35 paise a litre and 25 paise respectively, the 31st hike in 55 days, which made petrol costlier by ₹8.06 per litre and diesel by ₹8.17 since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Petrol and diesel in Delhi are now sold at a record ₹98.46 per litre and ₹88.90 a litre, respectively. While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Both petrol and diesel rates have crossed the ₹100 mark in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar, where petrol is sold at ₹109.67 per litre and diesel at ₹102.12 a litre on Sunday.The financial capital has the highest fuel rates among five metros where petrol is currently sold at ₹104.56 per litre and diesel at ₹96.42 a litre. The latest hike leads to the highest jump in fuel rates in last two days as state-run oil marketing companies had raised pump prices of petrol and diesel by 35 paise a litre on Saturday that saw petrol breaching ₹100 mark in several cities of four more states – Punjab, Bihar, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The unidirectional upward movement Since May 4 saw petrol already crossing ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, particularly in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram and Mohali.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps.International oil prices soared on the last trading day (Friday), the highest since October 2018 on expectations of demand growth, continued oil squeeze by producers’ cartel and geopolitical reasons. Brent crude on Friday surged 0.82% to $76.18 a barrel, while US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) jumped 1% to 74.05. Last week, both benchmarks closed at record levels since October 2018.Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with respective international benchmarks of the previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates. Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 34.03% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.08%, according to official data of June 16. On diesel, central taxes are over 36.38% while state taxes are about 14.63%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit - with revenues hit on account of the pandemic. Even as international oil prices saw volatility since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude had plunged to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest in these 46 days; petrol and diesel rates went up the next day by 19 paise per litre and 29 paise a litre, respectively. According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory. During the 66-day pause on the rate hike, state-run retailers had also reduced politically sensitive petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010, and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-rates-jump-over-rs-8-a-litre-in-55-days-101624783025414.html
27-06-2021||India||Amrut Mahotsav: PM Modi urges all to take part in celebrations leading to 75th Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged all citizens to take part in the events being held across the nation as part of the Amruta Mahotsav, which is being celebrated to mark the 75th Independence Day of India on August 15, 2022."The 75th Independence Day should be an inspiration for us. Our mantra should be 'India first', it should be the basis of all our decisions," PM Modi said while addressing the 78th episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. "We will talk in detail about preparations being carried out for the even't celebration when we meet for our next Mann Ki Baat episode," the PM said.Amruta Mahotsav, being celebrated as a 'people's movement' by the government of India, will be managed by a national implementation committee which will be headed by Union home minister Amit Shah.As part of the celebrations, India will remember its freedom fighters and rekindle the history related to them, PM Modi said. "I had asked the youth to research and write on our freedom struggle on one of the earlier Mann Ki Baat episodes. The purpose of this exercise was to make young talent, thinking and opinion come forward. I was pleased to find that more than 2,500 youths carried out this task," he said.The PM had launched 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' in Gujarat last month. He paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and all other freedom fighters who lost their lives fighting for the country’s independence before flagging off the event.“I pay my respects at the feet of Bapu on this auspicious occasion. I bow to the feet of all the great personalities who sacrificed their lives during the freedom struggle of the country and lead the country. I salute them,” he said.'Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav' means the "elixir of the energy of freedom," the PM said. "...it means the nectar of inspiration from freedom fighters, the nectar of new ideas, the nectar of new resolutions. and the nectar of self-reliance," he said, adding that this nectar of inspiration from the past will serve to further inspire the coming generations of this country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amrut-mahotsav-pm-modi-urges-all-to-take-part-in-celebrations-leading-to-75th-independence-day-101624779492114.html
27-06-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi addresses vaccine hesitancy in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to get vaccinated to protect themselves against the coronavirus and not fall for rumours. In his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, the PM said India has achieved the distinction of vaccinating millions in a single day and it is imperative that vaccine hesitancy, based on rumours, is addressed.Talking to residents of Madhya Pradesh’s Betul, the PM said more than 310 million beneficiaries in the country have taken the vaccine so far. He cited his own example and said he’s taken both the doses of the vaccine and so has his mother who is nearly 100. The PM also cited the example of Bandipora in Kashmir where nearly all have been vaccinated in the village of Weyun. According to the union health ministry portal on Sunday afternoon, 321,760,077 or more than 321 million vaccine doses have been administered so far across the country.“Our fight against Corona continues and together in this battle we are creating newer milestones. Only a few days ago our country did something unprecedented; on June 21 as part of the next phase of vaccination, we inoculated 86 lakh people in a single day. The free vaccination drive was carried out in a single day,” he said, referring to the fact that no country other than China has managed to vaccinate more people in a day. The chairman of the working group on Covid-19 vaccines in India Dr NK Arora had then said that the target was to jab close to 10 million people in a single day by August.On Saturday the PM reviewed the government’s response to the pandemic and expressed satisfaction at the rate of vaccination. In the wake of an anticipated third wave, he instructed for the outreach to be widened with the help of NGOs, said his office.Referring to the mass vaccination campaign that covers those above 18 years of age, the PM said a year ago people wanted to know when the vaccines will come. “Today we are giving millions of shots in a single day. This is the strength of new India. To ensure safe vaccines for every citizen we are making constant efforts at many places to eradicate vaccine hesitancy,” he said.The PM also urged people not to let their guard down.“It is a disease in which the virus keeps changing its form. Do not believe anyone who says that the pandemic is over. And we have two ways to save ourselves, the first is to wear a mask and follow the corona protocol and the second is to take the vaccine,” he said.He said people should listen to scientists and doctors and not to those who spread rumours. “Stay away from rumours and ensure that [people in] villages take the vaccine as well; not only in your own village but also in villages around yours,” he told a resident of Betul during the radio broadcast.Referring to the steps taken in the villages to adhere to the Covid protocol, he said the wisdom and capability shown by the villagers and tribal communities during the pandemic will become case studies in future. “People in villages made quarantine centres keeping in mind the local needs and adhered to Covid protocols. They never let anyone go hungry, continued agricultural work... and did not allow supply chains to be affected…We have to do the same for the vaccination drive to ensure that every villager is vaccinated and to create awareness about this,” he said.The PM also urged people to take steps for conservation of rainwater and said it will not only address the current needs, but is also important for the future generations. Water conservation is a key programme of the government that is aiming to provide water connections to all households by 2024.“Ask yourself a question, everyone wants to be successful, but what is the mantra? The mantra is consistency. Monsoon season has arrived and when it rains, it is not only for us but for the future generations as well. Rainwater percolates and improves the groundwater level so it is important to conserve and harvest rainwater. It is a form of service to the nation,” he said.He also urged the countrymen to show their support for the athletes who are Tokyo-bound for the Olympics.“Being grounded also always helps us stay in touch with our roots. Success is especially sweet when it is preceded by days of struggle,” he said referring to the athletes, some of whom faced economic challenges and hardships.“We should support these people with an open mind. On social media you can wish them with the hashtag #cheer4India and encourage them... We should all support our players bound for Tokyo,” he said.In the wake of cases of violence against healthcare workers, the PM said July 1 is celebrated as doctors’ day and we are all grateful for the contribution of the doctors during the pandemic. “Without caring for their own lives they took care of people, therefore this year national doctors’ day becomes even more special…It becomes our responsibility that we express our gratitude and love to them and encourage them,” he said.“It is also Chartered accountants day on July 1. A few years ago I had requested chartered accountants to create a global level audit firm. Today I want to remind them, chartered accountants can play a very affirmative role in bringing transparency to the economy,” he said.He said as the country prepares to celebrate the 75th year of Independence the mantra should be India First. “All our decisions should be based on India First,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-addresses-vaccine-hesitancy-in-mann-ki-baat-101624780205017.html
27-06-2021||India||Water conservation is 'service to nation': PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday highlighted the importance of water conservation as he addressed the 78th episode of Mann Ki Baat, his monthly radio programme. Speaking on the show, which he hosts on the last Sunday of every month, PM Modi said monsoon has arrived and asked citizens to "once again focus on water conservation." "When clouds rain, they rain not only for us but also for generations to come," PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also said that water conservation must be considered as a service to the nation because rainwater collects in the ground, it also replenishes the groundwater level. "In the hills, there exists a traditional method of water conservation called Chalkhal. That is, it involves digging a big pit to collect water," PM Modi said as he gave an example of Satchidanand Bharti, a resident of Pauri in Uttarakhand's Garhwal district."Using this tradition, Satchinand Bharti continuously made small and big ponds... With this, not only the hill of Ufrainkhal became greener, but the problem of drinking water was also solved," he told his listeners.Bharati has built "more than 30,000 such water ponds" over the years, PM Modi also informed.PM Modi also spoke against Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy and said he and his nearly 100-year-old mother have taken both doses. "Please get rid of fear. Sometimes people may get a fever but it is very mild and lasts only for a few hours. Avoiding vaccine can be very dangerous. You are not only putting yourself at risk but also your family and the entire village," he said. "Don't believe in rumours about the Covid vaccine. Trust science and our scientists," PM Modi added.Over the course of the last 77 episodes of Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi has used the platform to share his thoughts on various topics related to the nation. With live broadcast on state-run All India Radio and Doordarshan television channel, Mann Ki Baat is also streamed live on all of PM Modi's social media platforms, as well as of PMO's. It is also broadcast in regional languages immediately after the Hindi broadcast on All India Radio. The regional language versions are repeated at 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/water-conservation-is-service-to-nation-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-101624778809485.html
27-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: President Ram Nath Kovind visits ailing friend in Kanpur and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.President Ram Nath Kovind visits ailing friend at his home in KanpurPresident Ram Nath Kovind, who is in Kanpur, visited the house of his childhood friend KK Agarwal to meet him. The President is in Kanpur on a four-day visit during which he is meeting the members of his family and friends. Kovind boarded a train to reach Kanpur - the first President to do so in the last 15 years. The journey of the special train concluded in his native village Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat (rural). Read MoreOn Mann Ki Baat, PM says don't believe in rumours on vaccines and trust sciencePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said there is Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy in some places in the country, which is dangerous. Speaking during his monthly radio address 'Mann Ki Baat', PM Modi said that more than 31 crore vaccine doses have been administered till today. Read MoreWATCH: 2 minor blasts hit Jammu air force station, bomb disposal squad rushesAn explosion was heard inside the Air Force station in Jammu airport's technical area on Sunday morning. A forensic team and Bomb Disposal Squad have rushed to the explosion site. Indian Air Force official said that the low-intensity blasts were reported in quick succession at around 1:40am and damaged the roof of a building.Puducherry’s first NDA ministry to be sworn in todayThe first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ministry in Puducherry will be sworn in on Sunday. Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Tamilisai Soundararajan will administer the oath of office to A Namassivayam and Sai Saravanan Kumar of the BJP and K Lakshminarayanan, C Dijeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga of the All India NR Congress (AINRC), officials said. Read MoreRise of Taliban in Afghanistan is ominous for South and Central AsiaPrime Minister Imran Khan has told western media that Pakistan’s leverage on the Taliban has diminished after the US announced the date of withdrawal of forces from Afghanistan, resulting in a de-facto victory of the Pashtun insurgent group. In the same interview, PM Khan claimed that Pakistan’s leverage over the Taliban came from Islamabad’s recognition of the Sunni fundamentalist group after it seized Kabul in 1996. Read MoreHero Cycles delivers first batch of Made-in-India e-bikes to EuropeIndian bicycle major Hero Cycles, part of Hero Motors Company (HMC) Group, has successfully delivered its first batch of 'Made-in-India' e-bikes of around 200 units to Germany in Europe. The company aims to become a leader in the European Union (EU) market as it has more units planned for the EU in the future. Read MoreSara Ali Khan smiles for aunt Saba Ali Khan in childhood pic: 'I love this brat'Actor Sara Ali Khan has received yet another love-filled Instagram post from her aunt, Saba Ali Khan. Saba took to Instagram on early Sunday morning to share an old photo of Sara. Read MoreSussanne Khan chases endorphins by doing functional workouts at gym, see videoIndian interior and fashion designer Sussanne Khan believes that there is nothing in this world that endorphins cannot fix. The former wife of actor Hrithik Roshan is known to fit energetic exercise routines in her busy schedule and inspire her fans to hit the grind. Read MorePUBG Mobile may feature Elon Musk's Tesla cars in games? Will Battlegrounds Mobile India get it? Krafton has this to sayPUBG Mobile is no longer available in India after the ban imposed by the government, but fans can experience the game in its new avatar, Battlegrounds Mobile India. Krafton has reintroduced the popular battle royale game in India with India-centric features and it has become a rage again. As for PUBG Mobile, it has gone and done something that is expected to make the game even more thrilling. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-president-ram-nath-kovind-visits-ailing-friend-in-kanpur-and-all-the-latest-news-101624776679199.html
27-06-2021||India||Explained: Delta Plus variant symptoms and how to protect yourself||The Delta Plus variant of coronavirus has been wreaking havoc across the world, with increased transmissibility and resistance to some drugs and therapies. India has already declared it as the variant of concern, with the strain found in 49 samples from 12 states. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases of the Delta Plus variant.Vaccination and safety measures such as wearing of face masks are essential when it comes to fighting the Delta Plus coronavirus variant, World Health Organization (WHO) representative to Russia Melita Vujnovic said."We need to make an effort over a short period of time, otherwise there would be a lockdown," Vujnovic said on the Soloviev Live YouTube show.The Delta Plus variant is the mutated form of the Delta variant, earlier found in India. The Delta variant has so far been found in 85 countries, according to health experts, and has been the driving force behind a surge in infection in South Africa.In fact, the infectious disease experts in South Africa believe that the country is already experiencing a third wave of the infection due to the Delta variant.Earlier this month, the WHO included Delta in its list of coronavirus variants of concern.Why is Delta Plus variant a cause of concern?This new variant of coronavirus, also known as AY.1, spreads almost 60 per cent faster than its predecessor, the Delta variant. It also binds more easily to the lung cells and shows higher resistance to some of the drugs being used against Covid-19.Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said there are two graded mutations which have occurred in the Delta variant, which was the dominant strain of coronavirus in the country till now. These graded mutations L452R and P871R."These particular mutations add to the higher transmission efficiency so that the variant can spread quickly from one person to another or can enter into the cells much more efficiently compared to other strains that exist," said Dr Gangakhedkar, terming Delta Plus as one of the most critical mutations of coronavirus.What are the symptoms?India's top virologists have said that the Delta Plus variant carries symptoms of the Delta as well as its partner the beta variant. Some of these symptoms include cough, diarrhoea, fever, headache, skin rash, discolouration of fingers and toes, chest pain, and shortness of breath.Other symptoms listed by the experts and attributed to the Delta Plus variant are: stomache ache, nausea and appetite loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-delta-plus-variant-symptoms-and-how-to-protect-yourself-101624778167878.html
27-06-2021||India||Puducherry’s first NDA ministry to be sworn in today||The first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ministry in Puducherry will be sworn in on Sunday. Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Tamilisai Soundararajan will administer the oath of office to A Namassivayam and Sai Saravanan Kumar of the BJP and K Lakshminarayanan, C Dijeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga of the All India NR Congress (AINRC), officials said.The ceremony is scheduled to take place at 2.30 at Raj Nivas amidst tight security and pandemic restrictions. The cabinet formation was delayed due to several reasons by more than 50 days after the AINRC-led NDA emerged victorious in the assembly elections, the results of which were declared on May 2.Chief minister N Rangasamy took the oath on May 7 after which he contracted Covid-19. While he was being treated at a private Chennai hospital, the Union government nominated three BJP members as nominated MLAs. These nominated MLAs, who have voting rights, were from BJP in the previous Congress regime too who were crucial in numbers to topple the previous government.Later, AINRC and BJP bargained hard over cabinet posts and finally, the saffron party settled with the post of one speaker and two ministers. This led to a tussle within the BJP as supporters of all six elected MLA lobbied for the two cabinet berths.The new cabinet received the President’s assent on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherrys-first-nda-ministry-to-be-sworn-in-today-101624776725991.html
27-06-2021||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about contribution of doctors, CAs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday talked about doctors and chartered accountants on Mann Ki Baat programme as he praised their contribution to nation-building. PM Modi said doctors have gone out of their way to help people during the coronavirus pandemic and saved lives as Covid-19 hit the country.“A few days from now, on July 1, we will celebrate National Doctors' Day. This day is dedicated to the birth anniversary of the great doctor and statesman of the country, Dr BC Roy. We are all grateful for the contribution of doctors during the Corona period. Our doctors have served us without caring about their lives. Therefore, this time National Doctors' Day becomes even more special,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.Also read | PM spotlights record Covid-19 inoculation, asks people to shun vaccine hesitancyDr Bidhan Chandra Roy served as the chief minister of West Bengal for 14 years and is also remembered as a physician, philanthropist, educationist and social worker. He founded the Indian Medical Association in 1928, the Medical Council of India, the Indian Institute of Mental Health, the Infectious Disease Hospital and Kolkata’s first-ever postgraduate medical college. Roy has been honoured with the Bharat Ratna.PM Modi also spoke about “many people in our country who go ahead and work to help the doctors.” “I came to know about one such attempt from Srinagar. Here a Boat Ambulance Service was started in Dal Lake by Tariq Ahmad Patloo ji. A houseboat owner, he also fought the battle with Covid-19 and which inspired him to start the ambulance service,” PM Modi told his listeners.Also read | Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi cheers for Indian players, has this advise for peoplePatloo also constantly makes announcements from the ambulance to make people aware of the benefits of wearing masks and taking all other necessary precautions against Covid-19, the Prime Minister said.PM Modi also mentioned that Chartered Accountants Day is also celebrated on July 1 and reminded them about a gift he sought from them. “A few years back, I had asked chartered accountants of the country for a gift of Indian audit firms of global level. Today, I want to remind them of this. Chartered accountants can play a very good and positive role in bringing transparency to the economy. I extend my best wishes to all chartered accountants and their family members,” he said.Chartered Accountants Day is observed on July 1 every year to commemorate the establishment of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) in 1949 by Parliament.PM Modi was addressing the 78th edition of the Mann Ki Baat, which is broadcast on the last Sunday every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-talks-about-contribution-of-doctors-cas-101624775936282.html
27-06-2021||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi says don't believe in rumours on vaccines and trust science||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said there is Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy in some places in the country, which is dangerous. Speaking during his monthly radio address 'Mann Ki Baat', PM Modi said that more than 31 crore vaccine doses have been administered till today."Vaccine hesitancy in some places is dangerous I have taken both doses. My mother is almost 100 years old. She has taken both vaccines too. Please do not believe any negative rumours relating to vaccines. Take the vaccine jab as soon as possible," PM Modi urged the citizens.PM Modi further said that the threat of Covid-19 remains and the focus should be on vaccination and to follow Covid-19 protocols."Those who are spreading rumours on vaccines, let them be. We all will do our work and ensure people around us get vaccinated. I urge you all- trust science. Trust our scientists. So many people have taken the vaccine. Let us never believe on negative rumours relating to the vaccine," he added.He said that there are many villages in India that have achieved the target of administering 100% Covid-19 vaccination to all 18+ citizens."There is a Bandipura district in Kashmir that has achieved this target. Weyan village in Jammu and Kashmir has vaccinated every citizen above 18 years. They have successfully vaccinated their people," PM Modi said in his 'Mann Ki Baat' address.PM Modi on Saturday emphasised the need to maintain momentum in scaling up India’s vaccination drive againstCovid-19, asking officials to involve NGOs and other organisations to keep up the pace of inoculations.He was told by officials at a review meeting on the country’s Covid-19 vaccination programme that 37.7 million doses were administered in the last six days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-says-don-t-believe-in-rumours-on-vaccines-and-trust-science-101624771219737.html
27-06-2021||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi spotlights record Covid-19 inoculation, urges people to shun vaccine hesitancy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tribute to sprinter Milkha Singh as he spotlighted India's preparation for the Tokyo Olympics during his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. PM Modi also commended the healthcare workers of the country for carrying out record vaccination on June 21.Highlights of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat address"When I met Milkha Singh in 2014 in Surat, his understanding of sports and dedication inspired me. Milkha Singh's entire family has been dedicated towards sports, and bringing laurels to the country," he said, adding it's unfortunate that he was taken away from us.He also urged the people of the country to support for the country's players who are going to Tokyo. "Every player going to Tokyo has had one’s own share of struggle, and years of toil. They are going not only for themselves but for the country," said PM Modi.Also Read: PM Modi cheers for Indian players, has this advise for peopleTalking about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, he said that India has given indigenous vaccine to the people of the country within a year which shows the strength of the country. He also urged people to shun vaccine hesitancy.The Prime Minister also spoke to people who still feel apprehensive about taking a shot of the Covid-19 vaccine. Rajesh from Madhya Pradesh told PM Modi that dangerous information about vaccine is being spread on WhatsApp; he said the people are feeling scared that they will die after taking a shot of the vaccine.PM Modi said all this information is false and urged the people of the country to not believe in such rumours. He said the scientists of the country have toiled day and night to make this vaccine."I have taken both doses. My mother is almost hundred years old, she has taken both vaccines too. Please do not believe any negative rumours relating to vaccines," PM Modi said."Those who are spreading rumours on vaccines, let them be. We all will do our work and ensure people around us get vaccinated. The threat of Covid-19 remains and we have to focus on vaccination as well as follow Covid-19 protocols," he added.The Prime Minister also lauded the efforts put in and initiatives taken by the local population across the country to help people during Covid-19 pandemic. He said that awareness is key to defeating the disease."We must not get lethargic, and work consistently to defeat Covid-19," said PM Modi.This was the78th edition of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat. He holds this programme every month to interact with people and share his thoughts about key issues. He also asks people to share their thoughts an questions, which he discusses during the interaction.The programme is held on last Sunday of the month and is broadcast on Doordarshan, All India Radio and private channels at 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-spotlights-record-covid-19-inoculation-asks-people-to-shun-vaccine-hesitancy-101624772062253.html
27-06-2021||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi cheers for Indian players, has this advise for people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday every player taking part in the Tokyo Olympics this year has struggled to get where they are today and must be encouraged as he addressed the nation through Mann Ki Baat, his monthly radio programme.“They are not just going there for themselves but for the nation. These players will have to bring laurels o the nation and also win people’s hearts. And this is why my countrymen, I advise you not to pressurise the players knowingly or unknowingly,” PM Modi said while addressing the 78th edition of the Mann Ki Baat, which is broadcast on the last Sunday every month. “We should support them with an open mind and encourage them,” he added as he talked about the players going to Tokyo Olympics.“You can wish them on social media with #Cheer4India,” he said. If you come across any idea which the country should do for our players, then please send them to me. We will all support ur players bound for Tokyo,” he said.Also read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about contribution of doctors, CAsPM Modi on Sunday also highlighted Indian track legend, Milkha Singh, ahead of Tokyo Olympics during his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. "We are talking about Tokyo Olympics, so how can one forget about such a legendary athlete like Milkha Singh. Some days back, we lost Milkha Singh as he lost his battle to Covid-19,” he said.Milkha Singh succumbed to Covid-19 on June 19 at the age of 91.Also read | PM spotlights record Covid-19 inoculation, asks people to shun vaccine hesitancy“When he was in the hospital, I had a chance to talk to him. I told him that he led our contingent in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and that is why you need to talk to our contingent who would head to the Tokyo Olympics this year. I told him that he needs to motivate them," PM Modi said during the programme.Milkha Singh, PM Modi said, was devoted to sports and so he agreed to motivate the Tokyo-bound players. “But unfortunately, destiny had something else in store. I still remember he had come to Surat in 2014 and we had inaugurated a night marathon. That time, we had a chat about sports and I really got inspired by that," he added.Tokyo Olympics will be held from July 23-August 8 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-cheers-for-indian-players-has-this-advise-for-people-101624772813042.html
27-06-2021||India||PM Modi addresses nation on Mann Ki Baat. Watch live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation through his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme. Urging all citizens to tune in, PM Modi tweeted on Saturday, "Tune in at 11 AM tomorrow. #MannKiBaat."The 78th episode of the programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP's) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio, Doordarshan and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.Watch PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-watch-live-101624770446231.html
27-06-2021||India||2 blasts rock Indian Air Force’s highly secured technical airport in Jammu||The Indian Air Force is probing two blasts that took place within five minutes of each other, damaging a building and injuring two personnel at the technical airport in Jammu early hours on Sunday amid speculations of a drone strike. The authorities have however said it will be too early to draw any conclusions. Jammu and Kashmir police said it was treating it as a terror case and had detained two persons for questioning.The first blast at the airport, which is used for VVIP movements and armed forces’ strategic operations, took place at 1:37 am, damaging the roof of a building and the second one, said to be weaker in intensity, exploded at 1:42 am in an open area, the IAF said. It added that the blasts are being thoroughly probed by a high-level IAF investigation team, which was joined by a team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The Western Command Air chief has also reached the site.Watch: 2 minor blasts hit Jammu air force station, bomb disposal squad rushesA news wire reported that the blasts were carried out by “drones” and the “possible target of the drones was the aircraft parked in the dispersal area.”Another news agency cited people familiar with the developments to say that “investigators are also examining the possible use of drones to drop the explosives at the airport that has various assets of the IAF.”However, a defence spokesman advised the media to exercise restraint before drawing any conclusions.“There is no injury to any personnel or any damage to any equipment. Investigation is on and further details are awaited,” an IAF spokesman said.A person aware of the developments said the first blast created a hole in the rooftop of the building indicating use of “adequate amount of explosives”. Soon after the two blasts that were heard within one km radius, a bomb disposal squad along with forensic experts rushed to the site.There have been several incidents of Pakistan using drones in border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, weapons, drugs and Hawala money to fuel terrorism in the region. The incident comes at a time when defence minister Rajnath Singh is at Leh in Ladakh to take stock of the security scenario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-blasts-rock-indian-air-force-s-highly-secured-technical-airport-in-jammu-101624771624194.html
27-06-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind visits friend's house in Kanpur, brings cake for his wedding anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind, who is in Kanpur, visited the house of his childhood friend KK Agarwal to meet him. The President is in Kanpur on a four-day visit during which he is meeting the members of his family and friends. Kovind boarded a train to reach Kanpur - first President to do so in the last 15 years. Kovind also visited his place of birth Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat (rural).Also Read: ‘Moment of pride’, say railway employees involved in President Kovind’s train journeyThe President invited representatives of local industries, educationists and other prominent personalities from Kanpur to the Circuit House where he is staying. But in case of Agarwal, the President decided to pay him a visit at him home.A clothe merchant, Agarwal has not been keeping well for the past few weeks so the President decided to pay his old friend a visit at his home. He also took with him a cake to celebrate 51st wedding anniversary of Agarwal and his wife Veena. The President stayed at Agarwal's house for more than one hour.Later, talking to the media, Agarwal said he is elated that the President paid him a visit. He said it reminded him of Lord Krishna visiting the house of his poor friend Sudama. And the special gesture of the President to carry a cake to celebrate his wedding anniversary made the occasion special.The families of Agarwal and President Kovind have been friends for a very long time. The businessman from Kanpur visited the President House in Delhi when Kovind took oath of the highest office in the country.This is Kovind's first visit to his native village in Kanpur after becoming the President in 2017. A statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan said the President decided to undertake a train journey to his native village "in line with the tradition of his predecessors".Before Kovind, former President APJ Abdul Kamal travelled on a special train from Delhi to Dehradun to attend the parade of the cadets of the Indian Military Academy (IMA).The country's President Rajendra Prasad used to undertake train journeys when he visited different places in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-visits-ailing-friend-at-his-home-in-kanpur-101624771195235.html
27-06-2021||NA||Shun vaccine hesitancy, conserve water: PM Modi's advice in 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 78th edition of the monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme, which is aired on the last Sunday of every month, at 11am on June 27. In his speech, the Prime Minister paid tributes to India's athletes ahead of the Tokyo Olympics, talked about vaccine hesitancy, and hailed doctors for their role in tackling the pandemic. A few key highlights from his address are have been excerpted in this report.In a tweet addressed to his fellow citizens a day ago, the Prime Minister asked everyone to tune in at 11am on Sunday to hear him speak on the Mann Ki Baat programme.The prime minister's radio address to the nation was broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio (AIR) and Doordarshan. People tuning in online may also browse to the official website of AIR News -- www.newsonair.com -- or use the Newsonair mobile app to listen to the address from their handheld devices.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi salutes hardworking doctors of IndiaWherever the art of Medicine is loved, there is also a love of Humanity.यानि ‘जहाँ Art of Medicine के लिए प्रेम होता है, वहाँ मानवता के लिए भी प्रेम होता है’ ।#MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/L64oUrCn2PPM Modi highlights water conservation, says it can be considered 'service to nation'In the hills there exists a traditional method of water conservation called Chalkhal. That is, it involves digging a big pit to collect water. Satchidanand Bharti ji also added some new methods to this tradition. He regularly got small and big ponds dug: PM Modi#MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Uc2eBQmbIaHighlighting that the monsoons have arrived, Prime Minister Modi asked citizens to once again focus on water conservation. "When clouds rain, they rain not only for us but also for generations to come," he said.He said that water conservation must be considered as a service to the nation because when rainwater collects in the ground, it also replenishes the groundwater level. PM Modi spotlights India's record inoculation on June 21, urges people to shun vaccine hesitancyPM @narendramodi urges the nation to overcome vaccine hesitancy. Says - I have taken both doses. My Mother is almost hundred years old, she has taken both vaccines too. Please do not believe any negative rumours relating to vaccines. #MannKiBaat https://t.co/bmm838DK8YPrime Minister Narendra Modi commended the healthcare workers of the country for carrying out record vaccination on June 21. He also spoke to people who still feel apprehensive about taking a shot of the Covid-19 vaccine."I have taken both doses. My mother is almost a hundred years old, she has taken both vaccines too. Please do not believe any negative rumours relating to vaccines," PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also lauded the efforts put in and initiatives taken by the local population across the country to help people during Covid-19 pandemic. He said that awareness is key to defeating the disease.PM Modi salutes Indian athletes ahead of Tokyo OlympicsWhile working in the fields in his childhood, Manish Ji became fond of boxing. Today this hobby of his is taking him to Tokyo... C.A. Bhavani Devi ... who hails from Chennai, is the first Indian fencer to qualify in the Olympics: PM @narendramodi#MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/DvoPKvzWpBPrime Minister Modi also paid his tributes to India's athletes ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. He said that every player taking part in the Summer Olympics this year has struggled to get where they are today and must be encouraged.“They are not just going there for themselves but for the nation. These players will have to bring laurels o the nation and also win people’s hearts. And this is why my countrymen, I advise you not to pressurise the players knowingly or unknowingly,” PM Modi said, adding, “We should support them with an open mind and encourage them.”PM Modi encourages citizens to take part in 'Road to Tokyo' quiz#MannKiBaatPM @narendramodi encourages everyone to take part in 'Road to Tokyo Quiz' on MyGov, says, "Get to know how India has performed earlier in Olympics, how is our preparation now for #TokyoOlympics, know all this for yourself and tell others too"@PMOIndia #Cheer4India pic.twitter.com/iSCuhL8KfDPrime Minister Narendra Modi encouraged citizens to take part in the 'Road to Tokyo' quiz as he asked a few questions around the Summer Olympics this year. "Friends, regardless of whether you send me a reply, if you answer the Olympics quiz questions on the MyGov portal, you stand a chance to win many exciting rewards," the Prime Minister said.The 'Road to Tokyo' quiz can be previewed at this portal.PM Modi begins 78th 'Mann Ki Baat' radio addressLIVE: PM Shri @narendramodi's #MannKiBaat with the nation. https://t.co/x6HJKnRkNDThe 78th edition of the monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme, addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, began sharp at 11am on Sunday. It was broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio (AIR) and Doordarshan. People tuning in online may also browse to the official website of AIR News -- www.newsonair.com -- or use the Newsonair mobile app to listen to the address from their handheld devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-live-updates-pm-modi-78th-edition-monthly-radio-address-sunday-101624770280233.html
27-06-2021||India||Covid-19: How will you be compensated if things go south after vaccination?||As India comes out of the deadly second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with fresh cases seeing a downward trend in the previous month, it is making a push for maximum vaccination coverage.Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Russia’s Sputnik V are the three vaccines that have been cleared by the government. They have been used to inoculate as many as 32,17,60,077 people so far, according to the Union health ministry dashboard on Sunday.Meanwhile, SII has started the production of the first batch of Novavax’s vaccine, which will be locally manufactured under the brand name Covovax, on Friday. “Excited to witness the first batch of Covovax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia! (sic),” said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla in a Twitter post on Friday.As more and more people are getting vaccinated in anticipation of the third wave which is around the corner, according to experts, the question that arises is how do those people who face post-vaccination complications get compensated?None of the three approved vaccine manufacturers has been provided indemnity by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). If anyone suffers injuries or dies during trials, the firms carrying them out will be made to pay compensation, the rules state. This means that the companies would not be held responsible and cannot be made to pay compensation if cases of deaths or reactions, after taking their products, surface.According to the Webster dictionary, indemnity means "security, insurance or exemption from loss or damage, past or to come; immunity from penalty, or the punishment of past offenses; amnesty."However, after the vaccines are approved for commercial use, those seeking compensation can lodge a complaint with the consumer forum or appeal with the high courts. DCGI can also take action against the firms if they find that components of the vaccine's registration certificate have been violated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-how-will-you-be-compensated-if-things-go-south-after-vaccination-101624766190331.html
27-06-2021||India||Delta Plus cases in Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan: Here's what govts are doing||At least four new cases of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus were reported from Haryana, Gujarat and Punjab over the weekend prompting at least one state government to declare containment zones and ramp up testings.In Haryana's Faridabad, where a 25-year-old man tested positive for the Delta Plus variant, authorities ordered screening and testing in the entire area around the ESI Hospital. They also created a containment zone there and a micro-containment zone in the man's neighbourhood to prevent its spread.Haryana health minister Anil Vij said on Saturday said that the state government is fully prepared to handle the situation. Vij also said that the state has already acted on the Centre's advice and asked officials to create a containment zone and conduct testing on a large scale. "We have given orders that 100 per cent of the contacts of the person be tested and genome sequencing is done," he added.Also read | Can fully vaccinated people get Covid-19 again? Experts weigh inThe Centre has advised states to take up immediate containment measures in the districts and clusters as identified by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Sequencing Consortia (INSACOG), prevent crowds, widespread and prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on priority.In Rajasthan, where a woman in Bikaner was found infected with the new variant, health minister Raghu Sharma said contact tracing has been started in the city on a large scale and micro containment zones created to curb its spread.Authorities in Gujarat's Surat said that a case of Delta Plus variant was confirmed in a person who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 1 and that the patient had recovered in home isolation, according to news agency ANI.The news agency also said the first case of Delta Plus variant was also detected in Chandigarh and samples of four high-risk family contacts, who tested positive for the infection in May, have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday.Also read | Delta Plus strain has to be tackled with urgent, additional measures: WHO"Out of the results received, a variant of concern (VOC) has been detected in 35 samples. One Alpha variant (B.1.1.1.7), 33 Delta variant (B.1.617.2) and one Delta Plus variant (AY.1) have been reported in the samples sent for WGS,” the statement said, according to ANI.Another case of Delta Plus variant was also reported from Ludhiana after a 62-year-old man tested positive on June 15. "His situation is stable. All 198 of his contacts were tested negative," deputy commissioner VK Sharma said.More than 50 cases of Delta Plus variant of the coronaviruhave been reported across 11 states--Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Haryana--and Jammu in India. The government has Delta Plus variant is a "variant of concern" and has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-cases-in-haryana-gujarat-rajasthan-here-s-what-govts-are-doing-101624770189093.html
27-06-2021||India||Bihar govt asks teachers to be present in schools, violators to face action||The Bihar government has asked the teachers in state government schools to be present, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. The district authorities issued orders in this regard on Saturday, it further said. Though children are not being called to the schools due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the teachers and others staff members have been asked to be present.The state government officials said that the decision has been taken after complaints from various schools about non-availability of teachers, according to Livehindustan. Many people in rural areas, the principals of the schools have also flagged the issue. The government order warned of action against teachers who fail to turn up at schools, Livehindustan reported.The presence of teachers is required for administrative work, and to make accounts for the grants being sent by the Centre, according to officials quoted by Livehindustan. The principals have been asked to submit report to district administration on the attendance of teachers.The schools were closed across India last year when Covid-19 struck the country. After remaining closed for almost a year, these institutions started reopening slowly when the caseload ebbed in states. The Centre authorised states governments to take a decision to reopen the schools based on the local conditions.The Bihar government started reopening the schools from March, but the curbs were clamped again as second wave of the pandemic led to a surge in daily cases of Covid-19. According to news reports, Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary has said that schools and colleges will reopen in the state from next month.The state government has issued a list of Covid-19 guidelines for all educational institutions to follow, who plan to resume classes from July. The district authorities have been instructed to ensure that schools follow proper social distancing norms and proper wearing of facial masks.The Bihar government has already conducted Class 10 and Class 12 exams and declared the results. The results of both the exams were announced on March 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-asks-teachers-to-be-present-in-schools-violators-to-face-action-101624769407186.html
27-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand orders additional vaccines ahead of Char Dham Yatra. All you need to know||Ahead of the opening of the Char Dham Yatra, Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat directed the administration of additional doses of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for all the individuals related to the journey that is set to begin for the residents of three districts of the state -- Uttarkashi, Chamoli, and Rudraprayag. Furthermore, Covid-19 vaccines have also been allotted for residents in the districts of Tehri and Pauri, news agency ANI reported, adding that these places are situated on the way of the Char Dham Yatra, and hence have been allotted the additional vaccines as well.Following the order, 5,000 additional doses each have been provided to the aforementioned districts. However, Uttarkashi received 10,000 additional doses of the vaccine against coronavirus disease.What is the Uttarakhand Char Dham Yatra?The Char Dham Yatra (literally: the pilgrimage of four abodes) is a journey to a set of four ancient pilgrimage sites across India. The one in Uttarakhand consists of a smaller circuit but is equally sacred to many Hindus, who believe in making the yatra at least once in a lifetime. The Uttarakhand Char Dham Yatra circuit is formed of -- Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri. The circuit is usually closed during winters and reopens for summers, but things this time had to be readjusted according to schedule in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Who will be vaccinated in Uttarakhand?Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat has instructed to vaccinate all those who will be in direct contact with pilgrims of the Char Dham Yatra before its commencement, to ensure the safety of both the locals and the visitors.Guidelines have been issued to the concerned officials to vaccinate the priests, shopkeepers, dhaba operators, local residents, mule operators, cab drivers, and others associated with the Char Dham Yatra timely.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-orders-additional-vaccines-ahead-of-char-dham-yatra-all-you-need-to-know-101624765984052.html
27-06-2021||India||Daughter of Dana Majhi, who walked with dead wife’s corpse, clears matric exam||The daughter of Kalahandi district’s tribal farmer Dana Majhi who made headlines 5 years ago for walking with the corpse of his wife for about 10 km, has cleared this year’s Odisha’s high school certificate examination, results of which were announced Friday eveningIn August 2016, Chandini, Majhi’s eldest daughter, walked along with her father as he carried the corpse of his wife Amangdei on his shoulders for 10 kms after failing to arrange a vehicle to carry her home. His long walk from the female TB ward of Kalahandi district headquarters hospital at Bhawanipatna made the world notice the stark poverty and helplessness of tribals in the region.Amangdei had died at the hospital during treatment.The image of a sobbing Chandini Majhi, then 12-year-old, walking along with her father brought much international criticism for chief minister Naveen Patnaik.The mood was completely different on Friday with Chandini becoming the first in the family to have passed the matriculation exam. Around 98% of the 560,000 examinees too passed the exam.Achyuta Samanta, the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MP from Kandhamal, who had helped Majhi’s three daughters including Chandini admitted in Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) in Bhubaneswar, a tribal school owned by the MP, said he was happy to see the girls taking charge of their destinies.“The villagers are elated to learn about her performance. This is my happiness to see girls taking charge of presiding over their destiny. And this is an example of KISS unlocking every frontier. We are proud of such stories of inspiration and hope,” he tweeted.Following the international outrage triggered by the 2016 incident, Bahraini Prime Minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa donated ₹900,000 to Dana Majhi, who also received assistance from several other individuals and organisations including Sulabh International that made an undisclosed fixed deposit (FD) in his bank account and reportedly promised a monthly assistance of ₹10,000 for Chandini.Now 50, Majhi has remarried and has a pucca house built under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. In 2017, he bought a motorbike. He still cultivates a small patch of land he owns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughter-of-dana-majhi-who-walked-with-dead-wife-s-corpse-clears-matric-exam-101624767604089.html
27-06-2021||India||Covid-19 in India: New cases go up to 50,040, infection tally hits 30.23 million||India recorded 50,040 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the preceding 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare informed on Sunday in its daily bulletin -- a slight increase from its spike of 48,698 new cases a day ago. As many as 1,258 new fatalities were also recorded in the same duration, which has now pushed the country's death toll up to 395,751, the grim milestone of 400,000 in the offing.Also Read | As Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully vaccinated to keep masks onThe number of active Covid-19 cases in India has declined to 586,403 or 1.97% of the total cases. As many as 29,251,029 patients have been cured of Covid-19 till now, with 57,944 of them being discharged in the last 24 hours alone.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝗖𝗢𝗩𝗜𝗗 𝗙𝗟𝗔𝗦𝗛https://t.co/ypyFpqFNE0 pic.twitter.com/1QD97WMcwgAccording to the health ministry, daily recoveries have now continued to outnumber the daily new cases for the 45th consecutive day, with the nationwide recovery rate currently at 96.75%. The weekly positivity rate remains below 5% -- currently at 2.91%. The daily positivity rate, on the other hand, has also been less than 5% for 20 days in a row.India has also ramped up its Covid-19 testing, according to the government. "Over 40.42 crore tests have been conducted in total so far," an official statement read. Over 3.21 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses -- a total of 321,760,077 to be precise -- have also been administered till now, the government said, adding that as many as 6,425,893 doses were given in the preceding 24 hours alone.Also Read | Can fully vaccinated people get Covid-19 again? Experts weigh inSpeculations about a potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic run rife as several cities, including those in Tamil Nadu and Haryana, reported on Saturday either their first case of infection or death from the new 'Delta plus' variant of the virus. The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that people who are fully vaccinated will have to continue wearing masks, follow social distancing and other safety measures to contain the spread of the more deadly and contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly across the globe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-in-india-new-cases-go-up-to-50-040-infection-tally-hits-3-02-million-101624763226742.html
27-06-2021||India||Telangana CM to hold all-party meeting on Dalit empowerment scheme today||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao will on Sunday hold a day-long all-party meeting in Hyderabad to prepare guidelines for the CM Dalit Empowerment Scheme. Several Dalit public representatives, Dalit lawmakers and legislators from all political parties, including the opposition AIMIM, Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are likely to participate in the proposed meeting from 11.30am at Pragati Bhavan.K Chandrashekhar Rao or KCR, as he is known popularly, called CPI(M) and CPI party's state secretaries Chada Venkat Reddy and Tammineni Veerabhadram to ask them to send their senior Dalit leaders to the meeting, according to news agency ANI. State chief secretary Somesh Kumar, officials from the chief minister’s office and other senior officials will also participate."In the newly formed Telangana State, the Telangana government is working for the welfare of Dalits in all the sectors. In the back-drop, the proposed meeting would discuss at length the qualitative development change that the government can bring in and what measures can be taken to achieve this would be discussed at the meeting,” the chief minister’s office said in a release, according to ANI.The meeting comes days after the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) issued a notice to the state government over the death of a Dalit woman, Mariamma, in the Bhongir district. ANI reported, citing NCSC, that Mariamma was arrested along with her son Uday Kiran after her employer accused her of theft. She was beaten for four days, as per the report, and died due to alleged police torture at the police station. KCR has ordered an inquiry and asked the concerned authorities to take stringent action against the police personnel responsible as per the law. "We will not pardon such incidents. The government will not keep quiet if anyone does harm to Dalits. There will be swift action on the matter. There should not be any delay in inquiring about the culprits of lockup death and taking stern action against them. If need be, dismiss them from the service," the chief minister said on Friday, according to ANI.Rao said the government will support the children of the victim and give one of them a government job, a house, and an ex-gratia of ₹15 lakh, and that her two daughters will be given ₹10 lakh each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-to-hold-all-party-meeting-on-dalit-empowerment-scheme-today-101624765305225.html
27-06-2021||India||Woman and parents arrested for murdering husband in Odisha’s Ganjam district||A 30-year-old woman and her parents were arrested on Saturday for allegedly murdering the woman’s husband in Odisha’s Ganjam district over alleged torture by the deceased, said police.Jhili Naik (30), her father Kabiraj Naik (59) and mother Kishori Naik (58) were arrested on charges of stabbing and then beheading Jhili’s husband Bhagaban Naik alias Bhagia on June 18, they said. On June 22, a headless corpse was recovered from the Rushikulya riverbed near Nuapada village.Aska sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Uma Shankar Singh said the accused woman married the deceased Bhagia of Gudidhepa village 9 years ago and the couple had a 6-year-old daughter and a 5-year-old son.However, Bhagaban allegedly tortured his wife Jhili physically and mentally, suspecting her character. As the situation worsened, Jhili started staying separately at a rented house with her children in Puspa Nagar village from June 8. However, Bhagaban went there and started torturing her, police said.“On June 18 evening, Bhagaban again assaulted his wife. When Jhili informed her parents, they immediately arrived at Pushpa Nagar. Soon after Jhili, her parents and children left for their village Suramani. But at about 10 PM, Bhagaban ran after them with a sharp weapon threatening to kill them. Apprehending danger to the life of her father, Jhili stabbed Bhagaban with a kitchen knife. Kabiraj then beheaded Bhagaban,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-and-parents-arrested-for-murdering-husband-in-odisha-s-ganjam-district-101624765623586.html
27-06-2021||India||BSP to fight UP, Uttarakhand polls alone, announces Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Sunday said her party will fight the assembly elections alone in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and dismissed reports of a tie-up with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) as "completely false, misleading and baseless." In a series of tweets, the BSP chief also stated that her party has only announced a political tie-up with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for the Punjab assembly elections to be held next year."This news is being broadcast in news channels since yesterday that the AIMIM and BSP will fight the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh together. This news is completely false, misleading and baseless. There is not even an iota of truth in this and the BSP vehemently denies it," Mayawati tweeted in Hindi."It is again clarified, in this regard, that except Punjab, the BSP will not contest the UP and Uttarakhand state polls early next year in alliance with any party which means it will fight on its own," she said in another post.Mayawati’s clarification comes amid reports of BSP, the Suheldeo Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by former UP minister Om Prakash Rajbhar and AIMIM coming together under the umbrella of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha to contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled next year.The BSP and the SAD have joined hands after a gap of 25 years. In its alliance with the SAD, the BSP will contest eight out of its allotted 20 seats in Doaba or Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala districts, which has 23 assembly seats.She earlier asserted that her party is getting only the right leaders to join the BSP. "The local level leaders of the BSP have been continuously making only the right people of other parties, including the SP, join after investigation, this is well known,” she said.The BSP has been facing a crisis situation months ahead of polls after the party expelled state legislature party leader Lalji Verma and former state party president Ramachal Rajbhar for anti-party activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-to-fight-up-uttarakhand-polls-alone-announces-mayawati-101624762978786.html
27-06-2021||India||Threat of Covid-19 resurgence in Odisha as residents throw caution to winds||Odisha reported 3,554 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, 600 more than Friday and the test positivity rate (TPR) stayed above 5% for the fourth straight day after going under on June 21 and 22, triggering concerns that the infection may be on the rise again following the easing of lockdown and resultant violation of Covid-19 protocols. While some experts think the resurgence could also be linked to a lesser number of RT-PCR tests being done off late, the government is mulling extending the lockdown in at least 8 districts and the capital city of Bhubaneswar.TPR is on the rise since June 23 and in many districts including Khurda, Puri, Mayurbhanj, Jagatsinghpur and Cuttack it is higher than the state average, with Khurda recording 10.64% TPR- the highest in the state. As per the state Covid dashboard, TPR in 24 districts has shown a rising trend. The government thinks the TPR is rising due to violations of Covid-containment norms.“People out to buy a packet of milk are often found gossiping instead of returning home after the purchase. Infection is not declining because of people not adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. The virus is there in the environment so transmission will happen,” director of state health services Bijay Mohapatra said.In another worrying sign, the state reported 47 deaths, the highest daily toll so far, on Saturday. Mohapatra said the government was closely monitoring the situation on a daily basis. “We have to see whether the severity [of infection] has lessened or not and if there is another surge. As [the] current lockdown restriction will continue till July 1, the government will decide whether to further relax restrictions at a high-level meeting on June 30.”Noted microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra said the TPR may be higher due to the percentage of RT-PCR tests, considered to be the gold-standard of Covid testing, not going up. “In the last 10 days, the percentage of RT-PCR tests to total tests conducted is around 30-32%, the rest are Rapid Antigen tests. The easing of lockdown also led to people throwing all Covid appropriate behaviours to winds, which is also fuelling fresh infections,” he said.He cited the instances of crowding at vaccination centres without adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour as a case in point. On Saturday, the state police failed to contain thousands of people flocking to vaccination centres in Balasore and Cuttack. In Balasore Zilla School, over 1000 people arrived to receive the vaccine against the stock of 600 vaccine doses, resulting in chaos, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threat-of-covid-19-resurgence-in-odisha-as-residents-throw-caution-to-winds-101624764184028.html
27-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Puducherry cabinet to be sworn in today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Puducherry cabinet, including first woman minister in decades, to take oath todayMore than a month after the Puducherry election results were announced, five legislators of the N Rangasamy-led coalition cabinet will be sworn in as ministers by Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday. Read moreDelta Plus strain has to be tackled with urgent, additional measures: WHODelta Plus variant of coronavirus, which several experts say is more infectious, needs to be addressed with vaccination and safety measures such as wearing face masks, the World Health Organization's (WHO) representative to Russia Melita Vujnovic has said. Read moreWhen Tobey Maguire gushed about Amitabh Bachchan, said it felt like being 'in the presence of iconic royalty'Tobey Maguire is known for playing one of the most popular superheroes in the world, and therefore knows a thing or two about fame, but he couldn't help but feel that he was in the presence of 'iconic royalty' when he met Amitabh Bachchan. Read more'He was woefully out of form, practice': Former wicket-keeper says India bowler was picked for WTC final on 'reputation'Following their defeat in the all-important World Test Championship final, India drew plenty of flak for several reasons, two of which were their inability to put up a fight with the bat in the second innings and the fact their bowling lacked teeth barring a couple of sessions. Read morePriyanka Chopra in shirt and pants worth ₹1 lakh aces date-night look in NYCPriyanka Chopra Jonas is back in the United States, and the first thing that the actor did after arriving was visiting her restaurant Sona in New York City. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-puducherry-cabinet-to-be-sworn-in-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101624760041431.html
27-06-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Zen garden, Kaizen Academy in Ahmedabad today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a Zen garden and Kaizen Academy in Gujarat's Ahmedabad on Sunday at 11:30am. "Tomorrow, 27th June will inaugurate a Zen Garden and Kaizen Academy at AMA, Ahmedabad. This is yet another instance showcasing the close bond between India and Japan," PM Modi tweeted on Saturday.The virtual event can be watched live on the Ahmedabad Management Association's YouTube channel.A joint endeavour of the Japan Information and Study Centre at AMA and Indo-Japan Friendship Association (IJFA) in Gujarat, 'Zen-Kaizen' at AMA seeks to showcase several elements of Japanese art, culture, landscape and architecture.It has been supported by Japan's Hyogo International Association (HIA), news agency PTI reported citing a release.There have been continuous efforts to further strengthen bilateral ties with Japan during PM Modi's regime. In the past, Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in his book 'Utsukushii Kuni E' (Towards a Beautiful Country) expressed hope that "it would be no surprise if in the next 10 years Japan-India relations surpass Japan-US and Japan-China relations."Kaizen translates to 'change for the better' or 'continuous improvement'. Kaizen is a Japanese business philosophy that focuses on gradually improving productivity by involving all employees and by making the work environment more efficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-zen-garden-kaizen-academy-in-ahmedabad-today-101624755364768.html
27-06-2021||India||Can fully vaccinated people get Covid-19 again? Experts weigh in||People, who have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), if they do become infected have a milder illness than those who have not been inoculated, several studies in India and abroad have shown. Experts have said that vaccination is key to containing the spread of the pandemic and remains the best protection against severe illness from Covid-19.Several studies have shown that vaccines are slightly less effective against the Delta variant of coronavirus but they are still highly effective but only after the second dose. Recent data from the UK government shows that full immunisation can offer about 96 per cent protection against hospitalisation and 79 per cent protection against symptomatic infection by the Delta variant. Protection after only one dose, however, is much weaker at 35 per cent, according to the same data."One dose is not enough, full vaccination is needed to protect the most vulnerable,” a public health notice from the European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC) has also said.AFP reported citing local American media that Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease scientist, called the variant the "greatest threat" to efforts to control the virus and urged for an acceleration in vaccinations.Also read | About 50% infected adults in Covid-19 Delta variant outbreak in Israel fully vaccinated: ReportCDC studyA study by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which looked at more than 3,900 essential workers, shows fully vaccinated people are more than 90 per cent protected against infection. According to the ongoing study, even partially vaccinated people are 81 per cent less likely to become infected than people who haven't had been inoculated.The CDC study finds the mRNA Covid-19 vaccines authorised by the Food and Drug Administration “reduce the risk of infection by 91 percent for fully vaccinated people”. “This adds to the growing body of real-world evidence of their effectiveness. Importantly, this study also is among the first to show that mRNA vaccination benefits people who get COVID-19 despite being fully vaccinated (14 or more days after dose 2) or partially vaccinated (14 or more days after dose 1 to 13 days after dose 2),” CDC said in a statement earlier this month.Also read | Fast unlocking, lesser vaccination rates risk renewed Covid spike, says reportThe study of health care staff, first responders and other frontline essential workers who have been tested weekly since December showed that so far 5 per cent have tested positive for coronavirus. Only 16 of the 204 people who became infected had been vaccinated. Those who got "breakthrough" infections after one or two doses of vaccine had 40 per cent less virus in their bodies and were 58 per cent less likely to have a fever. They spent two fewer days in bed than unvaccinated Covid-19 patients."Findings from the extended timeframe of this study add to accumulating evidence that mRNA COVID-19 vaccines are effective and should prevent most infections — but that fully vaccinated people who still get COVID-19 are likely to have milder, shorter illness and appear to be less likely to spread the virus to others. These benefits are another important reason to get vaccinated,” the statement said.ICMR studyA study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Odisha among those fully vaccinated has found that around 10 per cent of those reporting a breakthrough infection that bypass vaccine protection required hospitalisation. The preliminary study conducted during March 1 and June 10, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, found that 9.9% required hospitalisation with no significant difference between Covaxin and Covishield recipients and around 83.2% were symptomatic.Also read | As Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully vaccinated to keep masks onOnly one healthcare worker died after being infected during the study period and the median duration of hospitalisation among the reported cases was 11 days with one person still in the hospital. The most common symptoms found was fever, followed by cough and sore throat. Co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism and asthma were present in about 64 people.The authors of the study said there were two limitations of the study. The number of documented vaccination breakthrough cases may be significantly a small fraction of all such cases. They also said that the study might not be a complete representation of breakthrough cases.Fortis studyA study released by Fortis Healthcare on June 17 found that a majority of fully vaccinated healthcare workers developed only mild illness after contracting the coronavirus disease and largely recovered under home care despite a surge in serious infections during the second wave of the pandemic. Only 1 per cent of fully vaccinated healthcare workers, who were infected after getting the shots, needed ICU care or ventilator support, the study said.Also read | India's vaccination not fast enough to foil Covid-19 3rd wave: ReportThe study assessed around 16,000 healthcare workers, who got both doses of vaccine between January and May this year. This included the peak period of the second wave when India was recording 350,000 to 400,000 Covid-19 cases each day and healthcare workers were working round the clock. Only 6 per cent of staff got infected after receiving both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to the Fortis study. Amongst those who got infected after getting fully vaccinated, 92 per cent were mildly infected cases, 7 per cent developed moderate illness requiring oxygen support and only 1 per cent developed severe illness requiring ICU care or ventilation.The study emphasised that the vaccines available in India against Covid-19 are effective and do offer protection against the SARS-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-fully-vaccinated-people-get-covid-19-again-experts-weigh-in-101624759161283.html
27-06-2021||India||Indian Railways to resume Kamakhya-Katra special train from today. Check details||The Indian Railways will restore the services of a train from Kamakhya in Assam's Guwahati to Katra in Jammu from Sunday onwards till further notice. The 05655 Kamakhya-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra weekly special train will leave Kamakhya at 11am every Sunday to reach Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra at 3:45pm on Tuesday. "It may kindly be noted that, on arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to prevailing Covid-19 health protocols of the destination state," Subhanan Chanda, a spokesperson of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said, according to news agency PTI.From the Kamakhya railway station, the special train will pass through Goalpara, Kokrajhar, New Alipore Gate, New Cooch Bihar, Dhupguri, New Jalpaiguri, Kishanganj, Katihar, Navgachia, Khagadia, Begusarai. , Barauni, Samastipur, Laheriasarai, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Raxaul, Sagauli, Bettiah, Narkatiaganj, Kaptanganj, Gorakhpur, Basti, Gonda, Bareilly, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Ambala Cantt, Ludhiana, Jalandhar Cantt, Pathankot, Jammu Tawi and Udhampur stations.For the return travel, the Indian Railways will resume services of train number 05656 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Kamakhya special express from June 30 onwards. The train will leave Katra at 3:45pm every Wednesday to reach Kamakhya at 11:30pm on Friday.The Indian Railways' NFR zone has announced the restoration of services of four special trains from this month till further notice for the benefit of passengers. NFR has restored trains originating from Kamakhya Junction Railway Station to Bhagat Ki Kothi in Jodhpur, Katra, Ranchi and Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-resume-kamakhya-katra-special-train-from-today-check-details-101624757718465.html
27-06-2021||India||2 low-intensity blasts, minutes apart, hit Jammu air force station||Two "low intensity" blasts were reported at Jammu airport's technical area in quick succession damaging the roof of a building early on Sunday, the Indian Air Force said. The first explosion was place at 1.40am and the other, weaker in intensity, a little later, officials said."Two low intensity explosions were reported early Sunday morning in the technical area of Jammu Air Force Station. One caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area," IAF tweeted. "There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies," it added.Watch: 2 minor blasts hit Jammu air force station, bomb disposal squad rushes﻿﻿A bomb disposal squad and a forensic team were rushed to the spot following the blasts, officials said. Western command air chief has also reached the site.According to an ANI report citing people familiar with the matter, two drones were used to carry out the attack. "There is no damage to any aircraft in the blasts. Two personnel suffered minor injuries," they said.Jammu airport is not a civil airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-inside-jammu-airport-s-technical-area-forensic-team-on-spot-101624759540787.html
27-06-2021||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi to address his monthly radio programme today||Prime minister Narendra Modi will address the 78th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am on Sunday. "Tune in at 11 AM tomorrow. #MannKiBaat," PM Modi wrote in a tweet on Saturday.This episode comes a day after PM Modi shared an old episode of the programme that contained information about how to overcome the drugs menace on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. "Let us reiterate our commitment to #ShareFactsOnDrugs and realise our vision of a Drugs Free India. Remember- addiction is neither cool nor a style statement. Sharing an old #MannKiBaat episode which contained many aspects of overcoming the drugs menace," PM Modi tweeted.BJP national president JP Nadda also tweeted about Mann Ki Baat and said the radio programme was heard in every household and urged all party workers to tune in to it. "I constantly receive many letters regarding Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji's popular Mann Ki Baat. Mann Ki Baat is heard in every household as if a casual discussion is happening with the elders of the house. In this series, a very thoughtful letter was received from Anand Swarup ji of Banda," Nadda tweeted in Hindi."Anand Swaroop ji has given many commendable suggestions in his letter. I request all the workers of Bharatiya Janata Party to listen to Mann ki Baat every month along with all the mates of their booth and after that hold a booth meeting there. Then in the next month, listen to Mann ki Baat at any other worker's house and on," he added.The programme will be live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP's) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It will also be broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio, Doordarshan and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-to-address-his-monthly-radio-programme-today-101624756285396.html
27-06-2021||India||Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Day: Know history, significance||Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) Day is celebrated every year on June 27 to recognise the contribution of these industries in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). According to the United Nations (UN), as many as 90 per cent of businesses are generated from MSMEs and these businesses provide 60 to 70 per cent of employment. The contribution of MSME to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) worldwide is 50%.This year, the UN and its partners celebrate the important role that the entrepreneurs play in strengthening the global economy.History of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises DayThe UN designated June 27 as Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Day through a resolution passed in the UN General Assembly in April 2017. In May 2017, a program titled 'Enhancing National Capacities for Unleashing Full Potentials of MSMEs in Achieving the SDGs in Developing Countries' was launched. It has been funded by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Sub-Fund of the United Nations Peace and Development Fund.Significance of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises DayThe UN wants countries to recognise sustainable development goals and create awareness about them.Theme of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises DayIn 2021, the theme is "MSME 2021: Key to an inclusive and sustainable recovery." That is why the UN will be hosting a series of events to explore how MSMEs – the backbone of our economies – can be equipped to ensure an equitable and sustainable post-Covid-19 recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/micro-small-and-medium-sized-enterprises-day-know-history-significance-101624753163330.html
27-06-2021||India||AAP questions BJP’s silence on Ayodhya ‘scam’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government for remaining silent on the alleged land scams by the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust in Ayodhya. Senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh also urged a CBI investigation into the matter even as Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Trust, dismissed the allegations and urged people not to fall for it. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Singh said, “Over the last so many days, I have exposed how the BJP carried out a scam of crores of rupees... When all of this is in the public eye, where are all the investigation agencies?” Singh said he has written a letter to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in this regard. Meanwhile, Rai denied the claims saying that the 1.2 hectare land in Ayodhya was purchased at lower than market rates. “I appeal to all Ram devotees to not pay attention to false campaigns,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-questions-bjp-s-silence-on-ayodhya-scam-101624755364339.html
27-06-2021||India||Gujarat eases curbs from today. What's allowed and what's not||The Gujarat government has allowed cinema halls, multiplexes and auditoriums to function at 50 per cent capacity from Sunday amid a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. It has also announced the lifting of night curfew from 18 cities and towns and relaxing its timing in the same number of urban centres by one hour. The government also directed all those involved in vocational activities must get vaccinated by July 10, an official release said, according to news agency PTI.The government has also directed that all those involved in vocational activities must get vaccinated by July 10, an official release said, according to news agency PTI. It has made it compulsory for those involved in vocational activities to get themselves, and also their staff, vaccinated against Covid-19 by June 30 in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Gandhinagar, Vapi, Ankleshwar, Valsad, Navsari, Mehsana, Bharuch, Patan, Morbi, Bhuj and Gandhidham.The decisions were taken after the meeting of the core committee, headed by state chief minister Vijay Rupani, on Thursday.Gujarat on Saturday reported 122 Covid-19 cases and three fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 823,132 and the death toll to 10,048, the state health department said.Here are the fresh guidelines issued by the government:10.All educational institutions, swimming pools and water parks will remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-eases-curbs-from-today-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101624751996482.html
27-06-2021||India||Assam's fresh Covid-19 guidelines to come into effect from Monday: Check details||To curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Assam government has issued fresh guidelines that will come into effect from Monday. "The Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) has issued a revised and consolidated directive today containing directives to further contain the spread of Covid-19 in the districts. Today's order will be applicable across the State w.e.f. 5 AM of June 28, 2021, and will remain in force until further order," read the order, according to news agency PTI.Authorities observed that in some of the districts the positivity rate in the last seven days is high as compared to others and have divided them into three categories based on their caseload. The high positivity districts are Morigaon, Biswanath, Goalpara and Bokakhat (Civil) subdivision under Golaghat district. Dhubri, Kokrajhar, Barpeta, Nalbari, Baksa, Bajali. Kamrup, Darang, Sonitpur, Nagaon, Hojai, Golaghat and Sarupathar subdivision, Jorhat, Sibasagar, Tinsukia, Lakhimpur, Dhemaji, Cachar, Karimganj, Karbi Anglong and Dibrugarh are with moderate positivity. And, districts showing improvement include Kamrup(M), South Salmara, Majuli, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Udalguri, West Karbi Anglong, Dima Hasao, Charaideo and Hailakandi.Here are the Assam government's fresh guidelines:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assams-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-to-come-into-effect-from-monday-check-details-101624750375835.html
27-06-2021||India||Puducherry cabinet, including first woman minister in decades, to take oath today||More than a month after the Puducherry election results were announced, five legislators of the N Rangasamy-led coalition cabinet will be sworn in as ministers by Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday. The swearing-in ceremony for the ministers, including three AINRC members and two BJP leaders, will be held at 2.30pm on Sunday in front of the Lt Governor’s office and residence, Raj Nivas.President Ram Nath Kovind gave his approval to the list of cabinet members submitted by chief minister Rangasamy to Soundararajan earlier this week. A Puducherry Gazette notification, according to news agency PTI, said that "the President has been pleased to appoint" A Namassivayam, K Lakshminarayanan, C Djeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga and AK Sai J Saravana Kumar as ministers in the cabinet. Lakshminarayanan, Djeacoumar and Priyanga are from the All India NR Congress and Namassivayam, who left the Congress before the Puducherry assembly elections polls, and Saravana Kumar are from its ally the Bharatiya Janata Party. Rangasamy submitted the list of the members to be included in his cabinet to Soundararajan on Wednesday, more than two months after the AINRC-BJP alliance won the April 6 assembly elections. AINRC founder Rangasamy was sworn in as Puducherry’s chief minister on May 7 and BJP's 'Embalam' R Selvam was elected unopposed as the Speaker of the 33-member assembly on June 16. The AINRC-led alliance won the Puducherry assembly elections in the Union territory after the then Congress-led regime collapsed in February. Infighting in the BJP, with supporters of all the six elected MLAs lobbying for cabinet posts, were among the several reasons behind the delay in the cabinet formation. Then Rangaswamy contracted Covid-19, a day after he took oath on May 7, and the newly-elected MLAs were sworn in on May 26. Negotiations between the AINRC and BJP over the number of cabinet berths also lead to the delay.Also read | Internal rift delays cabinet formation in PuducherryAccording to PTI, Puducherry would get its first woman minister in over four decades with Priyanga taking the oath of office on Sunday afternoon. Late Congress leaders Renuka Appadurai was the last woman minister in Puducherry during 1980-83 and handled the education portfolio in the MDR Ramachandran-led coalition. This will also be the first time that the BJP is part of a ministry in the Union territory. Also read | For first time in 20 years, BJP makes mark down southThe AINRC won 10 out of 16 seats it contested and the BJP managed six out of nine seats. The coalition also has the support of three nominated members belonging to the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-long-wait-puducherry-cabinet-to-be-sworn-in-today-101624750577413.html
27-06-2021||India||Govt now calls Kargil Democratic Alliance for talks||Two days after talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir in New Delhi, the Ministry of Home Affairs has extended an invitation to the Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) for talks in Delhi on July 1.“We received an invitation for the talks from the MHA with Union MoS Home G Kishen Reddy for next week July 1,” said co-chairman of the KDA Asgar Ali Karbali.While the J&K was divided into two UTs on August 5, 2019 with Ladakh UT without legislative assembly. KDA, an amalgam of various political, social and religious groups in Kargil, has been demanding restoration of Article 370.Former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang said representatives from political, social and religious bodies held a meeting on Wednesday, where it was decided to reach out to the Union government with its demand for a legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-now-calls-kargil-democratic-alliance-for-talks-101624749753935.html
27-06-2021||India||Centre must rebuild trust in J&K: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Saturday urged the central government to work towards building trust in Jammu and Kashmir by restoring its autonomy, while his son and party vice-president Omar Abdullah reiterated the call for statehood before assembly elections.Addressing the media after attending an all-party meet convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Thursday, the NC chief said the country’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, promised a plebiscite to the people of J&K but went back on it. “I made it very clear (in the meeting) that the first prime minister of India (Jawharlal Nehru) promised us a plebiscite but went back on it. Before (1996) elections, Narasimha Raoji promised us autonomy. He said ‘sky is the limit but not independence’. We said we have never asked for independence, we have asked for autonomy. He promised us on the floor of the house. Where is that?,” asked Farooq.“There is a level of mistrust and that mistrust has to be removed. How you remove it, you have to take that call...”The meeting, chaired by PM Modi on June 24, was attended by 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers of J&K — Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti — to discuss the future course of action in the Union Territory.Omar Abdullah,meanwhile, said his party will continue to challenge the revocation of Article 370 in the region through legal and constitutional means. “We didn’t talk about anything that was outside the agenda of Gupkar Alliance, which is ‘we don’t accept changes of August 5, 2019 and whatever needs to be done to undo that we will do that constitutionally, politically, legally and peacefully’,” he said.“Ghulam Nabi Azad sahib spoke on our behalf. He told the meeting that we don’t accept this timeline of delimitation first, then elections and then statehood. We accept statehood after delimitation and then elections. Return statehood if elections are to be held,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-must-rebuild-trust-in-j-k-farooq-abdullah-101624749058434.html
27-06-2021||India||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait vows to bolster stir against farm laws||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait vowed on Saturday to “strengthen the movement” against three contentious farm laws, even as several thousands of farmers took to streets in Punjab and Haryana to mark seven months of their ongoing stir.“In today’s meeting, we have decided to strengthen our movement. We have decided to hold two more rallies; a tractor rally will be held on July 9 in which people from Shamli and Baghpat will be present; it will reach Singhu border on July 10,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Another rally will be held on July 24, people from Bijnor and Meerut will be present in it. On the night of July 24, they will halt at Meerut toll and on July 25, the rally will reach here (Delhi-Ghazipur),” he added.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, the farmers stationed at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders observed Saturday as “Save Agriculture, Save Democracy Day” to mark seven months of their protest and submitted a memorandum to all governors in the name of the President of India.Similar protests were organised in Punjab and Haryana, too, where the police used a water cannon to disperse the protesting farmers as they broke barricades at the Chandigarh-Mohali border in an attempt to march towards the Punjab governor’s house.In view of the farmers’ protest march, the Haryana Police also made security arrangements at the Chandigarh-Panchkula border. In Panchkula, farmer forced their way through a layer of barricades but were unable to enter Chandigarh and were stopped at the Panchkula border where Haryana police had deployed a water cannon and trucks.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-vows-to-bolster-stir-against-farm-laws-101624748634042.html
27-06-2021||India||AP govt dispenses with interviews in all job recruitments||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday formally announced to dispense with interviews for all recruitments done through the state public service commission to fill up job vacancies in various government departments. In the order (GO No. 58), chief secretary Adityanath Das on Saturday said the government had taken the decision to dispense with interviews for the recruitments to be done by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) for all categories of jobs, including for Group-I Services. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led state government had recently announced filling up of 10,143 jobs in 2021-22. The decision was taken with a view to maintaining utmost transparency and ensuring complete trust of competing candidates in the entire selection process. “The order to dispense with interviews is applicable for all the recruitments notified on or after June 26,” the order said. The chief secretary directed the secretary of APPSC to take necessary action for the implementation of the order. In 2011, the erstwhile combined Andhra Pradesh government abolished interviews for filling up of various posts, except for Group-1 services (deputy collector and revenue divisional officer posts etc.) and for the posts of executive, where articulation skills and public interface was required. After the bifurcation, the government for the residuary Andhra Pradesh in 2016 and 2017 re-introduced interview system for filling up a few more top positions in the state government. “However, at a review meeting conducted to introduce reforms in the job recruitment in October 2019, it was proposed to abolish interviews for recruitment of any posts notified by the APPSC,” the chief secretary said, adding that the government, after careful examination of the proposal, decided to implement it from now. Andhra University professor S Prasanna Sree welcomed the decision of the state government to do away with the interviews. “It will help candidates from rural background, who, fail to get through interviews despite doing extremely well in the written tests,” she said, adding that communication skills do not matter much if they have administrative skills. Prasanna Sree also said abolition of interviews would also eradicate corruption in recruitments. “It will make the recruitments more transparent and merit-based,” she asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-govt-dispenses-with-interviews-in-all-job-recruitments-101624735140745.html
27-06-2021||India||Gold smuggling case: CPI(M) cracks whip as probe links leaders||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has tightened its grips on cadres in Kannur after the alleged liaison of some party workers with gold smuggling gangs came to light. The CPI (M) has also launched a campaign to weed out anti-party elements often guilty of violent clashes with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) workers in the district. The party youth wing, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), will start a week-long march in the district from July 5 to uphold Communist values and check a possible deviation from ideology, said DYFI district unit in a statement. The party workers alleged involvement in gold-smuggling came to light when the Customs and Kerala police’s probe into the death of a five-member gang in Kozhikode, who were trying to loot 2.50kg of gold smuggled from Dubai to Kozhikode airport last Monday, led them to a CPI (M) worker Arjun Ayanki. Later, it was known that the vehicle used in the alleged attempt was owned by another leader of the DYFI, police said. In Kannur, political parties usually hire criminal gangs for violent political activities and groom them. Since peace is prevailing in the district these gangs are turning a liability to parties. Now many are into contract criminal activities and smuggling, a senior police officer of the district said. After the incident, a series of audio tapes and phone conversations surfaced on social and electronic media, which clearly showed that some of the youth leaders were allegedly involved in smuggling and counter-smuggling activities. Counter-smuggling is looting of the smuggled gold. Since both activities are illegal, nobody filed cases in such incidents. Absconding after the accident, Ayanki was summoned by the Customs on Monday. “Many self-made warriors are appearing frequently on social media. The party has nothing to do with them. They are doing more damage to the ideology than helping it. We will weed out such forces,” said DFYI state secretary A A Rahim on Saturday. CPI (M) Kannur district secretary M V Jayarajan and excise minister M V Govindan also said such elements will have no place in the party. “We have not assigned anyone to campaign on social media. Some self-made warriors are doing it for publicity and acceptance. We will expose them,” said Jayarajan. Opposition BJP has sought a high-level inquiry into politician-smuggling nexus. “The CPI(M) is now disowning smugglers after they turn a liability to the party. It is an open secret many smuggling gangs thrived under the present regime,” said party state president K Surendran. The gold smuggling issue came to light after last Monday’s accident. Police said five deceased were part of a looting team from Palakkad and they reportedly came to Kozhikode airport after they got information about the smuggled gold. But the customs authorities seized gold, concealed in a coffee-making machine, and arrested the carrier Mohammad Shafeek. Another gang from Kannur, who were planning to receive the smuggled gold, was chased by the Palakkad team under the impression that they were carrying the yellow metal. Both these gangs were unaware that the carrier was arrested and a chase ensued and which resulted in the accident. Police said clashes between gangs are regular and they never file complaints. Among four international airports in the state, Kozhikode is the hub for gold smuggling – on average 10 seizures take place in a month. Among south Indian states, Kerala topped in gold smuggling cases with 600 kgs of precious metal seized last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-case-cpi-m-cracks-whip-as-probe-links-leaders-101624735080652.html
27-06-2021||India||Looking back: Fierce women who mastered the art of war||A virakallu or a hero-stone, dating back to 950 AD talks about a woman warrior – Saviyabbe. The sculpture at the top depicts her as an amazon riding a horse, flourishing a sword against a man on an elephant. The story is not fiction.As per records, she was the daughter of the chief Bayika and since some Ganga kings had titles with the suffix Vidyadhara, historians believe that Saviyabbe’s husband was a Ganga prince. Saviyabbe fought along with her husband and many other soldiers, finally losing her life during the battle of Bagiyur.In February 2020, the Supreme Court ordered the union government to ensure that women officers are given a permanent commission in the Army while adding that the officers will be now eligible for command posting. The decisions stood in stark contrast to the Centre’s opinion, which belonged to the school of thought that women were not suitable for commanding posts in the army because male troops were not yet ready to accept their orders.While the debates over women in combat roles continue, history tells a different story. In the history of Karnataka itself, there are several women like Saviyabbe, who fought or commanded armies in battle.In history books, the story of Rani Abbakka, as a ruler and a military commander, stands out. In the battles against the Portuguese, she not only commanded an army but a navy as well. The Karnataka state gazette, which details the history of ‘Queen of Ullala’ described her as a persistent opposition to the Portuguese expansion.“She worked in close alliance with the several chiefs of Malabar and against her husband who was an ally of the Portuguese” read the gazette notes on her.Dr Tukaram Poojary, a retired history professor, who researched Abbakka said that her husband Lakshmanappa wanted to join hands with the Portuguese, so she left him. “She then took over as the ruler of Ullal, which she got as the matriarchal system was practised at that time. She took on the Portuguese in three battles,” he said.As per records, she took on the Portuguese when she decided to stop paying tributes to them when they attacked the chief of Cannanore (today’s Kerala), her erstwhile ally in 1555. Three years later, the queen took on the Portuguese by assisting naval attack led by the Raja of Cannanore against the Portuguese. “The Portuguese was so incensed at this that he reduced Mangalore to ashes. The queen again ceased to pay tributes to the Portuguese, when they declared war on her ally, the Raja of Cannanore in 1566.”In 1567, a punitive expedition was sent against her by the Portuguese governor under Joao Peixote, according to the Gazette. The Portuguese army attacked Ullal under General Joao Peixoto. He captured the city and occupied the palace. However, the Queen managed to escape and hide in a mosque. In the dead of night, with 200 soldiers, she raided the Portuguese and managed to kill General Peixoto and 70 soldiers. The invaders fled to their ships. She followed and killed the admiral of the fleet.In 1588, however, Goa Viceroy Anthony D’ Noronha led another attack against Ullal with a grand Armada. Ullal fell and was destroyed in this attack. The queen also died, as per the legend, leading her men from the front.But this was not the end. There rose from the ashes like a phoenix, another Abbakka.“It was under her rule, the Portuguese suffered one of the biggest naval battles in the subcontinent. Abbakka, the second, took over in 1594. She gained great fame throughout the Indian Ocean by attacking and burning the Portuguese fleet in 1618. This ensured that invasions by the Portuguese stopped in the coastal regions of Karnataka,” said Poojary.The Indian Navy finally acknowledged India’s rare woman naval hero and named a patrol vessel Rani Abbakka after her in 2012.Another female military commander from Karnataka’s history was Belawadi Mallamma, ruler of today’s Belgavi. She took on Shivaji after his armies began raiding the livestock in her territory. Mallamma led her force of two thousand women soldiers to attack the Maratha garrison. With two hundred men wounded and ten to twelve men dead, the Maratha commander agreed to surrender the livestock.Shivaji when he heard the news was exasperated and ordered his cavalry to attack Belawadi till it surrendered. The battle between the two rulers raged for fifteen days. During the battle, Mallamma raided Shivaji while he was offering prayers at a temple and following this battle Shivaji came to a truce with the Mallamma.While Mallamma proved her worth on the battlefield against Shivaji, another commander from Karnataka, Chennamma of Keladi ruled took on the Mughals by sheltering Shivaji’s son Rajaram. Chennamma was the ruler of Keladi on the coast of Karnataka from 1671 to 1696.As per records, Rajaram approached Chennamma dressed as a monk and sought protection. Soon she received a letter from Aurangzeb demanding that she hand over Rajaram to him. She refused. ”Aurangzeb, the big Moghul force was near Keladi. The soldiers of Keladi prepared and ambushes through a thick jungle and the Moghul soldiers who were accustomed to the dry climate of the North were caught in the heavy monsoon of the Malnad area. Some battles were led by Chennamma,” said Rajesh HG, editor of Itihasa Darapana.The forces of Keladi had captured several of the Moghul captains, a large number of horses and considerable war material. By then Rajaram had reached Jinji fort and Mughals withdrew from the battle.In the 1800s the tradition of women leading battles continued with Kittur Chennamma, who took on the British, who wanted to take over her kingdom citing ‘Doctrine of Lapse’. British launched multiple attacks against an army commanded by Chennamma.British army attacked Kittur on 21 October 1824, with 20,000 men and 400 guns. Despite having a numerically inferior force, Chennamma put up a tough fight and won the first round of battle. The British army faced massive losses and two British officer Walter Elliot was taken as hostages.However, the British troops launched a second attack. This time, because of the humiliation of losing to a woman in the first battle, they roped in armies from Mysore, and Sholapur for the attack. They also convinced two of her soldiers to betray her by mixing cow dung and mud with the gunpowder used for canons. This time, she was captured and imprisoned for life at Bailhongal Fort. She passed away on 21 February 1829, while in prison.These were some of the women from Karnataka who led their armies to victory.In her book “Women medieval Karnataka”, Dr MB Padma wrote that the records talk about many more women like Kanskarve, Chigaladevi, Chola Mahidevi, Dappali Devi and others who organized expeditions fought boldly on the battlefields and spoke courageously for justice. “Even an ordinary woman like Lakshamma Gauvndi, fought robbers to save the cows and had the honour of death on the battlefield itself. Thus, they keep up the martial spirit and the flame of patriotism successfully,” she wrote in her book.The note perhaps is valuable in the argument for women in combat roles today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looking-back-fierce-women-who-mastered-the-art-of-war-101624735020658.html
27-06-2021||India||Top Maoist leader Haribhushan’s wife also succumbs to Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh forests||Three days after the death of Communist Party of India (Maoist) central committee member and Telangana state committee secretary Yapa Narayana alias Haribhushan (59) due to Covid-19 in the forests of Chhattisgarh, his wife Bejjeri Sammakka alias Saradakka also succumbed to the infection, the Telangana Police confirmed on Saturday. Mahabubabad district superintendent of police N Koti Reddy, quoting the deceased’s relatives in Gangaram village, told Hindustan Times that Saradakka died sometime during the night of June 24 due to Covid-19 in the forests of Chhattisgarh. Her relatives were informed about her death on Saturday and her last rites were performed by the cadre on Friday evening. “However, there has been no statement issued by the Maoist party about the death of Saradakka till now,” he said. Haribhushan, who had been underground for over three decades and led several teams against the security forces, succumbed to Covid-19 on June 21. The Maoist party issued a statement on Thursday confirming his death along with that of another senior Maoist leader Bharatakka, a day after the Telangana police announced their demise. Hailing from the Gothi Koya tribal group from Madagudem village of Mahabubabad district, Haribhushan married Saradakka from Gangaram, close to his village during the movement, which she joined in 1995. Saradakka was the commander of the Maoist party in Charla-Shabari area bordering the Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Haribhushan’s family found fault with the Maoist party for not handing over his body to them for the last rites and instead choosing to cremate their leader in the forests. His younger brother Ashok told local reporters in Madagudem village on Friday that it was not fair on the part of the Maoists to cremate Haribhushan’s body in the forests without informing his family members. He wondered why the Maoists had announced Haribhushan’s death only after the police disclosed it to the media. “The Maoists should have conveyed the news to us first before conducting the last rites. They should have handed over the body to us through civil rights organisations,” Ashok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-leader-haribhushan-s-wife-also-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-chhattisgarh-forests-101624734841411.html
27-06-2021||India||Ayodhya should manifest finest of our traditions, says PM Modi at plan review||Ayodhya should manifest the finest of our traditions and the best of our developmental transformations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he reviewed the development plan for the temple town in Uttar Pradesh.“Ayodhya’s development is being envisaged as a spiritual centre, global tourism hub and a sustainable Smart City,” said the PM, while addressing a virtual meeting with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath.During the meeting, Adityanath presented several plans to the PM for Ayodhya’s development, including better roads, infrastructure, a railway station and an airport.The PM was also informed about an upcoming greenfield township, which includes lodging facilities for devotees, space for ashrams, maths, hotels, bhavans of various states. A tourist facilitation centre and a world class museum will also be built, the CM said.The renovation of ghats along banks of the Saryu, proposed cruise services and the city’s proposed traffic management system which would have a provision for cyclists and pedestrians were also discussed.The PM described Ayodhya as a city etched in the cultural consciousness of every Indian.“Ayodhya is both spiritual and sublime. The human ethos of this city must be matched by futuristic infrastructure, which is beneficial for everyone including tourists and pilgrims,” he said.The coming generations should feel the desire to visit Ayodhya at least once in their lifetime, he added.“The development work of Ayodhya should be guided by a spirit of healthy public participation, especially by the youth,” he said.UP deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and several other ministers of the UP government were present in the meeting.LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited has prepared the vision document with the help of the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). LEA Associates is an international consultant hired by the state government for preparing Ayodhya’s vision document for overall development of the temple town.Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects are assisting the international consultant in executing the project, said Deepak Kumar, chairman, UP Housing and Development Board of the Uttar Pradesh government.According to ADA officials, the document was finalised after several rounds of meetings between the development authority and the consultant. Before finalising the plan, the consultant had taken the views of around 5,000 locals, saints of Ayodhya and prominent citizens.On August 5 last year, the prime minister performed the ‘’bhoomi pujan’’ of a Ram temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-should-manifest-finest-of-our-traditions-says-modi-at-review-of-development-plan-101624734121613.html
27-06-2021||India||BJP chief JP Nadda meets ministers, general secretaries, reviews preparations for 2022 polls||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda met a group of cabinet ministers and senior party leaders on Saturday to take stock of the party’s preparation for the upcoming elections in seven states, the party cadre’s readiness to tackle the anticipated third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and to improve coordination between the government and the party.According to a person aware of the details, the focus of the meeting was the state elections that are scheduled for 2022. The next set of elections in six of the seven states--Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat-- are crucial for the BJP as the party will contest to retain power with a comfortable majority. In Punjab, the party is already facing a huge challenge amid protests against the passage of controversial farm laws.Later in the day, Nadda chaired another meeting with BJP’s national general secretaries.Saturday’s meetings come close on the heels of a series of review meetings chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the work done by various central ministries.Meanwhile, the party is also working on tackling criticism over management of the Covid-19 pandemic. “There has been an impact of the second wave on the party’s overall popularity; so all efforts will be made to reach out to the people with the details of what has been done by the government as well as what is in the pipeline,” said a functionary who did not want to be named.In UP, Uttarakhand and Gujarat particularly, the BJP governments have been facing a lot of criticism regarding Covid-19 management. Severe shortfall of oxygen, medicines and other gaps in health care were reported from these states, triggering sharp attacks from the Opposition. In Goa, too, several fatalities due to severe gaps in oxygen supply have set off public anger against the government.The party has decided to pull out all the stops to placate the masses as well as make up for the administrative lapses. Additionally, the party and the government have to also address the problems of economic slowdown and subsequent jobs cuts exacerbated by the pandemic.A second functionary said the importance of reaching out to the workers and strengthening the organisation as also discussed at the meeting. “In many states the workers too faced difficulties and there is a feeling of alienation among them. It is important to reach out to them as they are the ones who will build a bridge between the masses and the government,” the second functionary said.Nadda has already set out a blueprint for the party cadre to step up their outreach programme Seva Hi Sangathan (organisation is service) campaign to aid the government’s efforts of encouraging Covid appropriate behaviour.Saturday’s meeting was attended by the Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, railways minister Piyush Goyal, textile minister Smriti Irani, sports minister Kiren Rijiju and petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-meets-ministers-general-secretaries-reviews-preparations-for-2022-polls-101624734061962.html
27-06-2021||India||Woman dies in traffic hold-up during Kovind’s Kanpur visit, 4 cops suspended||Four policemen were suspended on Saturday in connection with the death of a 50-year-old ailing woman who allegedly got held up at a traffic stop in Kanpur during President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit late on Friday night.In a statement on Saturday, the Kanpur police said that an additional DCP-rank police officer has been asked to conduct an inquiry into the incident, the statement added.According to police, deceased Vandana Mishra was the chairperson of the women’s wing of the Indian Industries Association.She was being taken to a hospital as she suffered from post-Covid complications and needed urgent medical help, her husband Sharad Mishra said. Her family also alleged that they requested the policemen to allow their car to pass through, but they did not relent.“Our family is shattered. Doctors told us had she reached in time, she could have been saved,” Mishra’s husband said after performing the cremation rituals at Bhairon Ghat in Kanpur on Saturday afternoon.On learning about the woman’s death, the President called Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun and district magistrate Alok Tiwari to the circuit house. The police chief and the district magistrate visited the ghat on Saturday and condoled the family members of the deceased on behalf of the President.Arun also apologised on behalf of the Kanpur police. “We pledge that our route system in future will be such that citizens are stopped for the minimum time so that such incidents are not repeated,” he tweeted.In the evening, the Kanpur police issued a statement saying that sub-inspector Sunil Kumar and three constables have been suspended for holding the traffic for a prolonged period. Additional DCP (South) Basant Lal has been asked to conduct the inquiry into the incident, said the statement.The traffic was stopped near the Govindpuri railway overbridge as the presidential train, in which the president was travelling with his family, was about to pass. According to eyewitnesses, the traffic was at a standstill for more than 50 minutes.The condition of Mishra, who lived with her family in Kidwai Nagar, had deteriorated due to post-Covid complications. She had tested Covid positive in May. Though she recovered, she was facing (health) issues, her family said.She was being taken to a private hospital in Govind Nagar when the car got held up at the traffic stop. She was complaining of shortness of breath since evening. By the time she reached the hospital, she was dead, her family said.Police said the rail cavalcade comprising two more trains apart from than the presidential train had to pass that point at a specific interval. The traffic could not have been allowed as per the security protocol. Policemen had their instruction and they could not timely clear the jam, which had grown immensely, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dies-in-traffic-hold-up-during-kovind-s-kanpur-visit-4-cops-suspended-101624733940609.html
27-06-2021||India||Keep momentum of Covid-19 vaccine drive: PM Modi at review meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday emphasised the need to maintain momentum in scaling up India’s vaccination drive against coronavirus, asking officials to involve NGOs and other organisations to keep up the pace of inoculations at a time when the country has administered the most number of jabs within a week.Modi was told by officials at a review meeting on the country’s Covid-19 vaccination programme that 37.7 million doses were administered in the last six days. This week has seen the highest number of daily jabs, an average of 6.97 million per day, in over six months of India’s vaccination drive. The spike in daily vaccinations began from June 21, when the central government’s revised immunisation policy came into effect.“The PM was informed that 3.77 crore doses have been administered in the last 6 days, which is more than the entire population of countries like Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Canada. It was also discussed that 128 districts in the country have vaccinated more than 50% of the 45+ population and 16 districts have vaccinated more than 90% of the 45+ population,” a government statement said on Saturday.It added that the Prime Minister “expressed satisfaction at the rising speed of vaccinations in this week and stressed that it is important to carry this momentum forward”.India has given at least one dose of the vaccines to 19% of its total population so far. Opposition parties have repeatedly asked the government to scale up India’s vaccination drive to avert a potential third wave of the pandemic.At this week’s rate of vaccinations, India will take 239 days, till February 20, 2022, to inoculate all of its adult population.The statement on Saturday noted that non-governmental organisations (NGOs) can be roped in to encourage people to take the jab and fight vaccine hesitancy in parts of the country.“Modi was also briefed that the Union government’s Covid-19 management teams are in touch with state governments to explore and implement innovative methods to reach people for vaccination,” it said.“As NGOs or social organisations working in the grassroots have good access to the local population, their involvement can help in vaccination drive,” said an official aware of the development.At the meeting, the Prime Minister directed officials to lend New Delhi’s technological expertise after it was pointed out that many countries have shown growing interest in Co-Win — the India-made app that is the backbone for user registrations and appointments to facilitate the country’s vaccination drive.A presentation on the progress of the vaccination drive apprised PM Modi about the vaccine supply in the upcoming months and efforts being made to increase production, the government statement said.Saturday’s meeting was attended by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria among other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-momentum-of-vaccine-drive-modi-at-review-meet-101624733820543.html
27-06-2021||India||Delimitation panel to meet over J&K polls||The delimitation commission is set to meet on Wednesday to decide when to hold an all-party meeting with national and local political units with nearly nine months left to complete the exercise, as Jammu and Kashmir gears up for its first assembly election since it became a Union territory, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday.“The commission will meet on Wednesday to decide a time to have an all-party meeting, including the local parties in Jammu and Kashmir,” a person familiar with the matter said. “The meeting will be held within in the month of July.”The commission will also carve constituencies for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes for the first time in the erstwhile state. The primary aim will be to create constituencies on the basis of “physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience”. The commission was granted a yearlong extension in March this year to complete the exercise.Former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission which was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland. Election commissioner Sushil Chandra and state election commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir and the four states are ex-officio members of the commission.The commission has since decided to not conduct an exercise in the north-east after concerns were raised about whether that fell within its purview.The commission is set to discuss how to allocate the seven new constituencies it will be adding to the union territory of J&K. The number of constituencies will go up from 107 to 114, with the commission focusing on allocating areas for 90 constituencies in the Union territory, as the other 24 are part of Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.The last redrawing of J&K’s assembly boundaries was in 1995 and based on the 1981 census. The erstwhile state was governed under the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution and Jammu and Kashmir Representation of the People Act, 1957, until its special status was revoked. After the 2001 census, the J&K assembly passed a law putting delimitation on hold until 2026.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah held discussions with representatives from several political outfits of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. Fourteen prominent leaders, including National Conference chief Omar Abdullah and PDP head Mehbooba Mufti, from Jammu and Kashmir took part in the meeting where issues of delimitation and statehood were discussed.This was the first meeting of its kind since the abrogation of Article 370 and the bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union territories in August 2019. Political parties from the state have expressed concerns regarding the delimitation exercise, with Abdullah saying that the exercise should be undertaken with the rest of the country in an interview with the Indian Express. A national delimitation will now be due only after 2026 as an amendment was passed by Parliament to freeze the constituencies demarcated in 2002 until then.The delimitation commission has already collated census and geographical data to factor in the existing difficulties and communication needs of the newly formed Union territory. “There are considerations of a geographical nature, such as access in hilly districts, the Commission will have to ensure that the most basic administrative block, whether it is the tehsil or the district, is not broken down in the process. This way there can be seamless elections and effective implementation of government schemes,” said one of the people cited above.The delimitation of new assembly constituencies will be based on the 2011 census data. The commission is also perusing representations from various parties as it undertakes the process, including one from the Vistapit Kashmiri Pandits, an organisation from the Valley seeking consideration for displaced Kashmiri pandits.“There has been no fresh approach to the National Conference from the Delimitation Commission but as & when that happens The central working committee of the party has authorised the party president Dr Farooq Abdullah to take a view at the appropriate time on this,” said National Conference spokesperson Tanvir Sadiq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-panel-to-meet-over-j-k-polls-101624733760544.html
27-06-2021||India||Took back charge of vaccine drive on states’ request: Centre||The Union government took back charge of sourcing and supplying vaccines to states after as many as 13 chief ministers wrote to it with a request for a reset of the policy, the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Saturday.“The said decision to review the strategy was taken after receipt of letters from 13 Hon’ble chief ministers as well as health ministers of various states and after debating and deliberating the pros and cons of such decision,” said the affidavit filed by the Centre in the case registered suo motu (on its own) by the apex court to scrutinise the vaccination policy and supply of essential drugs and services during the Covid-19 pandemic.The affidavit said that the letters were received from the CMs and other ministers between May 15 and June 2, asking for a review of the liberalised vaccination policy which was brought into effect from May and brought significant changes to the Covid-19 vaccination protocol. This change paved for people in the 18-44 age group to get doses, so long as these shots were acquired directly by the states or private hospitals from the manufacturers.“The Government of India, therefore, decided to review the strategy to factor in the problems highlighted by the state governments and keeping in mind the main objective of maximising vaccination in the minimum possible time under the most extraordinary and unprecedented circumstances which is being faced by the humanity in general and by India in particular,” added the affidavit.Following the representations from the state government and upon assessing the experience on the ground, the Centre started reviewing the policy “so that the problems faced by the state governments may not hamper the vaccination drive and citizens also do not suffer in any manner.”It stated that as part of a review, two meetings were conducted “at the level of highest political executive of the country” on May 15 and May 21 before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on June 7 that the Centre was taking over the task of vaccination from state governments and will provide Covid-19 vaccines free of cost to all adults from later this month.The affidavit has not identified either the CMs or the states that asked for a revision of the policy while pointing out that the previous policy of May 1 was also brought in “only with a view to accommodate the requests of state governments, so that they continue to be completely focused and committed as equal stakeholders to the mission of national vaccination”.The Union government, defending the May 1 policy, emphasised that the states’ requests for autonomy in vaccine procurement and administration of dosage were accommodated “for ensuring overall success of the National Vaccination Policy, in the face of constraints of vaccine awareness and hesitancy”.The Supreme Court in its order on June 2 had said that the Centre’s May 1 policy, which had put the onus of giving doses to adults in the below-45 years age group entirely on states and private hospitals, was “prima facie arbitrary and irrational”. The bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, held that this policy “conflicts with the constitutional balance of responsibilities between the Centre and states” while seeking justification also on differential pricing of vaccines between the Centre and states.The Centre’s affidavit has maintained that the option was made available to states and Union Territories to expand their vaccination drives to 18-44 age group on the states’ own requests even as the Union government kept providing free vaccines to the states for those above 45. It has, however, not addressed the issue of differential pricing stating that the old policy now stood replaced with a new one.About the involvement of private hospitals, which will continue procuring 25% vaccines under the new policy as well, the Centre said that their engagement in any public health programme was always “desirable” so as to give wider reach to vaccination and lessen the stress on government facilities.It added that vaccine manufacturers were permitted to sell vaccines to private hospitals at higher rates because “unless the vaccine manufacturers have an incentive or financial ability, they may either not have the capacity to augment their potential or may not sense the viability to do so”. Additionally, this would cross-subsidise the price at which they were supplying 75% of their manufactured vaccines to the central government, said the affidavit.“With a view to ensure that there is no exploitation by private hospitals, it has also been mandated that no private hospital could charge more than ₹150 per dose from the individuals choosing to get vaccinated in a private facility over and above the price paid by private hospitals to the manufacturers,” added the affidavit.The Union government maintained that under the new policy, all persons above 18 years of age throughout the country are entitled to get free vaccination irrespective of their financial position.“To put the same position differently, a person below poverty line and a multi-millionaire are equally entitled for the very same vaccine in the age group of 18 years and above free of cost,” the 380-page document said.It further said that digital divide, if any, will not be an impediment in the vaccination since after May 23, on-site registration and digital registration on CoWIN platform had been allowed for 18 years and above, besides putting in place mechanism also for ‘Near to Home Covid Vaccination Centres’.The Centre’s affidavit will be examined by the SC bench, which also includes justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, on Monday when the matter is heard next.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/took-back-charge-of-vaccine-drive-on-states-request-govt-101624733700543.html
27-06-2021||India||‘Derogatory’ words can lead to suspension of lawyers||The Centre has notified an amendment to the Bar Council of India Rules, making derogatory remarks by lawyers against any court or judge, in print, electronic or social media, grounds for suspension or disqualification from the rolls of the State Bar Council.The new rule will not apply to a “healthy and bona-fide criticism made in good faith”, a gazette notification issued in this regard on Friday said.The amendment states: “An advocate shall conduct himself/herself as a gentleman/gentle lady in his/her day-to-day life and he/she shall not to any unlawful act, he/she shall not make any statement in the print, electronic, or social media, which is indecent or derogatory, defamatory or motivated, malicious or mischievous against any Court or Judge or any member of judiciary, or against State Bar Council or Bar Council of India… any such act/conduct shall amount to misconduct.”The amendment has been introduced in Section V of the Bar Council of India Rules, titled “Duties towards society and Bar”.“Violation of Section-V shall result in suspension or removal of membership of such member from the Bar Council. The Bar Council of India may declare such advocates (as mentioned above in Section-V) or any member of Bar Council to be disqualified from contesting the elections of any Bar Association or Bar Council for any period, depending on the gravity of the misconduct,” the notification said.The amendment also restricts lawyers from issuing a statement to the media against any resolution or order of a State Bar Council or Bar Council of India, or using any derogatory language against the Bar Council or its office bearers, the gazette notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/derogatory-words-can-lead-to-suspension-of-lawyers-101624730700421.html
27-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Projected vaccine dose availability cut, but will suffice||About 1.86 billion vaccine doses will be available for the national Covid-19 immunisation programme through the year -- 516 million of those till the end of July -- the Centre has submitted in an affidavit to the Supreme Court.The number, though lower than the estimated 2.16 billion vaccine doses expected by December as publicly stated by the government earlier, should still be enough to inoculate all adults in the country by the end of the year.The revised government estimates have reduced vaccine availability between August and December by 37.5% or 810 million doses, removing three vaccines from the initially projected list of eight coronavirus vaccines.An estimated 500 million doses of Covishield, 400 million of Covaxin, 300 million of Biological E’s protein sub-unit vaccine, 50 million of Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine and 100 million of the Russia-made Sputnik V have been projected to be available for the government programme from August onwards.According to the earlier projection that VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, released on May 13 during a health ministry media briefing, production and availability of 2.16 billion doses between August and December included 750 million Covishield, 550 million Covaxin, 300 million Biological E, 50 million Zydus Cadila, 200 million Novavax (which Serum Institute of India is manufacturing locally as Covovax), 100 million Bharat Biotech’s nasal vaccine, 60 million Gennova’s mRNA vaccine, and 156 million Sputnik V doses.The country has an estimated 930-940 million people in the category of 18 years and above who are eligible for vaccination under current norms. On June 7, the government revised its vaccination policy to include all adults for immunisation under the government programme.“As such, administering two doses to these beneficiaries would require an estimated 186 to 188 crore vaccine doses… out of this requirement, 51.6 crore doses will be made available for administration by 31.07.2021 leaving a requirement of approximately 135 crore vaccine doses for complete vaccination to the eligible population,” said the affidavit.“It is submitted that the Central Government has procured a total of 34.6 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine (Covishield: 26.6 crore doses, Covaxin: 8 crore doses) and - additional 1 crore doses as commodity assistance under COVAX facility… taking the total availability of vaccine doses to 35.6 crore doses as on date of filing this affidavit. Apart from these supplies, it is expected that around 16 crore doses will also be available during the period of May 2021 & July 2021 across the country,” the affidavit said.Two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — are currently part of the government’s vaccination programme since January 16, 2021. While Serum Institute of India locally manufactures the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine under the brand name Covishield, Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research co-developed Covaxin.Another Covid-19 vaccine, the Russian-made Sputnik V, developed by Gamaleya Institute, also received the national drug regulator’s emergency use authorisation on April 13 and is now being administered at select private vaccination centres in the country.The government is also expecting Covid vaccine doses soon from Biological E and Zydus Cadila that are in late stages of clinical trials.Experts, however, said that the government should have pre-ordered doses.“The government should have put in advanced purchase orders; what they did instead is purchase what the manufacturers had on their shelves. So the companies produced the doses at their own pace instead of the government dictating how many doses they need and by when,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology, Christian Medical College-Vellore.“My guess is after the second wave, herd immunity has been reached; whether we vaccinate or not, the number of cases will come down. Now, the vaccination drive needs to focus on people who are likely to die if they get the infection, something which we were doing in January and February when we should have been carrying out a large-scale vaccination campaign to prevent the second wave,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/projected-dose-availability-cut-but-will-suffice-101624730520433.html
27-06-2021||India||No insurance provision for Covid-19 cover: Centre||The Union government has told the Supreme Court there is no policy or scheme that provides for national insurance coverage for deaths due to Covid-19, and that there has been no deliberation to include the pandemic for risk insurance coverage against natural disasters in the country.In a written submission before the apex court, filed on Saturday in response to a public interest litigation by advocate Gaurav Bansal for payment of ex-gratia amount of ₹4 lakh for every Covid-19 death, the Centre reiterated that the finance commission, in October 2020, recommended against including the pandemic as a disaster for providing monetary relief.The submission was filed by the Centre in justification of the Union government’s affidavit stating that the ex-gratia amount of ₹4 lakh cannot be paid to the families of those who have died of Covid-19 as it is beyond fiscal affordability, and the finances of central and state governments are under severe strain.Also Read| Centre rules out ₹4 lakh ex-gratia for deaths due to Covid-19On June 21, a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah sought to know from the Centre if the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), led by the Prime Minister, considered the issue of ex-gratia before deciding against it and also asked whether uniform guidelines could be framed on the payment of ex-gratia.In its submission, the government did not respond on whether there was a conscious decision by the national authority against framing of a scheme for payment of ex-gratia to the families of those who have died of Covid-19.It, however, maintained that the ex-gratia payments were confined only to 12 identified and notified disasters – cyclone, drought, earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, hailstorm, landslide, avalanche, cloudburst, pest-attack, frost and cold wave.“However, Covid-19 has not been recommended by the XV Finance Commission for financing of relief measures from SDRMF/ NDRMF (state and national disaster relief management funds), which includes ex-gratia payment,” said the submission. The Centre said that ad hoc ex-gratia payments being made by state governments were from chief ministers’ and state relief funds, and not from the state disaster funds.It added that the Union government devised its strategy to rationally and judiciously use resources of the country to deal with Covid-19 “rather than formulating the response in the straitjacket formula of minimum standards of relief, as contemplated under the NDMA, 2005”.“The issue is not of fiscal affordability, but rather of the most rational, judicious and optimum usage of fiscal and all other resources of the nation,” said the submission, even as it did not specify whether the finance commission’s recommendations to grant no ex-gratia payments for Covid-19 deaths were placed before NDMA for consideration.It said that Covid-19 was notified as a disaster in March 2020 “for the purpose of limited assistance towards containment measures” and for “one-time temporary arrangement” but the aspect of ex-gratia was kept confined only to 12 identified disasters.About the finance commission’s recommendation on the national insurance scheme, the Union government said that the insurance intervention scheme on disaster-related deaths also did not cover deaths due to Covid-19.“Presently there is no guideline/policy/scheme in NDMA which relates to National Insurance mechanism that may be used to pay for disaster related deaths due to Covid-19,” said the submission.Also Read| Covid in India: Deaths near grim milestone of 400,000, fresh cases fall furtherIt noted that talks have been held between NDMA and various other functionaries of the Centre and states in 2020-21 on risk insurance coverage against natural disasters in India and the final report was also submitted in April by the working group but “the insurance coverage being deliberated does not cover risk insurance from pandemics or epidemics like the Covid-19”.In the last hearing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, read from the report of the Finance Commission for 2021-26, which allocated funds under Disaster Risk Management, to make the point that ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh for every death due to Covid-19 will alone mop up the entire allocations under state disaster relief funds.The bench, however, observed that it was mandatory under Section 12 of NDMA to frame guidelines prescribing ex-gratia as part of “Minimum Standards of Relief” as it commented that the recommendations by finance commission could not override statutory requirement under NDMA.On June 21, the court reserved orders on the petitions while giving the Centre time to file written submissions on the questions raised in Bansal’s PIL, including whether a countrywide uniform compensation scheme for Covid-19 deaths could be fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-provide-insurance-cover-for-covid-centre-101624730160345.html
27-06-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Assam to be placed under new Covid rules from June 28||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Assam to be placed under new Covid-19 guidelines from June 28Assam Government issues new guidelines to come into effect from 5am of June 28; the curfew time for high positivity districts will be round the clock;2pm to 5pm for moderate positivity districts and 5pm to 5am for districts showing improvement. pic.twitter.com/XCndfY5c0sThe Assam government on Saturday issued new guidelines to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease which will be in effect from June 28, 5am. UK health secretary Matt Hancock resigns after breaking Covid-19 rulesBritain's health minister Matt Hancock resigned on Saturday after admitting he broke Covid-19 guidance by kissing and embracing an aide in his office. Read moreDocument claiming resumption of DA, dearness relief 'fake': GovtA document is doing rounds on social media claiming that Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief for Central government employees and pensioners will be resumed from July 2021 #PIBFactCheck: This claim is #Fake. No such announcement has been made by the Government of India. pic.twitter.com/9fsPITQClBUK health ministers Matt Hancock resigns after breaking Covid rulesBritain's health minister Matt Hancock has resigned after he admitted breaking Covid-19 guidelines by kissing and embracing an aide in his office. His resignation letter to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson was published by Downing Street.Weddings in banquet halls can have 50 guests, gyms reopen from Monday: DDMAThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday issued an order allowing banquet halls for marriages with 50 people. It also allowed gyms to open from Monday.Areas with over 10 cases in 7 days to be declared total containment zone: Assam govtThe Assam government on Saturday directed all the districts to notify areas where the Covid-19 positivity reached more than 10 cases in the last seven days as total containment zones, reported PTI.Rajnath Singh to visit Ladakh tomorrow; to review operational preparednessDefence minister Rajnath Singh will visit Ladakh on Sunday for three days. During his visit, the defence minister will inaugurate infrastructural projects constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and will also interact with troops deployed in the region, the Union minister's office informed on Saturday.On 2-day parole, Akhil Gogoi meets mother, familyActivist and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi met his mother and other family members on Saturday at his residence in Jorhat. Gogoi was granted two day parole by an NIA court on Friday. He was arrested under the UAPA during the anti-CAA protests in Assam.Variants of concern detected in 35 samples of ChandigarhChandigarh administration on Saturday said 35 samples were detected with variants of concern of the 50 sent for sequencing to Delhi. 50 random samples of Chandigarh residents for May and June were sent to NCDC lab, Delhi for whole genomic sequencing. Out of these, variants of concern detected in 35 samples. One Alpha variant, 33 Delta variants and one Delta plus variant in the samples, the administration said, reported ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 1 death from Delta Plus variant of CovidTamil Nadu deputy director of health Arjun Kumar on Saturday informed about one death from the Delta Plus variant of Covid in the state. The state health department has frequently sent Covid test samples to Pune lab to identify the new Delta variant of Covid 19. Among these, a patient aged 34 - who died on April 21 in Madurai - is now verified to have contracted Delta Plus variant, Kumar said, reported ANI.Madhya Pradesh to end corona curfews on Sundays with immediate effect; no new Covid case in 35 districts, says CMMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said Covid-19 is under control in the state and in this situation, it is not justified to impose a corona curfew on Sunday. Not even one positive case has been reported in 35 districts, active cases stand below 1,000. Positivity rate has dropped to 0.06%, he added.Maharashtra reports 9,812 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hoursMaharashtra on Saturday reported 9,812 new Covid-19 cases, 8,752 recoveries and 179 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases: 6,026,847Total recoveries: 5,781,551Death toll: 120,881Active cases: 121,251Karnataka logs 4,272 new Covid-19 cases, 115 deathsKarnataka on Saturday reported 4,272 new cases, 6,126 discharges and 115 deaths, according to the state health bulletin.Active cases: 105,226Total recoveries: 2,691,123Death toll: 34,6543 civilians injured in grenade attack by militants in SrinagarAtleast three civilians were injured in a grenade attack by militants on a CRPF party at Barbar Shahin Srinagar on Saturday, according to ANI.PM Modi holds review meeting on Covid vaccination drivePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting on the progress of Covid-19 vaccination drive, via video conferencing, reported ANI.Delhi reports 85 new Covid cases in 24 hours, lowest this yearDelhi reports 85 (lowest this year) new #COVID19 cases, 158 recoveries and 9 deaths.Total cases: 14,33,675Active cases: 1,598Deaths: 24,961 pic.twitter.com/V5UopOtwgbRain lashes parts of Delhi#WATCH| Delhi: Rain lashes parts of national capital; visuals from near Raj Niwas. pic.twitter.com/yXZqGMmmEoThird wave of Covid has not begun, says ICMR doctorThe head of epidemiology at ICMR Dr Samiran Panda on Saturday said only 49 cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 have been reported from 10 states, which does not indicate the inception of the third wave of Covid. Calling it the onset of the third wave would be misleading, Dr Panda added.Court sends arrested aides of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to ED’s custody till July 1Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's PA Kundan Shinde and PS Sanjeev Palande remanded to ED custody till July 1.BJP names its Assam, Manipur units chiefThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) appointed Bhabesh Kalita and Sharda Devi as presidents of its Assam and Manipur units respectively.Military to go for indigenised clothing and equipmentThe ministry of defence has a list of 209 items including cruise missiles, next generation corvettes, tank engines and towed artillery guns which have been placed under negative import list to boost Atmanirbhar Bharat programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read MoreDelhi court grants interim protection from arrest to Lakha Sidhana in R-Day violence caseA Delhi court on Saturday granted interim protection from arrest to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in connection with his alleged involvement in violence which ensued at the Red Fort here on Republic Day.Haryana minister takes dig at protesting farmers Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij takes a dig at farmers protesting against the three contentious laws, saying they make a new programme every day to keep their agitation alive. "They (farmers) are sitting at the borders for months now. They're disappointed. So, to keep their agitation alive, their leaders make a new programme everyday. Today, they have spoken about submitting a memorandum at Raj Bhawan. This keeps happening," said Vij as per ANI report.Nagpur Police detain former Maharashtra CM Devendra FadnavisNagpur Police detain former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis during OBC quota protests, reports ANIDon't accept timeline by Centre for J&K statehood: Omar AbdullahAzad sa'ab (Ghulam Nabi Azad) had spoken on behalf of all of us that we don't accept this timeline. We don't accept delimitation, election, statehood, we want delimitation, statehood and then election. If you want to hold polls, you'll have to restore statehood first, says Omar AbdullahAyodhya vision document: PM Modi reviews plan in meet with AdityanathPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed projects as well as a detailed plan for the development of Ayodhya and to promote the temple town as a global religious tourism site presented by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Read More'We are with farmers,' tweets Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi tweets in suport of farmers' protest. "It's simple. We, Satyagrahis, are with the Annadata," he tweeted in Hindi.The tweets comes as farmers have called for a "tractor rally" on completion of seven months of the ongoing protest.Watch: Maharashtra police detain BJP workers protesting for OBC reservation#WATCH | Maharashtra: Police detain BJP workers who were protesting in support of OBC reservation in Mumbai's Mulund area pic.twitter.com/RJIyIPj4deAs Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully-vaccinated to keep masks onThe World Health Organization (WHO) has said people who are fully vaccinated will have to continue wearing masks, follow social distancing and other safety measures to contain the spread of the more deadly and contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly across the globe. Read More Dawood Ibrahim's brother sent to judicial custody in ThaneDawood Ibrahim's brother Iqbal Kaskar is being sent back to judicial custody of MCOCA court, Thane after interrogation. ANI reported. "We had some inputs & wanted to question him. We asked the court for his 2-day remand. We haven't arrested him. Probe on," MA Jain of NCB said as per report,ED summons Anil Deshmukh over PMLA caseED has summoned former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh today at its office for questioning, in connection with an alleged money laundering case.JP Nadda calls meeting of senior BJP leaders, Shah to participateBharatiya Janata Party's national president JP Nadda has called a meeting of senior party functionaries at the party headquarters at 11 am, news agency ANI reported. Union Home Minister Amit Shah to also participate in the meeting, it also reported.Deaths near grim milestone of 400,000, fresh cases fall furtherIndia on Saturday recorded as many as 48,698 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,183 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. With this, the country's total infection tally was pushed to 30,183,143 and the death toll neared the grim milestone of 40,0000.Bangladesh to impose nationwide lockdownBangladesh will impose a nationwide 'hard lockdown' starting Monday for seven days in a bid to stem the dramatic spread in daily Covid-19 cases.ED arrests Deshmukh's assistant, personal secretaryEnforcement Directorate (ED) arrested personal assistant Kundan Shinde and personal secretary Sanjeev Palande of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, in connection with an alleged money laundering case registered against Deshmukh.George Floyd murder: Ex-cop sentenced to over 22 yearsFormer policeman Derek Chauvin was sentenced to 22 and a half years in prison on for the murder of African American George Floyd.Drug gang shootout leaves 18 dead in Mexico: GovtA shootout among suspected drug cartel gunmen left 18 people dead Friday in Mexico, news agency AFP reported quoting an government official.The gunfight happened in a remote area of northern Zacatecas state, said Rocio Aguilar, a spokeswoman for the state government.Pakistan-based ISI proxies may sabotage farmers' stir: Intelligence agenciesIntelligence agencies have alerted Delhi police and other agencies that Pakistan-based ISI proxies may sabotage the proposed farmers' stir on June 26, news agency ANI reported.US releases UFO report, says can identify 1 of 144 flying objectsThe United States on Friday released a report on unidentified flying objects to characterise the potential threat posed by them. The report showed that the government was only able to explain one of the 144 cases of unidentified flying objects reported by military planes with "high confidence".No Covid-19 vaccination at Nagpur centre due to unavailability of jabsNo Covid-19 vaccination took place at the centres of Nagpur Municipal Corporation yesterday, due to unavailability of vaccines, according to news agency ANI. "We're hearing govt making records in vaccination but on the ground, there is no vaccine. The governments should ensure its availability," said a local.'Afghans had to determine their own fate...': Biden tells GhaniLess than three months before his deadline for the removal of all troops, US President Joe Biden met Afghan leader Ashraf Ghani and said that Afghans had to determine their own fate even as they face a mounting offensive by Taliban insurgents. "The partnership between the United States and Afghanistan is not ending," Biden said.Jaishankar reached Greece, welcomed by counterpart Nikos DendiasExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar reached Greece on Saturday morning and was welcomed by his counterpart Nikos Dendias. "Greece is an important partner in our broader EU engagement. Look forward to our formal talks tomorrow," tweeted EAM Jaishankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-26-2021-101624664408318.html
