29-06-2021||India||India, China to discuss disengagement at Gogra and Hot Springs||New DelhiThe dates of the agreed 12th round of the India-China senior commanders’ dialogue will be fixed through military channels, but the discussion will be restricted to disengagement and de-escalation of armies of the two countries from general areas Gogra and Hot Springs. The issue of Depsang Bulge will be dealt with by local commanders as it was a 2013 legacy issue, HT learns.According to South Block officials, the decision to discuss Hot Springs (patrolling point 14) and Gogra (patrolling point 17A) was taken at the virtual meeting of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India China border affairs on June 25.The two friction points, which are near the Kugrang and Chang Chemmo rivers respectively, were transgressed by the PLA on May 17-18, 2020 (apart from north banks of Pangong Tso).The 2013 friction point of Depsang Bulge, south of Daulet Beg Oldi, will not be taken up by the senior military commanders but dealt at the local commanders level, the officials added, asking not to be named. In April 2013, PLA transgressed the Raki and Jeevan nullah with the aim of blocking Indian Army from patrolling points 10 to 13A within the bulge area.While disengagement has taken place from the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, a larger de-escalation remains work in progress due to mutual mistrust and suspicion after the PLA’s 2020 transgressions.Both the Indian Army and the PLA Army have three divisions of troops with support elements all along the 1597 kilometre-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh with artillery, armour and rocket elements in addition. The Indian Army troops led by Lt General P G K Menon of 14 Corps are on constant vigil and are conducting patrols within limits defined by the Cabinet Secretary in 1976. There has been no accretion of troops from the Indian side since the August 29-31, 2020 incident on south banks of Pangong Tso. That was when the Indian army beat the PLA in the race to occupy commanding heights in the southern bank. While the Army is monitoring the Chinese activity along the LAC, the Indian Navy is keeping a close watch on PLA warship from the Gulf of Aden to the Malacca Straits including the south Indian Ocean. Apart from some research activity in deep south Indian Ocean which is being monitored, the Chinese ships are confined around the Gulf of Aden or Makran Coast off Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-discuss-disengagement-at-gogra-and-hot-springs-101624991237602.html
29-06-2021||India||Centre nudges states again to calibrate relaxations of Covid restrictions||New Delhi: The Centre on Tuesday told all states and union territories to consider implementation of “targeted and prompt” action for Covid-19 management and told them to focus on a five-fold strategy for effective Covid-19 management.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s communication also reiterated that states must not stop laying emphasis on adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour which it said, was crucial to guard against any surge in the number of cases.Bhalla, who pitched for a calibrated relaxation of restrictions, asked district magistrates to use Section 144 of the Criminal Procedural Code (CrPC) to enforce social distancing and to charge people under the Disaster Management Act if they violate social distancing protocol. “With the decline in the number of active cases, many States and UTS have started relaxing restrictions. The process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated; and prompt and targeted actions need to be implemented by the States and UTs in line with the advisory of MoHFW (ministry of health and family welfare),” Bhalla said in his letter to state chief secretaries and administrators of union territories.Home secretary Bhalla told states to regularly monitor districts with a higher number of active cases per million population, asserting that this would be important to predict the need for upgrading health infrastructure and logistics.The home ministry letter comes on a day the country reported the lowest single-day spike since March 17 and less than 40,000 daily cases after 102 days. India recorded 37,566 new Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours ending 8 am Tuesday, taking the country’s total to 3.03 crore. With 907 new deaths, the toll is now at 3.97 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-nudges-states-again-to-calibrate-relaxations-of-covid-restrictions-101624989201916.html
29-06-2021||India||A drama to fool people: Congress hits out at Arvind Kejriwal’s ‘powerplay’ in Punjab||Congress hit out at Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday over his press conference, calling it a “drama to fool people”. Congress minister Charanjit Singh Channi told reporters that following the Punjab government’s announcement of free electricity, Kejriwal “rushed from Delhi”.“Arvind Kejriwal's press conference in Punjab was a drama to fool people. Soon after our government announced 300 units of free electricity for the people, he rushed from Delhi to here,” Channi told news agency ANI.Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener on Tuesday made the pre-poll promise of 300 units of free electricity to each and every household. Calling it “Kejriwal’s guarantees, not the Captain’s (Amarinder Singh) promises” the chief minister also promised to write off pending bills of consumers of domestic supply”, adding that his promise is bound to make women “especially happy”.Kejriwal accused the Punjab government of forming a “nexus” with private power companies and assured citizens that AAP if chosen will ensure round the clock power supply.Following Kejriwal’s announcement former chairman and managing director of the Punjab State Power Corporation limited, B S Sran, told news agency PTI that his particular promise will cost the state exchequer an additional financial burden of additional financial burden of ₹4,000- ₹5,000, in addition to the ₹10,000 plus crore spent by the government in power subsidies. Sran added that the promise of 300 units of free power is most likely to bring little to no benefit for the people since during the summer months electricity consumption exceeds that particular ceiling.This will be the second foray into Punjab for AAP, the first being the 2017 legislative assembly elections. Kejriwal has promised to replicate the Delhi Model in Punjab, however the ruling Congress has expressed doubts, Channi told reporters that AAP’s efforts leading up to the elections “will not help, he failed 5 years ago and will fail now too,”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-drama-to-fool-people-congress-hits-out-at-arvind-kejriwal-s-powerplay-in-punjab-101624988601773.html
29-06-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Rahul Gandhi says no meeting scheduled with Navjot Sidhu||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday denied that there was any meeting scheduled with Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, a day after former minister’s aide claimed he will meet the Gandhis in Delhi vis a vis the internal conflict within the state unit of the party.“No meeting with Sidhu,” Rahul told reporters waiting outside his Tughlak Lane bungalow in Delhi, as he left for his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence on 10 Janpath.The question on possible meeting with Sidhu arose due to his aide claiming on Monday that the Amritsar East MLA would meet Rahul and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi.Sidhu, said to have left for the national capital to meet the Gandhis, did not respond to phone calls and messages.Rahul Gandhi had held one-to-one meetings with more than 20 leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs, from Punjab last week as part of ongoing efforts to find a solution to factionalism in the state unit of the party. A three-member committee constituted by Congress President Sonia Gandhi had suggested in its report on June 10 that Sidhu should be suitably accommodated in the state unit.However, the former minister, who has been critical of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for months, upped the ante about a week ago with a spate of interviews in which he accused Amarinder of colluding with Badals. Sidhu, whose relations with Amarinder were frosty from the start, had quit the state cabinet in 2019 after his portfolio was changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-congress-crisis-rahul-gandhi-says-no-meeting-scheduled-with-navjot-sidhu-101624986658228.html
29-06-2021||India||Parliamentary panel seeks Twitter’s response within 2 days on locking accounts of Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shashi Tharoor||The Parliamentary panel for Information Technology on Tuesday had sought the response of microblogging site Twitter within two days, regarding locking the handles of IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, news agency ANI reported. The panel’s secretariat had also sent a letter to this effect to the company on the day.The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, had also directed its secretariat to seek the company’s reply on the issue in writing within the mentioned time frame.“Twitter will have to give [a] written answer to the committee within 48 hours, why and under what rule Twitter blocked Twitter accounts of IT minister Ravi Shankar Pradesh and senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor,” news agency ANI said, citing unnamed sources.Also, if the committee does not receive a satisfactory reply from Twitter, the panel has also asked to summon the Twitter official regarding the issue.Earlier on June 25, electronics and Information Technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad took to Twitter to announce that his access to his account was denied for a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and access was later restored.Also read | Madhya Pradesh government to take action against Twitter over wrong mapHe called the incident “peculiar” and said “Twitter’s actions were in gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 where they failed to provide me any prior notice before denying me access to my own account.”Tharoor also tweeted about a similar experience and said that one of his videos was deleted for the violation of the same rule. He said that the IT minister had pointed to possible violation of Indian regulations while Twitter tried conforming to foreign rules.“As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India,” Tharoor tweeted on June 25, affirming that Twitter would be asked for an explanation.Subsequently Twitter also landed in another trouble after a distorted map of India was depicted in their site’s careers section under the header ‘Tweep Life.’ The controversial map showed Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as separate entities. Following severe backlash, Twitter removed the map on Monday. However, legal complaints have been filed against the company by police in some states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-seeks-twitter-s-response-within-2-days-on-locking-accounts-of-ravi-shankar-prasad-shahshi-tharoor-101624985566804.html
29-06-2021||India||Jaish terrorists kicked 18-month-old baby before killing police officer's family||Heart-wrenching details have emerged out of the gruesome killing of a special police officer (PSO) and his family by Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists who did not even spare an 18-month-old girl and kicked her as well as her mother, officials said here on Tuesday.Two terrorists, including a foreigner, knocked at the door of ailing SPO Fayaz Ahmed in south Kashmir on Monday night and started thrashing him. His wife Raja Begum and 22-year-old daughter Rafia made an unsuccessful attempt to save him as the terrorists started spraying bullets on him.In the process, Raja Begum and Rafia were injured and died at a hospital on Tuesday.During investigation it came to light that Ahmed's 18-month-old granddaughter and daughter-in-law were mercilessly kicked by the terrorists.As the terrorists reached their house in Hariparigam village in Awantipora around 10:30 pm, Ahmed's daughter-in-law placed her 18-month-old daughter at the feet of the terrorists pleading them to spare the family.However, the terrorists, devoid of any humanity, kicked the infant away and committed their gruesome act, said a senior security officer."Which culture teaches such barbarity...kicking an 18-month-old baby and spraying 20-25 bullets on an innocent family," a senior officer probing the case said, adding that Pakistan-based terror groups have no love for the people of Kashmir Valley.A senior official conveyed to Ahmed's neighbours that "souls when soaked in guilt are the heaviest, and not voicing against brutality is a guilt many of us bear. Let's stand together for whom we care".The gruesome killing of the SPO and his family has sent shock waves across Jammu and Kashmir with political parties terming it a "dastardly and cowardly" act and a blot on the security scenario in the valley.Inspector General of Police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar had said on Monday that two JeM terrorists, including a foreigner, were involved in the killing.Kumar said the loss of the SPO along with his wife and daughter has "pained us a lot" and assured that the terrorists involved in the act will be neutralised soon.Terrorists have intensified attacks on police and security forces recently. While an inspector and a constable were killed in Nowgam and Eidgah areas of Srinagar last week, a civilian died in a grenade attack on security forces at Barbarshah in the heart of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-terrorists-kick-18-month-old-baby-before-killing-police-officer-s-family-101624985203394.html
29-06-2021||India||‘Serious threat of kidnapping’ in Afghanistan: India alerts nationals||India on Tuesday issued a detailed and specific security alert for its nationals in Afghanistan against the backdrop of an escalation in violent attacks by terror groups, warning that they should exercise utmost vigilance as they faced a “serious threat of kidnapping”.The security advisory was issued by the Indian embassy amid a massive surge in violence by the Taliban, which has enhanced its efforts to wrest control of territory from Afghan government forces as the US continues withdrawing its forces from Afghanistan.The alert, also tweeted by the Indian embassy’s handle, said terror groups had “escalated violent activities and carried out a series of complex attacks in various parts of Afghanistan, including targeting Afghan defence and security forces and Afghan government institutions and even civilians”.The advisory specifically warned that Indian nationals are “not exceptions” amid the escalation of violence, and they “additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping”.“In view of the heightened security threats, all Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are advised to exercise utmost vigilance and caution with regard to security at workplace, place of residence and also during movement to their places of work,” the advisory said.“All Indian nationals are also strongly advised to avoid all types of non-essential movements. Movements especially during peak commuting hours should also be avoided. While travelling on roads, maintain distance from possible targets like military convoys, vehicles of government ministries/offices, high ranking officials, law enforcement agencies, and avoid visiting crowded markets, shopping complexes, mandis, restaurants and other public places,” it added.Indian firms operating in Afghanistan were advised to put in place security measures for Indian employees deployed at project sites. They were also asked to contact the security wing of the Indian embassy for guidance and assistance.There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on the development. However, Indian authorities have been keeping a close watch on security-related developments in Afghanistan ever since the US administration announced its plans to pull out all troops from the country by September 11. Indian officials believe the US drawdown could be completed as early as July.A majority of Indian nationals in Afghanistan are engineers and staff working on hundreds of development projects being implemented across the country. India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan, with pledges of around $3 billion.The security advisory said targeted attacks were on the rise in various Afghan provinces and districts in recent weeks, and were directed against government establishments and security posts. Civilians have been caught in the middle of the conflict, and incidents of roadside blasts using improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and use of magnetic IEDs to target civilian vehicles were being reported from many parts of Afghanistan.All Indian nationals arriving in Afghanistan were advised to register with the embassy in Kabul and two functional consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif.“Any essential movement may please be kept as discreet as possible. Movements generally should not have a predictable pattern and timing and routes taken should be changed wherever possible to maintain an element of surprise,” the security advisory said.It further advised that travel outside the main cities should be avoided, and if necessary, such visits be undertaken by air as “many highways and roads are unsafe and prone to attacks” and illegal check posts have been set up by anti-government elements. Before any such trips, Indian nationals should contact the embassy or consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif for updates on the security situation and precautions to be taken, it said.Indian nationals were also told to keep contact numbers of the nearest police station, the Indian embassy and consulates, colleagues or other Indians known to them handy in case of emergency. The alert also pointed out that the availability of flights between India and Afghanistan and between major cities within Afghanistan changes often because of security reasons and Covid-19 restrictions.Meanwhile, the Afghan Taliban, in a statement issued through its website, said “all civilian and non-military foreign nationals, diplomats, embassies, consulates and workers of humanitarian organisations” would not “face any problems or security risks” from the organisation.“They may continue their diplomatic work and humanitarian activities per normal routine. As far as it is related to the [Taliban], we have fulfilled our responsibility regarding their safety,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serious-threat-of-kidnapping-in-afghanistan-india-alerts-nationals-101624984397927.html
29-06-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases go down, MHA asks states to focus on 5-fold strategy||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday issued directions to all state governments and Union territory administrations asking them to focus on the five-fold strategy for effective Covid-19 management. The process of relaxing restrictions in the country as the cases go down, signalling the decline of the second wave, should be carefully calibrated, the home ministry advisory said.Laying out some key points to focus on as the unlocking process gets underway, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked the states to regularly monitor the districts with a high number of active coronavirus cases per million (10 lakh) population as it is an important indicator to predict the need for upgrading the health infrastructure and logistics, so that early and prompt action can be taken.With a decline in the number of active coronavirus cases, many states have started relaxing the restrictions.The process of relaxing restrictions should be "carefully caliberated", the MHA order said, underlining states need to take prompt and targeted action in sync with the MHA advisory.Bhalla said the process of relaxing the restrictions should be "carefully calibrated", and prompt and targeted action needs to be taken by the states, in line with the advisory issued by the Union health ministry."States, UTs should closely monitor case positivity and bed occupancy on a regular basis, taking the districts as administrative units," Bhalla said."On witnessing any early sign of an increase in the case positivity rate and higher bed occupancy, necessary action should be taken for containment and upgrading the health infrastructure," the advisory said.In the districts with a high positivity rate and bed occupancy, the states may consider imposing restrictions, the advisory said."There should be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for an effective management of Covid-19 i.e. test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said.Bhalla said as has been emphasised in previous home ministry orders and advisories, adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is crucial to guard against any surge in the number of cases.The MHA has highlighted the need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour like mandatory use of face masks, hand hygiene, physical and social distancing and proper ventilation of closed places.There should be no let-up in adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour as the country eases up restrictions, the home secretary said."I would, therefore, urge you to issue directions to the districts and all other authorities concerned to take necessary measures as advised by the health ministry in its letter dated June 28 for the management of Covid-19," the Union home secretary said."I would also advise that the orders issued by the respective state governments, UT administrations, district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and the field functionaries for their proper implementation," he added.India on Tuesday recorded Covid-19 below 40,000 after 102 days, bringing the country's infection tally to 3,03,16,897, the Union health ministry data showed.India saw 37,566 new cases being reported in a day, while the Covid-19 death toll rose to 3,97,637 with 907 daily fatalities, the lowest in 77 days. The 907 new fatalities include 287 from Maharashtra, 110 from Kerala, 98 from Tamil Nadu and 93 from Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-go-down-mha-asks-states-to-focus-on-5-fold-strategy-101624981143974.html
29-06-2021||India||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant's tenure extended till June 2022||Niti Aayog Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant was on Tuesday given one-year extension till June 2022, according to a Personnel Ministry order.This is a third extension for the 65-year-old civil servant in the post.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the extension in tenure of Kant for a further period of one year beyond June 30, 2021 i.e upto June 30, 2022 or until further orders, it said.He was appointed as the CEO of the National Institution for Transforming India (Niti Aayog) on February 17, 2016, for a fixed two-year term.Kant was later given an extension till June 30, 2019.His term was further extended for two years, till this month end, in June 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant-s-tenure-extended-till-june-2022-101624983183643.html
29-06-2021||India||Russian agency begins work on 5th reactor at Kudankulam nuclear power plant||Russia’s state-run atomic energy corporation on Tuesday began work on the fifth of six nuclear reactors at the Kudankulam nuclear power plants and said it was ready to launch the construction of more advanced units at a new site in India. An official ceremony was held to mark the first pouring of concrete for the foundation plate of the fifth reactor building at the Kudankulam nuclear power plant (NPP). Work on the crucial project has continued despite disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, with Russia delivering several critical components on schedule over the past year. “For many years the Kudankulam NPP construction project has been a symbol of close cooperation between Russia and India. However, we do not want to stop at what had already been achieved,” Alexey Likhachev, the director general of Rosatom or Russia’s state-run atomic energy corporation, told the ceremony. “Rosatom has all the most advanced nuclear power technologies. Together with our Indian colleagues we are ready to launch the serial construction of the state-of-the-art Generation III+ Russian-designed nuclear power units at a new site in India. It is stipulated by the existing agreements,” he added. Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev described the start of construction of the fifth nuclear reactor at Kudankulam as “one of the significant moments in Russian-Indian nuclear energy cooperation”. He added, “It demonstrates our firm devotion to achieve success in all bilateral undertakings.” Russia is currently building the 6,000-MW project at Kudankulam in Tamil Nadu, which will have six VVER-1000 nuclear reactors, and is in talks with India to construct six more reactors at a new site that is yet to be identified. Two reactors at Kudankulam are currently operational, and India signed a framework agreement with Rosatom in 2017 for constructing the fifth and sixth units. The ceremony was held via videoconference because of Covid-19-related restrictions. The pouring of the concrete marked the official beginning of the main stage of construction of the fifth nuclear reactor. This was preceded by other preliminary works, including the concrete bedding for the foundations of the reactor building, the auxiliary reactor building with the main control room, the emergency power supply and the safety control systems. Russian enterprises are manufacturing the equipment required for the reactor facilities and turbine hall. Rosatom said the technical solutions implemented in the Kudankulam project characterise the “further evolutionary development” of the VVER high-power reactors and that the new units meet the latest safety requirements of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Rosatom said it has resources and competencies to offer solutions across the nuclear supply chain since it possesses assets in design, construction and operation of nuclear power plants, uranium mining, conversion and enrichment, supply of nuclear fuel, decommissioning and storage of spent fuel and safe nuclear waste disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-agency-begins-work-on-5th-reactor-at-kudankulam-nuclear-power-plant-101624982658115.html
29-06-2021||India||India jumps 37 places to rank 10 in ITU’s Global Cybersecurity Index 2020, fourth among Asia-Pacific countries||India is ranked 10th in the Global Cybersecurity Index 2020 (GCI) released by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the United Nations (UN) agency for information and communication technologies (ICT).“In a big leap, India jumps 37 places to be ranked 10th in Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) 2020 launched by @ITU,” Permanent Mission of India to the UN, Geneva, tweeted earlier on Tuesday. The Indian mission also said that the country was the fourth among Asia-Pacific nations and said that the rankings demonstrated India’s success and commitment to cybersecurity.📣In a big leap, India jumps 37 places to be ranked 🔟th in Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) 2020 launched by @ITU 4️⃣th in Asia-Pacific, demonstrating India's success and commitment to cybersecurity. @PMOIndia @DrSJaishankar @GoI_MeitY @MEAIndiahttps://t.co/DvBcw4RVIG pic.twitter.com/xnXo2qRpdkThe third iteration of the GCI was released in 2018 and India was ranked 47 with a global score of 0.719. Also, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Japan were the other countries in the Asia-Pacific that were ahead of India in the rankings. South Korea and Singapore tied for first place in the regional ranking.For the fourth edition of the index last year, the ITU assessed each member country’s level of development or engagement along five pillars namely, legal measures, technical measures, organisational measures, capacity development and cooperation. An aggregate score of all the measures determined the rank of each country.“For each of the pillars – (i) legal, (ii) technical, (iii) organizational, (iv) capacity development, and (v) cooperation – country commitment was assessed through a question-based online survey, which further allowed for the collection of supporting evidence. Through consultation with a group of experts, these questions were weighted in order to arrive at an overall GCI score,” according to the ITU.India scored 97.5 in GCI, the ITU report showed. Meanwhile, the US was ranked first with a score of 100 and the UK and Saudi Arabia shared the second rank with a score of 99.54 each. Estonia followed closely at third rank with a global score of 99.48.While the Republic of Korea (South Korea), Singapore and Spain scored 98.52 each and shared the fourth position, Russia, UAE and Malaysia tied for fifth place with a score of 98.06. Lithuania, Japan, Canada and France followed in subsequent positions in the list.Among other nations, Turkey (score - 97.49) was ranked 11, Germany (score - 97.41) was ranked 13, China (score - 92.53) ranked 33 and Israel (score - 90.93) was ranked 36.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-jumps-37-places-to-rank-10-in-itu-s-global-cybersecurity-index-fourth-among-asia-pacific-countries-101624980575046.html
29-06-2021||India||NHRC team member visiting Kolkata alleges attack; no police complaint lodged||Atif Rasheed, vice-chairperson of the National Commission for Minorities and a member of the team constituted by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal, alleged on Tuesday that he was attacked by “goons” while visiting the Jadavpur area in south suburban Kolkata. The incident took place in the Dompara area where people who burn corpses at crematoriums or work in morgues live as a community. Rashid Munir Khan, deputy commissioner of police (south suburban division), told HT that no police complaint was lodged by Rasheed or any NHRC member. “A police team was escorting the NHRC team. It gave me a report. At Dompara, some people shouted slogans against the NHRC team. Some of the agitators were apparently under the influence of alcohol which is not unusual among these people. Rasheed did not lodge any police complaint. If he files one, we will certainly look into it,” Khan said. Rasheed’s allegations comes on a day when another fact finding team set up by a civil society initiative, Call for Justice, said that the simultaneous incidents of violence across villages and towns in West Bengal hours after the assembly poll verdict came in were “not sporadic but premeditated, organised and conspiratorial”. The violence seen post assembly results in Bengal was a point of friction between Mamata-Banerjee government and the Centre.Rasheed was among the seven people in the NHRC panel which includes a member of the West Bengal Human Rights Commission and a member of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority. The panel is led by Rajiv Jain, the former Intelligence Bureau chief who assumed charge as NHRC member on June 2. The other constituents are National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and deputy inspector general (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja and West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee. The panel members, split in two teams, are visiting north and south Bengal districts. They have already met members of more than 100 families. A camp was held in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on Monday where many people came to give their statements. On June 21, the Calcutta high court dismissed a petition by the West Bengal government seeking recall of the June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during violence after the recent assembly polls. The high court asked the NHRC to submit its report by June 30 which is the next date of hearing of this case. Leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari and Lok Sabha member Locket Chatterjee raised the issue on social media and demanded action. Debabrata Majumdar, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from Jadavpur, said, “I heard local people protested because the NHRC team was accompanied by many outsiders. Nobody was attacked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-team-member-visiting-kolkata-alleges-attack-no-police-complaint-lodged-101624978997670.html
29-06-2021||India||Deceased Covid patient’s body can be taken home for up to an hour: Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday announced that deceased bodies of those who succumb to coronavirus (Covid-19) will be allowed to be taken home, news agency ANI reported. “The body can be kept for up to one hour,” Vijayan was quoted as saying by ANI.He added that family members and relatives of those who lose their lives due to Covid-19 are unable to pay their last respect, which is in turn, “adding to [their] emotional distress.” The latest decision is to address this issue, the chief minister told ANI.Ever since the pandemic hit India, there have been controversies related to the cremation of a Covid-19 positive patient’s body. While in the initial months, only those associated with the health authorities were allowed to take care of the last rites and paying last respects, over time, certain relaxations were provided.Last year in September, West Bengal became the first Indian state or Union territory to allow the family members and relatives to take the deceased Covid positive person’s body for completion of last rites, while following all safety protocols, ruled the Calcutta High Court.The petitioner in the case, Vineet Ruia, had told the court that bodies of Covid patients were being “disposed of by the administration unceremoniously and in an undignified manner” without showing any “resemblance of respect to the mortal remains of the dead person.”The court’s ruling laid down nine guidelines that the deceased’s kin have to follow, of which one is to perform no religious rites that require touching the body.Vijayan’s announcement comes at a time when the Union health ministry confirmed that the number of Delta plus cases of Covid-19 has now climbed up to 51 from 48. According to data shared by the ministry earlier, Kerala has reported three such cases so far, with Maharashtra accounting for the majority of the 51 cases.With the fear of a possible third wave looming over, several states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and West Bengal, among others, have either brought back lockdown-like curbs or extended the earlier ones.Meanwhile, Kerala reported 13,550 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours till 2pm on Tuesday, taking the cumulative tally of the state to 2,910,507, the state Covid-19 bulletin data showed. With 104 new fatalities reported, Kerala’s death toll has reached 13,093, the data added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deceased-covid-patient-s-body-can-be-taken-home-for-up-to-an-hour-kerala-cm-101624977581201.html
29-06-2021||India||Latest survey shows ‘woke’ politics is a liability in India||Indians, across religions, are not just believers but also conservative in their attitude towards religion. Political support, even for the rationalist and communist political formations, does not change this fact. While they claim to have respect for people from other religious persuasions, they are not very keen on promoting western style secularism, which calls for separation of religion and politics.Some of the most controversial and divisive political positions around religion, such as the bogey of Love-Jihad sustain themselves not on facts but the widespread disapproval of such ideas in principle. These findings, if true, suggest that radical secularism or ‘woke’ politics is unlikely to work politically in India and mainstream politics will continue to pander to conservative values around both caste and religion.These are among the interesting findings of a survey conducted by the Pew Research Centre, a Washington based “nonpartisan fact tank” that offers some useful insights on the role of religion in politics. The survey, Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation, is based on 30,000 interviews conducted between November 2019 and March 2020.The intersection of religion and politics has always been a contested terrain in India. The Indian nation suffered a partition on religious lines at birth, yet adopted a secular form of state. This question has gained renewed salience since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a political affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), stormed to a parliamentary majority in 2014, becoming the first party to get a majority after 1984. It replicated that feat in 2019. The BJP’s political victory has come on the back of a massive consolidation of Hindu votes, and almost negligible representation of Muslims in the ruling party’s support base or elected representatives.The Opposition, having realised the gravity of political challenge, has tried many tricks to counter the BJP. The most common among them has been what is often described as the “soft-Hindutva” approach. This is characterised by political leaders openly associating with Hindu religious symbols such as visiting temples or even reciting scriptures during political campaign. The success of such an approach has been mixed, which also means it is difficult to establish a cause-effect relationship. There is also a small but vocal minority which advocates a radical approach to questioning and undermining established religious and cultural norms.It is this background that makes the findings of the survey interesting. Here are some of the key ones:Most Indians are believersIndians are overwhelmingly believers when it comes to God. This trend holds across religions, except among Buddhists where one-third list themselves as non-believers. While the overall share of non-believers is small across major religions, the probability of finding a Muslim or Sikh non-believer is three times that of finding one among Hindus and Christians. The disproportionately large share of non-believers among Buddhists seems to be driven by the conversion of Bhim Rao Ambedkar to Buddhism in 1956. 89% of Buddhists identified themselves as members of the Scheduled Castes (SC) in the survey.“It does seem like the concentration of Buddhists who are also Dalit and atheist is higher in Maharashtra (5% of Maharashtra’s total population vs. 0.5% nationally). Of course, though, the overwhelming majority of Indian Buddhists (85%) are located in Maharashtra”, Neha Sahgal, associate director of research at Pew Research, told HT.Voting for communists and rationalists does not change faith in a big wayWhat is also interesting is that one’s attitude to God does not change significantly with political persuasion. The share of believers among those who voted for the Communist Party of India (CPI), Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) does not differ significantly from the group which did not vote for such parties.This is contrary to perceived wisdom, given the fact that the leadership of the communists and DMK does not acknowledge religion in their political positions. However, this statistic does explain why the CPI (M) was so vulnerable to a Hindu backlash when it supported a Supreme Court decision (now stayed) allowing entry to women of all ages in the Sabarimala shrine in Kerala, which was against established custom.On the face of it, communal harmony coexists with segregationA large majority of Indians, across religious persuasions, sees respecting other religions as an important part of being Indian and true to their own religion. This feeling exists despite a majority of Hindus, Muslims and Christians seeing each other as very different from other religions and displaying a high desire for religious segregation, especially when it comes to marriage.The statistics speak for themselves. 80% and 79% of Hindus and Muslims believed that respecting other religions is a very important part of their religious identity. To be sure, experts believe that such responses might not reveal the true picture.“That people tend to hide or underreport politically incorrect views or responses in surveys is a well-known fact and the scale of communal polarisation in India could be far greater”, said Neelanjan Sircar, assistant professor of political science at Ashoka University and a visiting fellow at Centre for Policy Research.66% Hindus and 64% Muslims also thought that they were very different from each other. 67% and 80% of Hindus and Muslims, respectively, believed that it was very important to stop women from their community from marrying outside their religion. The numbers are not very different even when it comes to men marrying outside their religion.To be sure, the high preference levels for communal harmony could be a result of a tendency to appear as being politically correct among respondents. When asked whether they saw religious diversity as beneficial to their country, only 53% (52% Hindus and 56% Muslims) said yes.What makes people outcastes from their religion?Eating prohibited meat (beef among Hindus and pork among Muslims) is the biggest disqualifier when it comes to being seen as part of the community. 72% Hindus and 77% Muslims believe that a person cannot be a Hindu/Muslim if they eat beef/pork. Sikhs and Jains are also highly disapproving of eating beef. While this is the common factor among both Hindus and Muslims, the two groups differ on other triggers of being considered outcastes.Observing festivals of other religious communities is a bigger taboo among Hindus than Muslims. Muslims are relatively more forgiving when it comes to observing other religious festivals than not participating in their own rituals and festivals. “Disrespecting India” is also a big trigger for being considered an outcaste, both among Hindus and Muslims. These statistics underline the political risk which a politician advocating tolerance of eating beef or pork, or questioning “nationalism” would attract.The fear of perceived religious transgressions is what feeds communal politicsWhy does something like ‘Love-Jihad’, a term used by many Hindu majoritarian organisations to claim large scale inter-religious marriage and conversion of Hindu women, manage to find political traction in India? Almost all Indians do not report having ever faced religious conversion in their lives. The occasionally rare instances of conversion, even when they occur, are present across all religions. What explains the paranoia such issues generate then?One possible explanation could be the fact that most Indians are not averse to politicians influencing religious affairs. Politicians may be exploiting entrenched religious fears, such as aversion to inter-religious marriage or the disproportionate opposition to a uniform civil code among Muslims – 74% Muslims support allowing Muslims to go to their own religious courts to settle a family dispute as opposed to just 30% Hindus – to build a political constituency around such issues. That preference for an authoritarian leader is almost the same among many Indian religions, including Hindus and Muslims, must be encouraging such tendencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-survey-shows-woke-politics-is-a-liability-in-india-101624977341019.html
29-06-2021||India||Drone attacks increase risk factor to defence installations||Early Sunday, two drones attacked the highly secure Indian Air Force Station in Jammu injuring two personnel. Within 24 hours of the incident, two similar devices were spotted hovering over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military areas in the region late Monday, prompting soldiers to open fire at them. A senior army officer said the attack is the first of its kind in India and poses a serious challenge to defence installations. “Jammu and Kashmir being a border region has Indian Air Force stations. Besides, Indian army aviation’s choppers fly daily from one station to another. Though basic protection parameters are there, drones and other low-flying objects can’t be detected by radars and air defence systems.” Also Read | After drone attack, PM talks future hurdles of defence with Shah, Rajnath SinghA majority of defence installations in Jammu are surrounded by densely populated localities from where drones can be easily operated at night.“Undoubtedly, it’s a new threat and has exposed vulnerability. There are several military stations in Jammu and Kashmir. Though high alert has been sounded across the defence installations, we can’t do anything immediately. The deployment of guards has been increased 24x7,” said the officer. “But how to cope with the new challenge with foolproof technology has to be thought of urgently,” he added. The army’s aviation wing and IAF fly their machines at night for various strategic purposes in Jammu and Kashmir.“Drones are low-flying objects. They travel at a fast speed and can smash against helicopters while they are landing or taking off. However, the pilots are well-trained and know multiple procedures to deal with emergency situations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drone-attacks-increase-risk-factor-to-defence-installations-101624978157930.html
29-06-2021||India||Sikh leader apologises to Kashimiris for provocative statements over alleged kidnapping||Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) leader Paramjit Singh Sarna on Tuesday apologised to the people of Kashmir for any hurt caused by the statements of a Sikh leader from Delhi in the backdrop of the alleged kidnapping of a woman from the community. He praised the support of local Muslim organisations, Kashmir’s top cleric Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and administration, saying the woman got married to a man of her choice on Tuesday while insisting the matter has been settled.“I met the family of the girl. This issue was settled today. She knew the person, who she got married to,” said Singh.The alleged abduction of the woman triggered protests on Sunday. Police said that she was allegedly abducted by a 29-year-old Muslim man. There was no clarity on whether the woman converted to Islam of her free will or if the abduction charges were genuine. Police said the man was arrested on kidnapping charges on Saturday, days after the woman’s parents filed a complaint against him. They also denied charges of conversion, a charge levelled by the protesters. The woman was presented before a court, and she went with her family members thereafter.Also Read | After drone attack, PM talks future hurdles of defence with Shah, Rajnath SinghManjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee, earlier said they will not tolerate “forced conversions” of Sikh women and called for a law that mandates permission of parents in inter-religion marriages. He also said he spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah.Sarna said if the woman had married the man arrested over alleged kidnapping, then the administration would not have handed over her to her family. “We also met people such as the Mirwaiz and Muslim organisations. The way all of them collaborated with us, we would not forget that for the rest of our lives,” he said. “We were provided support.”Sarna condemned the provocative statements made over the issue. “Although I have no association with them, but since a Sikh (Sirsa) came from Delhi and gave a statement, I apologise for that. Any hurt which was caused by his statement to the people here, it is my responsibility as a representative to apologise on his behalf,” he said“ We are thankful to the lieutenant governor (Manoj Sinha), the administration, and all the Muslim organisations and Imams of many mosques who met us. I also told them that since we are in minority, so you (majority) have to take care of us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-leader-apologises-to-kashimiris-for-provocative-statements-over-alleged-kidnapping-101624977377790.html
29-06-2021||India||Govt announces ₹6.28 lakh crore economic stimulus focused on healthcare||India had administered over 328 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, June 28, even as the government announced a ₹6.28 lakh crore economic stimulus focused on ramping up healthcare facilities, particularly for children.Elsewhere, the Serum Institute of India said it is approaching the European Medicines Agency for approval of Covishield for the EU’s Green pass, a document which will ease travel within and to the bloc.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 328,554,011 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,801,465 doses were given to the 18-45 age group on the day itself of which 2,863,823 were given as the first dose while 91,640 doses were given as the second dose. Cumulatively, 87,567,172 persons across the country have received their first dose and total 1,994,410 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Efficacy against Covid-19, safe for kids? All you need to know about Moderna vaccineAndhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have each administered the first dose to more than a million beneficiaries of the age group 18-45 years.India on Tuesday reported 37, 566 fresh cases, while 907people lost their lives in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health and family welfare ministry. The new additions to the country’s Covid-19 tally are lower than that reported on Monday when 46,148 new infections were recorded in the previous 24 hours. The active caseload of the country declined to 552,659 after Tuesday’s inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-rs-6-28-lakh-crore-economic-stimulus-focused-on-healthcare-101624977317651.html
29-06-2021||India||No meeting with Navjot Singh Sidhu, says Rahul Gandhi amid Punjab Congress infighting||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday denied having any meeting scheduled with Navjot SIngh Sindhu, leader from the party's Punjab unit. This comes a day after the former cricketer said he will meet Gandhis in the national capital amid his feud with Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.Earlier in the day, news agency ANI reported that Sidhu has left his residence in Patiala to meet Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Over the last few days, Rahul Gandhi has been meeting Congress MLAs, MPs and prominent leaders from Punjab at his residence. Both the chief minister and Sidhu have met Rahul Gandhi more than once, however the talks failed to diffuse the tensions between the senior party leaders.Party president Sonia Gandhi has also set up a three-member panel to end factionalism in the party's Punjab unit.On Friday, the leaders who reached Rahul Gandhi's residence to attend a meeting included Vijendra Singla, Rana Gurjit Singh, Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dhillon, and MLA Lakhvir Singh.Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dhillon while speaking to the mediapersons had said that the meeting was held to resolve infighting in the Punjab Congress and added that decisions were made to strengthen the party in the upcoming elections in the state.Notably, Singh during his recent three-day visit to Delhi did not meet Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Sidhu, who was earlier with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is known to have a support of Rahul Gandhi.In 2019, Sidhu quit the Amarinder Singh cabinet over change in his portfolio. The bitterness mounted in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 police firing case.His attacks have been public where Sidhu has called the chief minister a liar and accused him of not doing enough about issues like loan waiver.In the flashpoint Sidhu criticised the Punjab chief minister after Singh gave government jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs -- Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey-- on "compassionate" grounds. It triggered a stormin the Punjab Congress, while Sidhu accused him of giving jobs to "elitists".The infighting has come in the midst of the elections season as Punjab is set to go to polls next year. The state is crucial for Congress as it is one of the few states where the party is in power and the outcome will have an impact on the party's prospects outside the state as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-meeting-with-sidhu-says-rahul-gandhi-amid-punjab-congress-infighting-101624976958087.html
29-06-2021||India||Andhra man killed techie wife, burnt her body; told relatives she died of Covid||Hyderabad: The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirupati town said on Tuesday that they were on the lookout for a 30-year-old man, who allegedly killed his 27-year-old wife, stashed her body in a suitcase and set it ablaze six days ago. On June 23, Alipiri police in Tirupati found the charred body of the woman in a suitcase in bushes near Sri Venkata Ramana Ruia (SVRR) government general hospital. With the help of forensic experts, police identified the body as that of M Bhuvaneshwari, from Ramasamudram village in Chittoor district. Police said she was working as a software engineer with an IT company in Hyderabad. Alipiri circle inspector Devendra Kumar said the woman, along with her husband M Srikanth Reddy, from Badwel in Kadapa district, and their 18-month-old daughter, had been residing in Tirupati for the last three months due to Covid-19 pandemic. According to the police, the video footage obtained from the CCTV cameras showed Reddy entering the apartment complex with a red suitcase and after sometime, leaving the apartment, rolling it along, and carrying his daughter in one hand. The CCTV camera footage also showed him moving around the hospital area in cab. Police picked up the cab driver, who confessed to have helped Reddy in disposing the body. “We have launched the manhunt for Srikanth Reddy, who had been absconding since the incident happened. We are yet to gather complete details about him,” Kumar told HT. Preliminary investigations have revealed that Reddy, also a techie, lost his job during the pandemic, which led to frequent quarrels between the wife and husband. “He might have killed Bhuvaneshwari in a fit of rage during an argument,” a police officer said. Before absconding, Reddy told his wife’s family that she died of Covid-19 and hospital authorities conducted the last rites as per protocol, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-man-killed-techie-wife-burnt-her-body-told-relatives-she-died-of-covid-101624977137875.html
29-06-2021||India||Biden administration names Atul Keshap as new chargé d’affaires in India||The Biden administration on Tuesday named Atul Keshap, a career diplomat and an old South Asia hand, as the new chargé d’affaires in India, saying the appointment will reinforce the bilateral partnership and collaboration in the fight against Covid-19. Keshap will replace former deputy secretary of state Daniel Smith, whom the US had appointed the chargé d’affaires in New Delhi in May to spearhead cooperation on shared priorities, including overcoming the global pandemic. Keshap will depart for New Delhi following the retirement of Smith, the US state department said. A chargé d’affaires is a diplomat who serves as an embassy’s chief of mission in the absence of the ambassador.“Ambassador Keshap will bring a wealth of experience to the role, having served previously at US embassy in New Delhi and as deputy assistant secretary of state for South Asia,” the state department spokesperson said. Keshap most recently served as the principal deputy assistant secretary of state for the bureau of East Asian and Pacific affairs in the state department and as the US envoy to Sri Lanka and the Maldives. He has also been active in advancing the US agenda for the Indo-Pacific. The appointment of Keshap, a career member of the senior foreign service, “will reinforce the close US partnership with the government and people of India, demonstrated by our collaboration to overcome global challenges like the Covid-19 pandemic”, the spokesperson said. The ambassadorial position in New Delhi is among several key posts around the world that are yet to be filled by the Biden administration. The previous ambassador, Kenneth Juster, was a political appointee of the previous administration and stepped down following Donald Trump’s defeat in the 2020 election. Smith carried the highest US foreign service rank of career ambassador. His appointment was announced a day after the US began rushing equipment and materials, including oxygen-related gear and raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, to support India’s response to a deadly second wave of Coronavirus infections. Keshap’s appointment comes at a time when the focus in the region is on the fallout of the withdrawal of US and NATO troops from Afghanistan. Indian officials believe the drawdown of American forces could be completed as early as July, well ahead of the Biden administration’s deadline of September 11. The deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan amid a surge in attacks by the Taliban has become a cause for concern across the region. The son of Keshap Chander Sen, a UN development economist from the Punjab, and Zoe Calvert, a member of the US foreign service, Keshap served at the US embassy in New Delhi during 2005-08 and was involved in negotiations that led to the India-US civil nuclear agreement. His parents met and married in London and Keshap was born in Nigeria in 1971. He also served as deputy assistant secretary of state for South Asia during 2013-15 and did a stint as director of the office of human rights, humanitarian and social affairs during 2008-10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biden-administration-names-atul-keshap-as-new-charg-d-affaires-in-india-101624976717509.html
29-06-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh government to take action against Twitter over wrong map and comments against 'Bharat Mata'||The Madhya Pradesh government said it will initiate legal action against Twitter for putting up a distorted map of India on their site, state home minister Narottam Mishra said on Twitter on Tuesday. Calling it a “serious issue” the minister added that besides putting up wrong maps “comments against Mother India” can also be sighted on the microblogging site."This (putting up the wrong map) is a serious issue and we have seen it has been going on for a long time. Sometimes there are comments against Bharat Mata and sometimes it comes up in this way on Twitter. These issues cannot be taken lightly,” Mishra said in a video clip uploaded to his twitter accountThe minister also said that he has directed the Director General of Police (DGP) Vivek Johri to investigate the matter and register a First Information Report (FIR)."The Central government has taken it seriously and the Madhya Pradesh Government is also taking it seriously. I have directed the DGP to investigate all aspects and register FIR and file a case," he added.Twitter came under fire once again on Monday night, this time for displaying a controversial map of India which showed Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh as a separate country. The Uttar Pradesh police booked the Managing director of Twitter, Manish Maheshwari, and another individual named Amrita Tripathi under section 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code -- statement conducing to public mischief -- and section 74 of the IT (Amendment) Act, 2008. Maheshwari has also been booked by the UP police in the Loni incident.The latest development comes amidst an ongoing standoff between the microblogging site and the Indian government over new IT rules.Union minister for information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad's account was blocked for nearly an hour over alleged violations of the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), on June 25, for a tweet featuring AR Rahman’s song. Mishra in his recent tweet announcing legal action against Twitter tagged Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-government-to-take-action-against-twitter-over-wrong-map-and-comments-against-bharat-mata-101624974618222.html
29-06-2021||India||Over 16,000 pre-activated SIM cards seized from cybercriminal gang in Odisha||The Odisha Police busted a gang selling pre-activated SIM cards to cyber criminals outside the state with help from employees of private telecom operators and recovered 16,000 pre-activated SIM cards and more than 150 mobile phones from the seven accused, a police officer said.“The racket was operating by arranging pre-activated SIM cards which they used to send gangs sitting outside, mostly [in] Rajasthan, for various cyber crimes. While investigating a case in Bhubaneswar, we learnt that such a racket is operating out of Bhadrak town,” said Saumendra Priyadarshi, police commissioner, Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissionerate.Pre-activated SIM cards are preferred by criminals as they are obtained on forged identity documents and thus can’t be traced back to the persons using them. Priyadarshi said the accused used to activate SIM cards by submitting false identity credentials.“As distributors are under pressure to sell more SIM cards, the gang exploited this situation to their advantage. The gang subsequently activated multiple SIM cards by using the same credentials,” he said.The arrests have brought the loopholes in the SIM verification system into sharp focus and the potential it has for misuse by unsavoury elements, posing various risks to individuals and also national security.“This is something very serious as it is related to not just routine cybercrime through portals like olx, but also national security. By committing a serious offence through these SIM cards, the criminals can get away and put an innocent man in trouble because police will investigate the man in whose name the SIM card has been issued,” said Ishaan Sinha, a renowned cyber crime investigator who has trained police forces of several states on ways to fight cyber crime.Sinha said serious action should be taken against the distributors of these SIM cards as well as telecom operators. “The Department of Telecom in 2012 had banned sale of pre-activated SIM cards and recommended ₹50,000 [penalty] in case of such sales,” he added.During Covid-19 pandemic last year, Odisha saw at least 31% jump in cybercrime, mostly related to online transactions, which gained prominence due to the restrictions imposed to fight the contagion.Odisha Police recently warned that cyber criminals were likely to defraud citizens through phone calls, e-mails and social media platforms and steal personal details on the pretext of registration for Covid vaccination, supply of oxygen and medicines, telemedicine service and charity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-16000-pre-activated-sim-cards-seized-from-cybercriminal-gang-in-odisha-101624974857619.html
29-06-2021||India||Panel asks Facebook, Google to comply with new IT rules on social media misuse||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on Tuesday directed social media platforms Facebook and Google to comply with new IT rules and follow rules of the country. Led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, the committee was hearing the views of the companies about safeguarding the rights of the citizens and how to stop the misuse of social media.Facebook and Google representatives were asked to appear before the Parliamentary Standing Committee to offer views on prevention of misuse of social and online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space.Facebook India associate general counsel Namrata Singh and the company's director of public policy Shivnath Thukral attended the meeting and discussed several issues. Google was represented by its country head (government affairs and public policy) Aman Jain and director (legal) Gitanjali Duggal.Facebook officials in their response to the committee cited the company's rules prohibiting officials to attend meetings in person during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and said the officers could not attend the meeting.However, panel chief Shashi Tharoor turned down Facebook's request to attend the meeting virtually.In the coming days, representatives of YouTube and other social media platforms are also expected to be summoned by the parliamentary committee.Facebook and Google representatives were called days after Twitter officials deposed before the panel.On June 20, India's permanent mission at the United Nations had clarified that India's new IT rules are "designed to empower ordinary users of social media" and that they were finalised after the government held broad consultations with civil society and other stakeholders in 2018.The Central government has framed the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 ('new IT Rules') and notified the same on February 25, 2021. The Rules have come into effect from May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-asks-facebook-google-to-comply-with-new-it-rules-on-social-media-misuse-101624973531608.html
29-06-2021||India||Tripura CM asks BJP workers to strengthen, expand party||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb asked his party leaders and activists to follow a “triple S” formula to strengthen and expand the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). By “triple S” formula, Deb meant Sambad (dialogue) , Swabhab (nature) and Sadachar (good behaviour). “The BJP will remain in power for a long period if all party leaders and activists follow the ‘triple S’ formula and expand organisational activities to booth-level. No power can defeat our party then,” said Deb after the party’s working committee meeting held on Monday. Also Read | 3 FIRs registered over clashes between CPM-BJP activists in TripuraLater, explaining the three terms, he said that an ideal organiser needs to be a good listener first. He advised them to give special emphasis on positive discussion and focus on their speech, language, behaviour and nature.Later, speaking on the socio-economic development of farmers , Deb said that the farmers in the state are now earning ₹11,096 per month on an average, which was hiked from ₹6,080 per month on an average during the previous Left Front regime. “ We have targeted increasing the farmers’ monthly income to ₹13,590 by 2022,” said Deb, adding that nearly 2.30 lakh farmers are getting benefits due to Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-asks-bjp-workers-to-strengthen-expand-party-101624974437644.html
29-06-2021||India||After drone attack, PM talks future hurdles of defence with Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a high-level meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home affairs minister Amit Shah and national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval on futuristic challenges in the defence sector and equipping our forces with modern equipment, sources familiar with the matter said, news agency ANI reported.Aspects related to more involvement of youth, start-ups and strategic community were also expected to be discussed, sources told ANI.This development comes after the twin drone explosions at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday wherein two IAF personnel were also injured. The bombs went off within five minutes of each other with the first one ripping off at the roof of a single-storey building at 1.37am, and the second one at 1.42am on the ground.Notably, the Jammu airport is used for VVIP movements and armed forces’ strategic operations. As per the latest media update, the union ministry of home affairs earlier in the day handed the investigation into the matter to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Two persons were detained earlier for questioning.Initial probe conducted by security agencies and the Jammu and Kashmir Police have indicated the involvement of Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the drone blasts at the IAF station.Sunday’s incident came during Rajnath Singh’s visit to Ladakh for a three-day visit to check the security situation in the Union territory. According to a report by ANI, sources cited that the minister is supposed to be given a detailed presentation on the drone attack by a team of top IAF officials along with other defence officials.Furthermore, Singh would also be briefed about the sudden rise in drone sighting cases in Jammu and Kashmir by the Army. Security experts have said Pakistan uses drones to drop weapons, drugs, ammunition, arms and Hawala money to fuel terrorism in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-drone-attack-pm-modi-talks-future-hurdles-of-defence-with-shah-rajnath-s-101624973183382.html
29-06-2021||India||Efficacy against Covid-19, safe for kids? All you need to know about Moderna vaccine||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved the Cipla, a Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company, to import Moderna vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country, VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog announced on Tuesday. "New drug permission has been granted to Moderna, the first internationally developed vaccine. This new drug permission is for restricted use," Paul also said in the press briefing.It will be the fourth vaccine to be used for the vaccination drive in the country. The other three vaccines that are being used in India are Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian vaccine, Sputnik V.The Moderna vaccine has been manufactured by the American pharmaceutical company with the same name. Here is all you need to know about the international vaccine:How many shots are required?The Moderna vaccine is a two-dose regimen at an interval of 28 days. In India as well, it will be administered in two doses, Paul confirmed in the briefing. However, the interval between the two doses in India is yet to be announced.Is it WHO approved?The Moderna vaccine is approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The world health body approved on April 30 on the basis of the recommendations of its strategic advisory group of experts (SAGE).How effective is the vaccine?The Moderna vaccine has been shown to have an efficacy of approximately 94.1% in protecting against Covid-19. The immunity starts to develop after 14 days of the first dose, WHO mentions on its site.Does it work against new variants?According to the studies done so far, the Moderna vaccine is effective against the new variants of SARS-CoV-2, including the Alpha variant, also known as B.1.1.7 and the beta variant (501Y.V2).However, researchers are still testing the vaccine's efficacy against the new variants.How many countries have approved the Moderna vaccine?So far, the vaccine has been approved in more than 40 countries including Canada, the United States, Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Israel, Japan and South Korea.Any side effects?The Moderna vaccine has no major side effects. However, after a person is administered with the dose there may feel slight fever, soreness in the arm, chills. The after effects include body ache, nausea and fatigue.Age groups that it is safe for?The WHO has approved the vaccine for all above the age of 18-years. Recently Modenra filed a request with the European Medicines Agency seeking authorisation for use in adolescents in the 12-17 age group. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is also reviewing its medical trial data for emergency use authorisation of its vaccine in kids 12 and up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efficacy-against-covid-19-safe-for-kids-all-you-need-to-know-about-moderna-vaccine-101624973425934.html
29-06-2021||India||JP Nadda says BJP will win next election in West Bengal, slams TMC for violence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday said that the party will win the next state assembly election in West Bengal and form the government in the state. “In the next 5 years, the BJP will take another big leap and will form the government in the next elections. We will fulfil this vision,” Nadda said while addressing the state BJP executive meeting via video conferencing.The BJP leader also said that the party has covered a long distance in a short time in West Bengal, highlighting the election performance in the recently concluded state assembly elections.“We had won just 2 LS (Lok Sabha/lower house of Parliament) seats in 2014, and had got 18% votes. In 2016 VS (Vidhan Sabha/state legislative assembly) polls, we had won just 3 seats and 10.16% vote share,” he said.Also read | Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee calls Jagdeep Dhankhar ‘corrupt’, guv hits back“In 2019, we won 40.25% votes and 18 seats out of 42 in the LS elections. In the recently concluded VS elections, our vote share was 38.1% and we got 2.27 crore votes, winning 77 seats,” Nadda added.Post-poll violenceNadda attacked the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state for the incidents of post-poll violence after the elections. “Where there is TMC, there is violence,” he said.He further said that there was no post-poll violence in other states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry where assembly elections were held because the TMC is not there in those states.Calling the post-poll violence in West Bengal “unprecedented”, Nadda said that 1,399 properties of BJP workers have been destroyed, 676 incidents of loot have taken place and 108 families have received threats. BJP offices in Arambagh and Bishnupur have been burnt down by the TMC, he further said.“All of this happened under a female CM. A lot of atrocities have been faced by women. If the women are not safe, what sort of governance are the people of West Bengal receiving from TMC?” Nadda asked, directing his attack towards chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “ Where there will be TMC and Mamata ji, there will be anarchy, there will be corruption,” he further said.Covid-19 vaccinationNadda said, “If there can be corruption on even [Covid-19] vaccines, then it happened in West Bengal. Mimi Chakraborty was given a fake vaccine. If you support the corrupt, then even ministers will get fake vaccines.” He also mentioned that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been giving free Covid-19 vaccines to all people since June 21 and the campaign has been going on well.He also called on the BJP workers to work towards bringing the full benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana to the beneficiaries in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-says-bjp-will-win-next-election-in-west-bengal-slams-tmc-for-violence-101624972711285.html
29-06-2021||India||How many mutations can Delta variant have? Here’s what government says||Known for its deadly nature, the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 has lately been grappling the country. Amid this, the Centre on Tuesday said that the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 can have about 15 to 17 mutations.Taking to Twitter, the government said the B.1.617, also known as Delta variant, which was first reported in India in October 2020, has three subtypes, including B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2, and B.1.617.3. Of these, the first and the third variants have been hailed as “variant of interest,” while the second variant – Delta plus, has been classified as “variant of concern.”#IndiaFightsCorona:📍FAQs on Delta and Delta Plus Variants✅What is Delta variant of Novel Coronavirus❓❓➡️Delta variant(B.1.617) has about 15-17 mutations. It was first reported in October 2020.➡️It has 3 subtypes:- B.1.617.1- B.1.617.2- B.1.617.3#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Zs5xVYxKMaThis update comes after the Centre on Tuesday stated that the number of Delta plus variant of Covid-19 cases has increased to 51 cases, up from 48, in India. The Centre on Monday pointed out that 12 Indian states and Union territories, and an equal number of countries so far have reported the presence of the variant. This was detailed on the basis of the data provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which identified the Delta Plus variant from among more than 45,000 samples collected during April, May and June.The ICMR further stated that the Delta plus variant is very localised in India, and that it has been isolated and cultured at National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.Of the 51 Delta plus cases, Maharashtra has the majority number of cases. The state is followed by Madhya Pradesh with seven cases, Punjab and Gujarat with two each, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Rajasthan. Tamil Nadu has also reported nine Delta Plus cases, being the worst-affected among all southern states, along with Kerala that has reported three such cases.In view of the upward swing of the Delta plus variant, several states have either brought back Covid-19 restrictions or extended the same in order to combat it. Maharashtra has reduced its relaxations from ‘level five’ to ‘level three’ thereby allowing malls and shops in Mumbai, Pune, Thane, and other major cities, to remain open only till 4pm as opposed to regular timings earlier. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu has also extended the lockdown till July 5 with certain relaxations in Chennai and other districts where daily Covid-19 caseload has declined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-many-mutations-can-delta-variant-have-here-s-what-government-says-101624971998662.html
29-06-2021||India||More than 1 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses wasted in Karnataka since January||Karnataka has reported wastage of more than 100,000 vaccines since the beginning of inoculation drive in January, 2021. The state wasted 2.29% of doses per district on an average, according to a health department official. Among the districts, Bagalkot reported the highest vaccine wastage with 22,196 doses at 12.66% followed by Hassan district with 17,028 at 8.01%, leading Kannada daily Prajavani cited state health officials .One of the reasons for the wastage has been the requirement to vaccinate10 people for each vial during the first vaccination drive, the state health officials told to local media, on condition of anonymity. Ideally, at least 10 persons should get vaccinated within 4 hours of opening a vial containing 11 ml vaccine that remains efficacious for 4 hours.Bagalkot district health officer, Dr Ananth Desai informed that wrong statistics on the CoWIN portal about the doses administered has also caused wastage in Bagalkot’s Gulegagudda taluk. He clarified that the portal showed only 34,000 doses as being used up, even though Guledagudda taluk had used 54,800 vials of both Covaxin and Covishield vaccines. “Due to this erroneously published data, Guledagudda taluk had wasted over 20,000 vials of vaccine. It is a human error however, and we are rectifying the data on the portal”, Dr. Desai said to Prajavani.Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad district, Nitesh Patil has assured saying “all precautions have been taken to completely stop the vaccine wastage or minimise it in the district". Despite the wastage of vaccines, 10 districts of the state have also achieved more than the targeted vaccination. Shivamogga, by administering 6% more doses than the target, has topped among these 10 districts. This could be achieved due to increased awareness and monitoring of the optimum use of vaccines, informed Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner KB Shivakumar. Other nine districts that have vaccinated above the target are Udupi with 5.57 %, Dakshina Kannada - 4.71%, Dharwad -4.25%, Haveri- 4.16 %, Uttara Kannada- 3.65%, Chikkamagaluru-2.25 %, Belagavi-1.72 %, Kodagu- 1.36 %, Bengaluru (BBMP area)- 1.29 % and Mysuru with 0.13% . The supply of vaccines had also played a role in achieving above the target in these 10 districts, reported local media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-1-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-wasted-in-karnataka-since-january-101624969869838.html
29-06-2021||India||Moderna Covid vaccine enters Indian market; Pfizer next, says govt||The Centre on Tuesday announced the official entry of Moderna Covid-19 vaccine in the Indian market as the fourth drug in its arsenal to fight the deadly infectious disease and said that the focus is now on the Pfizer vaccine."New drug permission has been granted to Moderna, the first internationally developed vaccine. This new drug permission is for restricted use," VK Paul, NITI Aayog's member of health said in a press conference. Moderna will be administered in two doses, Paul said.Moderna's shot is the fourth vaccine in India after AstraZeneca's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Sputnik V developed by Russia's Gamaleya Institute. The country will soon make way for Pfizer's vaccine as well, officials said."There are four vaccines now Covaxin, Covishield, SputnikV and Moderna. We will soon close the deal on Pfizer as well," Paul said on Tuesday.Mumbai-based pharmaceutical drug company Cipla Ltd on Tuesday received approval from the country's drugs regulator to import the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Moderna Inc for restricted emergency use.Cipla had filed an application with the Drugs Controller General of India on June 28 to import the vaccine.After a fall in infections from a daily peak of 400,000 cases in May, India has doubled down its efforts to vaccinate the country's 940 million adults amid supply constraints and fears of the third wave of pandemic.In a bid to accelerate its vaccination rollout amid a deadly second coronavirus wave, India in May scrapped local trials for "well-established" foreign coronavirus vaccines.Earlier in the day, Johnson & Johnson said it was in talks with the Indian government to explore ways to speed up the delivery of its single-shot Covid-19 vaccine in the country.So far, India has administered 323.9 million doses, the most in the world after China and the United States. An estimated 13.8 crore people, that is 49 per cent of the population, aged 60 years and above have been vaccinated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, health ministry officials said on Tuesday.About 59.7 crore people aged 18-44 years, that is 15 per cent of the population, have been vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine, it said.The country has held talks with several vaccine makers including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, but no deal has been signed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderna-covid-vaccine-enters-indian-market-pfizer-next-says-govt-101624966447008.html
29-06-2021||India||Kerala HC stays demolition of Lakshadweep houses in coastal hamlets||The Kerala high court on Tuesday stayed the demolition of more than 100 houses and structures located near the sea in Lakshadweep that were served notices by the island administration for allegedly flouting coastal norms. The island residents had petitioned the court against the order calling it “illegal” and “arbitrary”, arguing that they have been living close to the sea, their main source of living, for years together before the integrated island management plan came into being last month and declared structures within 20 metres of the high- tide line as illegal. They also said that a special permit was not required to construct on their private land and the notices were a clear infringement on the rights of scheduled tribes.The administration claimed that most of the buildings under notice were constructed illegally and were in conflict with the integrated island management plan. After hearing both sides, the single bench of justice Raja Vijayaraghavan stayed all proceedings till further notice.The court order is seen as another blow to attempts to push controversial rules in Lakshadweep islands by administrator Praful Khoda Patel. On June 23, the Kerala high court stayed the order to close dairy farms and exclude meat products from the midday meals in the island’s schools while three more petitions challenging the rules, including those seeking relocation of islanders from their property for town planning and tourism promotion, are pending before the high court.Residents of the archipelago have been protesting these new rules including the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) that proposes to develop the islands as a major tourist destination, a proposal to notify the Goonda Act and a plan to ban cow slaughter. Patel’s critics in the islands argue that these steps will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and inhabited by Muslim majority. About 90% of the island population is Muslim by faith and they come under the scheduled tribe category.The administration has however rejected the allegations.Kerala-based filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who was booked in a sedition case for calling the administrator a bio-weapon, returned to the state on Tuesday after five- day grilling by the police in the island. She said she will continue her fight for preserving the self-respect and identity of the island people.She claimed there were many attempts to harass her by the administration while she was on the island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-stays-demolition-of-lakshadweep-houses-in-coastal-hamlets-101624968257571.html
29-06-2021||India||Corbett Tiger Reserve opens for day visits in monsoon season for the first time||The Corbett Tiger Reserve in Uttarakhand’s Ramnagar opened for day visits in the monsoon season for the first time from Tuesday. Tourists can book safaris in five zones of the reserve while night stay facilities will remain banned and will only be permitted from October 15 as usual, said an official.“Day visit facilities in the reserve have been permitted for the first time in the monsoon season. ...online booking is open for the safaris. If the incessant rain starts, the day visit facility will be stopped for safety and the booking amount of the tourists will be returned,” said Rahul Kumar, director, Corbett Tiger Reserve.Also Read | Rajasthan seeks relocation of tigers to MHTR, conservation team plans visitThe reserve remains closed every year from June 15 to October 15 because of the monsoon when it often gets flooded and poses a threat to human life. This year, the reserve was closed from May 1 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The authorities were forced to return the money of tourists after the cancellation of around 60,000 bookings due to the closure.The government sought to open the reserve to compensate for the losses incurred. Tourists as well tour operators and hoteliers were also demanding the opening in the monsoon season.Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat last week issued instructions for the day visits to the reserve’s Dhela, Jhirana, Garjiya, Bijrani, and Pakharo zones.Kumar said around 30,00,00 tourists visit the reserve annually, but they were forced to close it twice because of the pandemic. “Since Covid-19 cases are declining and tourism is coming back on the track, day visits (are being allowed)....”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corbett-tiger-reserve-opens-for-day-visits-in-monsoon-season-for-the-first-time-101624968197229.html
29-06-2021||India||Have objective standards for opt-out scheme: SC tells ICAI||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to consider in its “opt-out” scheme the plight of those candidates, who have recovered from Covid-19 but are unable to take the examination due to the “horrible” after-effects of the disease.The opt-out scheme was announced by ICAI for candidates, who either tested positive or had family members infected by the virus on or after June 21. The candidates are required to produce RT-PCR positive in support of the “opt-out” claim to be allowed to take the exam in the November 2021 examination cycle.Hearing a set of three petitions challenging the ICAI decision to conduct examinations in July during the pandemic, a three-judge bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose said, “When you allow opt-out scheme, it must be for good reasons based on objective standards.”Also Read | SC okays ₹1 lakh fine on ‘motivated’ plea seeking stop on Central Vista workThe bench said that the RT-PCR report alone cannot be the sole basis of determination for opt-out as in many cases the report is negative, but the person shows symptoms of the disease. “You have to identify a competent authority who will certify whether a candidate is incapable of appearing or was disabled to prepare due to the after-effects or Covid-19 situation at home.”Two of the judges, Justice Khanwilkar and Justice Maheshwari, who recovered from Covid-19, recounted their experience. “We may not be experts but have personal experience of Covid-19. Fatigue is a big factor. It is horrible. Even after recovering from Covid-19, for three weeks we were unable to work or concentrate. You cannot expect CA students to prepare for the exams under these conditions.”The bench sought ICAI’s response on a host of other suggestions given by the petitioners. These included the choice of change of examination centres, Covid-19 testing facility for teachers, invigilators ahead of the examination, maintaining the exclusivity of examination halls (not to be used for any other purpose), and arranging transport facility till the centres. The ICAI was given a day for filing its response. The court will take up the matter on Wednesday.Later in the day, the ICAI submitted a short note in the Supreme Court agreeing to extend the opt-out scheme to those candidates who are yet to recover from COVID-19 after-effects. This will be in addition to the requirement for candidates to produce RT-PCR positive reports of their own or any member in their family.The ICAI said, “The opt-out option shall also be extended to those candidates (whether under the Old or New Syllabus) who have recently suffered from COVID-19 or yet to recover from the after-effects of the COVID-19 and consequently unable to appear in the Examinations.” Such candidates will have to produce a Medical Certificate issued by a Registered Medical Practitioner stating that the candidate has recently suffered from COVID-19 and is yet to recover.This Certificate could also be issued by District Medical Officer, Primary Health Centres, Government General Hospitals, Private Hospitals too. Further, the ICAI note stated that in the event of an inter-city change of examination centre at the last minute, candidates will get the option to opt out. No opt-out option will be given if the change is within the same city. The institute has also refused to provide transportation facilities or vaccination to candidates.Nearly 3,74,000 students are scheduled to appear for the chartered accountancy (CA) examinations in July. Rights activist Anubha Shrivastava Sahai and several students’ have challenged the ICAI’s decision to hold the examination. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for ICAI, submitted the Chief Medical Officer of each district can be asked to give a certificate of fitness to candidates.The bench asked ICAI if candidates, who fall sick during the examination, would be given a chance to appear in the remaining papers in the November cycle of examinations.The bench noted ICAI has been holding the examination for 74 years. “The issue we are considering is limited to opting out scheme, and the situation in which opt-out is to be permitted...”Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for some of the petitioners, requested the court for maintaining the exclusivity of examination centres. She said last year, some of the examination centres were used for marriage parties. “We cannot afford to turn any examination into a super spreader and expose examinees to infection,” Arora said. She suggested that invigilators should be allowed in the examination centre on the production of RT-PCR negative reports.The petitioners argued for mandatory vaccination of candidates, accommodation facilities near examination centres. “Logistics is the responsibility of candidates. The institute can take responsibility for the examination hall,” the bench said. The judges did not wish to interfere with the vaccination policy as it was unconnected with the holding of the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-objective-standards-for-opt-out-scheme-sc-tells-icai-101624967657383.html
29-06-2021||India||Delta Plus cases above 50 now, says govt; Punjab extends Covid-19 curbs||The government on Tuesday said that the number of Delta Plus variant cases in the country have gone above 50. The fast-spreading variant is a mutated form of Delta which emerged in India.“A total of 51 Delta plus variant cases reported in India,” the officials of Union health ministry said at a press briefing on Tuesday.The Punjab government has taken cognisance of the rising number of Delta Plus cases and extended the coronavirus restrictions till July 10. However, more relaxations such as opening of bars and pubs with 50 per cent capacity have been given.The orders will come into effect from July 1, the state government said. The decision was taken after a high-level review meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The Maharashtra government too has started preparing for the expected third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with the particular focus on protecting children. Maharashtra has the highest number of Delta Plus cases in the country.The Delta Plus variant is an offshoot of the highly infectious Delta variant that caused a spike in cases in April and May which overwhelmed healthcare facilities, swamping crematoriums.The variant shows more resistance to some vaccines and therapies generally used to treat Covid-19. India has already declared Delta Plus as ‘variant of concern’.However, Niti Aayog member and Covid task force chief Dr VK Paul has said that there is no scientific data so far to establish that the new variant reduces vaccine efficacy."The so-called Delta plus variant exhibits an additional mutation in the Delta variant and since this is a new variant, scientific knowledge is still in the early stage,” he said on Monday.Meanwhile, India’s daily fresh cases of Covid have come down from four lakhs during the peak of the second wave to around 50,000 in the past few days and the unlock process or lifting of restrictions is underway in many parts of the country.On Tuesday, it further dropped to below 40,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-cases-above-50-now-says-govt-punjab-extends-covid-19-curbs-101624967045903.html
29-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Char Dham yatra suspended following high court order and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand government suspends Char Dham yatra after HC orderThe Uttarakhand government on Tuesday suspended the Char Dham Yatra by issuing a revised standard operating procedure (SOP). Read MoreRectal bleeding reported in 5 Covid-19 patients in Delhi, one deadIn a first such post Covid-19 complication in India, five cases of Cytomegalovirus (CVM) related rectal bleeding in patients diagnosed with Covid-19 have been reported from Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Tuesday. Read MoreSrinagar lake dying for 30 yrs restored to revive old water channelKhushal Sar lake in Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar has been revived after it turned into a cesspool in the past 30 years. Read MoreMultiple cylinder blasts reported in Lahore’s Barkat marketMultiple cylinder blasts rocked Lahore’s Barkat market on Tuesday. According to rescue workers at the site, the gas cylinders blew up one after another making it difficult for rescue operators to get near the blast site. Read MoreT20 World Cup shifted out of India, to be held in UAE, Oman: ICCICC on Tuesday confirmed that the T20 World Cup 2020 has been shifted out of India and will be held in the UAE and Oman. Read MoreLarge sea snail washes up near Andhra Pradesh river, auctioned for ₹18,000An orange-coloured snail was found on the banks of a river in Andhra Pradesh that has sparked much interest among netizens. Read MoreTaapsee Pannu says she doesn't miss Kangana Ranaut on Twitter at all: 'She's too irrelevant'Taapsee Pannu has said that she doesn't miss Kangana Ranaut's absence from Twitter, and that the Queen actor is 'irrelevant' to her, personally speaking. Read MoreAsia's longest high-speed track for automotive testing inaugurated in IndoreAsia's longest high-speed track for automotive testing, measuring 11.3 kilometres, was virtually inaugurated in Indore, Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday by Union Minister Prakash Javadekar. Read MoreSara Ali Khan returns to work in a ₹29k pink jacquard mini dressFirst popular in Britain in the 1820s, the same Regency fashion era when Bridgerton takes place, Jacquard or a group of intricately decorated woven fabrics are currently making a comeback this season. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-char-dham-yatra-suspended-following-high-court-order-and-all-the-latest-news-101624964830257.html
29-06-2021||India||India vaccinated 32 crore people in 163 days, surpassed US: Govt||A day after India announced that it surpassed the United States in terms of the number of people vaccinated against Covid-19, the Union health ministry officials said on Tuesday that the country achieved the milestone faster than the US."India has taken a distinct lead in total vaccine doses administered in the world. India surpassed the US and took 163 days to reach the 32 crore benchmark. The US took 193 days," the Union health ministry official said in a weekly press briefing. Giving a break-down, health ministry's joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, "A total of 27.27crore people covered with the first dose of vaccine and 5.84 crore people covered with the second dose of vaccine."From May 1 to June 24, 56% of the Covid-19 vaccine doses were given in rural areas, 44% in urban areas, officials said.Confirming the downfall of India's deadly second wave, the joint secretary said India's recovery rate has been logged at 96.9%. "There has been a continuous decline in cases since India reported a peak, including a progressive decrease in cases in districts," Agarwal said. The health ministry officials also confirmed approval for Moderna Covid-19 vaccine by India's drug controller DCGI. "New drug permission has been granted to Moderna, the first internationally developed vaccine. This new drug permission is for restricted use. There are four vaccines now Covaxin, Covishield, SputnikV and Moderna," health secretary VK Paul said. India will soon close the deal on Pfizer as well, Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vaccinated-32-crore-people-in-163-days-surpassed-us-govt-101624964406157.html
29-06-2021||India||Kerala state lottery result declared, first prize ₹70 lakh||The Kerala state lottery department announced the winners of Akshaya AK-496 lottery. The results were announced at 3pm.The first prize of the Akshaya AK-496 lottery is ₹70 lakh, while the second and third prizes are ₹10 lakh. The results of the lottery are announced very Wednesday on keralalotteryresult website.The first prize has been won by the ticket AU-258505. One ticket has been given the second prize, while 12 have bagged the third prize.The consolation prize is ₹8,000.The fourth prize in Akshaya-496 lottery is ₹5,000, the fifth is ₹2,000 and sixth ₹1,000. The seventh and eighth prizes are for ₹500 and ₹100 respectively.Revenue from lottery is one of the major earnings of the state government. Every day there is a lottery and more than 2 lakh people are engaged in the trade as agents and retailers. Many differently-abled and others eke out a living by selling lucky numbers.The annual revenue from the sale of tickets is between ₹10,000 core to 12,000 crore. The lottery sale was suspended in Kerala for three months last year due to the Covidpandemic.The lottery department was established in Kerala in the year 1967.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-state-lottery-result-declared-first-prize-rs-70-lakh-101624964938449.html
29-06-2021||India||Srinagar lake dying for 30 yrs restored to revive old water channel||Khushal Sar lake in Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar has been revived after it turned into a cesspool in the past 30 years. The transformation was made possible by a collaboration of locals, environmentalists and the government.Situated between Hawal and Zadibal in the Old City and part of a historic water circuit of lakes in Srinagar such as Dal, Nigeen, Gilsar and Anchar, Khushal Sar lake was covered with weeds, animal waste, plastics and sewage till three months ago while many of its sides had been encroached upon. In late February, a local environmental organisation Nigeen Lake Conservation Organisation (NLCO) took the initiative to clean the water body.“I didn’t believe that we had a water body like Khushal Sar which was on the brink of its end. The lake was full of dead animals, animal skins, polythene, grass, weeds and it was encroached upon from all sides,” NLCO’s chairman Manzoor Wangnoo said. He says he was promised full support in his mission by divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole. “I told them that I need their support as we feared the encroachers. We brought boats, volunteers and labourers while the administration promptly provided police protection while the trucks [for carrying the waste out] came from Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC),” he said.Within weeks, the lake started to show improvement and the locals also joined the cleaning process. “The work was huge so we also collected some money and hired machines for [some] more days,” said M Shafi Malik, president of a local Zaripora Mohalla Committee. Malik said many locals had migrated from the area due to the stench and pollution in the lake, which once held such clear water that people would drink it and bathe in it.“Tourists and foreigners used to visit this lake in boats. From Dal Lake through Nallah Amir Khan, they would pass through Gilsar and Khushal Sar and would reach Anchar Lake and then ultimately to Manasbal Lake (in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district),” said 47-years old Malik, who is a Pasmina artist.“I have very fond memories of this lake. It was famous for golden colored fish and lotus roots which became elusive after its state deteriorated,” he said.The lake had become a dumping ground in the past 30 years and even local administrations didn’t care about it during the militancy years,” he said, referring to the time when terrorism was at its peak in the Union Territory.During the restoration attempt, about 15-20 truckloads of weed, silt and waste were taken out of the lake every day for about three months.“We were able to clear some 1000 truckloads of unwanted material and within 100 days, the lake was restored and three navigational tracks were made up-to Saidpora,” Wangnoo said. The locals were delighted to see the lake restored and were determined not to let it get polluted again.“People are very cautious now. They don’t litter into the lake. They understand that it is an important asset and we need to protect it,” said Abdul Rashid, a local who owns a handloom.Following the success, the administration has started the work to revive the adjoining Gilsar Lake.“The rejuvenation of Khushal Sar and Gilsar Lakes in Srinagar is one of the best examples of civil society and government working together to rejuvenate water bodies. The SMC has lifted around 820 trucks of muck, silt and weed from these two lakes in the past 60 days alone,” said SMC commissioner, Athar Amir Khan.Srinagar’s district development commissioner (DDC) Mohammad Aijaz Asad said the restoration of lakes will reactivate the original water navigation circuit in Srinagar district. Asad said he has asked for surveillance and intensification of anti encroachment drives to ensure these lakes remained protected. “We will take strict action as per law against those indulging in littering and dumping of garbage into these natural resources,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-lake-dying-for-30-yrs-restored-to-revive-old-water-channel-101624965077117.html
29-06-2021||India||LSR final year student wins Diana Award for work in UN SDG||Devanshi Ranjan, a 21-year-old student of the Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College has received the coveted Diana Award for her contribution to the UN sustainable development goals.The award was established by Princess Diana, the Princess of Wales and is considered the 'highest accolade' a young person can achieve for social action. The award is given out by the charity of the same name and is supported by her both sons-the Duke of Cambridge, Prince William and the Duke of Sussex, Prince Harry.Also read: 15-year-old boy from Delhi receives Diana AwardRanjan, who is a final year student at the Delhi University college, has been working with NGO Ladli Foundation Trust to help underprivileged children with their studies, especially girls amid the coronavirus pandemic. She is also the founder of Project MicDrop that claims to be an intergenerational and intersectional forum for discussion around gender and sexuality."I found out that I will be honoured with the Diana award on May 5. I was extremely elated but couldn't share the news with anyone except for my immediate family till the commencement of the virtual ceremony on June 28," PTI quoted Ranjan as saying."My work is centered around the Covid-19 pandemic relief work. A number of surveys and reports showed an increase in the number of drop-outs in schools, especially the female students, as availing education online was not affordable for all. I worked with NGO Ladli Trust and under its programme 'Pathanshala' conducted workshops and educated students from slums and villages," she told the news agency.The young woman taught more than 1,000 children in the slums across Delhi during this period and also distributed books, stationary and other resource material in the semi-urban and rural areas of Delhi-NCR."We congratulate all our new Diana Award recipients from the UK and all over the globe who are changemakers for their generation. We know by receiving this honour they will inspire more young people to get involved in their communities and begin their own journey as active citizens," Tessy Ojo, CEO of The Diana Award said during the virtual award ceremony, PTI reported.The award, which is given to people in the age group of 9-25 years, was conferred on 400 people worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lsr-final-year-student-wins-diana-award-for-work-in-un-sdg-101624962165158.html
29-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand government suspends Char Dham yatra after HC order||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday suspended the Char Dham Yatra by issuing a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) a day after the high court stayed a Cabinet decision allowing the pilgrimage to four revered Hindu temples in the state from July 1.The revised SOP was issued after the government said the yatra would be allowed in two phases from July 1 and July 11. The pilgrimage was first to begin for the residents of three districts, where these shrines are located. It was to be later opened for residents of the rest of the state’s 10 districts. But on Tuesday, the government issued the revised SOP announcing the suspension of the pilgrimage until further orders in light of the court order.The court on Monday stayed the Cabinet’s decision permitting the yatra with a limited number of pilgrims from July 1 and ordered live streaming of rituals at Char Dham shrines instead. A division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Verma said the yatra should not be allowed amid fears of a third wave and the spread of the Delta variant of the virus.Also Read | Rajnath Singh inaugurates 3 bridges near Indo-China border in UttarakhandThe bench said it was not satisfied with the preparedness of the government, especially regarding the healthcare facilities and status of Covid-19 inoculation in the three districts.The state Cabinet allowed the Char Dham yatra on Friday. On June 23, the high court pulled up the government for announcing the yatra from July 1 and directed it to review its decision.The high court in its June 23 order remarked that large gathering invariably leads to a spike in the Covid-19 pandemic. “Already holding of Kumbh Mela and permitting a large congregation of lakhs of people on Ganga Dussehra at Har-ki-Pauri at Haridwar, are clear cut proof of the failure of the civil administration, to administer the precautionary SOPs.”Mahakumbh in April coincided with the worst surge in Covid-19 cases that overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of medical oxygen, medicines, and beds.Uttarakhand has separately also extended the Covid-19 curfew till July 6. The curfew was imposed amid a rise in the Covid-19 cases last month. It has been extended on a weekly basis since. The district magistrates have been given powers to decide whether they want to provide some more relaxation in rural areas. The state’s protected areas, tiger reserves, and zoos will remain open for tourists. The forest department will come up with a separate SOP for the same.Markets will remain open from 8 am to 7 pm. All the gyms will be allowed to function with 50% occupancy. All vegetable vendors, dairy, sweets, and flower shops will remain open from 8 am to 7 pm. Hotels and resorts will function with 50% capacity. RT-PCR tests will remain mandatory for wedding attendees, whose number has been increased to 50. The number of people attending funerals will not be more than 50.Uttarakhand has so far reported over 33,90,00 Covid-19 cases and 7,090 deaths. On Sunday, the state reported 120 fresh cases and three deaths. The positivity rate in the state has come down to 6.2% while the recovery rate stands at 95.52 %. There are 2,294 active cases and the fatality rate is 2.09%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-government-suspends-char-dham-yatra-after-hc-order-101624964597351.html
29-06-2021||India||Education minister Ramesh Pokhariyal discharged from AIIMS after recovering from Covid-19||Union education minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal was discharged from the All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) hospital in Delhion Tuesday, news agency ANI reported. He was admitted to the hospital on June 1 after he developed complications related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was complaining of difficulty breathing at that time.The Union minister tested positive for Covid-19 on April 21. He later resumed work after making a full recovery.While Pokhriyal was in the hospital, he wrote a poem narrating his struggles and how he managed to overcome the viral disease. In the poem Pokhriyal also called himself a "candle of hope" lighting against the darkness symbolic of the Covid virus.The minister has authored more than 70 books. He has also received many national and international awards for his literary work. In January, Pokhriyal was virtually conferred ‘Canada Sahitya Gaurav’ by Hindi Writers Guild of Canada.In December 2020, he was honoured with a lifetime achievement award by London-based Vatayan-UK literary organisation.He has also received the prestigious Sahitya Bharati Award from former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-minister-ramesh-pokhariyal-discharged-from-aiims-after-recovering-from-covid19-101624963817740.html
29-06-2021||India||Third Covid wave in Mumbai likely to be less deadly than second: Study||Mumbai is unlikely to experience the peak of the possible third wave of coronavirus pandemic as massive as one experienced during the second wave because 80 per cent of the city’s total population has possibly been exposed to SARS-CoV-2, scientists at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) projected, according to a report.Sandeep Juneja, the TIFR study’s main author and the dean of its school of technology and computer science, said that reinfections will “hold the key in the third wave”, according to the Times of India.The study said that those who contracted the coronavirus during the first wave last year could again be vulnerable due to declining levels of antibody. Therefore, looking out for and monitoring cases of reinfection would help authorities combat the possible third wave efficiently. The probable third wave can also be checked if 20 per cent of Mumbaikars, who are yet to be down with Covid-19, are vaccinated soon, the report cited Juneja as saying.The TIFR study also pointed out, the report said, that of 80 per cent who have recovered, 10 per cent are vulnerable to reinfections, and if infected, they can either follow the same progression as the first time or possess a new Covid-19 variant that is 50 per cent more virulent and 50% more infectious than the Delta variant.The group of TIFR scientists highlighted that the third wave would only barely be detected in September if four factors match – reinfections are mild, absence of any dangerous variant, coverage of Covid-19 vaccination is widespread in the preceding months of July and August, and vaccines are 75-95 per cent effective.A recent ward-wise serosurvey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) revealed that over 50 per cent of Mumbaikars aged between 1-18 years have antibodies against the coronavirus. According to the data provided by the civic body, the seropositivity rate between the 5-9 age group is 47.33 per cent, and between the 1-4 age group is 51.04 per cent. Teenagers between 15-18 years have a seropositivity rate of 51.39 per cent, while the highest positivity at 53.43 per cent was noticed in the 10-14 age group.Mumbai on Monday reported as many as 608 fresh cases, taking the city’s overall case count to 720,964, the official BMC data showed. With 714 new recoveries, the total number of recoveries has reached 694,796, the data added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-in-mumbai-likely-to-be-less-deadly-than-second-study-101624962449046.html
29-06-2021||India||Heed expert advice, don’t manage headlines: Congress to govt on drone threat||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday urged the government to follow a “credible, comprehensive and strategic policy” to tackle the threat of drones two days after they were used for two “low-intensity” explosions at Jammu’s Indian Air Force station. Two personnel were injured in the explosions and similar devices have since been spotted hovering over the military installations in the region.Also Read | BJP says will restore OBC quota in 4 months if in power; Sena, Congress hit backIn a series of tweets, Surjewala said the entire nation stands with the security forces and the government in the fightback against such attacks. He added the government should “act on the advice of defence experts with experience of modern warfare rather than relying upon mere headline management”.“Armed Drones attack are a real threat to security forces & Govt establishments. A credible & comprehensive policy and measures are the need of hour to tackle attacks by the Pak based terror outfits, backed by the infamous ISI (Inter-Services Intelligence), instead of mere circulars & amendments of rules.”He added ISI and Pakistan-based terrorist organisations were using Chinese Hexacopters drones and Wing Loong II to drop arms across the border gifted by China to Pakistan. Surjewala said members of Parliament have repeatedly raised the issue of drone attacks through Parliamentary questions in 2019 and 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heed-expert-advice-don-t-manage-headlines-congress-to-govt-on-drone-threat-101624963217343.html
29-06-2021||India||Monsoon Session likely from July 19, to continue till Aug 13||The Monsoon session of Parliament is likely to begin on July 19 and will conclude on August 13, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The duration of the session was recommended by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA), earlier in the day.The Monsoon session of Parliament usually commences in the third week of July and concludes ahead of the Independence day. The session will be conducted under mandatory adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. All members of Parliament will be required to wear face masks and follow social distancing norms at the premise.The committee is hoping that all those entering the complex during the session have taken at least one dose of the vaccine against the viral disease.According to the data available with the Rajya Sabha secretariat, at least 179 Rajya Sabha members are fully vaccinated against the Covid-19. Another 39 members of the House have received their first dose.The Upper House has a total strength of 232 members currently.Meanwhile, in Lok Sabha, at least 403 members, nearly three-fourth of its current strength have been administered with both doses of the vaccine. The lower house has a current strength of 540 members.The Covid-19 pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and parliament staff improves chances of a longer parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-likely-from-july-19-to-continue-till-aug-13-101624962938198.html
29-06-2021||India||Longest high speed track of Asia now in India. All you need to know||India on Tuesday got the longest high-speed track in Asia in Madhya Pradesh's Indore. The Union minister of heavy industries and public enterprises Prakash Javadekar inaugurated National Automotive Test Tracks (NATRAX) — the 11.3km-long High Speed Track (HST) -- and said that India is destined to become a hub of automobiles and manufacturing and spare parts.Javadekar also said that projects in railways, highways and waterways which were languishing for years are today getting completed because of the strong political will, as he highlighted the 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat Mission'.Also read: Reforms under Aatmanirbhar Bharat improved ease of living, writes PM ModiAll you need to know about the track:NATRAX is developed in an area of 1,000 acres of land and is claimed to be a one-stop solution for all sorts of high-speed performance tests for widest categories of vehicles from two wheelers to heavy tractor-trailers.The NATRAX centre has multiple test capabilities like measurements of maximum speed, acceleration, constant speed fuel consumption, emission tests through real road driving simulation, high-speed handling and stability evaluation during manoeuvring such as lane change, high speed durability testing, etc. and is a centre of excellence for vehicle dynamics, as per an official statement by the ministry.Vehicles can achieve the maximum speed of 375km per hour on the curves with steering control and the track has less banking on ovals making it one of the safest in the world.It is used to measure the speeding capabilities of high-end cars like BMW, Mercedes, Audi, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Tesla among others, which cannot be measured on any of the test tracks in India yet. The central location of the track will help attract foreign Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)s as it will become more accessible for the development of prototype cars for Indian conditions. Currently, foreign OEMs go to their respective high-speed tracks abroad to test the speeding requirements.Being the fifth largest in the world, the track can cater to a wide category of vehicles, from two wheelers to the heaviest tractor trailers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longest-high-speed-track-of-asia-now-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-101624959652783.html
29-06-2021||India||India opens gate for Moderna Covid-19 vaccine as Cipla gets DCGI nod||India on Tuesday made way for the fourth coronavirus vaccine in its drug basket after Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla got a nod from India's drug regulator DCGI to import the vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country, officials told HT.India is already administering Oxford's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Russia's Sputnik V in its fight against the deadly disease outbreak.This comes a day after Cipla, on behalf of the US pharma major, requested the drug regulator for import and marketing authorisation of these jabs."Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to Cipla to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country as per the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules , 2019 under Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940," a source told HT.In separate communications, Moderna on June 27 informed DCGI that the US government has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of its Covid-19 vaccine through COVAX to India for use here and sought an approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for the vaccines.Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine mRNA-1273, sold under the brand name 'Spikevax' in the United States, was developed by the pharmaceutical company in collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in the US. It is composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) and encodes a SARS-CoV-2 spike protein encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles, according to the European Medicines Agency (EMA).Earlier this month, Cipla had indicated its plan to fast-track approval to bring Moderna’s single-dose Covid-19 booster vaccine into India expeditiously, and that it has requested the government for indemnification and exemptions from price capping, bridging trials and basic customs duty. Cipla had not named the vaccine then.Cipla was reportedly close to committing over $1 billion as advance to the US major for the import of close to 50 million doses, reports PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opens-gate-for-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-as-cipla-gets-dgci-nod-101624960868033.html
29-06-2021||India||Spent under half of amount allowed for campaigning, say over 80% Puducherry MLAs||Over 80% of newly elected lawmakers in Puducherry have told the Election Commission of India (ECI) that they spent under ₹11 lakh on their campaigning, according to a Puducherry Election Watch and Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) analysis. The analysis is based on expenditure statements, which every contestant is mandated to file within 30 days after results are declared.The expenditure limit was ₹22 lakh. But the average amount of money spent by the lawmakers was ₹7.3 lakh, which is just 33% of the expense limit. All India NR Congress (AINRC ) lawmakers have declared to have spent the lowest, just 28%. The Congress lawmakers have declared the highest spending.AINRC won the highest seats (10) while Congress managed to get just two.Also Read | 5 ministers take oath in Puducherry’s 1st NDA cabinetAINRC’s P R N Thirumurugan spent the highest or over ₹15.4 lakh, which is nearly 70% of the expenditure limit. Independent candidate M Sivivasankar has claimed to have spent the lowest or just ₹2.17 lakh.An ADR report said over 40% of lawmakers, including star campaigners, said they did not even spend even a single rupee on “public meetings or processions”. As many as 77% of lawmakers said they have not spent any amount on “campaigning through any electronic or print media.”As many as 24 of 30 lawmakers said they did not receive any funds for campaigning from their political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spent-under-half-of-amount-allowed-for-campaigning-say-over-80-puducherry-mlas-101624960697303.html
29-06-2021||India||Monsoon to ditch Delhi for next 5 days, humidity likely to go down: IMD||The discomfort due to waiting for rains and cool winds is likely to extend till the end of this week as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday junked the possibility of rain in the next five days. "For at least the next five days there is no chance (of monsoon) in Delhi. We're monitoring the situation. The discomfort because of moisture & humidity will decrease because of the westerly winds," IMD senior scientist RK Jenamani told news agency ANI. India is witnessing a weak monsoon this year, due to which some states are already witnessing a deficit. Jenamani said India will get a large amount of rainfall over Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh till July 5. There is a chance of flooding also in these regions so we have issued a red alert, the IMD scientist said. In India, June 1 to September 30 is officially considered the monsoon season. The normal date for monsoon arrival over Delhi is June 27.However, this year the monsoon progress continues to be slow and rainfall is subdued across the country. The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar.IMD on Monday said that Central Delhi is the second most rain-deficient district in the country as it has recorded just 8.5 mm of rainfall this year. Central Delhi has received only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2 mm since June 1 -- a deficiency of 85%, officials said.The top most parched district in terms of rain is Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir. It has recorded 5 mm precipitation against the normal of 70.6 mm -- a shortfall of 93%.Normally, the monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-ditch-delhi-for-next-5-days-humidity-likely-to-go-down-imd-101624958543802.html
29-06-2021||India||Madras HC orders notice on TN BJP’s plea to quash committee to study NEET impact||The Madras high court has ordered a notice on a petition moved by the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit, challenging the former justice AK Rajan-headed committee constituted by the new Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on students from socially backward classes. The court has directed the state to respond in a week and the Union government is also at liberty to submit its stance on the issue. The interim orders were passed by the first bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on a writ petition filed by BJP’s state general secretary Karu Nagarajan seeking to quash the order that constituted the nine-member committee. The court took note of the plea, which stated that there wasn’t much room for the state to look for an alternative in the light of the Supreme Court’s August 2017 judgement (in the case of R Nakkiran versus the state of Tamil Nadu) that directed the state to implement NEET. Also Read | JEE mains likely in July-August, NEET may be postponed to SeptemberThe justice Rajan committee had also sought suggestions and objections from the public before June 26 on the matter. The plea had stated that the committee is “arbitrary, illegal, unconstitutional and unreasonable”. Advocate general R Shunmugasundaram submitted that the move was backed by the party’s election manifesto as well as people’s demand. Before NEET was started in Tamil Nadu in 2017, entrance to medical colleges was based on Class 12 marks. The state is of the view that medical aspirants from rural and poor backgrounds are discriminated against by competing with other students who can afford coaching for NEET from top institutions. The previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam regime had introduced a reservation of 7.5% for government school students who clear NEET for admissions into medical colleges.The case hearing has been posted to next Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-notice-on-tn-bjp-s-plea-to-quash-committee-to-study-neet-impact-101624959016971.html
29-06-2021||India||Driver rams Audi in 'reckless drunk driving' accident, kills 1||One person was killed near Cyberabad's Inorbit Mall in Hyderabad on June 27 after a speeding Audi car hit an auto-rickshaw on its route. The video of the car hitting the auto-rickshaw on the rain-drenched road was released by Cyberabad Traffic Police on Tuesday. Three people have been arrested in connection with the road accident.The police arrested the driver, co-passenger and father of the driver of the luxury vehicle, who were returning from a party and were under the influence of alcohol. A case has been registered against them under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Motor Vehicle Act, as per the news agency ANI.Also read: Leopard dies in suspected road accidentThe Cyberabad Traffic Police released the video on Twitter as part of its ongoing series on road safety awareness by showcasing accidents. The police said it was "reckless speed and drunk driving". The car rushed without stopping and the police said a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been booked against the driver and his associates.Reckless speed and drunk driving of an Audi car kills a passenger (an employee of Prism Pub !! ) in the auto yesterday early morning near Inorbit Mall. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been booked against the Audi driver and his associates.#RoadSafety pic.twitter.com/vhJfsiL9cS"Reckless speed and drunk driving of an Audi car kills a passenger (an employee of Prism Pub !! ) in the auto yesterday early morning near Inorbit Mall. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been booked against the Audi driver and his associates," the police tweeted along with the video.In the 29-second video, the luxury car driver was seen speeding away on the road and hitting the auto-rickshaw from behind with full force. The auto-rickshaw can be seen going for an uncontrollable spin before crashing on the roadside. The passenger in the auto-rickshaw is reported to have been killed in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/driver-rams-audi-in-reckless-drunk-driving-accident-kills-1-101624953478520.html
29-06-2021||India||Rectal bleeding reported in 5 Covid-19 patients in Delhi, one dead||In a first such post Covid-19 complication in India, five cases of Cytomegalovirus (CVM) related rectal bleeding in patients diagnosed with Covid-19 have been reported from Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Tuesday. Patients with Cytomegalovirus have complained of bleeding in stools and abdominal pain, officials said.The cases have emerged in the second wave of infections this year, officials said.One of the patients has succumbed to massive bleeding and Covid chest disease, officials from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital confirmed."During the second wave of the Covid-19 in April-May 2021, we have seen five cases of CMV infection in otherwise immunocompetent patients with Covid-19. These patients presented with pain abdomen and bleeding in stools with a mean of 20 to 30 days after the diagnosis of Covid-19," a statement released by the hospital read.None of them had other predisposing immunosuppressed states accounting for this viral infection, the statement added.The cases have been seen in the age group of 30-70 years from Delhi-NCR. Four patients have complained of lower gastrointestinal bleed which is bleeding in stools and one patient presented with intestinal obstruction. Of the five patients, two reported massive bleed, with one requiring emergency life-saving surgery in which the side of the colon has been removed.Three patients have been successfully treated with antiviral therapy with ganciclovir, Dr. Arora said in a statement.The officials explained that Covid infection itself and the medicines used for its treatment (Steroids) do suppress the immunity of patients and make them susceptible to uncommon infections with varied presentations. One such opportunistic infection is (CMV) virus.Cytomegalo virus exists in 80 to 90% of the Indian population in asymptomatic form due to inherent immunity which makes it strong enough to be clinically asymptomatic.Three patients have been successfully treated with antiviral therapy with ganciclovir, Dr. Arora said in a statement.Doctors have suggested early diagnosis and effective antiviral therapy as a way of treatment to handle the cases of CMV infection in Covid-19 patients."In such cases of high index of suspicion and timely intervention in the form of an early diagnosis and effective antiviral therapy can save many precious lives, says Dr. Praveen Sharma of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rectal-bleeding-reported-in-5-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-101624955546432.html
29-06-2021||India||C’garh CM Baghel writes to PM, seeks 10 million doses of Covid vaccine in July||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to provide at least one crore [10 million] doses of Coronavirus vaccine to the state in July, officials said on TuesdayBaghel said that at present only 998,810 vaccine doses are left with the state which is sufficient only three days. Despite repeated demands, the state hasn’t been given sufficient doses, he said.Also Read | Maoist carrying ₹5 lakh reward killed in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district“The state has so far vaccinated all its frontline workers and 91% of healthcare workers with the first dose. Then, 71% of frontline workers and 70% of healthcare workers have been given the second dose as well. Similarly, 80% of population above 45 years of age has got their first dose,” the CM said in his letter.Further, in the 18-45 age group, 16% of the population has been given the first dose.“At least 300,000 people are being vaccinated in Chhattisgarh every day,” he added.The chief minister said that all the adults in the state will be inoculated with the first dose within a month if they had sufficient doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-cm-baghel-writes-to-pm-seeks-10-million-doses-of-covid-vaccine-in-july-101624956916887.html
29-06-2021||India||One Nation, One Ration Card: Know all about the govt scheme||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and Union territories to implement the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme till July 31 and said they “must run community kitchens to feed migrants till the end of the pandemic”. The top court also ordered the central government to provide dry ration for free distribution among migrant workers till the situation eases.A bench of justice Ashok Bhushan and justice MR Shah issued a slew of directions on a plea of three activists seeking directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers and other welfare measures for migrant workers who faced distress again due to curfews and lockdowns in various parts of the country during the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The scheme was launched on a pilot basis in four states in 2019 by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. The system aims to provide ration and food security to migrant workers and their families under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other schemes.Here’s all about the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme:'One Nation, one Ration Card' system is one of the four citizen-centric reforms identified by the department of expenditure under the Union finance ministry. The department has also allowed additional borrowing of 0.25 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to states completing the implementation of the system, which translates to additional borrowing permission of ₹37,600 crore.The additional borrowing limit of 0.25 per cent is only allowed to states after completion of both the actions — Aadhaar seeding of all the ration cards and beneficiaries in the state and automation of all the Fair Price Shops (FPSs) in the state. The automation and Aadhaar seeding is to ensure seamless inter-state portability of the card and also helps eliminate bogus or ineligible cardholders.The 'One Nation, One Ration Card' is a tech-driven system that allows labourers, daily wagers, urban poor like rag pickers, street dwellers, temporary workers in organised and unorganised sectors, domestic workers, etc to get their daily quota of food grains from any electronic point of sale (e-PoS)-enabled FPS of their choice anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-ration-card-know-all-about-the-govt-scheme-101624952597300.html
29-06-2021||India||In Punjab, Kejriwal promises free electricity; says only AAP can do this magic||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday promised free electricity till 300 units to people of Punjab if his party wins next year’s assembly elections in the state. Kejriwal is on his second visit to Punjab this month to prepare the ground for AAP ahead of state polls. He had visited Amritsar on June 21.“This is Kejriwal's guarantee, not Captain's promises. As soon as the AAP government is formed, we will ensure free power and write off pending bills of consumers of domestic supply category,” the Delhi chief minister said while targeting chief minister Amarinder Singh at a press conference in Chandigarh.He, however, clarified that the promise of free power is for domestic consumers with consumption upto 300 units. “If power consumption exceeds 300 units, they will have to pay the bill,” said the AAP chief.“I am sure these announcements will make everyone, particularly women, in Punjab happy,” he added.Kejriwal was accompanied by state AAP president Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh and AAP spokesperson, Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha and former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh."We have done this in Delhi in six years where people get free power. We will do it in Punjab the same way. Yeh jadoo hai hamein hi karna aata hai (This is the magic only we can do). I have done my calculations,” said Kejriwal.Targeting the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government, he said that there is no dearth of money in Punjab, but it lacks government with acchi neeyat (good intentions).Kejriwal had talked about providing free power on Monday, before coming to Punjab. “In Delhi, we provide 200 units of free electricity to every family. The women are quite happy. Women in Punjab are also quite unhappy with inflation. The AAP government will also provide free electricity in Punjab,” he had said in the tweet posted in Gurmukhi.In the 2017 assembly elections, AAP was a newcomer but still won 20 of the total 117 seats. The Congress formed the government after winning 77. This time, Kejriwal has decided to amp up his campaign to allow AAP to expand base to other states.The ruling Congress too had carried out a survey on providing free power to the residents of the state. State officials feel additional subsidy burden on account of free electricity to domestic consumers will not be tenable.AAP had made similar promise during the election in Delhi last year while seeking to return to power, which was criticised by other parties. The residents had given mixed response to the initiative. The party won the elections comfortably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-punjab-kejriwal-promises-free-electricity-says-only-aap-can-do-this-magic-101624954670756.html
29-06-2021||India||SC okays ₹1 lakh fine on ‘motivated’ plea seeking stop on Central Vista work||The Supreme Court on Tuesday fully endorsed the Delhi high court’s refusal to stop construction of the Central Vista Redevelopment Project during the pandemic and upheld the May 31 order by which the latter dismissed the “motivated” PIL with a cost of ₹1 lakh.The top court said that the two petitioners -- Anya Malhotra and historian Sohail Hashmi -- were selective in choosing the Central Vista project as the subject of their PIL without doing adequate research on such other public projects where construction was ongoing during the pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar said, “We find that the view taken by the Delhi high court is a possible view. Challenge to the findings qua the petitioner is untenable as the petitioners have not pointed out as public-spirited persons, whether the petitioner made any enquiries about other public projects in the city.”Further, the top court noted that once the Centre told the high court that the project was compliant with the requirements under Delhi Disaster Management Act orders, the PIL petitioners should not have pursued the matter further.Also Read | Implement ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ by July 31: SC tells statesThe high court had held that the project being of national importance cannot be stopped as it must be completed by November 30 this year. The petition was found to be “motivated” by the HC as only one project was which held, “Once the workers are staying at the site and all facilities have been provided, Covid-19 protocols are adhered to and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is being followed, there is no reason for this court while exercising powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to stop the project.” The petitioners had approached the top court to expunge the harsh remarks made by the HC against them and the excessive cost of ₹1 lakh. “The judgment, especially the imposition of exorbitant costs, has a chilling effect on public spirited individuals raising genuine issues of public health and on the right of citizens to question the actions of the government and to hold it to account, which it is submitted is the bedrock of democracy,” the petitioners said.Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that the HC mistook the petition to be seeking stoppage of Central Vista Redevelopment Project. He stated that the aim of the petition was to raise a public health and safety issue after coming to know that the construction work on the Central Vista Redevelopment Project site was going on at a time when Covid-19’s “catastrophic second wave” claimed many lives. On May 3, when the petition was filed, the positivity rate in Delhi averaged at 29.74% and the mean number of deaths stood at 353 persons per day. “Since it (construction work) had the potential of being a super spreader activity, on account of the to and fro movement of the workers from the site to their accommodation at Sarai Kale Khan, Karol Bagh, Kalkaji, Nizamuddin etc., it was posing a grave risk to the health and safety of the workers and the residents of Delhi,” the petition said.The Centre told the high court that on April 19, permission was obtained from the police authorities for ferrying nearly 400 workers to the construction site. After May 1, before the petition came to be filed, on-site accommodation was provided to workers, the Centre submitted. Luthra stated that as regards other projects, the petitioners had submitted that the high court was free to take suo motu cognizance of other projects which were non-compliant. The issue of Central Vista was taken up as information about it was easily available in public domain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-okays-rs-1-lakh-fine-on-motivated-plea-seeking-stop-on-central-vista-work-101624954816973.html
29-06-2021||India||Kannada names of villages in Kasaragod to stay, says Kerala legislator||The Kerala government has not received any proposal to change the names of villages and towns in Kasaragod district that have Kannada names, a legislator has said, according to a newspaper. Prajavani reported that AKM Ashraf, an MLA from Manjeshwar, denied there was ever any demand or move to change the names of towns and villages in Kasaragod and Manjeshwar constituencies. “These names are part of our culture and heritage. Why will anybody try to change them into Malayali names?” Ashraf, who represents Manjeshwar in the state assembly, said in a Facebook post, reported Prajavani. “The DC has clarified to me that the confusion over the matter was due to misinformation and there is no move to change the names,” Ashraf noted in the post.Pro-Kannada people in the Kasaragod district have welcomed Ashraf’s statement, according to the report.On Monday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa wrote to his counterpart in Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, appealing to him not to change the Kannada names. Following his appeal, Vijayan directed Kerala’s chief secretary to ask the Kasaragod district collector (DC) to shed more light on the matter.Several members of Parliament, MLAs and Kannada activists took up the with thPinarayi Vijayan. HD Kumaraswamy, former Karnataka CM, also sought clarification on the matter which led to the issue escalating, Ashraf claimed. He said the Bharatiya Janata Party’s members of Parliament Pralhad Joshi, Nalin Kumar Kateel, and Pratap Simha also took up the issue with the Kerala chief minister. Kannada activists in Bengaluru and Mysuru said they suspected that Kasaragod district will affect changes in the names of 22 villages on the border between Karnataka and Kerala including Mangaluru, Sullia and Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district, and Kodagu, Mysuru, and Chamarajanagar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-names-of-villages-in-kasaragod-to-stay-says-kerala-legislator-101624954194240.html
29-06-2021||India||Odisha to increase 20% seats in some higher secondary schools||With nearly 98% of the 574,000 students clearing the annual matriculation examination this year, the Odisha government has decided increase at least 20% of the seats in higher secondary schools that recorded 100% enrolment during the previous academic year.A whopping 97.89% of the 574,000 students who had enrolled for the matriculation examination conducted by the Odisha Board of Secondary Education, cleared it---the highest so far, surpassing the 86.37 pass percentage in 2017. As no examination could be conducted this year, the Odisha Board of Secondary Education relied on an alternative assessment system taking into account the marks secured in Class 9 as well periodic tests in Class 10.Adding another 25,000 students who graduated from State Open School, Madhyama and Madrasa board, the total number of students eligible for admission to higher secondary classes would be more than 600,000. This apart, around 12,000 students from CBSE, CISCE and other boards are likely to compete for the same set of seats in these colleges.Also Read | Pramod Sawant launches Goa Board’s app to provide study material to studentsAs of now, only 443,000 seats are available in 2,032 higher secondary schools. Another 159,000 seats are available in government and private diploma institutes and ITIs.School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said the government has a provision to allow major schools to increase their seats by 20% after their existing seats are exhausted.“The results of CBSE and ISCE are yet to be announced. Once the results are out, government would take appropriate measures for their enrolment. If necessary, we may consider allowing this extension to some of the higher secondary schools after due scrutiny. No student will suffer due to scarcity of seats,” Dash said.Dash said in the academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20, the number of seats was increased in Ravenshaw higher secondary school in Cuttack, BJB higher secondary school in Bhubaneswar, SCS higher secondary school in Puri, and Rajendra higher secondary school in Bolangir as the number of applicants outnumbered the number of seats.Incidentally, in 2020, a whopping 124,000 seats in higher secondary schools remained vacant while in 2019, at least 120,000 lakh seats in Arts, Science and Commerce streams of higher secondary schools had remained vacant at the end of academic sessions. In 2018, around 20% of the total seats had been vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-increase-20-seats-in-some-higher-secondary-schools-101624953076693.html
29-06-2021||India||Cipla seeks DCGI nod to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine, decision likely today||Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla has sought the approval of India's top drug regulator -- the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) -- to import American vaccine manufacturer Moderna's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the country, said people familiar with the development on Tuesday. A decision in this regard is likely soon, news agencies reported, adding that it is likely that Moderna's vaccine will be approved for emergency use in India for those aged 18 and above.Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine mRNA-1273, sold under the brand name 'Spikevax' in the United States, was developed by the pharmaceutical company in collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in the US. It is composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) and encodes a SARS-CoV-2 spike protein encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles, according to the European Medicines Agency (EMA).Moderna has informed, according to PTI, that the US government will be providing India with a certain number of doses of its Covid-19 vaccine though the central government's Covax initiative. It is also likely that the DCGI will be providing Moderna with the much sought-after nod for emergency use since the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) itself is in favour of this decision, the news agency added citing officials in the know.Cipla filed the application on Monday seeking permission for import of the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine, referring to DCGI notices dated April 15 and June 1. The Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company said that according to earlier directions passed by India's top drug regulator, if a certain vaccine has already been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency use approval, the same can be granted marketing authorisation in India without the necessity of bridging trials. However, the assessment of safety data of the first 100 beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccines shall still need to be submitted before rolling it out for full-scale immunisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cipla-seeks-dcgi-nod-to-import-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-decision-likely-today-101624950078881.html
29-06-2021||India||Switzerland is accepting visa for fully vaccinated travellers. All you need to know||Indians might soon get to travel to Switzerland after the European nation recently announced it will be accepting visas of all categories from India if proven that they have been fully vaccinated. The Swiss Federal Council has initiated the process of accepting visas for Switzerland from various countries including India, the embassy of Switzerland based in New Delhi said on Monday."The Embassy of Switzerland in New Delhi is currently accepting all visa categories for persons arriving from third countries like India who can prove they have been fully vaccinated. Booking of appointment is mandatory for all applications," the embassy said in a statement.Also read | EU’s ‘green pass’ for Covishield: What is the document all aboutTravellers will be required to follow the mandatory quarantine rules and other compulsory Covid-19 protocols in Switzerland, the embassy said. The announcement comes for the issuance of a Schengen visa (Type C) for Switzerland for people willing to travel to the country."VFS Global Services Pvt Ltd is operational and accepting visa application at the Centers in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Chennai, Cochin and Hyderabad," the embassy added in the statement.The embassy made it clear that the relaxations on the travel are only for people who are fully vaccinated and are within the rights of free movement."Entry restrictions continue to apply to foreign nationals who are not fully vaccinated with CHE, EU and WHO recognized vaccines and are without rights of free movement, entering from risk countries or regions and who do not belong to any of the exceptional categories of the Covid-19," the embassy stated.However, the visa application fees has been increased due to increased expenses in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the embassy also highlighted.The announcement comes after the European Union (EU) notified about Digital Covid Certificate for those who have been vaccinated from July.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/switzerland-is-accepting-visa-for-fully-vaccinated-travellers-all-you-need-to-know-101624944797413.html
29-06-2021||India||Petition in SC seeking Rath Yatra festivities at Kendrapara temple too||A petition has been filed in Supreme Court seeking directions to the Odisha government to allow rath yatra of Siddha Baladevjew in Kendrapara district even as the famous Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri is slated for July 12 with Covid guidelines in place. Madan Patri, one of the servitors of the Siddha Baladevjew temple, filed the Special Leave Petition in the apex court after the Odisha high court refused to intervene in the matter of the state government allowing the Rath Yatra without devotees, and only in Puri. Also Read | Supreme Court refuses to stay HC order which allowed Central Vista work to go onIn his plea, Patri has said that Rath Yatra of Siddha Baladevjew can be allowed with the participation of only servitors following all Covid guidelines, testing and vaccination along the line of the annual festival at Puri Shree Jagannath Temple.The 250-year-old Baladevjew temple was built by the king of Kujang, Raja Gopal Sandha, during the Maratha rule in Odisha in 1761. While Lord Jagannath is the principal deity in Puri, His elder brother, Lord Balabhadra is the main deity in Kendrapara temple.Last year, the Supreme Court had permitted the Rath Yatra in Puri; with all entry points into the town closed, and no public attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-in-sc-seeking-rath-yatra-festivities-at-kendrapara-temple-too-101624950737280.html
29-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: PM Modi to chair council of ministers meeting tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to chair council of ministers meeting amid buzz around cabinet expansionPrime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. The discussions are expected to centre around the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and functioning of some ministries. Read morePropaganda value, optics behind thinner Kim Jong Un, say analystsNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un has been under the spotlight this time for his weight loss and analysts think it could be related to the "tense" food situation in the country. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor, Khushi Kapoor's holiday fashion sense will ignite your wanderlustJanhvi Kapoor and Khushi Kapoor are the latest Kapoor sisters -after the likes of Karisma and Kareena Kapoor, and Sonam and Rhea Kapoor - on the block who are absolutely blowing us away with their fashion sensibilities, be it their uber chill loungewear when they're simply lazing around, their ultra luxe designer gowns and lehengas or their flirty casual wear that is a must have for every millennial and Gen-Z wardrobe. Read moreThe Family Man 2's Suparn Varma says 'Lonavala mein kya hua' mystery should remain forever unresolvedSuparn Varma, one of the writers and directors of The Family Man season 2, has said that in his opinion, the Lonavala mystery should remain unresolved for as long as the show runs. Fans of The Family Man have been curious to learn what happened between the characters Suchi and Arvind during a business trip to Lonavala, but the show has left that thread dangling. Read moreRange Rover Sport SVR performance SUV launched at ₹2.19 croreJaguar Land Rover on Tuesday officially launched the latest version of Range Rover Sport SVR performance SUV in the country at ₹2.19 crore (ex showroom). Jaguar Land Rover specifically targeting customers who are also enthusiastic drivers. Read moreYour Android smartphone is under threat; How to know if you really need helpWith over 3 million apps on the Google Play Store, Android smartphone users have a large selection of applications to choose from. Read moreNo Virat Kohli among 3 Indians in Aakash Chopra's World XI to take on WTC winners New ZealandNew Zealand beat India quite comfortably in the final to become the first-ever World Test Champions. Many experts including India head coach Ravi Shastri believed New Zealand were the better team in the conditions of Southampton. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-pm-modi-to-chair-council-of-ministers-meeting-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news-101624947964276.html
29-06-2021||India||Jammu court remands man to 10 days’ police custody in IED recovery case||Special judge Sunit Gupta on Monday remanded an alleged terror suspect, Nadeem-ul-Haq of Banihal in Ramban district, to 10 days of police custody. Police had recovered 5-6kg of IED from him at Narwal in Jammu city on Sunday.The judge, after going through the case, remanded him to 10 days’ police custody.The man was arrested under sections 121, 122 of the Indian Penal Code, sections 13, 18, 23, 38, 39 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Section 4/5 of Explosives Act.Also Read | NIA to probe drone attack at Jammu airport, says Centre“Since the matter is heinous in nature and some important aspects are required to be ascertained in the case for which police remand of the accused is required for the purpose of investigation. Hence, the petition is allowed and accused is remanded to the police custody for ten days from June 28 to July 7,” said the judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-court-remands-man-to-10-days-police-custody-in-ied-recovery-case-101624949836564.html
29-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand defers Char Dham yatra after high court order||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday retracted its late-night decision complying with the state high court's earlier order and postponed the Char Dham yatra with immediate effect, as per news agency ANI. The state government issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP)s on Monday despite Uttarakhand high court's stay on the pilgrimage this year in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government had said that the first phase of the pilgrimage will begin from July 1 and the second phase, in which all the residents of the state can undertake the yatra, will start from July 11.The state government in the new guidelines made it mandatory to present a negative Covid test report for those undertaking the yatra. The SOPs issued by the state government for the first phase of the pilgrimage to the four shrines were for the residents of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi.Rudraprayag locals were allowed to visit Kedarnath, residents of the Chamoli district were permitted to make the pilgrimage to Badrinath. The residents of Uttarkashi were permitted to visit Yamunotri and Gangotri in the first phase, as per the SOPs released by the state government with the aim to open the yatra. As per the SOPs, all residents of the state would be allowed to make the pilgrimage to the four shrines in the second phase.The Uttarakhand high court on Monday put the government's decision to open the pilgrimage with a cap on the number of people on hold. The court also ordered live streaming of the shrines in the four places and asked the government to file an affidavit again by July 7.On June 25, the state government decided to open the pilgrimage to Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Badrinath for locals in limited numbers from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-defers-char-dham-yatra-after-high-court-order-101624946235551.html
29-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay HC order which allowed Central Vista work to go on||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to stay the Delhi high court decision of May 31 which allowed the Central Vista project work in the national capital to go on. The high court had dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) that sought stoppage of construction activity, terming it “motivated”.The Delhi high court had even imposed ₹1 lakh cost on the petitioners Anya Malhotra and historian Sohail Hashmi. It said the project was of national importance.Also Read: Govt busts myths around Central Vista projectThe Supreme Court said that the high court was right in concluding that the petitioners were selective in choosing the Central Vista project alone and did not research about such similar public projects where construction was ongoing.The three-judge bench of the top court led by Justice AM Khanwilkar further stated that the petitioner should not have pursued the PIL before the high court further.“Genuine PILs have done wonders, but questionable PILs have caused problems. PILs have their own sanctity,” the top court said.The Centre had told the Delhi high court that the workers staying at the site of the construction have been given all the facilities and Covid-19 protocols are being followed.The Central Vista project envisages constructing a new triangular Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the vice president, as well as several new office buildings and a central secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.Looking at the traffic increase in the area in the coming years, the project has been conceptualised by putting in enough mitigation efforts to ensure there is no congestion or impact on traffic movement, according to architectural consultant for the project.The three-kilometre-long Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate will also be revamped as part of the Central Vista project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-hc-order-which-allowed-central-vista-work-to-go-on-101624949113756.html
29-06-2021||India||Vaccinate mentally ill for Covid-19 within four weeks: Madras HC to TN govt||The Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu government to get mentally ill people vaccinated for Covid-19 within four weeks and file a status report on the matter a week after the deadline is over.A bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the order on Monday in response to a Public Interest Litigation by a Chennai NGO CHEER seeking effective implementation of the state’s mental health policy. The plea sought identification of homeless people with mental illness, their rehabilitation, and health care facilities for them including the vaccination.Also Read | With 37,566 new cases, India records another drop in daily Covid-19 tallyThe bench said the plea drew attention to the plight of mentally ill patients during the pandemic. It added mobile teams vaccinating people with disabilities in their homes can be used for immunising the mentally ill as well. “It is imperative that a special vaccination drive be undertaken, by whatever means that may be effective, to prioritise mentally ill persons and ensure that they are vaccinated,” the court said. “There are many persons who are abandoned by their families and roam around in the streets, who should be taken care of at the local level, and municipalities, corporations, and panchayats should pay attention that such persons are provided some shelter and are vaccinated on a priority basis.”The court said a report in this regard should be filed when the matter is heard next on August 2. “The State will do well to ensure that the immediate needs of, particularly the destitute who are mentally ill, are taken care of and the other mentally ill patients who may be homebound or are restricted in their movements are attended to in the next four weeks,” the court said. “The State should also file its counter-affidavit to the larger aspects indicated in the petition so that in due course, all residents of the State who may be mentally ill are accorded the basic human dignity that they are entitled to and the larger society takes care of such vulnerable sections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-mentally-ill-people-vaccinated-for-covid-within-four-weeks-hc-to-tamil-nadu-101624948696566.html
29-06-2021||India||Supreme Court directs all states, UTs to implement 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme by July 31||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed all states and Union territories to implement the 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme by July 31, reported news agency PTI. The top court has also issued a slew of directions, asking the central government to distribute dry ration among migrant workers free of charge until the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation subsides.The One Nation, One Ration Card programme is a national platform that digitises ration cards, details of beneficiaries, the monthly quota of ration under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013, and allows withdrawals through electronic point of sale machines, thereby allowing the mobility of ration benefits. India provides cheap foodgrains to nearly 800 million beneficiaries across the country under the NFSA 2013.Also Read | BJP slams Delhi govt for not implementing Centre’s ration schemeThe Supreme Court bench comprising Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice MR Shah issued the directions to the central government on Tuesday in relation to the welfare of unorganised sector workers who were one of the groups worst-hit by the second wave of Covid-19.The apex court was hearing a petition in this regard, which sought directions to the central and state governments to ensure food security, cash transfers and other welfare measures for migrant workers who faced distress due to curfews and lockdowns in various parts of the country. The plea was filed by activists Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander, and Jagdeep Chhokar.Also Read | Reforms for a new India in the 21st centuryThe central government must enlist the help of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to develop a portal that will contain a database for the registration of unorganised sector workers, the court directed, adding that this process will smoothen the process to grant benefits of welfare schemes to these workers by July 31.Moreover, states and union territories must organise community kitchens for migrant workers till the pandemic situation subsides, the Supreme Court directed. It asked the Centre to keep allocating food grains to the states and Union territories for distribution among migrant workers for free till the pandemic situation exists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-all-states-uts-to-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-by-july-31-101624946730560.html
29-06-2021||India||PM Modi to chair council of ministers meeting amid buzz around cabinet expansion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. The discussions are expected to centre around the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and functioning of some ministries.The meeting will be held virtually in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions in place in the country, news agency ANI reported.The Union Council of Ministers is headed by the Prime Minister and includes the Cabinet Ministers and Ministers of State (MoS) with the ones being given independent charge.PM Modi had last week held meetings with ministers - both Cabinet and ministers of state - to review the performance of their ministries. The meetings were held at the Prime Minister’s official residence. These meetings are usually undertaken ahead of a cabinet reshuffle or expansion.The Prime Minister is expected to expand his cabinet by early next month, ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. There are currently 60 ministers in PM Modi's government and their number can go up to 79.The Covid-19 situation has been improving in the country in the last few months, with India vaccinating a record number of people (8.5 million) on June 21. India has now inoculated more people than the United States under the nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16 this year.During his 78th Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday, PM Modi hailed the milestone achieved by the country and congratulated the healthcare workers who have been at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19.Wednesday’s meeting is also coming at a time when political circles are abuzz with news of cabinet expansion. Though nothing has been confirmed yet, but there are reports that Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) will be accommodated in the Union Cabinet.Kumar, the Bihar chief minister, came to Delhi last week and met PM Modi. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Kumar said his visit to Delhi is in connection with a medical issue and downplayed the cabinet expansion news. He said that is the Prime Minister’s prerogative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-council-of-ministers-meeting-amid-buzz-around-cabinet-expansion-101624947668348.html
29-06-2021||India||Drones spotted again over military installations in Jammu||Drones were again spotted hovering over military installations in Jammu’s Ratnuchak, Kaluchak and Sunjuwan areas between 12.30am to 4.30am on Tuesday, a police officer said.They were spotted first at 1.08am at Ratnuchak, then at 3.09am and 4.19am near Sunjuwan. While Kaluchak and Ratnuchak have military stations, Sunjuwan has a full-fledged brigade of the Indian army.Jammu district SSP Chandan Kohli said, “Army informed us that they spotted drones over Kaluchak, Ratnuchak and Sunjuwan early Tuesday. We are looking into it.”The Army has not issued a statement over the fresh drone sighting.Meanwhile, a six member team of the Delhi Police’s special cell reached IAF station here on Tuesday.The team will join the probe and analyse the modus operandi of the terrorists.“The team has come to be part of the probe and at the same time analyse the modus operandi of the terrorists because Delhi is the capital and is densely populated,” said official sources.The Kaluchak military station was attacked in 2002 by three armed terrorists from Pakistan. The three first attacked a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on the Jammu-Pathankot highway and killed seven passengers before storming the station, where they killed 23 people.Also Read | After the storm, when Delhi and Kashmir meetIn February 2018, Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists attacked the Sunjuwan Army installation and killed six soldiers and a civilian besides injuring 20 others. The three attackers were also killed.The drones on Tuesday were spotted after two similar devices were seen hovering over the Ratnuchak, Kaluchak military area in the region and prompted soldiers to fire at them on Monday.Experts say a new security threat has emerged from across the border with Pakistan, with drones being used for the first time to carry out attacks at military installations. Early on Sunday, drones were used for two “low-intensity” explosions at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu. Two personnel were injured in the explosions that prompted multiple teams to launch investigations.On Sunday night, two drones were spotted over the military area. While the first drone was sighted around 11.45pm, the second one was seen around 2.40am.Searches were launched and security forces began ascertaining whether they were being operated from a vehicle on the adjoining road.DGP Dilbag Singh told a TV channel, “Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba is likely involved in the drone attack on the Air Force base in Jammu on Sunday.The same group may also be behind the drones spotted near a military facility on Monday.”The IAF has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks. While IAF is now certain that drones were used for the Jammu attack, it is still not clear as to where they came from or which side they flew to after dropping the two improvised explosive devices.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu & Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. But experts said that drones have previously not been engaged by terrorists to carry out attacks.At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since the 2019 abrogation of Article 370, a security official told PTI on Monday. Border security agencies have been testing indigenously built counter-drone technologies in the rough jungle terrains, desert and marshes along the western front but have had limited success, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-spotted-again-over-military-installations-in-jammu-101624947856767.html
29-06-2021||India||Not just Delta Plus, 3 other variants of coronavirus pose threat||The world has been grappling with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the past year and a half, witnessing hundreds of deaths and shuttering of the economy. And compounding the problem are the mutations of the coronavirus, which are making it more deadly.The current cause of concern in India and across the world is the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus. The highly transmissible variant is also believed to be impervious to some vaccines and therapies, concerning the experts.Delta Plus is a mutated form of the Delta variant, first found in India in December, 2020. So far, it has been detected in 12 states, according to the government and claimed nearly 50 lives.But apart from this, there are other variants too which have the potential - though not as pronounced as Delta Plus - to infect the people and bring the economy back to a grinding halt.According to Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the prominent variants of that coronavirus are: Alpha, Beta and Delta.The B.1.1.7, or the Alpha variant, was first detected in the United States in December, 2020, the CDC said. The source of the variant has been traced to the United Kingdom, according to CDC. Next is B.1.351 or Beta variant of coronavirus. It started from South Africa in December last year and reached the United States in January.The Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, which was first identified in India, is believed to be more virulent than the others and os wreaking havoc in South Africa. It spreads more quickly than the other variants, leading to more cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Delta Plus is a mutated, and thus more dangerous, form of the Delta variant, due to which the Indian government has already declared it as a ‘variant of concern.’According to World Health Organization (WHO), the more a virus circulates in a population causing infection, the likelihood of the virus mutating increases. The more it spreads, the more it replicates - and has more opportunities to undergo changes known as mutation - the WHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-delta-plus-3-other-variants-of-coronavirus-pose-threat-101624945992437.html
29-06-2021||India||NIA to probe drone attack at Jammu airport, says Centre||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has handed the investigation into the attack on the Jammu air force station to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), news agency PTI reported on Tuesday. A case has already been filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Two IAF personnel were injured during the blasts that occurred within five minutes of each other on Sunday at the airport that is used for armed forces’ strategic operations and VVIP movements. The first blast happened at 1.37am at the roof of a single-storey building at the airport’s technical area, while the second one went off at 1.42am on the ground.An initial probe conducted by the Jammu and Kashmir Police and security agencies indicated the role of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the drone strike. Besides, the attack is linked with the seizing of a 6kg improvised explosive device (IED) by the Jammu Police from a LeT operative, which in turn led to the detention of at least three terror suspects by the UT police, people familiar with the matter said.Jammu and Kashmir director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said the twin drone attacks was a terror attack. He pointed out that police and other agencies are working together with IAF officials to find out the motive behind the attack.Within 24 hours following the twin drone explosions, two similar devices were noticed moving over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area in Jammu, thereby prompting soldiers to open fire at them, officials said on Monday.Additionally, on Sunday night, two more drones were spotted over the IAF military stations. The first drone was noticed at around 11.45pm, while the second one was sighted at around 2.40am. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said as soon as soldiers opened fire at the drones, they flew away.Several such drone incidents in Jammu and Kashmir have recently come to light, with security experts saying that Pakistan uses drones to drop weapons, drugs, ammunition, arms and Hawala money to fuel terrorism in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-to-probe-drone-attack-at-jammu-airport-says-centre-101624944501919.html
29-06-2021||India||Ahead of monsoon session, 3/4th members of Rajya Sabha fully vaccinated||At least 179 Rajya Sabha members have been fully vaccinated ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, according to data available with the Rajya Sabha secretariat. Seventy-seven per cent of the Upper House’s 232 members are fully vaccinated--- which the House considers an encouraging sign. According to the official data available till June 18, 39 more members of the House has received their first dose. Meanwhile, at least 403 members of the Lok Sabha, nearly three-fourths of its current strength of 540, have also received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine so far, raising hopes that next month’s session will not need to be curtailed.Some members of Parliament (MP) have not been able to take their second jab yet as they were affected by Covid-19, a top functionary said on condition of anonymity. “Another 30 MPs have not sent us any communication. We are trying to contact them to know their vaccination status.”Also Read | Parliamentary panel summons Google, Facebook officials over misuse of platformsThe Covid-19 pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and Parliament staff improves chances of a longer Parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament.So far, over 50 lawmakers have been affected by the Covid-19 and at least three MPs, including minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi, have died of Covid-related complications.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla opened a Covid-19 vaccination centre in the Parliament complex in March to cater to the lawmakers, their family and parliamentary officials. The exclusive centre helped in the quick vaccination of MPs and officials to create a safer health environment ahead of the session. There is a possibility that people can get the infection despite the jab but the symptoms will be much milder.Top officials also said that RT-PCR tests and social distancing norms will remain in place as parts of India continue to report new cases. “But vaccination would not be mandatory for MPs to attend Parliament. We are encouraging them to take the vaccines and providing them with all facilities,” said a top functionary.Apart from the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines that are manufactured in the country, India has also procured stocks of Russian Sputnik V which will be produced in India at a later stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-monsoon-session-3-4th-members-of-rajya-sabha-fully-vaccinated-101624943957371.html
29-06-2021||India||Education min recovers from post-Covid complications, may be discharged today||After being admitted in Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for four weeks following post-Covid complications, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal has recovered and is likely to be discharged from the hospital today, as per an official from AIIMS hospital.Pokhriyal was admitted to AIIMS on June 1 after he complained of difficulty in breathing. He had earlier tested positive in April and had recovered from the infection.While in the hospital, he wrote a poem calling himself a “candle of hope” against the darkness symbolic of the Covid virus. The minister, who has authored over 70 books, has also received many national and international awards for his literary work. In January, this year, he was virtually conferred ‘Canada Sahitya Gaurav’ by Hindi Writers Guild of Canada. In December 2020, he was honoured with a lifetime achievement award by London-based Vatayan-UK literary organisation.Nishank has also received the prestigious Sahitya Bharati Award from former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-minister-likely-to-be-discharged-fromaiimstoday-101624943896290.html
29-06-2021||India||UP moves Supreme Court against court relief to Twitter India head||The Uttar Pradesh government has moved the Supreme Court against the order of the Karnataka High Court granting interim protection from arrest to Twitter India executive Manish Maheshwari in connection to the first information report filed by the state police over a video showing an attack on a Muslim man in Ghaziabad.The Karnataka High Court's order on Manish Maheshwari in relation to the FIR came last Thursday. The Uttar Pradesh police have claimed that the video was manipulated to present a skewed communal narrative and it was amplified by its spread on Twitter.Maheshwari has already moved a caveat in the top court for being heard when UP's appeal is listed.Also read | Twitter names new grievance officer for IndiaAccording to Maheshwari's lawyer, the investigating officer issued a notice on June 17 under section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to Twitter India's managing director but Maheshwari is not the managing director.Separately, Bajrang Dal has filed a complaint with police in Bulandshahr against Maheshwari for showing a wrong map of India on its website. One Amrita Tripathi has also been booked under section 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 74 of the IT (Amendment) Act, 2008. Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar Singh the FIR against officials of Twitter India was registered at the Khurja Nagar police station in Bulandshahr on the complaint of a local Bajrang Dal leader.Also read | Parliamentary panel summons Google, Facebook officials over misuse of platformsA map on Twitter's careers page showed the Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh outside India, triggering an outcry on social media even as the US company and the Centre are involved in a tussle over the firm's compliance with new IT rules. Twitter has taken the map off.Before that, Maheshwari was questioned by the Delhi Police’s special cell in May over Twitter tagging BJP leader Sambit Patra's post as “manipulated media”. Patra in that tweet said that the Congress social media campaign orchestrated to show the government in a bad light. The Congress party claimed this “toolkit” was forged. Maheshwari said he is not responsible for such tagging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-moves-supreme-court-against-court-relief-to-twitter-india-head-101624942556772.html
29-06-2021||India||Goa oxygen shortage deaths: HC declines to entertain pleas for probe||The Bombay high court at Goa has declined to entertain petitions seeking a judicial probe into alleged shortage of oxygen at the state’s premier Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) to fix responsibility for the disruption as well as to assign compensation for the victims. The court pointed out that none of the petitioners had provided specifics nor did any of the aggrieved families come forward seeking compensation. “It will not be appropriate to consider the issue of setting up a judicial commission to inquire into the deaths at GMCH in May 2021 or the issue of payment of compensation in these petitions...By merely filing some application, which is also quite vague, the petitioners cannot seek such a relief,” the bench of justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said. Also Read | Owner sells Goa’s famous club Tito’s, alleges harassment by authorities“There are no particulars as to whether any of the victims have authorised any of the petitioners to raise such a claim. In the state of such pleadings, we refrain from going into the issue of either appointment of a judicial commission, or the issue of payment of compensation,” the high court said. The South Goa Advocates Association, which had filed a petition, had sought that a judicial commission be set up to probe the recent disruptions in oxygen supply at the GMCH and determine the compensation to be paid to the families.The state government, however, opposed such a commission claiming that any such inquiry would “demoralise” the frontline workers. “The doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, officials and bureaucrats have worked tirelessly and with full dedication during the entire pandemic and more particularly, during the second wave. Subjecting them to a judicial enquiry would be highly unjust and would have an effect of demoralising the entire workforce. Medical personnel and bureaucrats should not be subjected to such treatment in the name of a PIL,” the advocate general told the court.More than 75 persons have died during the ‘dark hours’ at the GMCH which coincided with dropping oxygen levels at the hospital’s main supply line. It was health minister Vishwajit Rane who first suggested that the high court should order a probe into the deaths though the Goa government claimed it was a logistical issue rather than an actual shortage of oxygen that was causing the disruptions. The hospital has since installed a liquid medical oxygen tank that ensures continuous supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-oxygen-shortage-deaths-hc-declines-to-entertain-pleas-for-probe-101624941916365.html
29-06-2021||India||Three fold increase in mortality among younger Covid-19 patients: Max study||There was a 40% increase in mortality among hospitalised coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients during the second wave of the pandemic as compared to the previous one, according to a pre-print study of hospitalisations with the viral infection across Max Healthcare hospitals that clinicians are attributing to patients reaching hospital late, when their condition already turned serious. The study is based on clinical data from over 14,000 Covid-19 patients admitted during the first wave and over 5,400 during the second wave to Max hospitals in Delhi-NCR, Mohali, Dehradun, and Bhatinda. While the mortality was higher across age groups during the second wave, the sharpest three-fold increase was seen among the young patients below the age of 45 years. The mortality – proportion of admitted patients who died – increased from 1.3% last year to 4.1% this year. Also Read | With 37,566 new cases, India records another drop in daily Covid-19 tally“Although the age profile of the hospitalised patients remained the same during the first and the second wave of Covid-19, our data shows that the mortality among the young people increased three times which is what most clinicians have been saying. The higher mortality could be because people were reaching hospitals late – most hospitals were running full at the peak, more secondary infections, or higher mortality due to delta variant that led to the second wave,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare. The study showed that the average duration from the symptom to hospital admission among those below the age of 45 years increased by a day from 6.3 to 7.3 during the second wave. The severity of the disease at admission also increased during the second wave – 39.4% of the patients admitted were in the severe category in the second wave as compared to 32% previously. This could be because all Covid-19 patients had to be admitted, regardless of severity of disease, at the beginning of the pandemic, Dr Budhiraja explained. There was also a statistically significant increase in the proportion of the patients who needed oxygen support during the second wave – 74% as compared to 63.4% during the first wave, the study shows. However, despite the increase in the severity of the disease, the duration of hospitalisation went down from nine days to eight days. “This is the average; duration of hospitalisation was much longer for severe cases. This is likely the result of another policy change by the government. Initially, patients were required to get two consecutive RT-PCR negative report before discharge; now it is no longer needed or encouraged,” said Dr Budhiraja. The proportion of Covid-19 patients who developed secondary infections was also more than double during the second wave. It increased from 11.9% during the first wave to 27.8% during the second wave. As for the cases of mucormycosis of black fungus, there were only 10 cases and 2 deaths reported during the first wave across the Max Healthcare chain in comparison to 169 cases and 17 deaths reported this year. The study also found that the use of steroids and anticoagulants (medicine to prevent blood clots) remained high and consistent between the two waves. “This is one of the largest studies from India on clinical profile of hospitalised Covid-19 patients. And, we have looked at various parameters such duration of hospitalisation, need for oxygen, treatments given, and laboratory markers,” said Dr Budhiraja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-fold-increase-in-mortality-among-younger-covid-19-patients-max-study-101624941437096.html
29-06-2021||India||Does Delta Plus variant adversely affect vaccine efficacy? Here's what govt says||Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, which has been reported from at least 11 states and a Union territory in the country, is yet to be studied and there is no scientific data so far to establish that the new strain reduces the efficacy of vaccines, Covid Task Force chief VK Paul has said."The so-called Delta Plus variant exhibits an additional mutation in the Delta variant and since this is a new variant, scientific knowledge is still in the early stage," VK Paul said in an interview to PTI on Monday. "Whether this additional mutation in the Delta variant is associated with increased transmissibility or excess severity of disease, or any adverse effect on vaccine efficacy is currently not established and we should wait for this information to emerge," he said and added, "We should wait for these aspects to be studied systematically".Delta Plus, the new variant of the coronavirus, was identified on June 11 and was recently classified as a variant of concern by the Centre.Paul said, based on the scientific evaluation by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin are both effective against the coronavirus, including the Delta variant, which is presently the predominant variant in the country.Also read | Covid-19 vaccinated and tested positive. What should you do?The Covid Task Force chief said it will be unfair to put a date for any wave of the pandemic as the behaviour of coronavirus is unpredictable and a disciplined and effective pandemic response can help the country get away from any significant outbreak. "Occurrence or non-occurrence of any wave is in our own hands. To my mind, it is not fair to put any date for any wave," he said.Also read | Delta Plus variant very localised, 48 cases found till now in India, says govtThe senior official also said that another wave of any size would be dependent upon several factors, including overall discipline in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour, testing and containment strategies and vaccination rates. The unpredictable behaviour of the virus can also change the pandemic dynamics, he pointed and said that their complex factor can also determine the chain of transmission and outbreak. "If we are determined and disciplined and marshal effective pandemic response, we should be in a position to get away from any significant outbreak," Paul said.Also read | Explained: Delta Plus variant symptoms and how to protect yourselfIndia's daily cases of Covid-19 have been dipping and have been around the 50,000 mark for over a week now. On Tuesday, the country recorded another drop in its daily Covid-19 tally with 37,566 new cases, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-delta-plus-variant-adversely-affect-vaccine-efficacy-here-s-what-govt-says-101624939016107.html
29-06-2021||India||Day after arrest, LeT commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat killed in crossfire||A day after the arrest of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat, police on Tuesday said he was killed in an exchange of crossfire with an unidentified foreign militant at Maloora on Srinagar’s outskirts.The LeT commander, who, according to police, was involved in the attack on the CRPF patrol at Lawaypora (in which three CRPF jawans were killed) in March, was arrested at Parimpora at a checkpost on Monday.The Jammu and Kashmir Police spokesman said they received input about militants carrying out an attack on highway.Also Read | The Pulwama investigation and its lessons for India on countering terror“Keeping in view the seriousness of the input, a few joint nakas of JKP and CRPF were put up along the highway. On Monday, at Parimpora naka, we stopped a vehicle and asked for the identity of the passengers. The person sitting on the rear seat opened his bag and took out a grenade. The naka party swiftly swung into action and grabbed the person. Both the driver and the passenger were taken to the police station where we identified the passenger as Abrar, a top LeT Commander. He was jointly interrogated by JKP, CRPF and the Army. One pistol and hand grenades were recovered from his possession.”He said that he had kept his AK-47 rifle in a house in Maloora.“There after he was taken to that house to recover the weapon. When the party was entering the house to recover the alleged weapon, one of his associates, a Pakistani terrorist (about whom he didn’t disclose anything) hiding inside the house fired at the party.”The spokesman said that In the initial firefight, three CRPF personnel were injured and Abrar was hit in the ensuing crossfire.“The injured personnel were evacuated and the rest of the party called for reinforcements. The Pakistani terrorist and Abrar were killed in the crossfire. Two AK-47 rifles along with ammunitions were recovered from the site.”Police said that Abrar was involved in several killings of security forces and had joined the militants’ ranks in 2018. Police had intensified the search for him after the attack on CRPF at Lawaypora on March 25 in which his name had surfaced as one of the attackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-arrest-let-commander-nadeem-abrar-bhat-killed-in-crossfire-101624940716639.html
29-06-2021||India||India may procure Israeli anti-drone systems in wake of Jammu attack: Report||India is likely to make a decision soon on the deployment of anti-drone technology at military installations across the country, reported HT's sister publication Hindustan reported on Tuesday, adding that the armed forces are already carrying out drills with the Israeli anti-drone SMASH 2000 Plus systems which may be procured on an immediate basis. The development comes in the wake of a first-of-its-kind drone attack in the country earlier on Sunday, where unmanned aerial vehicles were used to drop two bombs at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport, injuring two IAF personnel.Over 300 drones and unidentified flying objects have been sighted along the sensitive border with Pakistan after the August 5, 2019 abrogation of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, central security agencies said. However, the armed forces are not suitably equipped with technology to tackle these new lethal sky-floaters, intelligence sources warned.Suspected drone activity was also seen late last night at Kunjwani in the Ratnuchak area of Jammu, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday morning, citing people familiar with the development. Meanwhile, the Union ministry of home affairs has handed over the investigation of the Jammu drone attack case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the news agency reported on this day.According to defense sources cited by Hindustan, the Israeli anti-drone SMASH 2000 Plus systems are fitted on a rifle and can target drones flying at high speeds. The Indian Navy has already started the process of procuring these defense systems, while the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force might take these up soon as well. Drones are often difficult to catch on the radar because they fly at low altitudes; in such cases, security personnel can only rely on a manual approach in spotting these drones and bringing them down when they get close.The SMASH 2000 Plus anti-drone systems can be retrofitted onto an AK-47 or any other rifle of a similar make. The device can detect drones and other small flying objects, not just during the day but also at night, said people in the know. Moreover, it was said that the defence ministry was already mulling over the installation of these anti-drone systems at major military stations, but after the Jammu attack, the government can make a decision soon in this regard. Additionally, the ministry has separately empowered army chiefs to procure items of immediate need, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-procure-israeli-anti-drone-systems-in-wake-of-jammu-attack-report-101624936421789.html
29-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand issues new Covid guidelines for Char Dham yatra despite HC's hold||The Uttarakhand government has issued fresh Covid guidelines for the Char Dham yatra as it decided to start the first phase of the pilgrimage from July 1 and the second from July 11, despite the high court's order against holding it this year.The state government's guidelines for the pilgrimage dictate a mandatory negative Covid test report for those undertaking the yatra. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the pilgrimage have been issued for the residents of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi.Also read: Ajay Jadeja fined for dumping garbage in Goa villageWhile Rudrapyrayag residents are allowed to visit Kedarnath, locals from Chamoli district can undertake yatra of Badrinath. The locals of Uttarkashi are allowed to visit Yamunotri and Gangotri in the first phase. All residents of the state will be allowed to undertake the yatra in the second phase. Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri are the four pilgrimage sites in Uttarakhand.The high court on Monday stayed the government's decision permitting Char Dham yatra with a limited number of pilgrims and also ordered live streaming of the shrines in the four places, according to an ANI report. The high court's decision came in view of Covid-19 and poor health preparedness. It asked the government to file the affidavit again by July 7.The state cabinet on June 25 decided to partially start the Char Dham yatra for locals in limited numbers from July 1. Initially, it was decided that the yatra will begin for the locals of Chamoli, Uttarkashi, and Rudraprayag districts with the limited number of people visiting the temples daily.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-issues-new-covid-guidelines-for-char-dham-yatra-despite-hc-s-hold-101624937503251.html
29-06-2021||India||Understanding Riemann Hypothesis: Know about the 161-year-old equation||A Hyderabad-based mathematical physicist Kumar Eswaran has claimed to have developed a proof for the Riemann Hypothesis or RH, which remained unsolved for the last 161 years. Eswaran found the solution to the problem during his service at the Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology (SNIST), the institute said, according to reports.The Riemann Hypothesis arose from the work of noted mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss in the 19th century and the formula deals with understanding the distribution of prime numbers.Experts have said that solving the hypothesis could open the doors for the use of primes in cryptography and also impact the number theory. A number of theorems also depend on solving of the hypothesis. The solution of the Riemann Hypothesis will allow algorithms to be processed faster.The Riemann Hypothesis is one of seven unsolved “Millennium Prizes" from the Clay Mathematics Institute of Cambridge and has promised an award worth $1 million to the person who solves it.Here's what you need to know about Riemann Hypothesis"--According to the Clay Mathematics Institute, German mathematician Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann observed that the frequency of prime numbers is very closely related to the behaviour of an elaborate function ζ(s) = 1 + 1/2s + 1/3s + 1/4s + called the Riemann Zeta function. The Riemann Hypothesis asserts that all interesting solutions of the equation ζ(s) = 0 lie on a certain vertical straight line.--According to Research Matters, the Riemann Hypothesis, from a technical point of view, is a prediction about the solutions of an equation involving ‘L-functions’, which can be described as "esoteric and abstruse".--Riemann showed that the primes and the zeros of the zeta function—a special L-function—are related, and though primes fail to show any respect for rules and discipline, the zeros exhibit a pattern; they all line up on 'the critical line', Research Matters noted.--In a statement, the SNIST said, “The genesis of the problem arose from the work of the great mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777-1855) who had written down a formula which can be used to approximately predict the number of prime numbers below any given number. Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann (1826-1866) improved the formula by using entirely original methods involving the calculus of functions of a complex variable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-riemann-hypothesis-know-about-the-161-year-old-equation-101624936269404.html
29-06-2021||India||Ajay Jadeja fined for dumping garbage in Goa village||Former India and professional cricketer Ajay Jadeja was fined ₹5,000 by a local village panchayat in Goa for dumping garbage along a village bylane, a fine he paid, the sarpanch of Nachinola village in north Goa, said. Jadeja, who owns a villa in the neighbouring village of Aldona, was identified by the volunteers who go about picking garbage on weekends and attempt to establish the source of garbage by rummaging for bills or addresses were surprised to find one such trail led to Jadeja’s bungalow. “We found a bill in the name of Ajay Jadeja. We fined him like we fined everyone else and we informed him not to dump the garbage in the future. He graciously paid the fine. We are proud that such a celebrity, a popular cricket player, stays in our village, but they should follow garbage norms,” sarpanch of the village Trupti Bandodkar said.Also Read | Owner sells Goa’s famous club Tito’s, alleges harassment by authoritiesThe Nachinola village which neighbours Aldona is plagued by the problem of garbage being thrown by passing cars and scooters along roadsides with panchayat authorities often unable to curb the problem.Panchayat authorities also encourage commuters to come forth with dashcam footage or other evidence to help track those who fling garbage from moving vehicles or just dump it and drive away. Panchayats in Goa are also under the scanner of the high court for failing to bring the problem under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-jadeja-fined-for-dumping-garbage-in-goa-village-101624938916218.html
29-06-2021||India||Prez Kovind to lay foundation stone of Ambedkar Cultural Centre in Lucknow today||President Ram Nath Kovind will lay the foundation stone of Bharat Ratna Dr Ambedkar Cultural Centre in Lucknow on Tuesday.The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet last week approved the proposal of the state cultural department to construct the cultural centre over 5493.52 square metre land. A 25 feet high statue of Ambedkar will also be built there.Also Read | Scientists urge President to recall draft rules for LakshadweepThe memorial will come up at a cost of ₹45.04 crore. It will have an auditorium with a capacity of 750 people, a library, research centre, gallery, museum and a multi-purpose convention centre. The memorial building will also have a cafeteria, dormitory and other facilities.Kovind, who is Lucknow on a two-day visit, arrived here from Kanpur on Monday. He was due to leave for Delhi on Tuesday after a five-day visit to his home state. Kovind arrived on a special train in Lucknow on Monday after his three-day stay in his village in Kanpur Dehat district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ambedkar-cultural-centre-in-lucknow-today-101624938736431.html
29-06-2021||India||With 37,566 new cases, India records another drop in daily Covid-19 tally; death toll close to 400,000||India on Tuesday reported 37, 566 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, while 907 people lost their lives in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health and family welfare ministry. The new additions to the country's Covid-19 tally are lower than that reported on Monday when 46,148 new infections were recorded in the previous 24 hours. The number of fatalities fell in 24 hours since 979 died due to Covid-19 on Monday, according to the health ministry's dashboard at 8am.The Covid-19 tally of the country now stands at 30,316,897 and the death toll has reached 397,637, the update by the ministry showed.Also read: Covid-19 vaccinated and tested positive. What should you do?The number of recoveries reported in the last 24 hours amounted to 56,994. On Monday, the number of patients who recovered from the disease was 58,578. The recovery rate of the country is at 96.80 per cent.The active caseload of the country declined to 552,659 after Tuesday's inputs. Active cases in India account for 1.82 per cent of the total cases. The weekly positivity rate of the country is also on a steady decline as it now stands at 2.74 per cent, below five per cent, the health ministry's data showed.The daily positivity rate, which was less than five per cent for 21 consecutive days and was 2.94 per cent on Monday, followed the downward trend on Tuesday as and stood at 2.12 per cent, as per the data.The health ministry also claimed on Monday the country's testing capacity has been further ramped up. Till date, more than 400 million tests have been done to detect the viral disease in the country, as of Tuesday, according to data.The country on Monday achieved a milestone in the vaccination drive against Covid-19 as it overtook the US in terms of the total number of vaccine doses administered to date. More than 320 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country since the world's largest vaccination drive began on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-witnesses-fall-of-37-566-new-covid-19-infections-in-24-hours-101624932816500.html
29-06-2021||India||Owner sells Goa’s famous club Tito’s, alleges harassment by authorities||Goa’s iconic club Tito’s is being sold amid co-owner Ricardo D’Souza claiming harassment by local authorities as one of the reasons for the sale. In a social media post, Ricardo D’Souza, who has been running the club with his brother David D’Souza, announced that he had sold his “entire business” in Goa for an “adequate compensation” while declining to disclose who the buyers were. “It is with sadness but with anger that we have sold our entire business in Goa. I personally have suffered the least as I was compensated adequately and even my future generations won’t have to work,”Ricardo D’Souza wrote.Alleging harassment by local authorities, Ricardo D’Souza went on to name authorities like “police, PDA (Planning and Development Authority), CRZ (Coastal Regulation Zone), NGOs, panchayats and Sarpanchs, BDO (Block Development Officer), Deputy Collectors, etc”. Also Read | High court pulls up Goa government for hounding ‘whistleblower’He, however, didn’t name anyone individually or specify what kind of harassment he was facing.Sarpanch of the village Sean Martins, said that the establishment didn’t face any known complaints over CRZ violations in the recent past with the previous complaints dating back to 2019.Ricardo D’Souza, however, thanked Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, to whom he said he was very grateful as well as to “the IAS officers, ex staff, present staff, our neighbours, all my friends and family and the common people of Goa who all contributed to this great Brand called Tito’s.” The club emerged as a popular place in the early 70s as a beach shack when Goa’s tourism was still in its infancy and has grown over the years to become the most popular and well-known must-visit place for several tourists. The club, however, faced complaints of expanding in violation of CRZ regulations and was even issued a notice asking to explain alleged illegalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owner-sells-goa-s-famous-club-tito-s-alleges-harassment-by-authorities-101624938136465.html
29-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mercury levels in Delhi to soar today, no relief likely till Friday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi weather: Mercury to soar today, no relief likely till FridayMercury levels in the national capital are expected to be high on Tuesday, with the maximum temperature touching around 41 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Read moreCovid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS studyThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has claimed the lives of more people under the age of 50 as compared to those aged above 65, a new study conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi has shown. Read moreCan’t deny disabled quota in govt job promotions: SCThe Supreme Court on Monday ruled that a person with disabilities cannot be refused reservation in promotions in government jobs even if the person was not appointed under the disability quota, as it upheld a Kerala high court order granting the benefit to a woman last year. Read moreOxford Covid-19 vaccine developer Sarah Gilbert gets standing ovationSarah Gilbert, one of the British scientists behind the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, was given a standing ovation on Wimbledon's Centre Court. Wimbledon spectators on Monday paid tribute to Gilbert before play began in the annual tennis tournament. Read more'That's quite special': Kane Williamson talks about his relationship with India captain Virat KohliKane Williamson finally laid hands on a World Championship title. New Zealand, under the leadership of Williamson, defeated India by 8 wickets to win the inaugural ICC World Test Championship last week. Read moreTaapsee Pannu says makers apologised for dropping her from film: ‘They were hesitant to reveal real reasons’Taapsee Pannu opened up about being dropped from a film at the last minute, after she blocked her dates, and said that the makers later apologised to her. Read moreEsha Gupta in all-black bikini set soaks in vitamin D at the beach, see pic hereActor Esha Gupta is currently holidaying in Spain and having the time of her life. She has been posting several pictures from her dreamy vacation and allowing us all to live vicariously through them. Read moreHonda Prologue announced, will be company's 1st mass-market electric SUVHonda Prologue could catapult the Japanese carmaker into the electric future with Honda on Monday confirming the name of its first-ever mass-market all-electric SUV. Read moreNetflix adds useful feature allowing users to stream partially downloaded movies and TV episodes on AndroidNetflix on Monday announced a new feature for its subscribers that would allow them to stream content from movies and TV episodes that have not yet finished downloading on the app. Read moreThis doggo’s different personalities are making netizens melt. WatchJust like humans, doggos have different sides that they show while doing different activities. Some videos on the Internet have captured those sides and this clip featuring Maui the Golden Retriever is worth mentioning. Read moreWatch | Srinagar encounter: Top Lashkar commander killed, 2 CRPF personnel injured||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mercury-levels-in-delhi-to-soar-today-no-relief-likely-till-friday-and-all-the-latest-news-101624935622608.html
29-06-2021||India||Domestic violence survivors should have access to legal rights: Smriti Irani||Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani has said that protection officers must ensure that survivors of domestic violence have access to their legal rights. Irani was speaking on Monday at the virtual launch of a training programme for protection officers in responding to survivors of domestic violence.The project series, launched by the National Commission for Women (NCW) in collaboration with Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, will focus on the role of different stakeholders and service providers under the Act, including police, legal aid services, health system, service providers, shelter services, and one-stop centres, a statement from the government read.Also Read | Domestic violence complaints against women spiked in year of lockdown: NCW dataThe five-day training programme, to be held online, is the first in a series of workshops to be held for protection officers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and West Bengal. In her inaugural address, the minister lauded the initiative taken by NCW. She said protection officers bridge the gap between the administration and aggrieved women and it should be their priority to make it possible for the survivors to access legal rights available to them.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said protection officers aid the aggrieved in filing complaints, and act as facilitators between the survivor and the court while filing application before the magistrate to obtain necessary relief and also assist them in obtaining medical aid, legal aid, counselling, safe shelter, and other assistance.She added that the training will help participants gain an understanding of the legal system, the role of protection officers and interlinkage with other stakeholders for better implementation of the Act in the training sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-violence-survivors-should-have-access-to-legal-rights-smriti-irani-101624936935922.html
29-06-2021||India||Delhi weather: Mercury to soar today, no relief likely till Friday||Mercury levels in the national capital are expected to be high on Tuesday, with the maximum temperature touching around 41 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. IMD officials said that high humidity levels coupled with high surface winds on Tuesday and Wednesday will increase the temperature by a few notches. However, there is a forecast of thunderstorms and light, patchy rain in parts of Delhi on Friday. “There is no possibility of a relief till Friday,” a senior IMD official said.In a fresh forecast, IMD said that monsoon arrival in Delhi and the remaining parts of northwest India is on a “halt” as the conditions for advancement are currently not favourable. Also Read | Lightning deaths double since 2004: IMD dataMeanwhile, Central Delhi recorded just 8.5mm rainfall so far this monsoon and is the second-most rain-deficient district in the country, according to IMD data.In India, June 1 to September 30 is officially considered the monsoon season. Central Delhi received only 8.5mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2mm since June 1 -- a deficiency of 85%.The rain deficit in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir is the largest in the country. It has recorded 5mm precipitation against the normal of 70.6mm -- a shortfall of 93%.East Delhi received 19.2mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2mm -- a 65% shortfall. Northeast Delhi has gauged 20.7mm rainfall, 63% less than normal, and South Delhi got 22.2mm, 60% less than normal, the data showed.Southwest Delhi and New Delhi have recorded 29.6mm and 27.7mm rainfall so far -- 52% less than normal.North Delhi has received 37.7mm rainfall, 34% less than normal, and Northwest Delhi 29.8 mm rainfall, a 30% shortfall. So far, only West Delhi has received normal rainfall -- 53.5mm against the average of 55.5 mm.The weather department on Monday said Delhi and nearby areas in northwest India will have to wait for another week for their first monsoon showers.After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days ahead of schedule. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-weather-mercury-to-soar-today-no-relief-likely-till-friday-101624935315980.html
29-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccinated and tested positive. What should you do?||Experts say people, who have been vaccinated against Covid-19, can get infected with the virus but the chances are low. They say that Covid-19 vaccines have been highly effective in preventing the coronavirus disease, lead to lower hospitalisations and deaths. They also reduce the risk of spreading the virus.The risk of those vaccinated contracting Covid-19 is low but it can still happen, acording to experts. “Yes, this will happen, unusual but will happen,’’ Dr Sandro Galea, dean of the Boston University School of Public Health, told the New York Times.The government said 32,36,63,297 vaccine doses have been administered in India as of 7am on Monday—out of this, 17,21,268 doses were administered in the last 24 hours. India's vaccination drive began on January 16, 2021. Also read | Can fully vaccinated people get Covid-19 again? Experts weigh inInfected? What should you do?The chances of people getting Covid-19 after being vaccinated are rare—it is called a breakthrough infection—and might have mild symptoms or no symptoms at all. Experts say a fully vaccinated person who experiences symptoms consistent with Covid-19 should isolate themselves from others for 10 days.Also read | World's 1st post-pandemic cruise to set sail with 99% passengers vaccinatedSo, the guidelines are the same as they are for someone who is not vaccinated and test positive. Contacts of such people have to be traced and they have to wear a mask and practice social distancing if they are going out.What about others at home?The infected person should stay in a separate or area and use a separate bathroom, if available, and also try to maintain a six-feet distance. An asymptomatic infected person can pass the virus to someone who is unvaccinated, including children under the age of 12 or people who cannot get a vaccine because of immune-related or other health issues.Also read | As Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully vaccinated to keep masks onThey should frequently disinfect surfaces they touch in the house and try to turn on fans and open doors and windows. They should also avoid sharing household items such as utensils, cups and towels for the quarantine period.How serious are breakthrough symptoms?Dr Eric Cioe-Peña, a New York-based physician, said an infected person who had been vaccinated might have mild symptoms or no symptoms at all. “In the post-vaccine era, testing Covid-positive is a lot less scary,” Dr Cioe-Peña told the New York Times. Also read | States will get 120 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for JulyDr Sunil Sood, a paediatric infectious disease specialist at South Shore University Hospital in Bay Shore in New York, said that the most serious symptoms include nasal congestion and mild body aches. “It would be the mildest of the end of the spectrum of Covid-19. It may be just a mild common cold,” he said.However, doctors pointed out that this could be different for those vaccinated individuals, who have weak immune systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccinated-and-tested-positive-what-should-you-do-101624934288345.html
29-06-2021||India||Covid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS study||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has claimed the lives of more people under the age of 50 as compared to those aged above 65, news agency ANI reported on Monday, citing a new study conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. The study was authored by AIIMS director Dr. Randeep Guleria, chief of the AIIMS trauma center Dr. Rakesh Malhotra and several others. The assessment, published in the Indian Journal of Critical Care Medicine, primarily dealt with the deaths of Covid-19 adult patients between the period of April 4 to July 24 last year.Also Read | Third Covid wave likely to be delayed, may hit by Dec: Govt body chiefThe AIIMS study on Covid-19 deaths was conducted to find out the causes of mortality in patients admitted to dedicated Covid-19 centers in India, as well as describe the clinical epidemiological feature.About 654 adult patients were admitted to the ICU during the study period. Of this, 247 died, recording a mortality rate of about 37.7%. The adult patients were further divided into several age groups to make the study smoother -- 18 to 50, 51 to 65, and above 65. The study shows 42.1% of the deaths were from the age group 18-50, 34.8% from 51-65, and 23.1% above 65.Also Read | When can kids go back to school?: AIIMS director has an answerCommon aspects in most of these Covid-19 patients include hypertension, diabetes, and chronic kidney diseases. They also suffered from fever cough and shortness of breath. The data of all the deceased patients were collected in their electronic medic report, patients' daily progress charts, as well as nursing notes in the ICU.In different studies, ICU mortality among Covid-19 patients varies between 8.0% to 66.7%. Several other countries, such as the US, Spain, and Italy have also reported similar mortality rates.Meanwhile, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria has said vaccination is the way out of the coronavirus pandemic as he gave a timeline for the availability of jabs for children against Covid-19. Guleria said that making the Covid-19 vaccine available for children will be a milestone achievement and pave the way for the reopening of schools and resumption of outdoor activities for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-killed-more-people-under-50-than-any-other-age-group-aiims-study-101624930134576.html
29-06-2021||India||Can’t deny disabled quota in govt job promotions: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that a person with disabilities cannot be refused reservation in promotions in government jobs even if the person was not appointed under the disability quota, as it upheld a Kerala high court order granting the benefit to a woman last year.The court was hearing an appeal filed by the Kerala government challenging the reservation in promotion benefits granted to a female staff in the state’s police department by the high court in March last year.The state claimed that the beneficiary, Leesamma Joseph, had entered the state services as a typist in 1996 by way of compassionate appointment following the death of her brother during service. At the time of joining, Joseph suffered from Post-Polio Residual Paralysis (L) Lower Limb and her permanent disability was assessed at 55 percent. However, since it was a case of compassionate appointment, she was hired under the general category and not as a disabled under the existing Persons with Disabilities Act 1995.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy said: “The 1995 Act does not make distinction between a person who may have entered service on account of disability and a person who may have acquired disability after having entered the service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-disabled-quota-in-govt-job-promotions-sc-101624930043887.html
29-06-2021||India||Twitter names new grievance officer for India||Twitter has appointed its California-based global legal policy director Jeremy Kessel as the new grievance officer for India in an attempt to fulfill the criteria under the new Information Technology Rules, 2021. The rules, however, call for an Indian resident for the role.The appointment comes a day after the micro-blogging platform’s interim officer, Dharmendra Chatur, who was recently appointed, stepped down from the post.Twitter’s Help Centre page on Monday showed Kessel as the grievance officer for India instead of Chatur.Earlier, Google had also shared the details of Joe Grier, a resident of California, for any “summons or notices in civil proceedings against Google LLC in India”.A Google spokesperson, however, said that under the requirement of the new rules, it has appointed three persons in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-names-new-grievance-officer-for-india-101624929990873.html
29-06-2021||India||PC Mahalanobis: Know about the father of Indian statistics||Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, considered the father of modern statistics in India, founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), shaped the Planning Commission and pioneered methodologies for large-scale surveys. Every year June 29 is observed as National Statistics Day in our country to create public awareness about the importance of statistics in socio-economic planning and policy formulation.Born to Probodh Chandra Mahalanobis and Nirodbashini Devi on June 29, 1893, Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis was the eldest of six children—two sons and four daughters. He died on June 28, 1972, a day before his 79th birthday.EducationMahalanobis studied at the Brahmo Boys’ School, which was founded by his grandfather Guru Charan Mahalanobis in 1904 and joined the Presidency College to study physics. He also attended the King’s College in Cambridge, where he met mathematical genius--Srinivasa Ramanujan.CareerDuring his initial working days, Mahalanobis joined the Cavendish Laboratory with physicist CTR Wilson. Later, Mahalanobis returned to India and started teaching physics at the Presidency College in 1922. He remained a teacher there for over three decades and held the post of meteorologist at the Alipore Observatory in Calcutta, now Kolkata, from 1922 to 1926.Mahalanobis formed a group that was interested in statistics, that later expanded and eventually, the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) was founded in 1932. In the next year, he launched Sankhya: The Indian Journal Of Statistics.He also established the National Sample Survey in 1950 and set up the Central Statistical Organisation to coordinate statistical activities. He became a member of the Planning Commission in 1955 and continued till 1967.ContributionsMahalanobis was instrumental in formulating India’s second five-year plan (1956-1961), which laid the blueprint for industrialisation and development in India.One of his most remarkable achievements was when Mahalanobis devised a measure of comparison between two data sets, now popularly called "Mahalanobis distance". The study is widely used in the field of cluster analysis and classification.He also introduced innovative techniques to devise a statistical method called fractile graphical analysis used to compare socio-economic conditions of varied groups. He analysed data regarding the floods in Odisha and published his findings in 1926. This analysis later formed the basis for the construction of the Hirakud dam on the Mahanadi River.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pc-mahalanobis-know-about-the-father-of-indian-statistics-101624926036044.html
29-06-2021||India||Leaders pay tributes to former PM PV Narasimha Rao||Leaders across political spectrum paid respect to former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao on his 100th birth anniversary. Rao, widely considered as a key pillar of India’s economic reforms, held the top executive office from 1991 to 1996. He died in December 2004.But the absence of any personal tribute from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sparked controversy as Rao’s grandson NV Subhash accused the Congress leadership of regional bias. “Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, & other Congress leaders didn’t pay tributes to Late PV Narasimha Rao because he was from south India & not from Gandhi family. Whereas, PM Narendra Modi sent a letter & paid floral tribute to him,” Subhash, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, said.“Tributes to former PM Shri PV Narasimha Rao Ji on his 100th birth anniversary. India remembers his extensive contributions to national development. He was blessed with remarkable knowledge and intellect,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.The Congress tweeted, “We pay our tributes to former Prime Minister, Shri P V Narasimha Rao. He was a visionary leader who oversaw major economic transformations in the Indian economy and the dismantling of the License Raj. His contributions to the nation will always be remembered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-pay-tributes-to-former-pm-pv-narasimha-rao-101624928781442.html
29-06-2021||India||Jammu: Probe points to LeT link to drone strike||Initial investigations conducted by security agencies and the Jammu & Kashmir Police have revealed the role of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the drone strike at a Jammu air force station early on Sunday.The drone attack is linked with the recovery of a 6kg improvised explosive device (IED) by the Jammu police from an operative of LeT, leading to the detention of at least three terror suspects by the J&K Police, people aware of the matter said.While the security agencies and J&K Police are tight-lipped about the drone attack, the people quoted above indicated the Pakistan-based terror group planned to target the air traffic control (ATC) tower at the facility with one drone and the other was aiming at either a parked Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter or the radar.“The two IEDs weighing around 5-6kg with RDX as the main explosive charge were dropped at a distance of 50 yards from each other. One charge was some 40 yards from the ATC, while the other was around the same distance from the parked helicopter. The drop was made through a latitude-longitude device and that they missed the targets could be due to faulty execution or high wind factor,” a senior security official said on condition of anonymity.According to security agencies and the police, the drones flew from across the border, 14.5km away from the Jammu airport, and returned after the hit. They were suspected to have been flying at a height of 1.2km and would have been powered by long-range batteries.There has been a rise in drone activity in the region, with security experts saying that Pakistan-based terrorists were using the devices to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money in Jammu & Kashmir to fuel terrorism. Forensic analysis of a drone shot down by the army in the Hiranagar sector last year showed that it was a locally assembled hexacopter. The components used were readily available in hobby shops, the analysis, carried out by the Delhi-based Drone Federation of India (DFI), said.The flight controller of the 24kg drone was CubeBlack, manufactured in Hong Kong. It also said that no planned mission was set in the drone and it was manually controlled using a ground control system. The analysis showed that the drone operator disabled all modes of data extraction. DFI indicated that the estimated radius for take-off was 10km, beyond visual line of sight.It was estimated to have been in the air for 35 minutes, said DFI, adding that the maximum possible range was 30km.The latest drone strike has raised a red flag in the Jammu sector for 14 drone sorties have been made by Pakistani terror groups, a majority of them by LeT and two by Jaish-e-Mohammed. “Our estimate is that six sorties with weapon payloads were made in Samba sector, three to four in Hiranagar sector, two in Nowshera-Rajouri sector, and another two in Arnia sector. We have found that the drones are assembled with different Chinese parts used of different makes for deniability. The dropped weapons were meant for Lashkar and Jaish operatives in the Valley with the specific design to disturb peace in Kashmir,” said a top security official.While the Indian security forces have been testing an anti-drone jammer technology at the border with Pakistan, the communications between Indian agencies getting jammed in the process has proven to be a collateral damage, the official said. However, in the era of swarm drones, the Indian security forces are alive to the new threat posed by Pakistani terror groups and are expected to take counter-measures, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-probe-points-to-let-link-to-drone-strike-101624927979381.html
29-06-2021||India||Top Lashkar commander Nadeem Abrar shot down by J&K police in Srinagar encounter||A Pakistani terrorist and top commander of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Nadeem Abrar, have both been shot down in an encounter with security forces on Tuesday morning, the Kashmir zone police informed, adding that the gunfight took place at Malhoora Parimpora in Srinagar. Several incriminating materials, including firearms and ammunition, have been recovered from the site, the cops said."A Pakistani terrorist and top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Abrar has been killed in the encounter with security forces at Malhoora Parimpora in Srinagar," IGP Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar confirmed in a tweet.#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 01 Pakistani #terrorist & top commander LeT Abrar killed. #Incriminating materials alongwith arms & ammunition recovered. #Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/6PHd0F9XaeAbrar, who had been involved in several recent attacks on security forces and civilians in Kashmir, was arrested last evening in what the cops called a "big success". Later, when the militant was leading the security forces to his hideout at the Malhoora Parimpora area of Srinagar, an accomplice of his shot at the group, injuring three personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).The officials said a deputy superintendent of the CRPF and a constable of the paramilitary force were injured in the gunfight. This triggered an encounter between the security forces and the terrorists, near the end of which LeT commander Abrar was killed, the cops said.IGP Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar had said on Monday that LeT commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat alias Khalid was involved in "several killings" and that his arrest was a "big success" for the police forces. Bhat was acting as the commander of Lashkar in central Kashmir and was active since 2018, the police added.Also Read | The Pulwama investigation and its lessons for India on countering terrorThe LeT commander was earlier linked to the killing of former special police officer Fayaz Ahmed, his wife, and his daughter at their home in the Tral area of the Pulwama district. IGP Kumar, who visited Ahmed's bereaved family, had previously said the unidentified terrorists involved in the attack could have belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammed.The J&K police said that LeT commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat was also involved in the attack on CRPF at Lawaypora in March. In the attack, three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans were killed and the rifle was also snatched by the terrorists. The rifle was recovered from the possession of a terrorist earlier this month after three terrorists were killed during an encounter in Sopore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-lashkar-commander-nadeem-abrar-shot-down-by-j-k-police-in-srinagar-encounter-101624926385878.html
29-06-2021||India||How safe are Covid-19 vaccines for pregnant women? Govt issues fresh guidelines||The Union health ministry has issued fresh guidelines for administering the Covid-19 vaccine to pregnant women and said that pregnancy does not increase the risk of infection. "Most pregnant women will be asymptomatic or have a mild disease, but their health may deteriorate rapidly and that might affect the foetus too. It is important that they take all precautions to protect themselves from acquiring Covid-19, including taking vaccination against Covid-19. It is therefore advised that a pregnant woman should take Covid-19 vaccines," the health ministry said in a statement on Monday.Safety of Covid-19 vaccines for pregnant womenThe ministry said that Covid-19 vaccines available are safe and vaccination protects pregnant women against Covid-19 illness or disease. Like any medicine, a vaccine may have side effects which are normally mild. After getting the vaccine injection, she can get a mild fever, pain at the injection site or feel unwell for 1-3 days. The long-term adverse effects and safety of the vaccine for foetus and child is not established yet. Very rarely (one in 100,000-500,000), pregnant women may experience some of the following symptoms within 20 days after getting the Covid-19 vaccination which may require immediate attention, the ministry stated.Recovery rate of Covid-19 positive mothersThe ministry said that if a pregnant woman gets infected with the virus, 90 per cent of them recover without any need for hospitalisation, while rapid deterioration in health may occur in a few."Symptomatic pregnant women appear to be at an increased risk of severe disease and death. In case of severe disease, like all other patients, pregnant women shall also need hospitalization. Pregnant women with underlying medical conditions e.g, high blood pressure, obesity, age over 35 years are at a higher risk of severe illness due to Covid-19," it further stated.Health of newborns of Covid-19 positive mothersTalking about the apprehensions regarding the baby's health, the ministry informed that more than 95 per cent of newborns of Covid-19 positive mothers have been in good condition at birth. In some cases, Covid-19 infections in pregnancy may increase the possibility of a premature delivery, the baby's weight might be less than 2.5kg and in rare situations and might die before birth, it noted.Who are at higher risks of developing complications after Covid-19?"Women older than 35 years of age, obese women, having a pre-existing illness such as diabetes or high blood pressure, having a history of clotting in the limbs are at a higher risk of developing complications after Covid-19 infection. In case a woman has been infected with Covid-19 during the current pregnancy, then she should be vaccinated soon after the delivery," the ministry said.Registration on Co-Win portal/on-site vaccination centreThe Union health ministry advised all pregnant women to register themselves on the Co-WIN portal or get themselves registered on-site at the Covid-19 vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-safe-are-covid-19-vaccines-for-pregnant-women-govt-issues-fresh-guidelines-101624923629327.html
29-06-2021||India||National Statistics Day 2021: Know significance, history and theme||National Statistics Day is celebrated on June 29 on the birth anniversary of late Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis. Often referred to as the 'father of Indian statistics', Mahalanobis, was born on June 29, 1893, in Calcutta (now Kolkata), West Bengal.PC Mahalanobis is best remembered for the Mahalanobis distance, a statistical measure and for being one of the members of the first Planning Commission of India. The formula is used to find the distance between a point and a distribution, based on measurements in multiple dimensions. It is widely used in the field of cluster analysis and classification.He founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) and contributed to the design of large-scale sample surveys. For his contributions, Mahalanobis has been considered the father of modern statistics in India.The government, in a note on National Statistics Day celebrations said, "This year, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the main event of the Statistics Day, 2021 is being organized through Video Conferencing/ Webcasting at NITI Aayog, New Delhi."Significance of National Statistics DayJune 29 has been designated as one of the special days to be celebrated at the national level in recognition of Mahalonobis’ invaluable contribution in establishing the National Statistical System, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation said in a release.Importance of statisticsStatistics helps in forming economic plans and policies. It presents facts in a precise and definitive form. Statistics plays a vital role in the health field and helps conduct social surveys. It is also an essential part of Mathematics.2021 National Statistics Day ThemeEnd Hunger, Achieve Food Security and Improved Nutrition and Promote Sustainable Agriculture (Sustainable Developent Goal or SDG 2 of the UN) is the theme of this year's National Statistics Day. Goal 2 seeks "sustainable solutions to end hunger in all its forms by 2030 and to achieve food security."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-statistics-day-2021-know-significance-history-and-theme-101624922962479.html
29-06-2021||India||Number theory: Fuel prices continue to rise, relief unlikely soon||Petrol and diesel prices continue to rise in India, and Chennai is likely to become the second metropolitan city where petrol prices will cross the psychological barrier of ₹100 per litre soon. With no signals from the Union government and the states that they will cut taxes on fuel, and a continuous rise in international petroleum prices, relief on this front is unlikely in the near future. Here are five charts that describe the situation.A significant increase in prices compared to last yearWith the exception of diesel prices in Delhi, petrol-diesel prices have increased by at least 20% in the past year. The period from May 4 onwards has seen a particularly sharp spike in fuel prices after they did not increase for 65 days after February 27 (when campaigning was going on for the latest round of assembly elections).Petrol selling at ₹100 or higher in 332 districtsBecause fuel prices are a function of state taxes and freight charges, they vary across the country. An HT analysis of petrol-diesel price data from the Indian Oil website shows that petrol was selling at ₹100 or more per litre on June 28 in 16,885 out of the 32,557 locations for which data is available. The modal price was ₹100 or more per litre in 332 out of 730 districts. As of now, there are 13 states and Union Territories where petrol is selling at ₹100 per litre or more (in terms of average of modal price across districts). This was true only for Madhya Pradesh on May 12, a week after petrol prices started increasing. The gap between the lowest ( ₹82.5 per litre in Andaman and Nicobar Islands) and highest ( ₹107.7 in Madhya Pradesh) prices of petrol in the country was ₹25.1 per litre on June 28. This gap was ₹23.7 per litre on May 12.Taxes are the major reason for high petrol-diesel pricesOf the ₹96.66 per litre consumers were paying for petrol on June 16, 2021 (the latest available data in terms of split) in Delhi, ₹41.45 was the base price plus freight charges plus dealer commission; ₹32.9, the union excise duty; and ₹22.31 was on account of state value added taxes. For diesel, the non-tax component accounted for ₹42.82 of the retail price of ₹87.41 on June 16 in Delhi.Meanwhile, crude prices continue to riseWhile taxes are the major factor behind high fuel prices, a continuous rise in crude prices has been pushing them even higher. The price of India’s crude oil basket (COB) fell sharply when the pandemic first hit. It was $65.5 per barrel in December 2019 and fell to reach $19.9 in April 2020. Prices started increasing thereafter, first gradually and then at a much faster rate. COB reached $49.8 by December 2020. By May 2021, the COB price was $67 per barrel. While the monthly average price for June 2021 has not been released yet, the COB price was $74.18 per barrel on June 25, according to data from the ministry of petroleum.Government’s tax windfall will rise as consumption increases due to easing of restrictionsThe imposition of lockdown and related mobility restrictions led to a fall in consumption of petrol and diesel during the first lockdown. Consumption also fell, although marginally, when restrictions were re-imposed during the second wave of infections. With restrictions being eased and mobility restored, the consumption of petrol and diesel is likely to increase once again. This means higher taxes for the government and a higher inflation burden on people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-fuel-prices-continue-to-rise-relief-unlikely-soon-101624920513336.html
29-06-2021||India||Odisha aims to inoculate 100% adults in Bhubaneswar by August end||Bhubaneswar will complete vaccination of all adult residents by the end of August, a senior Odisha health official said on Monday.A health department official said 57% of the state capital’s 8.42 lakh adults have received both doses. Of the remaining people, 98% have received their first dose of Covaxin.In contrast, Bengaluru, which tops the list of cities where the largest proportion of people have received the first vaccine dose, has covered 29% of its adult population, followed by Chennai (25%), Mumbai (18%), Delhi, and Hyderabad (16% each). However, at 8%, it is Chennai that has the highest number of fully vaccinated people than other metros such as Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Delhi, according to CoWIN data.Bhubaneswar municipal area is the only place in Odisha where Covaxin vaccine is being administered; the rest of the state is getting Covishield.Additional chief secretary of health PK Mohapatra said at least 30,000 doses are being planned everyday except on gazetted holidays to cover the 3,64,464 beneficiaries awaiting their second dose and 18,341 who have not been vaccinated at all.“We have more than 4.13 lakh doses of Covaxin with us and would be able to vaccinate everyone (in Bhubaneswar) by the end of August,” said Mohapatra.Since the gap between the first dose of Covaxin and the second dose is around 4-6 weeks. Mohapatra said if they are able to administer the first dose of Covaxin latest by mid-July, it would be possible to ensure that the entire population is vaccinated by end of August.The vaccination coverage drive in Bhubaneswar picked up speed earlier this month when the municipal corporation started several community-based vaccination plans. The BMC also started Covid-19 testing before administering vaccines at mobile camps to prevent giving jabs to people who test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-aims-to-inoculate-100-adults-in-bhubaneswar-by-august-end-101624908614684.html
29-06-2021||India||Reconsider changing Kannada names of villages in Kasargod: BSY to Vijayan||Bengaluru Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday wrote to his Kerala counterpart, Pinarayi Vijayan, to reconsider the decision to rename some villages in Kasargod and Manjeshwar.“The Kannada speaking areas of Kasargod district, in which Manjeshwara and Kasargod are situated are famous for their traditional culture and historical background. Names of the villages in Kasargod and Manjeshwara are very close to the emotions of people and carry immense sentimental value to them from time immemorial,” Yediyurappa said in his letter.He added that it was “very astonishing” to note that there were attempts by local bodies to change names of some villages without giving any opportunity to the residents of these areas to express their views.He said that the change in names would affect the feelings of the people. “This would also destroy Kannada and Tulu culture, which is in existence for very long,” the letter added.The letter comes a day after former chief minister and JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy, in a series of tweets, asked Vijayan not to change the names of these villages. Yediyurappa said that the change in the names of these villages is likely affect the harmony, comity and brotherhood among the population there.Karnataka’s forest and Kannada and culture minister Aravind Limbavali wrote to the chief minister regarding Kerala government’s move to change names of border villages in the state from Kannada to Malayalam.He said the Kerala government is implementing its decision to change the Kannada names of villages in Kasargod and Manjeshwar taluks, which border Karnataka, into Malayalam.“Kannada speaking people are in high number in these taluks. They have been speaking Kannada and also following Kannada culture for several centuries. The Kannada name of every village reflects the culture of the local residents. The people too are emotionally attached to these names,” the minister said in the letter.The government should have at least discussed the matter with the local residents and taken their opinion before making the move. The present decision, therefore, is totally unilateral, Limbavali said.“We must strongly oppose the move of the Kerala government as a move to protect Kannada culture. Since the issue is about emotions of the people and also a sensitive one,” he said and requested Yediyurappa to write to his Kerala counterpart and urge him to withdraw the decision to rename the villages into Malayalam.Kasargod in Kerala has a large Kannada speaking population and has deep ties to the coastal belt of Karnataka.Kumaraswamy on Monday wrote a letter to Vijayan asking the latter to reconsider his decision to rename these villages which would retain the Kannada meaning but in Malayalam.“If this is indeed correct, may I sincerely request you to halt the process in the name of the linguistic harmony and cultural co-existence. Kasargod, although a part of Kerala, has had a seamless affinity with Karnataka for decades, and people in the area have always been accommodative of each other’s linguistic heritage. It would be wonderful to continue this tradition. There is an argument that the name change may not affect the meaning, but to allow the village names to retain the original Kannada flavour would be greatly appreciated,” Kumaraswamy wrote in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reconsider-changing-kannada-names-of-villages-in-kasargod-bsy-to-vijayan-101624906754436.html
29-06-2021||India||3 FIRs registered over clashes between CPM-BJP activists in Tripura||Agartala: More than two dozen people including a Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPM) legislator and four security personnel have sustained injuries in scattered clashes between opposition CPM and ruling BJP at two places of Tripura since Sunday. Three cases have been registered in connection with the clashes.Police said that the first clash occurred at Rajnagar area in Belonia subdivision of South District, over 90 km from Agartala on Sunday when the CPM was protesting against price hike of petroleum products.The clash left 20 people injured including veteran CPM legislator Sudhan Das, his two personal security guards, one police official and a state trooper and 13 people from BJP including the party’s local mandal president Ranjit Sarkar. The CPM and the BJP organised rallies in Rajnagar to protest the violence on Monday. “We got a complaint from BJP on Monday...We have also taken a suo motto in this regard. Our investigation is in process”, said Belonia sub divisional police officer Soumya Debbarma. The CPM, in a press release, demanded the state government take action against the culprits who provoked the clashes.“Our mandal president got injured along with some party activists in the clash. We condemn the incident and are hopeful that police will take proper action in the case”, said one local BJP leader. The second incident took place at Dhaleswar in Agartala on Monday where some CPM party activists were allegedly attacked by local BJP activists. A case was registered at East Agartala Police Station.CPM state secretary Goutam Das claimed 78 party activists were injured in the attack by BJP activists. “One of our party offices was also attacked and its boundary wall was vandalised by them,” he said.BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty taunted the CPM, saying the CPM appeared to have become “the complaint party of India after losing power” and was trying to blame the BJP to hide the internal tussle within the CPM.Congress vice president Tapash Dey criticised the ruling BJP regime for the law and order situation before throwing a dart at the opposition CPM too. “We don’t support violence, but we must say that law and order was also not good when CPM was in power. Both the parties are two sides of the same coin,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-firs-registered-over-clashes-between-cpm-bjp-activists-in-tripura-101624906574329.html
29-06-2021||India||Centre to take up Covaxin supply issues with Biotech||The Union ministry of health and family welfare is looking into delays in Covaxin supply timelines, and has discussed this with the vaccine’s manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, people familiar with the matter said, although it is still not clear whether the Hyderabad-based company will meet the target of 400 million doses it is expected to deliver between August and December, based on government’s projected availability of vaccines.“As of now, they (Bharat Biotech) will fulfil their supply obligations. The health secretary has personally reviewed the matter,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.Bharat Biotech did not respond to HT’s queries on the matter, but in a statement in May it said, “Production scale up of vaccines is a step-by-step process, involving several regulatory standard operating procedures of good manufacturing practices. There is a four month lag time for Covaxin to translate into actual vaccination.”Also Read| Hopefully 'soon': Niti Aayog's VK Paul on WHO emergency approval for CovaxinThe company supplied 28 million doses to the Centre till June 12, a fraction of the total purchase order of 80 million, according to Centre’s affidavit in the Supreme Court on June 26.According to the affidavit against the March 12 purchase order of 20 million doses, 1.83 million (1,836,840) vaccine doses are still pending; and supplies are yet to commence against a May 5 order for 50 million doses, to be delivered between May and July.It is clear from the affidavit, and the government’s own statements from April, that Covaxin supplies have been well below estimates, likely because of the complex manufacturing process.The ministry of science and technology, in a statement issued in April on augmentation of manufacturing capacity for Covaxin, said, “The current production capacity of indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly 6-7 fold by July-August 2021 i.e. increasing the production from 1 crore (10 million) vaccine doses in April 2021 to 6-7 crore (60-70 million) vaccine dose/month in July-August. It is expected to reach nearly 10 crore (100 million) doses per month by September 2021.”Also Read| States will get 120 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for JulyA senior company executive recently said that Bharat Biotech will continue to produce 25 million doses of its Covaxin vaccine till at least August this year, “but hopes to be producing 60-70 million doses by the end of the year”. “The current production capacity is 25 million doses per month and this is likely to be maintained till August-September this year, after which more supplies will happen. In next two month we will be starting production in two of our facilities in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, and Bengaluru, Karnataka. These facilities are being repurposed and the production is likely to start in next two months,” said a top company executive told HT.“We actually see annualised production, and it is going to reach 800 million mark by the end of this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-take-up-covaxin-supply-issues-with-biotech-101624906093680.html
29-06-2021||India||Chirag must take key decision on ideological commitment: Tejashwi Yadav||The leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav spoke to Arun Kumar about the political situation in Bihar, his comment that the Nitish Kumar government may not last beyond a few months, and the possibility of an alliance with Chirag Paswan.Edited excerpts:You recently said that the Nitish Kumar govt will fall in 2-3 months. How do you back this claim?My statement does not come out of blue, and in fact, it’s genesis lies in the nature of the mandate of the last assembly elections. The leader of a party which was reduced to 40-odd seats occupied the chief minister’s chair, defying the message inherent in the people’s will. The contradictions of the ruling coalition are being played out in the open, and are there for everyone to see. Look at the absolute lack of communication across political parties in this alliance, and you will realise that their days are numbered.But what makes you believe that this government will fall?It is a question of how much longer, and to what extent, the CM allows his power to be diminished. At some time, the business of governance has to be taken seriously. It’s been a little over six months and, trust me, when I say this, Bihar is facing a serious all-round crisis. The government has shown no indication of how it’ll get up to the task. There’s not even a signal of intent whether it is the pandemic or floods or issues of employment as well as everyday deterioration in law and order.Do you have the numbers to provide an alternative? Who you are banking on?We have played the role of a very responsible and active Opposition, and we have done so from a position of confidence and power that we derive from those who have reposed their trust in us. In terms of numbers, we don’t need a lot, as you already know looking at the thin line between peoples’ will and the idea of “managed majority”.There’s is often talk of a likely split in the Congress or the RJD. How do you see this?This is the SOP of Nitishji’s propaganda whenever he is on a shaky wicket. I see such talk as not more than a juicy gossip emanating out of 1, Anne Marg to cover up for his abysmal performance and absolute failure. What I can say though that we are a democratic party, and quite well-structured in terms of organisation. There are plenty of forums within the party to voice concerns and debate the way forward.Will RJD throw its weight behind Akhilesh Yadav in UP, as it did in behind the TMC in West Bengal, or contest the polls itself?We are not a power-hungry party or an election machine. Our ties and support are based on pro-people, progressive, and development-oriented politics. We will extend support to whoever is close to our ideals of social justice inclusive development paradigm as in the position to defeat the Fascist agenda of BJP.How realistic is the chance of Tejashwi-Chirag tie up?Look I have said it quite a number of times recently that our families have a long-standing relationship that continued even when Chirag ji and the LJP became part of BJP-led NDA. However, Chirag ji has to take crucial decision with regard to ideological commitment. He will have to rework his politics in the light of what is being brazenly done to the progressive politics of social justice where Late Ramvilas ji remained a crusader with my father for decades. To put it succinctly, it is up to him to cut through the contradictions and make up his mind.What role will RJD have in a likely Opposition alliance, which is said to be working on a plan without Congress?RJD and Laluji have played a historical role in bringing progressive parties together and forging a shared agenda. We will not deviate from the path we have always followed. I believe in view of the massive challenges ahead where ordinary citizens are feeling extremely helpless across India, any idea of whatsoever front shall not be feasible without the Congress. Hence the priority should be to broadening the very base of an alternative rather than reducing its size.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-must-take-key-decision-on-ideological-commitment-tejashwi-yadav-101624906034417.html
29-06-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up environment ministry over ‘diluting green standards’||The Supreme Court on Monday remarked that the ministry of environment should also act like a “ministry for environment”, bemoaning that environmental standards have been constantly diluted in the recent past.“You must show it is a ministry for environment and not just ‘of environment’. You (ministry) have been constantly diluting the environmental standards. That’s all that has been happening,” commented a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud while hearing an appeal by the central government against an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2019.NGT had found faults with the ministry’s 2017 notification by which new norms for effluent discharge by sewage treatment plants (STPs) in waterbodies were laid down. It held that the new notification would lead to deterioration of the water quality and prescribed stricter standards based on the recommendations of an expert committee.While the expert committee had suggested a timeframe of seven years for existing STPs to switch to higher sewage treatment criteria, the tribunal directed that the existing STPs should apply these norms “without any delay”. The NGT had further held that standards recommended for mega and metropolitan cities will also apply to the rest of the country.The Union government challenged this order before the Supreme Court and asked for an immediate stay on the NGT judgment too.When the matter was taken up by the court on Monday, the bench, which also included justices R Subhas Reddy and S Ravindra Bhat, questioned the imminent need for a stay of the tribunal’s judgment.“What is the stay that you are seeking for? Should there be greater pollution? What is the harm in keeping the pollution low? Tribunal’s order has only ensured there is lesser pollution going into the water,” the bench asked additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the Centre.Bhati, on her part, tried to show that the NGT did not even accept the recommendations of its own committee while directing that STPs should immediately upgrade and conform to the stricter standards on effluent discharge. She pointed out that upgradation was a time-taking exercise and that the 2017 notification was issued by the ministry after due deliberation.“No. We will not stay the order. You should also protect the environment,” retorted the bench, saying it was only issuing notices to the petitioners before the NGT and the central pollution control board at this juncture.The court also tagged the Centre’s appeal with the appeal filed by the municipal corporation of greater Mumbai against the same order of the NGT.Some of the recent alterations by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to environmental norms have been criticised by environmentalists while some of them have been challenged in court.In March, the Supreme Court had agreed to scrutinise the Centre’s 2013 notification that exempted environmental clearance for road expansion projects involving national highways which are less than 100 kilometres long. It also sought to know why MoEFCC was yet to appoint an independent regulator to grant environmental clearances despite the court’s directives in 2011 and 2014. The issue had come up when the court heard a plea against a West Bengal government’s decision to construct five rail overbridges at the cost of chopping 356 trees.Similarly, hearing the Char Dham road-widening case, the top court in September 2020 directed that the width of the road be 5.5 metres, based on the 2018 notification issued by the ministry of road transport and highways. Later, the ministry amended its notification, allowing the road width to be 10 metres and asked for a review of the previous order of the court. The review plea is still pending.In 2018, the environment ministry amended the coastal zone rules to give relief to projects that started in the fragile coastal areas without required clearances. The 2011 coastal regulation zone (CRZ) notification was amended in March 2018, allowing retroactive approvals in some cases where the construction had commenced before the date of this notification without the requisite CRZ clearance.In a judgment in April 2020, the Supreme Court had held that the concept of ‘ex post facto’ environmental clearance (EC) was against the fundamental principles of environmental jurisprudence. It said that allowing industrial projects to operate without EC would prove detrimental to the environment and lead to irreparable degradation. Significantly, this verdict had come at a time when the draft of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020, to replace the EIA notification 2006, was floated. The new law proposed a lifeline for industrial projects that start operating without a valid EC. It is yet to be notified.“The issue of dilution of environmental norms is very serious, especially when the EIA draft notification of 2020 proposes to pave way for further relaxations. Development and environment have to go hand-in-hand as enshrined under the principle of sustainable development. But when it comes to primacy, we must choose the environment, for the present and for the intergenerational ecological justice. Future generations possess a legal right to a clean and healthy environment,” said lawyer Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who has been associated with several environment-related cases before the NGT and the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-pulls-up-environment-ministry-over-diluting-green-standards-101624906033716.html
29-06-2021||India||Airbases fortified as CDS Rawat warns of next-gen attacks||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has strengthened defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks, a day after small drones were used to target the Jammu air force station, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.Sunday’s attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility.“Counter-measures have been put in place to pre-empt such drone attacks on forward bases. Snipers and jammers are in place, among other measures. Bases are on alert,” said one of the officials cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity.The drone attack is a watershed in asymmetric warfare and underlines the need for the armed forces to build capabilities to deter, detect and neutralise such aerial threats.While the IAF is now certain that drones were used for the Jammu attack, it is still not clear as to how many drones were used, where they came from or which side they flew away after dropping the two improvised explosive devices, said a second official.The attack on the Jammu air force station has lent fresh urgency to deploying anti-drone technology to tackle threats from small drones, he added. Drone activity was reported over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area in the Jammu region on Sunday night.“Immediately, high alert was sounded, and quick reaction teams engaged them with firing. Both drones flew away. A major threat thwarted by the alertness and proactive approach of troops,” said a government spokesperson in Jammu.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday told a TV channel that the three services, the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest.He said DRDO has already achieved some success and even demonstrated its anti-drone technology. DRDO has developed anti-drone technology to disable or shoot down hostile drones. Its anti-drone system has a range of two to three kilometres with radar capability to pick up the drone and then use frequencies to jam the unmanned aerial vehicle.A top government official said DRDO has transferred the technology for the production of its anti-drone system to Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL). “ DRDO has written to the three services and informed them that the anti-drone system is available,” he said.DRDO is also ready to transfer technology to private industry to produce the anti-drone system, he added.“We have to start preparing for future generation warfare. Drones, swarms and other such elements will change the nature and character of warfare. We are quite concerned about drones being used in this domain and therefore we have been continuously working on anti-drone technology,” Rawat told CNN-News18.He said that while the three services were working together on anti-drone technology, a call was taken that the IAF should become the lead agency for coordinating all efforts on how to counter drones in the future.The Jammu attack marks a new chapter in Pakistan’s proxy war against India in Jammu and Kashmir, officials told Hindustan Times on Sunday.“It appears to be a trial run by the adversary to gauge India’s capability to detect small targets that can fly across the border and target Indian installations. We need to beef up our surveillance capabilities, especially to pick up radar signatures of small drones that are capable of causing significant damage,” former assistant chief of air staff Air Vice Marshal Sunil Nanodkar (retd) said on Sunday.Pakistan-backed terrorist groups and its Inter-Services Intelligence have been using drones to smuggle arms, ammunition and drugs across the border into J&K and Punjab, but never have drones been used before for attacking a military base.The Jammu attack came four months after the Indian and Pakistani militaries announced on February 25 that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the Line of Control from the midnight of February 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airbases-fortified-as-cds-warns-of-next-gen-attacks-101624905913700.html
29-06-2021||India||LeT commander linked to several killings arrested in Kashmir: police||A top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander from central Kashmir who was involved in a number of killings was arrested on Monday, police said.“Top LeT commander Abrar Nadeem Bhat was arrested. He was involved in several killings. Big success for us,” said Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar. He, however, did not reveal any more details about the arrest.Police said that Bhat alias Khalid was acting as the commander of Lashkar in central Kashmir and was active since 2018. He was arrested from Srinagar.Recently, Kumar had said that they will soon neutralise Bhat, adding that he was involved in the attack on CRPF at Lawaypora in March. In the attack, three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans were killed and the rifle was also snatched by the terrorists. The rifle was recovered from possession of a terrorist earlier this month after three terrorists were killed during an encounter in Sopore.Two CRPF personnel, including an officer, were injured after an encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in Parimpora area of Srinagar on Monday, police said.According to an official, the encounter took place at Malhoora in Parimpora area of the city. “The encounter started at Malhoora Parimpora area of Srinagar. Police and security forces are carrying out the operation,” the J&K Police said in a Twitter post.The officials said a deputy superintendent of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a constable of the paramilitary force were injured in the gunfight. The operation is underway and further details are awaited, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-commander-linked-to-several-killings-arrested-in-kashmir-police-101624905914245.html
29-06-2021||India||TN extends parole of Rajiv Gandhi case convict by another 30 days||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday extended the parole of AG Perarivalan, one of the convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, by another month. Perarivalan, a life convict, is currently on 30-day parole on medical grounds, granted by chief minister M K Stalin on May 19, as per the provision in the Tamil Nadu Prison Manual. An order issued by additional chief secretary S K Prabhakar on Monday said the month-long parole granted to Perarivalan would be extended by another month starting June 28. The leave is granted on a plea by Perarvialan’s mother Arputham Ammal that his health condition puts him at a high risk of contracting Covid-19 inside the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai. On Monday, Arputham tweeted that her son’s 30-year imprisonment, much of it which was in solitary confinement, resulted in him having several health problems such as high blood pressure, kidney infection, rheumatism, and gastrointestinal disorders, which requires continuous medical treatment. “The chief minister has kindly granted the extension of leave so that treatment which we have begun can continue uninterrupted,” she said.Perarivalan is among the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The former Prime Minister was assassinated on May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur by a woman suicide bomber Dhanu, belonging to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). After taking charge, Stalin had written to President Ramnath Kovind to release all the seven convicts as they had served more than three decades in jail. It’s a call supported by all political parties of Tamil Nadu. In 2018, the Tamil Nadu cabinet unanimously passed a resolution to release all seven convicts and sent it to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Three years later, he declined to make a decision and said it was the President who was the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-extends-parole-of-rajiv-gandhi-case-convict-by-another-30-days-101624905320274.html
29-06-2021||India||Assam: Over 34,000 children under 18 infected with Covid-19 since April||Guwahati: Health authorities in Assam disclosed on Monday that 34,606 children under 18 years of age have been infected with Covid19 since April this year when the second wave of the pandemic began in the state.According to a release issued by National Health Mission, Assam, the state has recorded 280,504 cases of Covid19 since April 1. While 5755 of those cases were of children under 5 years, 28851 cases belonged to those between 6 to 18 years.“In view of the circumstances, we have increased pediatric ICU units and oxygen beds for children in medical college hospitals, district hospitals. These facilities are being set up immediately and will take 14-21 days to complete,” health minister Keshab Mahanta told journalists in Nagaon on Monday.Kamrup (Metropolitan), which includes Guwahati, recorded 5346 cases among children since April, which was 10.04% of the 53,251 cases detected in the district in that period.Dibrugarh (2430), Nagaon (2288), Kamrup (Rural) (2023) and Sonitpur (1839) districts also had high number of cases among children. The state recorded 34 deaths of children infected with Covid19 since April. According to NHM, many of them had co-morbid conditions and were below 5 years.An ongoing community surveillance programme across the state found that many children who were staying at home with Covid19 infected parents or guardians (who opted for home isolation) were later tested positive for the virus.“Therefore it is advisable that parents or guardians who have tested positive should preferably opt for institutional quarantine instead of home isolation so that spread of Covid19 among children can be prevented,” said the release.Health authorities informed that nurses and other healthcare personnel have been trained to deal with child Covid19 patients and personnel in ambulances have also been instructed to transport child patients with utmost care.“Besides setting up pediatric units, health department should also ensure that needs of special children who get infected with Covid19 are also handled with extra care as they are more vulnerable,” said Rupa Hazarika, member of Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (ASCPCR).Eleven children with special needs who were staying in a children home in Tezpur town were recently found positive for Covid19. They are at present admitted at the Tezpur Medical College Hospital (TMCH).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-account-for-10-of-assam-s-covid-positive-cases-since-april-1-101624905319852.html
29-06-2021||India||Tributes pour in for ex-PM Rao, KCR calls him a true reformist||Hyderabad Telangana paid glowing tributes to former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao on his birth centenary on Monday, with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao describing him as a true reformist who had brought revolutionary changes in the country’s economy and polity.The state government concluded the centenary celebrations of the departed leader in a grand manner. KCR, as the chief minister is called, along with governor Tamilisai Soundararajan unveiled a 26-foot-tall bronze statue of the former prime minister at PV Gnana Bhoomi on Necklace Road in Hyderabad. He also renamed Necklace Road as PVNR Marg in honour of Narasimha Rao. The chief minister announced setting up of a Vidya Peetham in Kakatiya University, Warangal, to enable scholars to take up research on subjects related to the former prime minister. “He left an indelible mark in every field he was associated with both at the state and the central level,” KCR said, addressing the gathering at the occasion.The chief minister recalled that Rao had become the Prime Minister in peculiar circumstances but had taken it up as a challenge. “Despite lacking a majority in parliament, he successfully ran the government for full five years,” he said. KCR said Rao had pioneered land reforms during his stint as the chief minister of the combined Andhra Pradesh and set an example for other states. “He led the land reforms from the front by giving up 800 acres of land owned by his family in his village,” the CM said. “When Rao was the education minister, he had established residential schools and Navodaya schools. And as the Prime Minister, he brought in economic reforms that bailed the country out of a financial mess and resulted in steady flow of investments.” Paying tributes to the former prime minister, governor Soundararajan said Rao had been a successful politician because he had always felt the nation was more important than politics. PV Narasimha Rao Centenary Celebrations Committee chairman K Keshava Rao appealed to the Centre to name the University of Hyderabad after the former prime minister. He also announced installation of six more statues of Rao at various places in Telangana, including his village Vangara in Warangal (urban) district, besides in New Delhi. The Telangana Congress also conducted PV Narasimha Rao birth centenary celebrations at Gandhi Bhavan. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who was the finance minister during Rao’s regime, presented Narasimha Rao Life Time Achievement Award to renowned cardiologist Dr K Srinath Reddy through virtual mode. Outgoing Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy and other senior Congress leaders paid tributes to the former prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tributes-pour-in-for-ex-pm-rao-kcr-calls-him-a-true-reformist-101624905253662.html
29-06-2021||India||Lightning deaths double since 2004: IMD data||Lightning strikes killed nearly 2,000 people every year in India since 2004, which is nearly twice the number of deaths recorded since the late 1960s, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) that pointed to a trend of increasing danger from the weather phenomenon.On Monday, during an awareness workshop on lightning and thunderstorms, IMD scientists said lightning strikes were claiming more lives than cyclones.“Between 1995 and 2014, we saw a jump of nearly 30% to 40% in lightning incidents in India. The number of deaths has also increased significantly between the 1990s and now,” said SD Pawar, project director thunderstorm dynamics, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune.He said the reason behind the increase in lightning incidents may be directly related to the climate crisis, and the availability of more moisture over land due to warming.Pawar shared data showing a doubling of annual lightning deaths from 1,000 to over 2,500 between 1968 and 2019.On June 7, lightning strikes in several districts of West Bengal killed at least 27 people, more than Cyclone Yaas, which hit Odisha and West Bengal in May. Scientists said tropical cyclones have, in recent years, left fewer than people 50 dead, but deaths due to lightning strikes have been 50 times more.Atul Sahai, vice president, Indian Meteorological Society, said the June 7 deaths were despite timely warnings by IMD. Lightning is an extremely localised phenomenon, and the warnings often don’t reach the last mile, he said.While Pawar’s research indicated that lightning deaths were higher in areas where forest cover and tree cover had reduced, M Mohapatra, director general of IMD, said that changes in the rural lifestyle over the past 30 years may have also increased the exposure of people to lightning strikes.“When there is dense tree cover, lightning strikes the tree and dissipates in the ground. But if the number of trees is less, people working outside are more exposed. In Marathwada, for example, we have noticed that tree cover is very thin. People working outside often run to a lone tree to take shelter underneath and are then struck by lightning,” said Pawar, adding that trees should be avoided during thunderstorms.Mohapatra said more people working in the fields or orchards could be pushing the casualty count upwards. “The use of electrical appliances has also increased significantly in the past 30 years — from mobile phones to TVs to power lines. Lightning can interfere with their electromagnetic field,” Mohapatra said.Several research studies have pointed to the relationship between increase in lightning activity and the climate crisis. Lightning strikes have been more in the Arctic region in the past decade. The number of summertime bolts detected above Alaska has increased more than six times, from about 35,000 in 2010 to about 240,000 in 2020, according to a study in Geophysical Research Letters published in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-deaths-double-since-2004-imddata-101624905135880.html
29-06-2021||India||Allocate 90% of vaccines to govt hospitals, TN CM urges Centre||Chennai: Chief minister M K Stalin on Monday wrote to union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reduce vaccines allocated to private hospitals citing underutilisation and asking for increased supply to government hospitals. “Revise the inter-se allocation between the government and private institutions to 90:10 as against the current allocation of 75:25,” Stalin said in his letter on Monday.Under the new vaccination policy, the Union government is buying 75% of the vaccines produced and the remaining 25% is being provided to private hospitals. “I wish to bring to your notice the fact that this 25% allocation to private hospitals is grossly higher when compared to the actual vaccinations done by them,” Stalin said.The chief minister supported his argument by highlighting Tamil Nadu’s case where 10.4 million doses have been totally used in the state, out of which private hospitals have used only 6,50,000 doses, which is 4.5%. In June, out of 4.35 million doses administered in the state, private institutions used 4,50,000 doses which is just 10%. He said that the ‘mismatch between demand and supply in government and private institutions’ has resulted in a situation where private hospitals in Tamil Nadu have around 7,00,000 to 8,00,000 doses available with them, “which is equivalent to one month performance” whereas government institutions are left with just 2,00,000 doses which is lesser than their current single day usage. “This can be rectified only by a more rational and performance based distribution of available doses,” he said.The CM called for increased allocation to better performing hospitals and suggested that the union government could increase its vaccine procurement price so that vaccine manufacturers aren’t affected over reducing the allocation to the private sector.The development comes amidst a perpetual vaccine shortage faced by the state and several centres were shut on Monday. “The availability of vaccines has emerged as the principal constraint in the last few weeks,” he said. “This is particularly significant for us since our allotment so far has been one of the lowest among the states in the country in terms of doses per thousand population.” Stalin had earlier written to Vardhan requesting 10 million doses to correct the inadequate allotment in the past but noted that this has not been done. Stalin on Monday also requested the union minister to evaluate the vaccine doses allotted per thousand population to various states and to ensure necessary compensatory allocations are made to states who have been allotted a lower number of doses per capita.Meanwhile, Kattur village in Tiruvarur district became the first village in Tamil Nadu to achieve 100% vaccination, two days ago, said M Subramanian, health minister while speaking at a special vaccination drive held for advocates and staff of the Madras high court on Monday. All of them in the village have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. “Soon Nilgiris district will also achieve this feat,” he said. He added that Udhaynidhi Stalin’s constituency - Chepauk Thiruvallikeni in Chennai - has reported the highest number of vaccinations of more than 90,000 among the 234 constituencies in the state. “But, it is disheartening to see several facilities closed due to vaccine shortage when the entire Tamil Nadu’s population is ready to get vaccinated, ‘’ Subramanian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allocate-90-of-vaccines-to-govt-hospitals-tn-cm-urges-centre-101624905135299.html
29-06-2021||India||Protests against ‘conversion’ of 18-year-old in Srinagar intensify||Protests over the alleged abduction of an 18-year-old Sikh woman intensified in Srinagar on Monday with the leaders of the agitation demanding an anti-conversion law in the Union Territory and prominent Kashmiri politicians calling for a thorough probe and appealing for calm.The stir began on Sunday after police said that the Sikh woman, a resident of Srinagar, was allegedly abducted by a 29-year-old Muslim man. There was, however, no clarity on whether the woman had converted to Islam of her free will or if the abduction charges were genuine.Police said the man was arrested on kidnapping charges on Saturday, days after the woman’s parents filed kidnapping charges against the man. They also denied charges of conversion, a charge levelled by the protesters.“The accused is under police remand. The girl was presented before court and she went with her family members,” said North Srinagar superintendent of police Mubasher Hussain. It wasn’t clear how the police narrowed down on the couple and the man’s relatives couldn’t be reached for a comment.But the protesters weren’t satisfied, alleging that another Sikh woman was allegedly abducted by an older Muslim man and forcibly married off. Police didn’t confirm this allegation amid reports that a second woman had come forward and claimed to have converted to Islam of her own volition.“ We will not tolerate forced bikah and conversions of Sikh daughters living in Kashmir who are forced to marry elderly of different religion Sikhs living in J&K urge for a law that mandates permission of parents in inter-religion marriages,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee and a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader.Sirsa also said he spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah. “Amit Shah ji has assured us about the safety of minority Sikh girls in the Valley & that the girls would be soon returned to their families. He has given time to meet Jammu & Kashmir Sikh delegation soon to discuss the ground issues and address the minority’s concerns,” he tweeted. On Sunday, Sirsa met UT lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha.Leaders in Kashmir urged the J&K administration to allay the concerns of the Sikh community.“Any move to drive a wedge between Sikhs & Muslims in Kashmir will cause irreparable harm to J&K. The two communities have supported each other through thick & thin, having withstood countless attempts to damage age-old relationships,” National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said.“I hope the authorities will move quickly to investigate the recent cause of tension & if anyone has broken the law the case should be prosecuted & necessary punishment handed out,” he said.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti asked the authorities to get to the bottom of the issue. “Disturbed to hear reports about the incident involving two Sikh girls in Kashmir. Muslims & Sikhs in J&K have co-existed peacefully in the worst of times. Hope the investigative agencies swiftly get to the bottom of this issue,” she said.Srinagar senior superintendent of police Sandeep Chaudhary did not respond to calls. Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole couldn’t be reached for a comment.Sirsa said he also met J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh who assured them that Sikh girls’ safety would be given utmost priority and stern action would be taken against culprits. “He reiterated that the Sikh girl would be returned to her family soon,” he said.Sikhs form roughly 2% of the population of Jammu and Kashmir.Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) -- a top Sikh body -- said she was giving all support to the family. “I have asked families to bring both the girls to Darbar Sahib for counselling and moral support. I also plan to visit Srinagar to be in touch with the families,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-against-conversion-of-18-year-old-in-srinagar-intensify-101624905134550.html
29-06-2021||India||SII says working on Covishield EU pass||The Serum Institute of India (SII) is approaching the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for approval to its Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, for the European Union’s Green Pass, a document that will ease travel within and to the bloc, people aware of the matter said on Monday.EMA currently recognises only four Covid-19 vaccines that have received EU-wide marketing authorisation so far. Indian officials said it was “perplexing” that the list includes Vaxzevria, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced and marketed in the UK and other sites around Europe, but not Covishield, the version manufactured and distributed in India, though they are similar if not identical.The issue of Covishield’s approval by EMA is also expected to be taken up by the Indian side with European Union (EU) officials on the margins of the G20 foreign ministers’ meeting in Italy on June 29, said people familiar with developments, even as SII’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Monday that he has taken up the matter at the highest level to ensure Indians don’t face any travel restrictions.“I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU. I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” he tweeted.“SII has applied for EMA certification,” said a person familiar with the development, on condition of anonymity.The Covishield vaccine “does not currently have a marketing authorisation” in Europe and the matter would be considered when an application is received for it, the European Medicines Agency said. “Should we receive a marketing authorisation application for Covishield or should any change to the approved manufacturing sites for Vaxzevria be approved, we would communicate about it,” the agency added.Almost 88% of the 323million doses of vaccines administered in India thus far are of Covishield.The other three vaccines that EMA has approved for use by the EU member states to issue the certificates are Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech), Moderna, and Janssen (Johnson & Johnson).The Green Pass is likely to be available for use by July 1, 2021.“The position taken by EMA is perplexing because Covishield and Vaxzevria, the AstraZeneca vaccine approved by the European agency, are qualitatively similar in nature,” said a senior government official who spoke on condition of anonymity.EMA’s position is that Covishield has not been approved for use in Europe. The agency’s approval is also site-specific. It wasn’t immediately clear why Covishield, approved by WHO (through an emergency-use listing), and also the mainstay of Gavi and WHO’s Covax programme, did not apply for marketing authorisation.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin does not have a WHO emergency-use listing yet.“There is still some time, and a solution will likely come soon as the matter is being taken up at different levels,” a second government official said on condition of anonymity.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and other officials from the foreign ministry are currently in Italy for the meeting of the foreign and development ministers of the G20, which includes 19 countries and the EU. The agenda for the meeting includes a swift international response to the Covid-19 pandemic and equitable worldwide access to diagnostics and vaccines.According to PTI, SII has, in a letter to Jaishankar, requested him to take up the matter of the inclusion of Covishield vaccine in the EU Covid-19 vaccination passport with the European Union and other countries, citing that this will affect students and business travellers and cause severe disruptions to the Indian and global economy.A third government official said it is always the responsibility of the manufacturer, in this case SII, to apply for approval from EMA. “The government can only facilitate the process, it is not something done at government to government level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-says-working-on-covishield-eu-pass-101624905014313.html
29-06-2021||India||Jammu: Second attack thwarted as Army repels drones||Within 24 hours of an attack by two drones at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu, two similar devices were spotted hovering over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area in the region, prompting soldiers to open fire at them, officials said on Monday.Experts say a new security threat has emerged from across the border with Pakistan, with drones being used for the first time to carry out attacks at military installations. Early on Sunday, drones were used for two “low-intensity” explosions at the IAF station in Jammu, leaving two personnel injured and prompting multiple teams to launch investigations.On Sunday night, two more drones were spotted over the military stations. While the first drone was sighted around 11.45pm, the second one was seen around 2.40am.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said soldiers opened fire at the two drones but they flew away. “On midnight of 27-28 June, two separate drone activities were spotted over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military areas by alert troops. Immediately, high alert was sounded and quick reaction teams engaged them with firing. Both the drones flew away,” Anand said.“Searches were launched… and we are also ascertaining whether they were being operated from a vehicle on the adjoining road,” he said, adding a “major threat was thwarted” because the troops were alert.Hours before the incident, the first blast at the Jammu airport, which is used for VVIP movement and armed forces’ strategic operations, took place at 1.37am, causing minor damage to the roof of a building, and the second one – said to be weaker in intensity – was reported at 1.42am in an open area.The air force has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks, people familiar with the developments said on Monday. While IAF is now certain that drones were used for the Jammu attack, it is still not clear as to where they came from or which side they flew to after dropping the two improvised explosive devices, an official said on condition of anonymity.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. But experts said that drones have previously not been engaged by terrorists to carry out attacks.The Kaluchak military station was attacked in 2002 by three armed terrorists from Pakistan. The three first attacked a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on the Jammu-Pathankot highway and killed seven passengers before storming the station, where they killed 23 people.At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since the 2019 abrogation of Article 370, a security official told PTI on Monday. Border security agencies have been testing indigenously built counter-drone technologies in the rough jungle terrains, desert and marshes along the western front but have had limited success, the official said.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday told a TV channel that the three services, the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest.The second incident of the spotting of drones on Sunday led to the area outside the military stations being cordoned off. A massive search operation was still underway on Monday night. No debris was found on the ground, a person aware of the operation said.The incidents come days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir that elections would be held there once delimitation is carried out, two years after the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked.Following a series of back-channel contacts between Indian and Pakistani security officials, the two countries recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in February. The truce has largely held, helping to ease bilateral tensions, though recent reports have suggested the back-channel contacts have stalled.Pakistan has also issued several strong statements in recent weeks about what it claims were the Indian government’s plans to carry out more changes in Jammu and Kashmir. India has rejected these statements, noting that Kashmir is an integral part of the country and Pakistan’s comments amounted to interference in internal affairs.(With inputs by Rahul Singh in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-attack-thwarted-as-army-repels-drones-101624904955852.html
29-06-2021||India||Beat thalis to protest fuel price rise, Congress tells workers||Months after criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for encouraging people to beat thali (plate) and other utensils to appreciate healthcare and frontline workers in the battle against Covid-19, the Congress has asked its workers to do the same, albeit for a different reason.A letter from Congress general secretary KC Venugopal to all state units has asked party workers and activists to beat thalis and other utensils for highlighting the burden of households in the wake of the surging fuel prices.“In the protest programme, the potential impact of petrol price hike and the prise rise of essential commodities on public, especially on households can be highlighted by beating ‘thalis’ and other utensils,” the internal letter, dated June 26, said.The Congress has planned an elaborate programme to protest against the runaway hike in fuel prices and inflationary pressure on essential commodities from July 7 to 17. The latest letter from Venugopal, seen by HT, comes after Congress president Sonia Gandhi chaired a meeting on June 24 that discussed issues such as price rise and slow pace of vaccination, and also drew the action plan for the first major protest since Covid-19 swept the subcontinent.The protests would also include bicycle yatras, in which participants have been asked to travel at least 5 km. The letter also asked participants to organise signature campaigns at petrol pumps demanding fuel price cut.The party has fixed a target of reaching 300 million households during its Covid outreach programme, which will run for 30 days. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has also asked state units to “identify 5 urban/semi urban target groups and 5 rural target groups” and assign 10 party workers per block. “One Covid warrior will visit minimum of 10 to 15 households per day in a period of 30 days and cover more than 200 households in a month,” the letter stated.It also provides sample questions such as “was he/she the bread winner of the family?” or “what support do you need most (ration, job, education, financial support)?” and tells the workers to give acknowledgement slips to the families.This outreach programme comes amid the party’s demand for compensation to families of Covid victims. The Congress has been also demanding direct financial support to poorest of the poor families to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beat-thalis-to-protest-fuel-price-rise-congress-tells-workers-101624904353609.html
29-06-2021||India||After uproar, Twitter drops map showing J&K, Ladakh outside India||The ministry of electronics and information technology is looking into the issue of Twitter showing Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh as not part of India in a map on its website, an official familiar with the matter said on Monday. The misrepresentation caused an uproar online amid the ongoing impasse between the government and the microblogging firm.The map was available as part of a larger creative image depicting the world map on the company’s website under the careers sections on the page titled Tweep Life. While it showed the disputed Aksai Chin area of Ladakh, illegally occupied by China, as part of that country, it depicted the Union Territory of J&K as a separate country. The map was subsequently taken down.In the past, the government has sent a notice under section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act to Wikipedia for using the image of a wrong map; the section allows the government to order the takedown of content that violates the “integrity and sovereignty” of the country.Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment.This is the second time that Twitter has run into trouble over a map in the past year. In October last year, the Centre had served Twitter with a notice over the geotag for Leh showing it as a part of China. Writing to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, the Centre on October 22 conveyed its “disappointment regarding the misrepresentation of the map of India”. It also asked Twitter to explain why action should not be taken against it . Twitter subsequently corrected this.In Wikipedia’s case, the image was subsequently fixed.To be sure, many international maps include Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, a part of J&K, as Pakistan, and New Delhi points out in every instance that this is inaccurate.Twitter’s latest brush with controversy comes even as it is engaged in an escalating battle with the government over the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The ministry has asserted that the social media firm has failed to comply with the guidelines, which can result in it losing the safe harbour protection granted to intermediaries under the IT Act.There have been several instances of confrontation between the social media company and the government over orders to block access to content and marking of posts by BJP leaders as manipulated media. The social media firm also invited the ire of Prasad, who was locked out his account for an hour over an alleged copyright violation last week.Twitter’s grievance redressal officer Dharmendra Chatur , appointed weeks ago, stepped down over the weekend, prompting the firm to hire a new official. And the Ghaziabad police have said in a complaint that Twitter circulated a video that allegedly misrepresented an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a communal one. The police asked Twitter India executive Manish Maheshwari to appear for questioning in person, but has been prevented from arresting him by the Karnataka High Court. His lawyer said last week that he would appear over video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-uproar-twitter-drops-map-showing-j-k-ladakh-outside-india-101624904235329.html
29-06-2021||India||House panel meets ministries to discuss impact of second wave of Covid-19||Parliament’s standing committee on home affairs met officials from the ministries of health, commerce, home affairs and labour on Monday to discuss the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 and the country’s preparations to combat a possible third wave, people familiar with the matter said.According to a person who attended the meeting, panel chairperson and Congress MP Anand Sharma stressed the need for “authentic” messaging and asked for a crackdown on fake news.“The chairperson said as the country looks at preparations for a possible third wave, clear messages should be conveyed and the ministries of health and home affairs should crack down on fake news spreading fear among the public.”The panel met to discuss the “socioeconomic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave”, according to the Rajya Sabha website. Issues raised at the committee included the need to create a national database of migrant labourers, ensuring that lifesaving medicines are not sold in the black market and ramping up the pace of vaccination. The panel also sought an accurate death count and state-wise details on the number of people who have received government benefits.“The MPs have suggested that temporary arrangements, such as the hospitals that were set up by the ITBP, be kept ready to be set up on short notice in case they are needed again,” said the person cited above.A second person familiar with the matter said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Rakesh Sinha raised the issue of the “mismanagement” of the second wave by the Delhi government”. Sinha highlighted “the need for a civil governance oversight over the medical community,” the second person said. “In an extraordinary situation like the pandemic it become important what message is being conveyed to the country.”Congress MP P Bhattacharya highlighted the plight of migrant workers and also said that goods and services tax should be waived on medical equipment. Sinha flagged certain “negative” reports about India in the Lancet medical journal and asked the home secretary to take note of the issue and register strong protest, the second person added.Ravneet Singh Bittu, another Congress lawmaker, raised the issue of vaccine clearance, stating that until Covaxin is approved by the World Health Organization people’s ability to travel abroad could get curtailed. “Queries about black fungus were also raised by the panel,” the second person said.Other than the MPs mentioned above, the meeting was also attended by SR Balasubramoniyan from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), Anil Jain, Neeraj Shekhar, Bhupender Yadav, Ranjeetsinha Hindurao Naik-Nimbalka, RK Singh Patel, Sanjay Yadav and Satya Pal Singh from the BJP. Dulal Chandra Goswami, JD(U), Thiru Dayanidhi Maran, DMK, and Faizal Mohammed from the NCP were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-meets-ministries-to-discuss-impact-of-second-wave-101624903453519.html
29-06-2021||India||2nd Covid-19 wave not over yet, 80 districts have high positivity: ICMR||Covid-19 cases may have reduced in most parts of the country, and the total cases may be well below the early May peak of nearly 400,000 a day, but the second national wave of infections is not over yet with at least 80 districts still showing high positivity rates, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has warned.India recorded over 46,000 new cases on Sunday, still the highest in any country in the world, according to worldometers.info.“The second wave of Covid-19 has still not subsided, as 80 districts in the country still have high positivity. There cannot be any laxity at this stage. The vaccines have been found effective against the alpha, beta, gamma and delta variants of Covid-19,” Dr Balram Bhargava, ICMR’s director general, said on Monday during the 29th group of ministers (GoM) meeting on Covid-19.These 80 districts fall in the states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha among others.Last Friday, at a Union health ministry media briefing, Bhargava had struck a simiar note of caution.“We have still got 75 districts that have more than 10% prevalence; there are about 92 districts that have between 5 and 10% prevalence; even though 569 districts are less than 5% so in a large part the second wave is over. However, these districts are important,” he had said.ICMR had emphasised on the need to immediately identify hot spots, which is what India has attempted to do with the latest Delta-plus variant.“We immediately identified the hot spots; however, whether this virus is going to be significant or not, we do not know yet but we have identified where all it has just suddenly emerged and isolated those people, and ring vaccination has been initiated in those areas. The most important is that the district level test positivity rate needs to be clearly monitored by the districts to ensure if it is going above 5% so then we need to impose strict restriction. This will help us guide through this pandemic,” Bhargava said during the briefing.The four principal variants of concern — Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta — have been identified in 174 districts in 35 states, with Alpha variant found in 3,969 samples, Beta variant in 149, and Gamma in 1 sample. Delta and its related Kapa variant, were found in 16,238 samples.Also speaking at the meeting on Covid-19 vaccination, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told the GoM that India had overtaken the US in total number of Covid Vaccine doses administered so far.“USA started vaccinating against Covid from 14 December 2020 whereas the drive was launched in India on 16th Jan 2021… Till today (Monday) morning, we have administered 32,36,63,297 vaccine doses to our countrymen in various categories,” he said.As on June 27, the United States has administered 323.33 million vaccine doses, of which 179, 261,269 were given as first dose that is about 54.6% of the population.“What India needs right now is effective messaging among masses so that people strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, maintaining hygiene etc. which will go a long way in breaking the chain of disease transmission along with vaccination,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-wave-not-over-yet-80-dists-have-high-positivity-icmr-101624903454117.html
29-06-2021||India||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee calls Jagdeep Dhankhar ‘corrupt’, guv hits back||The acrimonious relations between West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and the Trinamool Congress-led state government hit a new low on Monday, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleging that Dhankhar was an accused in the 1996 Jain hawala case and branding him a “corrupt man”.“The governor’s name cropped up in the Jain hawala case. They had gone to court and got the name cleared. But again, a PIL was filed, and it is still pending. I am sorry to say he is a corrupt man,” Banerjee said, while speaking to the media at the state secretariat.Banerjee said she had written letters to the Centre on three occasions to relieve Dhankhar of the post.“If the Centre is not aware then I am telling. Bring out the charge sheet and check whether his name was there or not. Why is the Centre allowing a man like this to continue as the governor?” she said.Earlier in the day, Dhankhar, who was on a weeklong tour of Darjeeling, alleged that there was corruption in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), the semi-autonomous body that manages Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills in north Bengal.“The governor is deliberately trying to disturb the peaceful situation in north Bengal and hence he met those people who are in favour of dividing north Bengal. He told them to stage a revolt. Is it the job of the governor?” Banerjee said.On Saturday, the governor tweeted that there had been no election and audit in GTA since 2017.“The governor has raised some serious allegations against GTA. Cases may continue in the court. But are the chief minister’s today’s allegations answers to the questions raised by the governor? Is she trying to say that because the governor’s name is in the Jain hawala case, there can be corruption in GTA? Is she justifying this?” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice-president of the BJP in West Bengal.“I have not been charge-sheeted. There is no such document. This is far from facts. This is plain and simple untruth, misinformation. I have not taken any stay from any court,” said Dhankhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-calls-dhankhar-corrupt-guv-hits-back-101624903333549.html
29-06-2021||India||Amar Chitra Katha collaborates with navy to chronicle its history||Amar Chitra Katha Comics (ACK), publisher of children’s comics, have collaborated with the Indian Navy to bring its history to the readers. The second in a three-comic book series titled The Naval Journey of India - Tacking to the Blue Waters was launched on the International Day of Seafarers on June 25. The book is available for free on the ACK website.The series explores the Navy’s myriad roles: as the defender of coasts, the protector of national security and interests, the saviour in times of need, the representative of our people and government in foreign lands, and one of the most important innovators and contributors to our country’s technology and infrastructure. As a special offer, this second book is also available in the Free Reads section of the ACK Comics app until July 2.Also Read | The art of resistance: Take a peek inside the new graphic novel on Shaheen BaghTalking about the new comic book, ACK’s group creative director Neel Paul said, “Tacking the blue waters is a comprehensive history of the Indian Navy since Independence and it follows the journey of a small force with big dreams in 1947 to the giant multi-dimensional force that the Indian Navy is today. It looks at the action, the growth, the glory, the wars we fought, the roles that the Navy played in creating this nation . It is really exciting. It was lovely journey to be part of.”“Our mission is to provide Indian children a route to their roots and acquaint them, inspire them and instill a great sense of pride about India in them. This book delivers on all these promises magnificently! We hope that this book will not only generate interest in our great maritime history among young Indians but also inspire them to celebrate and perhaps even join the Indian Navy,” ACK CEO Preeti Vyas said.Launched last year in December, the first book, titled The Naval Journey of India, Millennia of Sea Travels covered India’s relationship with her oceans, from the earliest sea routes during the Harappan Civilisation till 1947. The book costs ₹90 on the ACK website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-chitra-katha-collaborates-with-navy-to-chronicle-its-history-101624887313258.html
29-06-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Chhattisgarh adds 405 new Covid cases, 6 more deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Covid-19: Indonesia to vaccinate citizens aged 12 and olderIndonesia’s President Joko Widodo announced Monday that his government will administer Covid-19 vaccines for children as young as 12 after the country’s Food and Drug Monitoring Agency green-lighted emergency use of the Sinovac vaccine for children. Read moreChhattisgarh records 405 new Covid-19, 6 more deathsChhattisgarh on Monday recorded 405 new Covid-19 disease cases and six more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 993,694 and 13,437 respectively. The number of active cases in the state have come down to 6,208 while over 974,000 patients have been discharged so far. Twitter removes incorrect map showing J&K and Ladakh as separate from IndiaAfter facing severe backlash, Twitter on Monday got rid of a controversial map of India which showed Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh as a separate country. Read MoreMan in Bihar files case against Dharmendra Pradhan over fuel price hikeA case was on Monday lodged before a court in this north Bihar town against Union Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in connection with the spiralling rise in petrol prices. Local resident Tamanna Hashmi filed the case before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Muzaffarpur, alleging that it was a "conspiracy" to sell petrol at high rates across the country though the price of crude oil was quite low.Maharashtra death toll rises to 1,21,573Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rises by 6,727, taking the total tally to 60,43,548. The death toll stands at 1,21,573 after addition of 101 fresh fatalities.Delhi reports 59 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since April last yearDelhi reports 59 new Covid-19 cases, 72 recoveries, and 2 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll in the city now stands at 24,967 and the number of active case has fallen to 1,553.India’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 32.85 croresIndia’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 32.85 crores, more than 48.01 lakh vaccine doses administered till 7 pm today. More than 8.95 crores vaccine doses administered in the age group 18-44, so far, says Union health ministry.PM Modi hails economic measures announced by FM SitharamanMeasures announced by FM @nsitharaman today will enhance public health facilities, especially in under-served areas, boost private investment in medical infrastructure and augment critical human resources. Special focus is on strengthening healthcare facilities for our children.Over 50% of children in Mumbai have Covid-19 antibodies, shows sero surveyA paediatric sero-survey conducted in Mumbai has shown that 51.18% of those below the age of 18 in Mumbai have antibodies against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The survey was conducted by civic body-run BYL Nair Hospital and Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory (KMDL) between April 1 to June 15. Read MoreWHO approval for Covaxin proceeding very well: VK PaulProcess for getting World Health Organisation's emergency use approval for Covaxin proceeding very well, says VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog. Hope decision comes soon, he also said as per PTI report.West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 15West Bengal government extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 15, but allows gyms to reopen and relaxes curbs on markets and public transport. Govt and public offices may now allow 50% employees. Earlier it was 20%.Free foodgrain to poor, ₹23,220 cr for paediatric care: FM> FM says ₹23,220 cr to be provided for paediatric care/paediatric beds at hospitals.> Free foodgrain to poor till Nov 2021 to take total cost of Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana to ₹2.27 lakh cr.> Additional ₹14,775 cr fertilizer subsidy to be provided over and above ₹85,413 cr budgeted.Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana extended till March 2022Govt extends Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana from June 30, 2021, to March 31, 2022. Over 21.4 lakh people of nearly 80,000 establishments have already benefited from the scheme, said Sitharaman. ₹10 lakh loan for travel agencies announced to support tourismTo further boost tourism, Sitharaman announces ₹10 lakh loan to travel agencies and ₹1 lakh loan to tourist guides.First 5 lakh tourist visas to be issued free of charges: SitharamanOnce visa issuance starts again, first 5 lakh tourist visas to be issued free of charges, announces Sitharaman. "Once international travel resumes, first 5 lakh tourists who come to India will not have to pay visa fees. Scheme applicable till March 31, 2022, or will be closed after distribution of first 5 lakh visas. One tourist can avail benefit only once," she said.Sitharaman announces a new credit guarantee scheme for loans through micro finance institutions"We are announcing a totally new scheme," Sirtharaman said as she announced a "credit guarantee scheme to facilitate loans to 25 lakh persons through micro finance institutions.""The focus is on new lending, and not repayment of old loans," she also said.All borrowers (including defaulters upto 89 days) are eligible for the scheme. Lending will be upto ₹1.25 lakh.Govt expanding scope of emergency credit line guarantee scheme: SitharamanThe government is expanding the scope of emergency credit line guarantee scheme. We are adding another 1.5 lakh crore to the existing corpus of ₹3 lakh crore, the finance minister announced.Sitharaman announces ₹1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee schemeFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced ₹1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for Covid-affected sectors. The healthcare to get ₹50,000 crore, aimed at upscaling medical infrastructure targeting underserved areas. ₹60,000 crores for other sectors, she announced.Eight new set of economic relief measures meant to boost growth, says Sitharaman in the briefing.'Stop denying, start dismantling': UN rights chief on racism'The United Nations's human rights chief called on country leaders to do more to end racism. All states' must 'stop denying, start dismantling racism' to avoid repeating deaths like that of George Floyd, she said as per AFP report.Indonesia recommends Sinovac vaccine for children 12-17Indonesia has recommended the Covid-19 vaccine made by China's Sinovac Biotech for children above 12, a spokesman for its Covid-19 task force said on Monday.Arvind Kejriwal announces 200 units of free power in Punjab if AAP wins next year's state pollsDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announces 200 units of free power in Punjab if AAP wins next year's state polls.Odisha logs 3,319 new Covid-19 cases, 43 fresh fatalitiesAt least 3,319 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Odisha, which pushed the tally to 9,03,789, while 43 fresh fatalities raised the toll to 3,930, a health department official said.Over 1.15 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states/UTs: CentreMore than 1.15 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines are still available with states and union territories, the union health ministry informed on Monday.BSP not to contest Zilla Panchayat polls in UPBahujan Samaj Party will not contest the Zilla panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh this year, said party Chief Mayawati on Monday.Rajnath Singh visits Karu military station in LadakhDefence Minister Rajnath Singh visits Karu Military Station in Ladakh pic.twitter.com/ISGAfV66tHDefence Minister Rajnath Singh visits Karu Military Station in Ladakh.Earthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale hit PithoragarhAn earthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale hit Pithoragarh, Uttarakhand at 12.18 pm today: National Center for Seismology.Rajnath Singh and army personnel chorused 'Waheguru ji ka Khalsa, Waheguru ji ki Fateh'Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and army personnel chorused 'Waheguru ji ka Khalsa, Waheguru ji ki Fateh' at Leh during his 3-day visit in the UT.Arvind Kejriwal to visit Chandigarh tomorrowDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Chandigarh, Punjab tomorrow.This will be his second visit to Punjab after last week's visit when ex-IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh joined AAP.India successfully carries out test firing of a new missile of Agni seriesIndia successfully carried out the test firing of a new missile of the Agni series known as Agni-Prime at 10.55 am today, off the coast of Odisha. The new nuclear-capable missile is fully made up of composite material and it was a textbook launch: Govt Sources, reports news agency ANI.Two more drones spotted hovering over Kaluchak military stationTwo more drones spotted hovering over Kaluchak military station near Purmandal in adjoining Samba district late Sunday night. Army soldiers opened around 20 rounds. Searches launched early this morning,said a Defence spokesman.Uttarakhand government extends Covid-19 curfew by one weekUttarakhand government extends Covid-19 curfew by one week with some relaxations; gyms to open at 50% capacity, markets to open in the state for 6 days.Lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU: Adar PoonawallaI realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the E.U., I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries, says Adar Poonawalla.Powerful explosion in Dhaka kills seven, injures hundreds; police suspect gas leakA powerful explosion that destroyed an old three-storey building in a crowded area here in Bangladesh's capital and killed at least seven people and injured around 400 others may have been caused by a faulty gas line or gas cylinders, authorities said on Monday.Dr Reddy's Laboratories announces commercial launch of 2DGDr Reddy's Laboratories announces commercial launch of 2DG, an anti-Covid19 drug, says the pharmaceutical company.Jharkhand reports one more Covid-19 death, 81 new casesJharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,45,340 as 81 more people tested positive for the virus while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 5,111, a health department bulletin said on Monday.PM Modi pays tributes to PV Narasimha RaoPaying rich tributes to former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao on his 100th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that India remembers his extensive contributions to national development.India administers 32,36,63,297 doses of Covid-19 vaccinesIndia administers 32,36,63,297 doses of Covid-19 vaccines and overtakes the USA: Ministry of Health.6 killed, 13 injured in terrorist attack in central MaliSix people have been killed and 13 more injured as a result of a terrorist attack in the central part of Mali, media reported.India reports 46,148 new Covid-19 cases, 979 deathsIndia reported on Monday 46,148 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, data from the health ministry showed.Sensex at record high at 53,126, Nifty below 16,000Sensex at record high at 53,400, Nifty below 16,000 in opening session.8 more arrests in Mexico border city attacks that killed 19Eight more suspects have been arrested for alleged involvement in gun attacks earlier this month that killed 19 people in the northern Mexico border city of Reynosa, nearly all of whom appeared to be innocent bystanders, officials said Sunday.Moradabad: Five died after a bus collided with a mini truck near Pakbara area"The incident took place on the highway connecting Delhi to Rampur. Death of five persons have been reported so far. Injured have been admitted to the hospital," says Amit Anand, SP City, reports news agency ANI.Chinese automaker Great Wall aims to sell 4 million cars in 2025China's top pickup truck maker Great Wall Motor is targeting sales of 4 million vehicles a year in 2025, Chairman Wei Jianjun said on Monday.Mizoram reports 233 new Covid-19 casesMizoram reports 233 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total cases to 19,324 in the state. Active cases at 4,370.2 adults, 1 child killed after train hits vehicle in ChicagoTwo adults and a child were killed after a Metra train struck their vehicle Sunday in Chicago, officials said.Fire breaks out at AIIMS Delhi's emergency wardA minor fire was reported in the storeroom of All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi at around 5am today. The fire was brought under control. No injury was reported in the incident: Delhi Fire Department, reports news agency ANI.Wife of Jammu and Kashmir Police SPO Fayaz Ahmad succums to injuriesWife of Jammu and Kashmir Police SPO Fayaz Ahmad also succumbed to injuries at a hospital after terrorists fired at them inside their house in Awantipora, Pulwama: Kashmir zone police.Magnitude 4.6 earthquake hits LehMagnitude 4.6 earthquake hits Leh in Ladakh: National Center for Seismology, reports news agency ANI.Australia's Covid-19 response team holds urgent meeting amid outbreakAustralia's Covid-19 response committee is due to hold an emergency meeting on Monday as outbreaks of the highly contagious Delta variant across the country prompted a lockdown in Sydney and renewed restrictions elsewhere.Reports about missing artefacts of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose untrue: CentreThe Ministry of Culture on Sunday clarified that the news appearing in media about the missing artefacts of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is completely untrue.Mainland China reports 21 new Covid-19 cases vs 14 a day earlierMainland China reported 21 new cases of Covid-19 on June 27, up from 14 a day earlier, the national health authority said on Monday.US hits Iran-backed Militias with airstrikes, Pentagon saysUS forces conducted airstrikes against Iranian-backed militia groups blamed for drone attacks on US personnel and facilities in Iraq, according to the Defense Department.Brazil records 33,704 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 18.42mnThe number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Brazil has increased by 33,704 to 18,420,598 within the past 24 hours, the country's health ministry said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-28-2021-101624837540980.html
