02-01-2021||Jalandhar||New Year wishes||New Year celebrations at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated New Year with religious gaiety, fervour and enthusiasm. Various activities were organised by the department of student welfare. Activities held during the celebration aimed at improving knowledge, friendship and sense of belonging among the students. Various activities such as poster-making, card -making, video messages and poetry competition were held during the celebration. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi gave her kind wishes to all the students and the faculty members of the college and averred that the message of universal brotherhood, communal harmony and the service of poor should motivate each and every person to contribute for the betterment of the society. She lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, dean, department of student welfare, for successfully organising the event.Webinar on communication skillsThe PG Department of English of HMV College organised a webinar on ‘Communications skills and personality development’. Mamta, HoD, English, accorded a welcome to resource person Harjinder Singh Bhugtaana, English tutor from Australia. She mentioned that it is quite important for the students to hone their soft skills which are the need of the hour. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen briefed that taking into consideration the current education and job scenario, appropriate job-related skills complement a formal degree in any discipline. “Career readiness and employability skills have become an increasingly critical part of education. To achieve these objectives, HMV is offering more than 20 skill- oriented and vocational courses”, she said. Harjinder Singh illustrated through a presentation that these skills refine and enhance the personality from every aspect. People with great communication skills tend to have a better and impressive personality than those who have problems in communicating as interacting with others is not a challenge for them. Individuals with effective communication skills can easily converse with other people and it strengthens the bond among individuals. Parminder Singh gave a vote of thanks. The moderator of the event was Lovleen Kaur.Virtual photography workshopPhagwara: GNA University organised a two-day photography workshop by Sony Alpha. Nearly 50 students of journalism and animation participated to learn technical aspects of photography and new dimensions in photography. Sony Alpha mentor and multimedia specialist Sameer Ashraf conducted the workshop and explained fundamentals of photography to the students. Varied important details about shutter, aperture, field-depth, exposure and related techniques were shared for general understanding of the students. Ashraf said that photo journalism emerged as a significant field after the World War II. Students were also apprised of special photography skills about people, travels, industry, food and architecture. Besides outdoor photography, students also learnt about indoor lighting situations, digital photography and advanced professional photography. Baljit Singh, Head, Faculty of Animations, congratulated and acknowledged the participation of the students for their timely efforts and also thanked all the dignitaries for providing opportunity to the department to host the event on the virtual platform. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, expressed, “Journalism and animation is one of the most alluring fields and I am happy that the department always takes initiative in apprising the students with the latest techniques.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-year-wishes-192604
02-01-2021||---||Mohan is Arya Shiksha Mandal chief for 10th term||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 1Noted activist Chander Mohan has been appointed as the president of Arya Shiksha Mandal for the 10th consecutive term. He has already completed 26 years on the post.He has now been appointed as president for a term of three years. KMV College Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi maintained that Chander Mohan became the president of Arya Shiksha Mandal for the first time in 1994. She said the decision to appoint him again as president was taken unanimously in the annual meeting of Arya Shiksha Mandal held on Wednesday.Members Alok Sondhi, Dr Sushma Chawla, Dr Sushma Chopra, Dhruv Mittal, Neerja Mohan, Anuradha Sondhi, Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Dr Naresh Dhimaan, Dr SP Gupta, Sushila Bhagat, Dr Deepali Luthra, Neeru Kapoor, Dr SK Sharma, Avinash Khanna, Vivek Sondhi, KL Aggarwal, Sanjay Sabharwal, Shiv Mittal, NK Sood, Harish Gupta, Suresh Seth, Ashim Sondhi, Rachna Monga, Kavita Bhardwaj, Sunita and Anoop Dhir were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mohan-is-arya-shiksha-mandal-chief-for-10th-term-192603
02-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||A slew of projects to infuse a fresh lease of life into Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 1As we step into 2021, Jalandhar residents can expect a slew of projects, which the state government will be pushing as the Assembly polls are just a year away.55-km ring roadRing road would be one of the most prestigious project, which had been under planning for the last couple of years. The 55-km road would circumference the city starting from Nakodar to 66-ft road and towards Jandu Singha to the GT Road.Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “For ring road, the 3 (A) notification has been issued for starting the land acquisition process in 38 villages of the district. The 3(D) notification will be issued within next 20 days, and later the 3 (G) notification will be issued by March 2021 for distributing awards.”Second entry to city railway station from Qazi MandiAnother important project expected to see some development would be opening a second entry to Jalandhar city railway station from Qazi Mandi. Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri said, “Our plans and designs are ready. We expect the work to begin on the site shortly.”Dhogri industrial road projectThe Punjab Government has already approved the estimates for Dhogri road to Industrial Area. A 4.72-km stretch would come up at a cost of Rs3.25 crore and the work would begin soon.Smart City projectAs per the administrative and MC officials, projects worth Rs 1,200 crore will be carried out under the Smart City project. Out of these, development works worth Rs 350 crore are under execution and tenders of Rs 500 crore have already been floated. The projects include integrated command and control centre, surface water project (water to be extracted from Beas), face-lifting of city railway station, beautification of intersections and roundabouts, rooftop solar panels on government buildings and development of green belts.Punjab Urban Environment Improvement ProgrammeFollowing are the details issued by the authorities for projects under the PUEIP scheme. In phase-I, the district received Rs 35 crore comprising Rs 21 crore for the Municipal Corporation Jalandhar (MCJ) and Rs 14 for Deputy Director, Local Government. A total of 320 developmental works were carried out in the MCJ and rural jurisdiction, out of which work on 24 projects has been underway and other projects completed.In phase-II, the district received Rs 126 crore comprising Rs 95 crore for the MCJ and Rs 32 crore for Deputy Director, Local Government. The funds would be utilised for 450 developmental works, which would be carried out in 2021. Tenders worth Rs 112 crore have been floated.Smart village campaignA total of 3,201 development projects worth Rs 149.21 crore have commenced in 106 villages of Jalandhar district. The works include upgradation of road infrastructure, street lighting system, laying of new sewage lines, setting up of Thapar model ponds, interlocking tiles, sheds in cremation grounds, solid waste management, disposal of sewage waste, construction of panchayat ghars, new playgrounds, and community centres, among others.Rs25 lakh for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao YojanaJalandhar is the first district, which has received second installment of Rs25 lakh under the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana. The district administration had carried out several activities, including providing competitive exam coaching to 150 girls, celebrating birth of 300 baby girls, planting 1,400 saplings and organising graffiti competitions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-slew-of-projects-to-infuse-a-fresh-lease-of-life-into-jalandhar-192341
02-01-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||‘Special’ gems lost in oblivion!||Hoshiarpur, January 1This trio of students’ talent is veiled behind the word disabled. They are rather special. But as destiny would have it, not many people know them nor do they get the deserved credit for their feats. And those who see them look through the eye of judgment, divagating from the other ‘special’ possibility.So, for those who are don’t know them, Sukhwinder Singh, Jasveer Singh and Rohit Kumar, are students of Jagjit Singh Sachdeva Asha Kiran Special School (for intellectually disabled) who have achieved at the international level in sports. The three have made quite a few waves in the past.Sukhwinder Singh had won a silver in the floor hockey at the 2013 World Winter Special Olympics held in Pyongyang in South Korea at the age of 20, while Jasveer had won a gold in the 2017 edition in Vienna and Rohit Kumar was fourth in the ‘unified football event’ at the World Summer Special Olympics held in Abu Dhabi last year.Sukhwinder, is a resident of Sotla village and his father Hansraj has retired as a police Sub-Inspector. He is the maiden name to qualify from Punjab to qualify for Special Olympics and his success was a source of inspiration for many parents, who earlier had drained all the hopes from their ‘special kids’. His story inspired many but it brought nothing to him. He was promised financial help, rewards and a lot more but that never happened. Staying at JSS Asha Kiran hostel, he’s now helping train the new brigade of incapacitated sportsmen sharing his hard earned experience and motivating them to perform. Due to the pandemic, however, he’s at his village as of now where he helps his family in agriculture.Rajya Sabha MP Avinash Rai Khanna wrote to the Government of India to provide assistance and reward money to the Special Olympics medallists on par with the Olympics medallists but the government reverted that there was no such policy but assured of one that will be floated soon and all will rewarded. Finally in 2015, the policy was floated according to which a reward of Rs5 lakh, Rs2 lakh and Rs1 lakh, respectively for gold, silver and bronze medal, was announced for medallists in individual events while for team events, the prize money was cut to half.Jasveer, the gold medallist, is a resident of Dhadiala and was enamoured by Sukhwinder’s playing and intoxicated with the idea of going to the foreign lands in a plane. He would say, “Main vi khedunga, main vi jahaj vich baith ke jaunga, Main vi jahaj chadna (I will play too, I will also board a plane)”. His dream transpired into reality in 2017. Now, he’s working as a helper with a four-wheeler driver travelling with him and assisting him in loading and unloading the goods. He got a cash prize of Rs2.5 lakh from the Union Government but nothing from the state government since Punjab still doesn’t have any policy for Special Olympics medallists.Similar is the story of Rohit Kumar, the special footballer from Singhpur village. He was a member of India unified football team which stood fourth at the World Summer Special Olympics held in Abu Dhabi in 2019. (A unified team is, in which the normal and special players lay and compete together)The gulf in the prize money given by Haryana to its players, as compared to Punjab, is an eyebrow-raiser. It is Rs20 lakh, Rs15 lakh and Rs10 lakh, respectively, for gold, silver and bronze winners, and in Delhi the amount skies to Rs1 crore for the podium topper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-gems-lost-in-oblivion-192342
02-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Homeschooling hits a home run||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 1With mutations of the virus surfacing and fears on the boil again, schools in the state are expected to run on online mode for another six months or so and parents are mulling homeschooling, especially for the tiny tots.Many parents of 3-year-olds did not get them admitted in the playway schools last year as coronavirus struck right at the time admissions were to start. The parents said that they were happy with their decision as they got ample of time to spend with their child and make them learn all the basic things expected of their age at home, including counting, doodling, singing rhymes, identification of colours, alphabets, numbers, fruits, vegetables and common things around.Supreet Uppal, who opted for homeschooling for her 3-year-old daughter, said, “I had all the plans to send my little one to school from April onwards but the lockdown happened and I put off the plans. But in the meantime, I started homeschooling her, spending an hour daily. Now, she is able to even write a few letters and make some drawings. I even used downloaded some activities from the net on daily basis for her to work on. Since it was just the beginning year of her education, I do not think that she has missed much. If things go the same way, she may not get admission till July as I do not want onscreen education for her at this stage”.Even those who got them admitted rued that the online classes did not solve their purpose, which was to train them in sitting properly and attentively, learning early lessons of discipline and getting along with kids of their age groups. Ridhima, mother of a pre-nursery kid, said, “I had thought that I would reserve three-four hours for myself as my child would go out to school. But this did not happen. Instead, I also got tied with him as his playway school insisted that at least one parent should attend class at a time. There were so many activities that we had to perform with him which ideally the teachers were to do. I felt it would have been better had I gone into homeschooling.”Even the school authorities are wary that the increasing trend of homeschooling could affect their admission in pre-primary classes. “Yes, we are expecting a fall in admission for nursery and kindergarten as most parents can foresee that the classes would run online for this age group for at least next six months or so. We cannot predict the efficacy of the vaccination and its availability. Most parents want their kids to remain safe and at home”, said Ritu Kaul, Principal of Delhi Public School. Likewise, Principal of Innocent Hearts School Rajeev Palival, too, hinted that there could be a decline in admissions at pre-nursery and nursery levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/homeschooling-hits-a-home-run-192343
02-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Health workers skeptical about efficacy of  Covaxin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 1While 12,500 health workers in the district have already been registered to be vaccinated for the first phase of the Covid vaccine programme in the district, there are some who remain skeptical about the affects of the vaccine which they will shortly get a shot of.18 +ve in Hoshiarpur dist, no death reported  Hoshiarpur: The district reported 18 more Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the infection tally to 7,748, while the total number of Covid deaths remained 311 with no death reported on Friday. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said with the receipt of 1,740 new samples from people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken so far in the district till date has reached to 2,36,159. While the pan card linked database of all the health workers in the district – private and government – was registered for those to be vaccinated in the first phase.Sources in the Health Department say the news trickling in from across the works and the rumour mongering around Covid is not helping matters due to which many staff members are apprehensive. While some also see the vaccine as a ticket to flee the gloom of 2020, others argue they must be wary of the side effects reported elsewhere in the world following trials.Dr Kashmiri Lal, a frontline worker and in-charge of the Covid centre in Jalandhar during the peak of the pandemic, said, “I do not believe we have any reason to doubt the efficacy of the vaccine. It shall after all be implemented and introduced after due checking. The government knows what it is doing. The vaccine will be introduced after much deliberations and trials. I think it’s in our best interests to get vaccinated. I also think it shall go a long way in protecting us from the new strain.”Dr Raman Gupta, in-charge PNDT, Jalandhar, said, “I for one am skeptical about the vaccine in it very first phase. The side effects of the new vaccine are still not known. While I am among people who still haven’t got the shot of the swine flu vaccine so far, despite being a frontline health worker. The new Covid vaccine shall have to be observed for some time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-workers-skeptical-about-efficacy-of-covaxin-192344
02-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Hoshiarpur will witness rapid development in 2021: Minister||Hoshiarpur, January 1 The outgoing year 2020 was a year of development works in Hoshiarpur with commencement of several projects despite the Covid-19 crisis. The year 2021 will also see rapid strides in holistic development as the Punjab Government would dedicate state-of-the-art sports complex, community centre auditorium with ultra modern facilities, judicial complex, government medical college, Armed Forces Preparatory Institute, Bajwara, to public. Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora stated this here on Wednesday.  The minister said the new judicial complex would be completed at a cost of Rs 60.28 crore while the multipurpose indoor sports stadium would cost Rs 6.99 crore as the construction on this project was at final phase. He said the state-of-the-art community centre being constructed in the heart of the city would also cater to the needs of common masses with capacity of over 1,000 people. The project would be completed at a cost of Rs 6.11 crore.  Arora informed that the state government had issued sanctions for establishment of S Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (boys) at Bajwara, which would be constructed at a cost of Rs 22.95 crore and the work would be initiated shortly. The local government college is all set to have a new girls’ hostel at a cost of Rs 4.19 crore, besides having a state-of-the-art library which would cost Rs 2.41 crore.  Divulging details about the upcoming government medical college, the minister said this project would be completed at a cost of Rs 325 crore with 60:40 Centre-state share. The work of cancer hospital would also be started soon as the design of this project was on the advanced stage of completion. Listing some major projects commenced in the year 2020, Sunder Sham Arora stated that under the women empowerment programme of the state government as many as 38 needy women were given e-rickshaws worth Rs 50 lakh under corporate social responsibility funds.  In the year 2020, all elementary schools have been equipped with smart classes besides installation of RO systems in all these schools. The local Kotwali Bazar and Clock Tower area will not have to face waterlogging problems as a storm sewer project worth over Rs 40 lakh will be completed soon. The city will get an ultra modern cycle track with the facility of GPS enabled cycles. The work on this 8.5 km long stretch, to cost around Rs 50 lakh, has already been initiated.  A state-of-the-art  special Covid isolation ward equipped with all modern facilities on the premises of the Civil Hospital to be constructed at a cost of Rs 50 lakh, the minister further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-will-witness-rapid-development-in-2021-minister-192345
02-01-2021||---||New shed to raise gaushala capacity to 800||Jalandhar, January 1To control the stray cattle-related road mishaps and save the precious lives in the district, the administration is set to augment the capacity of Kaniya Kalan Gaushala in Shahkot to 800 from January 15 onwards.The work of a new shed that would enhance the capacity of the cow shed from 500 cattle to 800 cattle is already being carried out. Participating in a video-conference presided over by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the cost of the new shed is Rs14 lakh and work is near completion.Thori said it would be adequately equipped with electricity, fodder and drinking water facility for the animals. The DC added that the gaushala has three cattle sheds in it and these house 519 cattle presently.He added that as the construction of this new shed completes, the directions have been issued to the Rural Development and Panchayat Department and the Municipal Corporation to find out a suitable piece of land to develop another gaushala in Jalandhar. He said that the immediate need to prevent the mishaps is to shift the cattle from the roads and ensure proper care of animals.Thori further asked the Animal Husbandry Department to work on sticking night-glow radium neck belts on cattle on the roads to prevent accidents and told police officials about beginning a helpline number for people where they can report about stray cattle.The DC said that district administration has adopted a multi-pronged strategy to combat the menace which has led to the increase in road mishaps in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-shed-to-raise-gaushala-capacity-to-800-192346
02-01-2021||---||Ex-SMO felicitated for selfless services||Jalandhar, January 1 Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, Punjab, Suresh Kumar on Friday felicitated former Senior Medical Officer of the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, Dr Kashmiri Lal for rendering selfless service to people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Honouring Dr Kashmiri Lal during a function organised by the Shaheed Parivar Fund here today, the Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister lauded the work done by him during the pandemic to give relief to the people.  Dr Kashmiri Lal, who joined the government service in 1993, superannuated from the service on December 31, 2020. The most visible face of the Health Department during the pandemic, he was among the frontline workers who set up the initial mechanism to fight Covid in the district. When Jalandhar saw over 100 to 200 cases a day in the peak days of Covid – the doctor served as the in-charge of the Covid care mechanism at the hospital. The initial days of Covid when the staff was quite unsure of the disease – saw him slugging it out to provide proper services.  As in-charge of the Covid relief centre set up at the local Civil Hospital, he provided relief to many people when Jalandhar saw peak in Covid cases. During the peak of pandemic Dr Kashmiri Lal was among the frontline Covid warriors who put their own life at risk for healthcare. Meanwhile, expressing gratitude for the felicitation, Dr Kashmiri Lal said he was overwhelmed at being chosen for the rare honour. He said he would he continue to serve people in the private capacity even after his superannuation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-smo-felicitated-for-selfless-services-192348
02-01-2021||---||Sisters donate money from piggy banks to farmers||Jalandhar, January 1Navroz Kaur (19) and Komalpreet (15), daughters of former District Science Supervisor Baljinder Singh, recently not only convinced their father to visit the Singhu border but also donated money from piggy banks to the protesting farmers.The girls spent two days at the border and met farmers. They also carried placards with them which read, “Sarkar ne kaale kanoon likhe ne dosto, enna nu rad krvake asi itihas likhange”.Baljinder shared that it was a one-day visit, but his daughters were so moved by the environment there that they urged him to stay there for one more day.Navroz and Komalpreet not only spent time with farmers of Punjab but also interacted with their counterparts from Haryana and tried to understand every aspect of their protest. They also observed unity and different cultures at the Singhu and Tikri borders.Baljinder Singh had earlier shared that his daughters asked him to go there and support the farmers. He said his daughters had motivated him to go earlier too and show solidarity with the farmers. “It is because of their pursuance that I visited the border. Now again, I will take them along just because they insisted and told me that they wanted to see the situation there,” he said.“As my daughters saw children and elderly persons going there, they also expressed their wish to go there. Apart from the protest, I have seen an amalgamation of every culture. There is no discrimination among people there. Children belonging to poor families in Delhi have been coming and are partaking of langar which farmers are organising,” Baljinder said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sisters-donate-money-from-piggy-banks-to-farmers-192351
02-01-2021||---||Rs 21.49 cr disbursed for development works||Jalandhar, January 1Jalandhar Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Wednesday disbursed grants to panchayats of Phillaur and Rurka Kalan to undertake development works worth Rs 21.49 crore in rural areas.Out of this amount, Rs 15.63 crore would be spent in villages of Phillaur block and Rs 5.86 crore would be allocated for Rurka Kalan block. “The government’s Smart Village Campaign and Urban Environment Improvement Programme have brought transformational changes in the landscape of the state,” said the Member of Parliament. Assembly incharge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for releasing ample funds for development of Phillaur. He informed that so far, the government has spent Rs 79.62 crore in rural areas of Phillaur, Rs 8.30 crore in Phillaur city, Rs 10.62 crore in block Rurka Kalan, and Rs 18.65 crore in Goraya on the development works.He said the Punjab Government has taken several welfare measures for farmers, including waving loans of small and marginal farmers, whereas Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is hell bent on destroying them by refusing to repeal the anti-farmers laws. Loans worth Rs 60.86 crore had been waved in Phillaur, he said.Zila parishad members Surjeet Singh Pehalwan, Harmesh Lal, Pushpa Devi and Gurpreet Kaur, block samiti Phillaur chairman Davinder Singh Lasara, Rurka Kalan Block Congress chief Rakesh Duggal, Rurka Kalan Block panchayat samiti chairperson Harjinder Kaur, Goraya Market Committee chairman Dara Singh Rai, Phillaur Market ommittee Chairman Makhan Singh Khaira, vice-chairman block samiti Phillaur Jaswinder Singh Jassi, Goraya Market Committee vice-chairman Ram Lubhaya and sarpanch Paramjit Pamma, among others, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-21-49-cr-disbursed-for-development-works-192352
02-01-2021||Jalandhar||To manage stubble, Jalandhar wheat growers opt for mulching||Scores of Punjab farmers have stopped burning the paddy stubble and adopted a technique called mulching, in which the stubble is used in fields and for sowing wheat.Experts say the technique doesn’t require costly machines and the input cost per acre is also quite less. Gyan Singh of Jairampur village used to burn paddy before 2017 but for the past three years, he hasn’t indulged in the practice because he found a new way of using the stubble in the field itself.The technique involvedWhen the paddy is harvested, the stubble is spread with the help of a reaper that prepares the field for wheat cultivation. Then wheat seeds along with fertilisers are sown and the fields are irrigated. Many farmers of Jairampur village in Kapurthala and Nusi village of Jalandhar, apart from those in other districts, are setting an example using the techniqueThere are many farmers of Jairampur village in Kapurthala and Nusi village of Jalandhar apart from other districts, who are setting an example. Gyan Singh grows wheat on his 35 acres.In the first year, he had sown wheat using this technique on only one acre and when he found the results to be satisfactory, he shifted entirely to mulching.“FIRs were being lodged against farmers for burning paddy residue, this is what prompted me to think of some other technique that will resolve the stubble problem and won’t cause any pollution,” Gyan Singh added.Kabal Singh of the same village said he had also started sowing wheat using the same technique three years ago and was seeing good results.Gurpreet Singh Dabrikhana, a farm expert, said the cost of production was lower as compared to other techniques. He claimed that at present, wheat was sown on more than 1 lakh acres in Punjab using this technique.“The yield of the crop using this technique is better. Also, 90 per cent of weed problem also gets resolved because of mulching,” he said. “In the first year when Gyan Singh grew wheat using the technique, 23 quintals per acre were harvested as compared to 16 quintals per acre using other techniques,” Dabrikhana said.Naresh Gulati, Agriculture Officer, Jalandhar, agreed that the technique was giving good results. “This requires low input cost, so small farmers must adopt such techniques, which will help them a lot,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-manage-stubble-jalandhar-wheat-growers-opt-for-mulching-192390
