03-01-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA grants Rs 3L for Valmiki dharamshala||Hoshiarpur, January 2Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar on Saturday released a grant of Rs 3 lakh for the completion of Valmiki Dharamshala in Patti village of the Chabbewal Assembly constituency.Recently a demand letter was given by the Valmiki committee to him demanding completion of the unfinished work of the dharamshala, after which the MLA arranged a development grant of Rs 3 lakh to be credited into the account of the panchayat to complete the work. He told the panchayat members that there should be no compromise with the quality of the construction work. Capt. Sohan Lal Sahota thanked the MLA for the new year gift to Valmiki brotherhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-grants-rs-3l-for-valmiki-dharamshala-192860
03-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two arrested for gambling||6 peddlers held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The police have arrested six peddlers, including a woman and recovered intoxicants from them. The Garhdiwala police arrested Paramjeet Kaur, a resident of Jauhla village, and recovered 6,570 ml liquor from her. The Garhshankar police recovered intoxicating pills from the possession of Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Dallewal village. The Chabbewal police arrested Jai, a resident of Jalandhar, and recovered 15,000 ml liquor from him. The police recovered 13 grams of intoxicating powder from Luv Kumar, a resident of Bassi Kalan. The Hariana police nabbed Jasvir Singh and recovered 70 grams of intoxicating powder from him. The Mukerian police held Jaspal Masih, a resident of Dhanoa village, and recovered 30,000 ml liquor from him.The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act and the Excise Act. ocOne nabbed with jewellery, Rs 1.5LHoshiarpur: The CIA staff arrested a man, allegedly involved in several cases of burglaries, and recovered Rs 1.5 lakh, jewellery and a bike from him. ASI Buta Singh said they set up a naka near Sikri village. The accused, Rajiv Kumar, of Benchan village, was stopped and during his search 10 gold rings, one bracelet and one mangal sutra, besides Rs1.5 lakh was recovered from him. The accused has been booked under Sections 454, 380 and 411 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-arrested-for-gambling-192868
03-01-2021||Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Monday launched Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) for the financial year 2021-22 prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for Kapurthala district. She informed that the PLP would meet the required credit for priority sector of the district. Rakesh Verma||Credit plan for agri, MSME sectors||Science City students win INSPIRE awardTwo ideas (currency sanitiser and fire escape) of Innovation Hub members of Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC) have been selected for INSPIRE award under MANAK scheme of DST. The Ideas are being mentored to develop these further for practical utilisation under the Innovation Hub. Dushyant Verma and Satvik got Rs10,000 each for the development of these innovative ideas and innovation work. This was informed by Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City. She said both innovators were students of KV-2 RCF, Kapurthlala. INSPIRE award MANAK is one of the flagship programmes of Department of Science and Technology, Governemnt of India. INSPIRE awards aim to motivate students in the age group of 10-15 years and studying in classes VI to X to think out-of-box and pursue careers in science. The Science City Innovation Hub was set up in 2017 and continues to mentor and develop new ideas from the society. More than 700 members from various schools of the region have been enrolled as hub members, she said. The hub conducts science camps and innovative programmes for school students and teachers including schools from Atal Tinkering Labs.Traffic police hold awareness talkTraffic Police Kapurthala spread awareness among truck drivers about under run protection. Awareness was spread among truck drivers to install under run protection (safety guards) at the front, back, right and left side of their truck and other heavy vehicles to protect themselves from accidents. Drivers were told many road accidents can be prevented this way. While drivers were asked to be careful during the winter fog they were also advised to drive slowly to avoid accidents. In charge traffic education cell Gurbachan Singh said the drivers should follow traffic rules. They were also asked to stay away from drugs and use dipper at night. (Contributed by Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/credit-plan-for-agri-msme-sectors-192870
03-01-2021||Jalandhar||‘Sardar Buta Singh’s demise a big loss’||A condolence meeting was held at Lyallpur Khalsa College on Saturday on the sad demise of noted statesman and former Cabinet Minister and an alumnus of the college Buta Singh.Paying tributes to the departed leader, Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said Buta Singh had a close association with Swarn Singh, former Union Cabinet Minister, and Balbir Singh, former Member Parliament, and presidents of college management, and also with Hira Singh, a noted Punjabi writer and freedom fighter.He said that the college was proud of Singh for his services rendered to the country. Dr Samra also informed that apart from serving as the Cabinet Minister, Singh also served as Governor of Bihar and as chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Castes from 2007 to 2010. The occasion was witnessed by the presence of teaching and non-teaching staff of the college. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sardar-buta-singhs-demise-a-big-loss-192866
03-01-2021||---||Police issue various ban orders||Jalandhar, January 2The Commissionerate police on Saturday issued various prohibitory orders to maintain law and order in the city.Exercising the powers vested under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act 1973, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Balkar Singh ordered all restaurants, clubs, bars, pubs or any licensed eating and drinking joint to not to take any order for food, beverages, alcohol after 11 pm. Moreover, no new customer should be allowed to enter the restaurants.In another order, DCP said that all restaurants, clubs and bars should be closed by 12 am. In case of joints attached to liquor vends, these should also be completely shut by 11 pm.DCP further ordered that all the hotels, guest houses, resorts and any other public accommodation that is used for a temporary stay would have to keep the records of all the people who seek accommodation there. The authorities have to get the copy of an identity card, mobile number, the purpose of staying or visiting the place, details of people one has with him or her, number of days that one has to stay, room number. In the case of any foreigner stays in their premises, they have to inform the head of the Foreigners Registration Office (Commissionerate Police).In addition all have to install CCTV cameras at the entrance, corridor, parking lots and reception counter of the building. If any person having a criminal record is being identified or any person is being arrested the police of other states or districts, the authorities must inform the local police station. Singh directed that the contractors of parking lots at the railway station, bus stands, religious places, hospitals and malls would install the high-definition cameras inside and outside the parking lots. He said that the owners must submit the CCTV recording of 45 days to the security branch of the Commissionerate police in CD format.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-issue-various-ban-orders-192863
03-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Gangs of robbers, vehicle lifters busted, four held||The Sarhali police busted a three-member gang of robbers while the Patti city police unearthed a three-member gang of vehicle lifters on Saturday.SSP Dhruman H Nimble informed newsmen here that the robbers Amritpal Singh and Harjinder Singh of Khara village have been arrested by the Sarhali police from nearby Billianwala village. Their third accomplice Pali of Khara village absconded from the spot. The SSP revealed that besides committing other criminal activities the gang stole the offerings from a gurdwara of Dhotian village by breaking the ‘golak’.A case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered by the Sarhali police. The SSP added that two members of the vehicle lifters gang Manpreet Singh Mani of Lahuka and Shiva of Patti town have been arrested. The police seized eight stolen motor cycles. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gangs-of-robbers-vehicle-lifters-busted-four-held-192869
03-01-2021||Jalandhar||Virtual alumni meet organised||Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, Mehr Chand Polytechnic College organised its Ist online alumni meet. As many as 70 students participated in the meet. Students ranging from the first batch of the college to newly pass out students participated in the event. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh welcomed all and apprised them of the activities of the college. He also expressed the purpose and motive of organising the meet. Ajay Goswami, president of the Alumni Association, stressed that the meeting of this group must be organised every year. One of the old student pass out during 1958, Dr PC Markanda, congratulated the faculty for bringing the college at this stage. Prof NL Arora, PL Sharma, Narinder Sharma, Raj Kumar Chowdhary, principal Ajay Arora, Vinod Kapoor, Rajan Jhangra, Anil Uppal and Neelam Dhir also addressed the meeting and shared their views. They said that a meet would be organised shortly on the college campus, so that all students may have glimpse of their alma mater.Many students expressed their desire to sponsor scholarship for the poor and downtrodden students studying in the college. In the end, principal Dr Jagroop Singh thanked all and also promised to organise next meet very shortly. Rajesh Kumar handled the event in an excellent manner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-alumni-meet-organised-192864
03-01-2021||---||Swami Vivekananda scholar spreads word of wisdom||Jalandhar, January 2“Life should be satvic and has to be spent for a good cause,” believes Dr Satish K Kapoor. Academician, British Council scholar, historian and an encyclopedia of Hinduism, he is one of those eminent academicians with a keen sense of history. The 70-year-old, an authority of Hinduism and spirituality, has been propagating his wisdom in the country as well as abroad.Dr Satish K Kapoor, a British Council scholarAt the British Council something inside me stirred. My quest for knowledge was fuelled by the August Company I was in. I was among people who go through every single aspect of a thing. I used to visit library from 9 am to 9 pm. At home, I sat over my desk all day penning and reading tomes.A British Council scholar, he studied and wrote on Hinduism in the West at a time when it was extremely rare and unheard of for a Punjabi bagging a British Council scholarship. A Swami Vivekananda scholar, his insights are equally valued by the Advaita Ashram in Kolkata and the Warkari community of Maharashtra. He’s been invited by both to share his expertise and to honour him.Documenting the historical traditions and culture of the Vaishnavite Hindus to penning a treatise on the Khalsa, he has penned seven books and nearly a thousand articles for leading English dailies of the country. He chose to come back to this native city despite having toured the world and having had opportunities to stay abroad. Coming from an affluent family, his grandfather, a politician, and father a timber merchant, encouraged him to study and excel in academia.“I was always encouraged to study and have spent my life in scholarly pursuits. During the pandemic I was busy writing,” he says. He is currently working on his upcoming book titled ‘Know Yourself – The Essentials of Yog and Spirituality’. His latest book ‘Hinduism – the Faith Eternal’ was published by Advaita Ashrama, Kolkata. He was also associate subject editor and substance editor of encyclopedia of Hinduism, a project of India Heritage Research Foundation (USA), and contributed 50 entries. In 1974, he became the only north Indian to be selected as British Council scholar at the University of London. Studying there for a year, at the School of Oriental and African Studies, he says a flame was lit inside of him; to research and study. During his over a year-long stint in the UK, he worked with the British Museum frequenting the Indian Office Library and Indian-British libraries. Tutored under Prof Kenneth A Ballhatchet – his supervisor at the time – Dr Kapoor studied amongst scholars ZH Zaidi, Prof BN Pandey, KN Chaudhari among others who were all his teachers.“At the British Council something inside me stirred. My quest for knowledge was fuelled by the August Company I was in. I was among people who go through every single aspect of a thing before writing about it. I used to visit library from 9 am to 9 pm. At home, I sat over my desk all day penning and reading tomes. My landlord, a very kind man, asked me to pay my rent for two months then didn’t charge a penny because he said I was a scholar. He saw me study day and night,” says Dr Kapoor.After a much fruitful stay in the UK and a dissertation of Swami Vivekananda, Dr Kapoor returned with three trunks of research papers and material back to India. His dissertation in the UK was turned into a doctoral thesis at the Panjab University, Chandigarh. Eventually it took shape as one of his noted books titled ‘Swami Vivekanand – Sojourns and Impact on the West’.Having started as a lecturer of history at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, in 1970, he spent over four decades in academia. He became vice-principal and later principal of the same college in 2005. In 2008 he joined DAV Sholapur as the local secretary of nine institutions, until 2012. From thereon, he came back to Jalandhar and joined DAV University as the founder registrar. He lives in Jalandhar with his wife, academic Usha Kapoor, with whom he has three children and six children who are settled abroad.AwardsHe has been honoured for his contribution to education (2005) at state-level Republic Day function, with the Shaheed Rajpal DAV Literary Award (2009) by ex-Governor Karnataka and Soham Smarkam Award (2010) for best contribution in prose to Bhavan’s Journal, Mumbai. He was adjudged ‘Star of the Week’ by Punjab Star, a Canadian weekly in 2004, and awarded Certificate of Recognition by Mississauga, Brampton Member Parliament, on behalf of House of Commons (2004). He was given Ambassador of Peace Award by Universal Peace Foundation in association with Interreligious and International Federation for World Peace, and a Certificate of Appreciation from Elain Moore, Regional Councillor, Corporation of the City of Brampton.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swami-vivekananda-scholar-spreads-word-of-wisdom-192867
03-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||At 65, this blood donor hits a century||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2Starting the New Year with a noble act, a retired headmaster from Government High School, Patara, Sanjivan Dadhwal donated blood for the 100th time. Dadhwal, who will turn 65 this month said it would be his last blood donation because of his age.A sneak-peek into his life“Those who are healthy and are aged between 18 and 65, must donate blood to the needy. It costs nothing, but gives you immense satisfaction,” Dadhwal said.He added that he started donating blood at the age of 42 and there was no looking back since then. He donated his blood for around 85 times at the Civil Hospital and was always a call away whenever required.“It is not considered healthy to donate blood once you reach the age of 65. But, the fact that I was able to be of some help to people around me gives me a sense of relief,” he said.Sanjivan Dadhwal, a retired headmasterIt is not considered healthy to donate blood once you reach the age of 65. But, the fact that I was able to be of some help to people around me gives me a sense of relief. Those who are healthy and are aged between 18 and 65, must donate blood to the needy. It costs nothing.Dadhwal is a science expert too. He was selected as an evaluator for the 27th National Children’s Science Congress that was held at Thiruvananthapuram last year from December 27 to 31.Dadhwal, as a science headmaster, completed his 38-year service with the Education Department. He retired from Government High School, Patara, in the year 2016. But after his retirement, Dadhwal remained active and was still providing services at state and national level. He has been a guiding force in organising several science-related events in the state.Dadhwal was also the local coordinator on behalf of the National Council for Science and Technology for 106th Indian Science Congress that was held at Lovely Professional University (LPU). He coordinated Children Science Congress and also performed his duty as an evaluator for state-level science Congress for Punjab, J&K and Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-65-this-blood-donor-hits-a-century-192861
03-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19 can lead to mental complications, says expert||Hoshiarpur, January 2Covid-19 outbreak has affected mental health badly as suddenly many of us are facing stress, isolation, loss of jobs, salaries and loved ones, fear and apprehension of contracting illness. During pandemic, many people are facing insomnia depression, anxiety and increased use of drugs, alcohol, tobacco etc. With everything going on, people can find themselves ruminating, feeling hopeless and helpless and ultimately depressed.Dr Damanjit Kaur, Senior PsychiatristIt can lead to neurological and mental complications. People with pre-existing mental illness or substance use disorder are particularly vulnerable in such a situation. People already on medication for disorder like depression, bipolar illness or schizophrenia should continue with their treatment and their attendants should be aware of new or worsening of symptoms.Dr Damanjit Kaur, senior psychiatrist, addressing an online session on ‘Covid effects on mental health’ said that Covid-19 can lead to neurological and mental complications. People with pre-existing mental illness or substance use disorder are particularly vulnerable in such a situation. People already on medication for disorder like depression, bipolar illness or schizophrenia should continue with their treatment and their attendants should be aware of new or worsening of symptoms, she pointed out.Depression is more common in women than in men. The average point prevalence of unipolar depressive episodes has been estimated to be 1.9 per cent for men and 3.2 per cent for women, and one-year prevalence has been estimated to be 5.8 per cent for men and 9.5 per cent for women, she maintained.She further said that children are also going through a tough time because of online schooling. Students don’t have physical interaction with people, especially their peers. Due to internet exposure children are getting trapped into cyber bullying, cybercrime etc. Screen time has increased which has affected the mental and physical health of the students. Nobody can have an actual school-like infrastructure at home which affects a lot in understanding concepts instead of mugging them up, she opined.According to the WHO, the mental health workforce in India is not up to the mark and there is a huge shortage of psychiatrists and psychologists in the country. It states that in India, per 1,00,000 populations there are (0.3) psychiatrists (0.07) psychologists and while the desirable number is above three for psychiatrists and psychologists.WHO also estimated that about 7.5 per cent Indians suffer from mental disorders and by the end of this year it is predicted that roughly 20 per cent of Indians will suffer from mental illness according to numbers. As many as 56 million Indians suffer from depression and another 38 million suffer from anxiety disorders, she informed.Dr Damanjit said that over 20 per cent of adults aged 60 and above suffer from mental or neurological disorder and the most common mental and neurological disorder in this age group is dementia and depression. In addition, older people experience bereavement, social isolation, and drop in the socio economic status with retirement resulting in loneliness and distress which may need long term care, she opined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-can-lead-to-mental-complications-says-expert-192862
03-01-2021||---||Woman attempts suicide in Jalandhar, suffers spinal code injury||Jalandhar, January 2A 25-year-old woman sustained major injuries on her spinal cord, hip bone and legs after she attempted to commit suicide on January 1.The victim has been identified as Jyoti Sharma, a resident of Aman Nagar, Sodal road. The woman reportedly jumped from a flyover at 5.45 pm and was admitted to the District Civil Hospital by the traffic police.Ravinder Singh, Station House Officer, Navi Baradari police station, said the woman suffered fracture on her legs, spinal cord and hip bone. “Around six in the evening on January 1, we received information that a woman has jumped from the BMC flyover, following which we reached the spot and rushed the victim to the hospital. In her statement to the police, the victim told that she took the extreme step due to financial issues. She was under depression due to her relationship,” said the SHO.A native of Nawanshahr, the woman was residing in the city with her father, mother and brother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-attempts-suicide-in-jalandhar-suffers-spinal-code-injury-192858
03-01-2021||---||Covid-19: 38 fresh cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 2With 38 new cases of Covid reported in Jalandhar on Saturday, the total number of positive cases in the district reached 19,982. The health authorities reported no casualty today. With this, the toll remains at 643.At present, the district has 326 active cases and 19,013 people had been discharged while as many as 200 people have been under home isolation.In Kapurthala district, 11 people tested positive for the Covid-19 today.1 death, 22 new cases reported in HoshiarpurThe authorities reported 22 new positive cases in the district on Saturday. With this, the number of positive patients reached 7,770.The authorities reported one death and the toll reached 312. The deceased woman belonged to Rajwal in Hajipur block of the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said total number of samples taken so far in the district has increased to 2,37,719 to date.At present, the district has 113 active cases and 7345 recovery cases. Dr Ghotra said out of 22 positive cases, nine were reported from the city while remaining patients were from other blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-38-fresh-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-192859
03-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Powerlifting passion despite disability||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2September 19, 2002, can never be forgotten by ASI Parvinder Singh, a Punjab Police para powerlifter. It still haunts him as on this day he lost his ability to stand on his feet. However, this did not deter him from realising his dream and even after becoming 100 per cent disabled, he continued to follow his passion of powerlifting.ASI Parvinder SinghI was 27-year-old when a road accident left me paraplegic. I slipped into depression, which slowed down my recovery process. For three years, I remained bed-ridden and later became dependent on wheelchair. While I was struggling to come out of depression, my friend and coach Rajinder Singh Rahelu, an Arjuna Awardee para powerlifter, motivated me to get into sport again. With an unsound body and mind, I decided to take up the sport again.The 45-year-old player says an accident can cripple a sportsman, but not his sportsmanship. “I was 27-year-old when a road accident left me paraplegic. I was heading to my home after the practice session when a vehicle hit my bike shattering my dream. When I was being taken to a hospital, the only thing running in my mind was that I would not be able play anymore.“I slipped into depression which slowed down my recovery process. For three years, I remained bed-ridden and later became dependent on wheelchair. While I was struggling to come out of depression, my friend and coach Rajinder Singh Rahelu, an Arjuna Awardee para powerlifter, motivated me to get into sport again. With an unsound body and mind, I decided to take up the sport again. In his first National Para Powerlifting Championship (2006), held in Jaipur, he won a gold medal and became a national champion. Since then there has been no looking back and after representing Punjab in national events, I got opportunities to represent India in international championships,” added Parvinder.A resident of Phillaur, he joined the Punjab Armed Police in 1994 due to his excellent achievements in powerlifting. After participating in paralympics, he created history by clinching a bronze medal in the 2009 IWAS World Games. This is the only medal in the Indian history of para powerlifting won by a disabled player with spinal cord injury.To encourage men and women with disabilities to join sports, he is running Para Sports Academy at his home and is training budding para powerlifters free of cost. He also formed Punjab State Para Powerlifting team that won the 2007, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2015, 2016 and 2019 national championships. His 12 players have also been honoured with the State Award for Disabled Sports by the Punjab Government.His major achievementsBronze medal in IWAS World Games, Bengaluru (2009); 5th rank in APC Asia Paralympics Powerlifting Cup, Malaysia (2007); 4th rank in British Para Powerlifting Championship, Coventry, UK (2018); 5th rank in IPC Athletics Games, Prix, Dubai (2014); and gold medal in National Paralympic Powerlifting Championship, Nagpur (2019).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/powerlifting-passion-despite-disability-192871
03-01-2021||When Covid scare had gripped everyone in the starting||My Covid Experience: ‘Played harmonium, wrote poems’||Narinder KumarI played harmonium, read a lot, wrote poems. In short, I met with myself during the isolation. I was always inclined towards arts but because of daily routine of working, I never got time for myself. I got so busy in these little things, that I forgot that I had Covid!.“It was normal in the beginning but when the fever continued for more than two weeks, it was then when my children asked me to go for the test. Although I was reluctant but got tested and the result was positive,” he said.“But I would say that, although it was such a big deal in the beginning and everyone was scared of the virus, but, it didn’’t make me feel anything. I remained calm and decided to look after my health properly. I consulted a doctor and was given home isolation because I was having a mild fever and didn’’t have any other symptoms.”During that period, his daughter and wife were the pillars of strength. “They made sure that I ate on time and ate well. I kept on checking my fever and oxygen levels twice a day. Everything remained normal,” Kumar added.He looks back on those 14 days as a blessing in disguise, he discovered himself. “I played harmonium, read a lot, wrote poems. In short, I met with myself during the isolation. I was always inclined towards arts but because of daily routine of working, I never got time for myself. I got so busy in these little things, that I forgot that I had Covid!”“I want to say that we all should take precautions but if one contracts the virus, just take it normally. Take good care of yourself, eat properly, maintain good immunity, do pranayam and spend some time with yourself,” Kumar signed off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/my-covid-experience-played-harmonium-wrote-poems-192872
