04-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Kennelling stray dogs in harsh winter season||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 3Manan Arora (28), a resident of 66 Feet Road, is winning hearts over the internet for his benevolent gesture for stray dogs. While he specialises in interior decoration, he has utilised his skills to make small shelter homes for stray dogs.With the help of his workers, he has made nearly 300 kennels in just one month. He also appeals to residents to take these ‘little huts’ for free for stray dogs in their areas. Several people have appreciated Manan’s efforts on social media and he received over 1,000 orders within hours of posting about the same on Facebook.Owner of Sai interiors, Manan said: “The idea to build dog houses occurred to me after my pet dog Russell died in March this year. I am very fond of pet animals and seeing stray dogs struggling to survive during the winter months makes me extremely sad. Therefore, a zeal to do something for these innocent creatures, who cannot even express their miseries to us, drove me to construct these dog houses.” The months of November and December are the only two months for Manan, when he remains unoccupied from his business. Accordingly, he planned to utilise these two months in making ‘shelter homes’ for dogs.Himself a dog lover, Manan said, he had first created a kennel around three years ago, which he had kept outside his house. To make these durable, he has given them wooden and iron finishing. He says for the comfort of dogs, he also spreads dry grass inside that keeps them warm.Winning heartsImpressed by Arora’s kind initiative, several people applauded Arora’s gesture on social media through comments. A user wrote ‘respect’, while another wrote ‘So grateful to have people like you who actually go out to help the voiceless animals’. ‘Super proud of you, respect for you’, expressed another user. Manan said he received tremendous response and several calls after he wrote about the dog houses on social media. Such was the response that he had to ultimately switch off his phone at night. A dog lover from New Zealand even offered to sponsor his initiative for constructing more dog houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kennelling-stray-dogs-in-harsh-winter-season-193273
04-01-2021||---||Dry, wet waste to be disposed of on different days in Ward No. 28||Jalandhar, January 3Members of the Shiv Vihar Residents’ Welfare Society distributed green and blue dustbins to residents to segregate wet and dry waste.Balraj Thakur, councillor, Ward No. 28, and chairman of the health and sanitation ad hoc committee, said it was decided that only dry waste would be given every Wednesday in his ward and the wet waste would be given to rag pickers on the remaining days.Mayor Jagdish Raja along with Balraj Thakur gave the go ahead of distribution of bins to residents. The Mayor said Shiv Vihar Residents’ Society would motivate others to segregate waste.Gorish Kalia of Haryaval Punjab explained about Ecobrick, a plastic bottle packed with used plastic to a set density. These serve as reusable building blocks to manage plastic waste and to beautify houses and parks.He announced that they would beautify a park in the city with Ecobricks. The welfare society declared that they would provide two dresses, gloves, caps to rag pickers and beauty the rehdi by painting it. Balraj Thakur said the MC was spending Rs41 crore for projects to dispose garbage.He said: “Had we managed our garbage properly, two flyovers would have been constructed at the same cost that is being used for garbage disposal project.”He thanked the residents of Shiv Vihar for supporting this noble cause.Thakur and Harcharan Kaur Happy, councillor of Ward No. 31, had recently announced that residents of both these wards would segregate waste at their homes.Thakur had also been visiting bulk waste generators in the city to check if they were segregating waste at the source itself. He said residents would now segregate waste and days have been fixed for lifting of wet and dry waste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dry-wet-waste-to-be-disposed-of-on-different-days-in-ward-no-28-193274
04-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Fighting agri laws & homesickness, farmers torn between two choices||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 3It’s been over a month since farmers are camping at the Delhi borders asking the government to repeal the contentious farm laws.Everyone’s concerned and are waiting for farmers to win this big fight. While some farmers stay at the border for some days, others go back to their families for a day or two. Juggling both ways, they do their pending work and then go back to their farm friends, again.Tarsem Singh, a farmer from Jalandhar, went to Singhu border and spent eight nights there. He came back on Friday because he was worried for his daughter and wife. He will again be leaving on January 6.“I am continuously thinking about my family when I am there and when I come back, I think about my fellow farmers. It’s a very tough situation for us. All of us who have our families behind miss them. But this is our fight, and we will keep on fighting,” he said.Tarsem said he has been witnessing a great change among people here. “Even women are going there to support and many more are willing to go,” he said.“I will go and check every acre of my land before heading back to Delhi,” Tarsem said, hoping that the talks with the Central Government will yield some positive results, otherwise every preparation was being made to start the tractor rally towards Delhi. “You cannot even imagine the scale at which more farmers are getting ready to go to Delhi on January 6, if talks fail,” Tarsem said.Kirpal Singh from Moosapur village has to look after his 90-year-old mother and wife with paralysis. He said it was extremely difficult for him to leave them back alone. “But i’ll say the Almighty is looking after both of them. Even at this age, my mother is healthy and does all the work. But I certainly miss them,” he said.Rana Singh from Mehatpur said his daughter and son were looking after their fields and horses. “I am here today, but will be going back day after tomorrow,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fighting-agri-laws-homesickness-farmers-torn-between-two-choices-193275
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||MP Manish Tewari joins farmers at Singhu border||Garhshankar, January 3Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari on Sunday reached Singhu border to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. He participated in the langar sewa being organised by the head of ‘Qila Anandgarh Sahib’ Baba Sucha Singh.Tewari congratulated the farmers for their patience and perseverance against all odds. “It really takes a lot of dedication and determination to stay put in this severe cold and under such adverse conditions to pursue the mission,” he said, while adding that it was high time that the Government of India realised its blunder and withdrew the three agriculture laws which it had forced upon the country.In a statement issued here, he said, “Despite strong resistance by the Congress party in and outside the Parliament against the three laws, the Central government went ahead using its brute majority to force through the new laws, which no farmer in the country supports. What is the point in continuing with these laws when those who are directly affected do not want them?”Tewari condemned the stubborn attitude of the government in not showing any sensitivity towards the farmers’ concerns. “How does it matter if the government has to withdraw these laws, after all we are living in a democracy and people have all the right to seek the reversal of these laws,” he said, while advising the government not to make it a point of prestige. Government should not consider the farmers as their rivals or competitors but genuine stakeholders who need to be listened to, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-manish-tewari-joins-farmers-at-singhu-border-193276
04-01-2021||---||1 succumbs, 16 +ve in Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts||Jalandhar, January 3In an apparent relief, both Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts saw a significant drop in Covid cases on Sunday.With 16 new cases of Covid reported in Jalandhar on Sunday, the total number of positive cases in the district reached 19,998. With one more Covid death on Sunday, the number of deceased persons reached 644. The active cases in the district are 310, while 19,044 people have been discharged and 202 people are under home isolation in the district. In Kapurthala one person tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.JALANDHAR ROUND-UPSamples collected 4,82,882Negative 4,42,692Positive 19,998Active 310Discharged 19,044Deceased 644Sample inappropriate 4,071Results awaited 2,023Home isolated 202||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-succumbs-16-ve-in-jalandhar-and-kapurthala-districts-193277
04-01-2021||---||FIR against two for ‘opening fire’||Jalandhar, January 3A minor dispute over money took an ugly turn late on Saturday night after two youths allegedly opened fire.While the incident occurred around 9.30 pm, the matter came to light on Sunday morning after the police booked two men for opening fire. The incident was reported near the Taj hotel on Garha Road, after over a dozen youths started fighting and abusing each other. They also damaged each others’ cars.of Jalandhar.SHO, police division number 7, Inspector Ramandeep Singh said the dispute happened as two commission agents failed to deliver their passports. Harjinder Singh, a resident of Kapurthala, told the police that the accused had taken money from him and did not even deliver his passport. Instead of giving him an assurance about giving him his passport, the accused started fighting with him and his friends.“The arguments escalated to an extent that the commission agents flashed guns and fired in the air. The cops detained around five youths after the matter was reported to the police control room by some commuters. Subsequently, after quizzing them, an FIR was registered against the two commission agents identified as Balwinder Singh and Jagmohan Singh, both residents of Kapurthala,” the SHO said.The FIR was registered under Sections 323, 336, 341, 148 and 149 of the IPC and 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act.As per the sources, 2-3 rounds were fired in the air, but the SHO said it was still to be confirmed whether the firing occurred or not as no bullet shell was recovered from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fir-against-two-for-opening-fire-193278
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Minister lays stone of  Rs 1.42-cr facility centre at Boothgarh||Hoshiarpur, January 3To boost wooden inlay handicraft work in the region, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Sunday laid the foundation stone of common facility centre(CFC) at Boothgarh under the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI) an initiative by the Ministry of MSME to promote cluster development.While laying the foundation stone in wood inlay cluster, the minister said the construction of the CFC building would be completed before March 31, where modern machines related with the mechanised work on hand made wooden articles would be installed.He said that the project would be accomplished at a cost of nearly Rs 1.42 crore, which would be beneficial for over 200 artisans in the Hoshiarpur district. The CFC will be developed on 5,500 square feet area, said the minister adding that the project would be initiated under SFURTI.The centre would be equipped with wood CNC, laser cutting and other machines besides having wood treatment and wood seasoning plants etc.Any artisan from the region could take advantage from the CFC while the maintenance of this centre would be done by the Wood Handicraft Artisans Welfare Society, Boothgarh.Once the project goes operational, the artisans of the region can easily get the machine work done on their wooden articles including wood inlay furniture, wooden boxes for ornaments, wooden trays, wooden spinning wheel and other wooden goods, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minister-lays-stone-of-rs-1-42-cr-facility-centre-at-boothgarh-193279
04-01-2021||Jalandhar||Winner felicitated||Self discovery through theatreThe Mahatma Kalidas Dramatic Club of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with the youth welfare department organised a national webinar on “Self Discovery through theater- Reflections on theatre” under Principal Ajay Sareen. The resource person was Prof Mahendra Kumar, theater guru, SNA awardee, professor emeritus and former Chairman, Department of India Theater, Panjab University, Chandigarh. Navroop, Dean, Youth Welfare Department and Kajal Puri, in-charge, Mahatma Kalidas Dramatic Club, were the coordinators. Dr Anjana Bhatia was the moderator who gave a warm welcome to the guest. The webinar started with DAV gaan as per the traditioin of HMV. Addressing the students, Principal Ajay Sareen said the college had a huge contribution in providing information about theatre and its related activities along with the course curriculum to the students and also encouraged them to take up as career opportunity. She also emphasised that audio visual aids create a huge impact compared to any written or verbal form of communication. She congratulated the whole team for organising the event. The key speaker of the event Prof Mahendra Kumar who had won prestigious awards felt elated to be associated with the institution. He, in his valuable talk gave message to the youth to be bonded with the roots and to be a good listener. HMV alumnus Aastha Angrish also registered her presence and she had been a mimicry artist during her tenure as a student. She mimicked few of her voices and everyone was delighted to see her talent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/winner-felicitated-193280
04-01-2021||---||Jalandhar lad wins gold in equestrian Championship||Jalandhar, January 3Jai Sud (18), a trained horse rider and academically brilliant city youngster, has won gold medal in the Junior National Equestrian Championship.The national championship was held in the Army Polo and Riding Club, New Delhi, from December 20-30.He participated in three different events i.e. dressage, show jumping in which he won a silver and bronze respectively. In eventing, he won gold medal. He has just finished his school from Mayo College, Ajmer, and has been riding since when he was only 12. He owns three horses, which his father Gaurav Sud got him from Holland and Germany.Jai has already represented his school at national and international level for several times. He has been to Russia and Egypt for the championships.His younger brother is also studying in Mayo College and is a horse rider too.Retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, NK Sud, grandfather of Jai Sud, said, “His grandson has now taken admission in law degree programme in England and will continue horse riding. Ours is a family of lawyers as his father was also a lawyer”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-lad-wins-gold-in-equestrian-championship-193281
04-01-2021||Jalandhar||5,902 appear for state talent exam||Dr Paramjit is state IMA chiefJalandhar: Dr Paramjit Mann, a pediatrician from Nawanshahr, on Sunday elected as the president of the Punjab unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA). Dr Mann, the former general secretary of IMA, Punjab, has always been very vocal about the rights of doctors in the state. He had opposed the Punjab Clinical Establishment Act, Centre’s attempt to legitimise ‘mixopathy’, and violence on doctors. Besides, he organised various medical check-up camps at Pathlawa village in Nawanshahr where first Covid patient was diagnosed, and other districts to help the state government fight against Covid-19. During the lockdown, Dr Mann kept visiting police stations and police nakas in the Nawanshahr district to examine the frontline warriors. He also examined more than 200 cops. Also, along with other IMA office-bearers, he had been giving valuable tips to combat the pandemic, said Dr Navjot Dahiya, former president of the IMA. The IMA unit of Punjab congratulated Dr Mann and said he would ensure ethical practices in the medical profession and would also take care that the doctor-patient relation would improve in future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-902-appear-for-state-talent-exam-193283
04-01-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Buckle up for shot, the big turn is around the corner||Concerted efforts from State requiredThe invention of Covid vaccine has raised hopes of fighting the worst-ever health crisis the world is facing today. The Indian government is planning to launch a massive vaccination programme in mid-January to fight the deadly contagion effectively. But amid continuous decline in the number of cases and fatalities in the country, the emergence of a more transmissible variant of the disease might make the proposed task overwhelmingly onerous and cumbersome for the central and state governments. Besides issuing fresh guidelines for the Covid-19 surveillance, containment and caution and extending the standard safety protocols till January-end, the Union Health Ministry has asked four states, including Punjab to initiate a dry-run for the anti-Covid vaccine administration. It would assess overall preparedness of their health departments before commencement of the actual vaccination process and improve any shortcomings in the planning, implementation and reporting mechanism. This mock exercise has been successfully completed in Nawanshahr and Ludhiana districts. The state health authorities should make the following concerted efforts for administering Covid vaccine smoothly: to identify millions of recipients above 50 from the high-risk priority groups ie healthcare and frontline workers from private and public facilities, the elderly and people with co-morbidities, and register them on the CoWIN platform through their photo ID for data entry, allocation of date, time and designated session sites for both doses, verify their bonafide before vaccination, manage possible adverse events immediately, create additional storage, transport and distribution arrangement for vaccines, deployment of immunisation teams and management of the crowds at the session sites with proper safety precautions. The government should also ensure enough funds for the purpose; rope in private healthcare sector and check prices and black marketing of the vaccines.DS KangSenior docs should be on their toesEverybody is well acquainted with the fact that how Covid-19 has devastated the human life. The only hope to get rid of it is the vaccine and eventually the day has come which all of us were looking forward to it. The vaccine is out and the Health Department is all set to take care of it. It is a herculean task to deal with the vaccine as this ailment has already taken so many lives. It should be obligatory that senior officials from the Health Department take this charge instead of giving it to the nurses and compounders. The people should also cooperate with the team of doctors and must follow their guidelines.Saahil HansEverybody must be alert & cooperativeHuman society is replete with different diseases at different times. From pandemics like Plague, Spanish Flu, Aids to the present Covid-19, millions of lives have been lost. But as the diseases were there, so were the therapies and vaccines were discovered and invented. This pandemic has also resulted in crores of fatalities worldwide. Fortunately, the medical science has come up with a number of vaccines at good speed; Sputnik, Astra-Zeneca, Pfizer and Moderna are being marketed. India has a larger population compared to many other countries where they are being administered. So, the government has to gird up its preparations for vaccinating the entire population. Sputnik and Astra-Zeneca have to be stored at 4 degree centigrade, whereas the two at -70 degree temperatures which is not possible in India. The government should ask the municipalities, corporations and health authorities to do the needful as these bodies have data of population, their names, age and addresses. The elderly people, children below 10 years and people with co-morbidities like diabetes, heart diseases etc should be given those shots on priority basis. The medical staff like doctors, nurses and other health workers should also be given preference for vaccinations. Their record and data should be registered properly because second dose is to be given after 21 or 28 days. The antibodies come up a week or so after the second dose. So, the people have to take due precautions during that time like mask-wearing, social distancing and frequent hand washing. It is a war-like situation. So everybody should be alert and cooperative.Dr JS WadhwaKeep a Centralised database of each distDaily news reports that the Health Department and district administrations are planning the most efficient way for administering the vaccine smoothly keeping the priority parameter in mind in which the healthcare and essential service workers and senior citizens are covered. So far, the administration is doing a great job planning everything prior to the arrival of the vaccine by running dry runs of vaccines in various districts timely, identifying the vaccine distribution centres, registering healthcare workers, etc. In order to keep it smooth, the easiest way is to build a centralised database of each district keeping a record of the Aadhar card number of the person who is receiving the vaccine with a timestamp and a history of any recently encountered disease or a chronic one. The database should be synchronised every 24 hours with other districts of the state to keep an eye on the distributed vaccines in contrast to the used ones. This will eliminate the risk of resale in black. Furthermore, as the vaccination will only be available at government and civic bodies, the role of medical superintendents becomes quite crucial. To avoid any bribe and unfair means, the medical superintendent’s post should be exchanged with the neighbouring district’s vaccination centres. A majority lies in the fear of the vaccine’s reliability of encountering the virus without any side-effects. They prefer using precautions without any vaccination. Therefore, an awareness campaign should come into play as a second phase where the feedback of the immune ones is campaigned and shared on social media and other platforms to eliminate the fears. A booth can be set up at major travelling points such as airports, railway stations, bus stands where the passenger traffic density is high. The vaccination should be done with the consent of the passenger to avoid any dispute. The cost will also play a crucial factor in its distribution. The vaccine can be subsidised for people falling below BPL such as daily wage workers, labourers etc for mass immunisation.Gurmanjot SinghAdminister dose in two partsThe Health Department is preparing to administer Covid vaccination, which is the only visible remedy to stop people from contracting the virus. As it will be a challenging task for the government to administer vaccine, the dose should be given in two parts (half dose followed by full second dose). We must show patience and need not panic. It will take three to six months to administer the vaccine as lakhs of doses of medicines will be needed. These would need cold storage facility. The government should make a detailed list of who should be given the dose on priority. Healthcare workers followed by senior citizens and diabetic and kidney patients should be administered the dose to begin with. The government should set up centres or booths in every area and take the help of healthcare workers and anganwari and government teachers. Also start online facility for registration to avoid chaos. Make a list of 50 to 100 people. Make waiting, vaccination and observation areas to observe its side-effects. The preparations should be undertaken on a war footing.Shashi KiranFix time schedule and venues for publicBased upon the broad guidelines issued by the Central Health Ministry, the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN), a digitalised platform, will be used to track the enlisted beneficiaries for vaccination and Covid-19 vaccines on a real-time basis. The task of administering the vaccine to the identified target groups as per defined prioritisation is not as much difficult as to check the spread of the deadly virus. And certainly it will be a big challenge for the administration to implement it smoothly. As the dry run of the vaccines has been successfully carried out, the next step will be fixing the time schedule and venues as per proximity and convenience of the group selected for immunisation. There will be no problem with healthcare workers who are chosen to be vaccinated in the beginning as they are mentally prepared and professionally trained for such types of situations. However, it will be a challenging task to those people who are above 50 years of age which is to be further bifurcated as per their medical history and immunity levels for prioritisation. The government needs to give due publicity through print and electronic media and social media for awareness and discipline required for both pre and post vaccination process. As the government has already come out with centralized website and with required data and comprehensive guidelines, there will be no problem in fixing time and venue for those who will be called for vaccination. Sufficient time and adequate information needs to be given online through SMS/email on mobile of intended beneficiaries. A centralised grievances cell/a 24-hour helpline may be kept operational on a real-time basis for quick remedy for those affected in any way after vaccination.Jagdish Chande QUESTIONDespite several measures taken in the past to check the rising population of stray dogs, the number has increased manifold. What should be done to tackle the menace?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 7).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/buckle-up-for-shot-the-big-turn-is-around-the-corner-193287
