05-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Now, crush that plastic and earn coupons!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 4Disposing plastic bottles will no longer be difficult in the city in future.Reason: The civic body has installed 10 reverse-vending machines for plastic waste disposal under the Smart City project.In the first phase of the project, the bottle-crushing machines have been installed at the Civil Hospital, city bus stand (2), DC complex (2), HMV College, DAV College, KMV College, Municipal Corporation (MC) office and Devi Talab Mandir.For disposing a plastic bottle smartly, a user will also be rewarded with a coupon. MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said eight such plastic bottle-crushing machines would also be installed at major locations of the city in the second phase of the project that would be completed by the next week.The machine is capable of crushing and storing around 2,000 bottles and cans every day.Surjit Singh Saini, interim team leader of the project, said the machines would be open for public soon after an inauguration function.“The machine will not only keep the city litter and pollution-free, but will also provide Rs5 coupon to people. The coupons will be sent to users via their smartphones. They will only have to fill their mobile numbers while crushing their bottles in the machine to avail the coupons, which can be redeemed from empanelled hotels or shopping malls. The move will encourage people to throw plastic bottles and waste in the machines,” Saini said.The machines are capable of crushing and compressing 2.50 ml-2.5 litre bottles. With a cost of Rs1.11 crore, Ridhi industries, an Ahmedabad-based firm, will take care of the operation and maintenance of the bottle crushing machines for five years.Saini said a mobile application would also be launched shortly to caution workers as to when the machines would be filled completely. The steps to use the machines have been taped outside the machine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-crush-that-plastic-and-earn-coupons-193681
05-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Small income, big hearts!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 4While the government seems hardly bothered about how protesting farmers are faring during inclement weather at Delhi borders, Dalit labourers, who work in fields for farmers, were considerate enough to collect quilts, mattresses, tarpaulins and wooden planks for them.Over 200 quilts and mattresses, 100 tarpaulins were collected from Dyalpur, Bulla and Dheerpur villages on Saturday. Another 100 wooden boards (or planks) went from Mehatpur, so that farmers have something to step on when they get down from tractors during rain.During the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Dalit labour leaders across villages in the region have been going from home to home mobilising support for farmers. Labourers, who are the most marginalised ones of the income groups in the state, which have traditionally been pitted against farmers, are expressing an overwhelming solidarity with farmers in the struggle.Mattresses, blankets, quilts, khes and lois, which labourers brought in from their homes piled up within minutes on a cot placed in the midst of Dyalpur three days ago. Other labourers’ families brought in money, ration, snacks and all they could, to send to the protest site at the Delhi border.The Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee and Pendu Mazdoor Union will also hold joint conventions at Sangrur (January 5), Jalandhar, Amritsar and Moga (January 6) to consolidate labourers. The ultimate aim is to mobilise labourers to head to Delhi in solidarity with farmers.Surjit Ram Bhullar, a labourer from Bhulla village, said: “Around 50 of us have been going from home to home asking labourers to do their bit to support the protests. Several jathas have headed to Singhu and more are preparing to go. The response has been overwhelming. We have sent hundreds of mattresses and beddings from the region. From our village, we sent 50 quilts. This is our struggle, not just that of farmers. If farmers lose their land, we will lose our livelihood. Their fields sustain us. We are with them.”Gurcharanjit Singh, a farmer from Dyalpur village and member of the Bharti Kisan Union (Qadian) as well as the Kirti Kisan Union, said: “The kisan andolan has acted as a unifying factor for farmers and labourers. Any fault lines being created between labourers and farmers have vanished during the farm stir. There has been a huge outpour of solidarity from labourers. House after house pitched in with Rs10 to Rs1,000 and offered blankets, mattresses, clothes — all they had — to support farmers. There are about 4,000 labourers in Dyalpur alone and they all are with farmers. Farmers and labourers’ groups are going from house to house raising awareness among people. In jathas, you can’t distinguish a farmer from a labourer. Farmers and labourers have both understood that one can’t survive without each other.”Balwinder Kaur, tehsil president of Pendu Mazdoor Union (democracy), whose own daughter has gone to Singhu, says: “Jathas are going in everyday and I have sent my daughter. I will also go myself. At our village, women are mobilising support among labourers for farmers. We won’t get food to eat if farmers lose their land.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/small-income-big-hearts-193682
05-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Come Feb, over 350 health staff to get busy in administering vaccine||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 4Come February and as many as 300 to 350 health workers per day are expected to be engaged in administering the Covid vaccine during the first phase of the vaccination drive.As many as 12,500 health workers have registered for the Covid vaccine in Jalandhar. A hectic exercise is underway to complete the remaining registrations across the district. As many as 150 centres have been set up in Jalandhar district, where the vaccination shall be administered. A storage capacity of more than 12 lakh doses is currently available in Jalandhar.Nearly 50 teams have been set up across the district to make the Covid vaccination drive a smooth affair. In the city alone, 23 teams shall be operational. While a total of 12,500 health workers have been registered so far, experts say the total health workers exceed this number – Jalandhar being the biggest healthcare hub in Asia.Taking on CovidThe Health Department said they were still in the process of registering health workers, the registrations of some of whom were still pending. The district has a capacity to store over 12 lakh vaccines.Notably, there are quite a few health workers across the medical spectrum, who claim they haven’t received any intimation about the registrations. Dr Nirdosh Goyal, a privately practicing psychiatrist and former in charge of the de-addiction centre at Kapurthala, said: “I haven’t received a request for sharing my details so far. My details haven’t been sought.”Pooja Smara, a staff nurse at the trauma centre of the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, said: “My details for registrations have not been sought. But whenever these will be sought, I’m willing to be vaccinated.”District Immunisation Officer, Jalandhar, Dr Rakesh Chopra said: “We have a list of over 50 private hospitals in Jalandhar, all of which have been asked to send in the details of their health staff. While many have already written back and registered their staff, others are yet to do so. The process is as yet ongoing. It will be completed soon. The three cold stores at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital as well as all CHCs and sub-divisional hospitals shall be used to store the Covid vaccination. It is not yet known which one shall be administered in Jalandhar, but we are expecting the process to begin tentatively by February first week. The next dose will be administered after 14 to 28 days depending on the vaccine.”While a dry run has been held at Kapurthala, Dr Chopra said the time of the dry run in Jalandhar is not yet known. Dr TP Singh Modal Officer, Covid, Jalandhar, said: “All details of the health staff have been sent by their respective in charge. Their registration is complete. The vaccine is awaited and everyone is looking forward to the process whenever it begins.”Dry run held in KapurthalaAn inoculation dry run for the Covid-19 vaccine was held in Kapurthala district on Monday in anticipation of the first phase of the vaccination drive, which is to be held in the state shortly. As many as 3,581 health workers have been registered for the first phase of the Covid vaccination programme in Kapurthala. A total of 26 cold chain points have been set up across Kapurthala to store the vaccine. A storage capacity of6, 94,000 vaccines is available in Kapurthala currently. The vaccination will be stored at temperatures ranging between 2°C and 8°C. As many as 45 ice lined refrigerators (ILR) shall also be storing vaccines. A three-room set up at the Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, for the dry run on Monday comprised a waiting area, a vaccination room and an observation room. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/come-feb-over-350-health-staff-to-get-busy-in-administering-vaccine-193683
05-01-2021||Jalandhar||Dr Parminder Kaur joins as new Medical Supdt of Civil Hospital||Dr Parminder Kaur joined as the new Medical Superintendent at the Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil Hospital here recently.Earlier, Dr Parminder was deputed as the Senior Medical Officer at the ESI Hospital, Jalandhar. She completed her house job in this hospital during 1989-90 and also worked as a microbiologist in the laboratory of the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar.After joining the office, she said all programmes of the Punjab Government and the Health Department would be implemented in letter and in spirit. She said the Jalandhar Civil Hospital was one of the biggest health institutions in the state and she would ensure that best healthcare facilities were provided to patients visiting the hospital.She lauded the efforts of the Civil Hospital doctors and the entire staff for their courage exhibited in offering the best healthcare and treatment, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-parminder-kaur-joins-as-new-medical-supdt-of-civil-hospital-193684
05-01-2021||---||26,000 IKGPTU students appear for offline exams||Kapurthala, January 4As many as 26,000 students in colleges affiliated to the IK Gujral Punjab Technical University appeared for regular, offline examination that began from Monday for the first time since the pandemic began.The university adopted a student-friendly and flexible approach, taking consent from all students beforehand.Nearly 26,000 out of 42,000 students opted for the offline January-2021 examination and appeared today. All Covid-related norms were followed stringently on the campus.The remaining students were given an option to appear for exams in March 2021 or even later as things become conducive. Further, a wide range of examination centres were offered to students to choose the one which can be nearest to their home. The university has also decided not to charge extra exam fee from those appearing in March 2021.The varsity conducted the exam on the main campus also, from where a hosteller tested Covid positive last Saturday. He was isolated immediately by the health authorities. The university maintains that it has ensured proper compliance of guidelines of UGC/MHA/state government since its re-opening and students and staff were being tested for Covid-19 from time to time.Varsity officials said, “All safety measures such as regular sanitisation, ensuring social distancing and wearing of masks etc are being followed. In case of hostels also, university has allotted only one room per student and all applicable SOPs are being strictly enforced to ensure students’ safety. The university is getting all students regularly tested and wherever any case is detected, treatment/immediate isolation is being done with the help of health authorities and parents. A varsity Dean said, “Being technical subjects, online assessment is not possible all across. So the university decided to conduct the re-appear and regular examinations of intermediate classes in physical mode only with all necessary precautions. In fact, even re-appears have already been held in physical mode in December.”At CT Institute of Engineering, Management and Technology (CTIEMT) and CT Institute of Information and Technology (CTIT), two centres for offline exams were set up today in which 350 students of fifth semester from different colleges appeared under streams like BTech CSE, BBA, MCA, BCA, BSc IT, B Architecture, B Pharmacy, B Tech Civil, BMLS, BHMCT and MBA 3rd semester. Academics CT Group and Controller of Examination Dr. Anupamdeep Sharma said, “We have taken care of all precautionary measures like mandatory masks and social distancing. We have advised students to bring their own pens and sanitisers. Today, the exams were held in two shifts, one at 9:30 am to 12:30 pm and second from 01:30 noon to 4:30pm. We have strictly followed all SOPs issued by UGC for conducting offline examination.”CT Group Managing Director Manbir Singh said that it was good to see that the normal routine is coming back on track with passage of time and students today were quite happy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/26-000-ikgptu-students-appear-for-offline-exams-193685
05-01-2021||Jalandhar||Online course on value of  ICT in education||Centre for Continuing Education, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar (NITJ), on Monday inaugurated a five-day AICTE-ATAL Academy Sponsored Online Faculty Development Programme (eFDP) on ‘Information and Communication Technology in Education (ICTs)’.Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, director, NITJ, inaugurated the online course. This online FDP is being coordinated by Dr SK Mishra (Registrar, NITJ), Dr Mohit Tyagi and Dr Dilbagh Panchal. Prof RK Garg (dean, Faculty Affair) and Prof Anish Sachdeva (dean, Student Welfare) were also present during the inaugural ceremony of this course. The event is based on the theme of ‘educational technology management’ role in imparting the basic knowledge and skills acquired to assist users in their daily lives.Dr SK Mishra, coordinator of the FDP, welcomed all the participants and shared his word about the importance of this programme. In his briefing, he told that organisational learning to manage technology with internal and external sources and compete in complex and technological environment to reach a critical point in obtaining knowledge. He said that one way to obtain this knowledge is to focus on the essentials of management of technology education.He also said that management of technology education covers strategic management, project management, new product management, innovation management, entrepreneurship and information management, etc. He told that this programme is a way to devise, catalyse, support and sustain ICTs enabled activities and processes in order to improve access, quality and efficiency in the education system.Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, director NITJ, focused over the role and applications of technology that has impacted every facet of daily lives over the last few years specially during Covid -19 pandemic — from personal to school, college, university systems and the ways in which we learn something new every day. In his address he said that application of ICTs in education has major role in development of educational technology. He further added that since the present day ICTs have all the strengths of erstwhile education technology, which has renamed itself as ICT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-course-on-value-of-ict-in-education-193686
05-01-2021||---||200 take part in virtual contest||Jalandhar, January 4KMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School organised its annual mega event ‘Charisma-2020’, an inter-school competition. During this unprecedented time, the school took the initiative to organise this competition on an online platform to channelise the hidden potential of students in the most creative ways.More than 200 students of 18 schools across Jalandhar participated enthusiastically in this event. Competitions in various events were organised such as those for solo dance, solo song, rangoli, ‘tickle your funny bone’, poster-making, photography, ‘Sanskrit sulekh pratiyogita’, scientific aptitude, ‘business tycoons’, ‘sudoku-the mind game’, and ‘Net Savvy’.During the virtual award ceremony, Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi graciously welcomed all the guests, including principals, teachers-in-charge and students of various institutions who took part in this mega event. Principal then addressed all the students and encouraged them to participate actively which enhances the personality of students, builds-up their confidence and also promotes a spirit of healthy competition. She averred that KMV from time to time keeps on organising such meaningful activities.Some results of competitionsSolo dance competition: Dhriti, Class XII, APJ School, Jalandhar.Solo song competition: Shyana, Class XII (Arts), St Soldier Sr Sec School, Jalandhar.Rangoli: RukhsarPraveen, Class X, Arya Model Sr Sec School, Phagwara.Tickle your funny bone: Rupali Manhas, Class XII (Arts), KMV Collegiate Sr Sec School, Jalandhar.Poster-making: Dilpreet Kaur, Class XI, DRV DAV Centenary Public School, Phillaur.Scientific aptitude: Dhruv Malhotra, Class X, Palak Malhotra, Class XI, Sanskriti KMV School, Jalandhar.Photography: Komalpreet, KMV Collegiate Sr Sec School, Jalandhar.Sanskrit sulekh pratiyogita: Khwahish, Class X, International Public School, Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/200-take-part-in-virtual-contest-193688
05-01-2021||---||Protesters evicted from CT campus||Jalandhar, January 4Protesting pass outs of CT Group of Institutions were evicted from the campus on the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday. Around six students were sitting on a dharna from December 29.The protesters demanded that they should be handed over their degrees, which were withheld by the management of the institute.The management had been maintaining that they would release degrees after the state government disburses them the grant of Rs39 crore under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scheme, which had been pending from three years.The institute had filed a petition in the High Court, which was heard today. It demanded that directions be issued to the police to ‘remove demonstrators and illegal activities carried out on the campus’. The petitioner mentioned that despite the matter being reported to the police, no action was taken.Hearing the matter, Justice HS Madaan issued directions to the Jalandhar Police Commissioner to look into the grievances and do the needful. The petition was disposed of.Manbir Singh, managing director, CT Institutes, said, “After the intervention of the High Court, protesters were evicted from the campus. We were feeling so helpless and had even given a written representation to the police, but no action was taken. As a result, we sought legal route.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protesters-evicted-from-ct-campus-193689
05-01-2021||---||Sekhowal youth hangs self to death||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar, January 4A young man was found hanging from a tree in the forest area of Haibowal Beet village. The passers-by informed the police about the incident. Sub Inspector Satvinder Singh reached the spot with the police party and took the body down from the tree in the presence of the panchayat members of Sekhowal village. He has been identified as Sekhowal village resident Balveer Singh Bira (27), son of Mohan Singh.The body was handed over to his kin after the postmortem. According to the police, Balveer Singh came to the said place on his motorcycle. According to the police, a case has been filed under the NDPS Act against Balveer Singh Beera on December 22 in Nalagarh police station in Himachal Pradesh, on the charge of recovery of two quintal of poppy husk from him. The Himachal Pradesh Police had raided Balvir Singh Beera’s house in Sekhowal yesterday but Balveer was not found at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sekhowal-youth-hangs-self-to-death-193690
05-01-2021||Slug||Remembering Braille who brought light in lives of blind||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur January 4Disabled Persons Welfare Society, Hoshiarpur (Regd), paid homage to Dr Louis Braille on the occasion of World Braille Day. Various speakers on the occasion discussed the life of Dr Louis Braille and discussed the struggle in his life. Speaking on the occasion, President Sandeep Kumar Sharma said Dr Louis Braille's birthday was celebrated as World Braille Day. Louis Braille, who himself was blind, invented the Braille script and enlightened the lives of the visually impaired.He said Dr Louis Braille would be always remembered for his matchless contribution. Speaking on the occasion, General Secretary Jaswinder Singh Sahota said the visually impaired people all over the world had been touching the milestones of success today with the help of Braille script. The speakers demanded that the state government should fully implement the Rights of Persons with Disability Act -2016. Divyang’s backlog should be filled as soon as possible and the promotion of Divyang employees should be done as per the orders of the Supreme Court issued in February 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remembering-braille-who-brought-light-in-lives-of-blind-193691
05-01-2021||---||Kirti Kisan Union members burn CM’s effigy||Jalandhar, January 4Members of the Kirti Kisan Union burnt the effigy of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today. The members gathered outside the Reliance store in Nawanshahr while burning the effigy. They said the police had cane charged the farmers who had gone to gherao BJP’s state chief Ashwani Sharma who was in Sangrur yesterday.The members said it was their right to gherao and protest against the leaders. They also said the Captain government was following Modi’s and Khattar’s style of attacking the farmers.Notably, the farmers had entered into a scuffle with the cops. The farmers opposing the agricultural laws were trying to gherao Sharma when the police intervened and both sides indulged in fight.They also condemned the filing of FIR against farmers for throwing dung outside BJP leader in Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kirti-kisan-union-members-burn-cms-effigy-193692
05-01-2021||Kapurthala||10 arrested for gambling||Three fall prey to virus in distJalandhar: The health authorities reported 21 positive cases in the district on Monday, taking the tally to 20,019. The health authorities reported three deaths due to the virus today in the district. The total number of fatalities reached 647. At present, the district has 288 active cases. As many as 19,084 people have been discharged while 187 people are under home isolation in the district. In Kapurthala, eight people tested positive today. The health authorities reported one death in the district. The victim belonged to Booh village and breathed her last at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-arrested-for-gambling-193694
05-01-2021||---||Army to screen 32K candidates in recruitment drive till January 31||Jalandhar, January 4The Indian Army has commenced a recruitment drive on Monday while adhering strictly to Covid-19 health guidelines at Army Public School (primary wing), Jalandhar Cantonment.Around 32,000 candidates from Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran districts, would be screened from January 4 to January 31.The recruitment is being held for the posts of soldier general duty, soldier technical, soldier clerk/store keeper technical/inventory management, soldier nursing assistant and soldier tradesmen categories.Candidates carried their Covid-19 asymptomatic certificate signed by a government doctor.Before entering the ground, candidates went through thermal screening and candidates detected with flu-like symptoms, including fever, cold, cough and running nose were called on later dates.The candidates wore face masks, sanitised hands and practised social distancing.The drive is being organised professionally with transparency and being witnessed by officials of the district administration. The candidates go through physical fitness tests, including 1,600m race, pull-ups, long jump and walk across a zig-zag balance. Later, height, weight and chest are measured as per the laid down procedures.Candidates have been advised to refrain from touts/ fraudulent persons and avoid use of drugs. Since the rally will continue for a month, candidates have been advised to adhere to the advisories issued by the state government as well as from Headquarters Recruiting Zone Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-to-screen-32k-candidates-in-recruitment-drive-till-january-31-193695
05-01-2021||Jalandhar||KCL group students felicitated||Academic App at Innocent HeartsInnokids, a pre-primary school of Innocent Hearts group, conducted an online induction programme for the parents of new nursery. The induction programme was held on Zoom App. Incharge InnoKids Bandeep mentioned about online classes and activities. She explained how the children will be introduced to academic and co-curricular activities. Director InnoKids Alka Arora highlighted an academic app made by the mentors. She mentioned that this app will help children to learn at their pace and space. It will prove beneficial to the children for e-learning. The parents attended the webinar enthusiastically.Webinar on musicA webinar on “Various opportunities of career building by the means of correct and continuous sangeet sadhana” (in pic) was organised by the music department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya. The webinar started with “Shabad gayan” recitation by Dr Prem Sagar. Then, he gave a brief introduction of the webinar. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen underlined the importance of academia-industry interface programme and laid emphasis on the practical training of the students to meet the social challenges in their career. It is notable that a Diploma in Applied Music and Dance approved by UGC has been started from this very session to enable the students for their practical-oriented growth in their subject. Dr Anjana Bhatia Introduced the resource person Deepanshu Pandit from Mumbai, A versatile singer, lyricist, composer and music producer, Pandit delivered elaborate lecture-demonstration, for about one-and-half hour. About 500 viewers got connected through media to this webinar. To conclude the webinar Praduman Narang, who is trainer of the students of diploma in applied music and dance, presented a ghazal recitation accompanied by the tabla Instructor of the music department. In the end, Dr Santosh Khanna extended heartiest thanks to Deepanshu Pandit.Placement drive at IKGPTUKapurthala: As many as 19 engineering students of IKG Punjab Technical University main campus got selected in the month of December 2020 in two different companies. VC Prof Ajay Sharma said that the strong industry-academia linkages of IKGPTU, its quality of students and faculty have helped university emerge as a top draw among some of the biggest corporate names. Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma further said that students of both undergraduate and postgraduate courses have excelled in their respective disciplines and he is confident that more corporate houses will recruit from IKGPTU in times to come and the placement scenario would get even better. Navdeepak Sandhu, deputy director, corporate relations and alumni, confirmed that 13 main campus engineering students of batch passing out in 2021 selected by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) at a pay package of Rs3.60 LPA and six main campus engineering students selected by Cognizant at a pay package of Rs4.50 LPA. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kcl-group-students-felicitated-193696
