06-01-2021||---||Days ahead of marriage, woman, parents end life in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, January 5A heart-wrenching incident was reported at Malpur Arkan village in Nawanshahr on Tuesday, where three members of a family allegedly committed suicide.The deceased have been identified as Jeet Ram (80), his wife Channo Devi (75) and daughter Yamuna Devi (45).As per the information, Yamuna was about to get married on January 10. The extreme step taken by the family has shocked everyone in the village.No one opened the gate of the house on Monday, when one of their neighbours visited them after 4 pm to ask if they needed any help ahead of the marriage. When he again went to check on them after sometime, nobody responded. It was in the morning, when the neighbours became suspicious and broke open the door and found their bodies. They then called the police and it was found that they had consumed sulphas.The police said Yamuna did not marry earlier because she was always worried about what will happen to her parents after her marriage because she had also lost her brother in an accident a few years ago and they were financially very weak. Other six sisters of Yamuna are married off.“After investigation, it has come to the fore that the family members were in depression. There was no source of income and the villagers were pitching in for Yamuna’s marriage and were helping the family members financially, so that Yamuna could be married without any problem, but she was worried for her elderly parents,” the police said. As per the villagers, the family was very simple and god-fearing.SHO, Nawanshahr Sadar, Sarabjit Singh said the bodies were cremated after the post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/days-ahead-of-marriage-woman-parents-end-life-in-nawanshahr-194297
06-01-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Ensuring pure, hygienic food top priority’||Hoshiarpur, January 5After taking over as the District Health Officer, Dr Lakhvir Singh appealed to vendors of sweets, food items and other eatables to accord foremost priority to ensure pure and quality food items for people to make government’s Mission Tandarust Punjab a great success.While holding the maiden meeting with city’s sweet shop owners here on Tuesday, Dr Singh urged them to maintain proper hygienic environment in their outlets/shops, dhabas, rehris etc. in view of the present health crisis amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The DHO also made a fervent appeal to people to remain fully vigilant about the quality of food products especially milk and products made out of it.Dr Lakhvir Singh said under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, it was mandatory to get licence and registration of dhabas, rehris, grocery shops and all shops, where items of human consumption are sold as no lax approach in this regard would be acceptable.Registration must for fast food vends tooThe DHO also appealed to the owners of fast food vends operating in the evening at different locations in the city and rural areas to get registered. He said the registration process could be completed within seven days, whereas the licence would be provided within a month after due inspection. He said a healthy environment was essential in their kitchens and their workers should also use quality ingredients with special care of cleanliness, so that people have access to healthy, nutritious and pure food and drinks.Evening checks in different areas of cityTo check the quality of fast food etc. purchased by people, special checking would be carried out as per the directions of Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra in different areas. The DHO also appealed to fast food vend owners and other vendors to ensure compliance of the Food Safety Act in the public interest. He said special attention should be paid to the quality of milk and milk products, especially cheese, so that there was no question of adulteration.No to using thermocol plates, cups for hot itemsThe DHO appealed to the owners of all food stalls, shops etc. not to use disposable thermocol glasses, plates etc. for hot food items, as it poses a risk of serious diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensuring-pure-hygienic-food-top-priority-194298
06-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Organic mandi in Jalandhar district soon||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 5Residents can now get natural, organic products without having any second thoughts as Natural Farmers’ Association, a farmers’organisation in Punjab, along with the Agriculture Department has planned to start organic mandi in the district, so that residents could get vegetables, jaggery, and other things without adulteration.The process of starting the mandi is in its initial phase, but the preparations for the same has begun. A meeting was held on Tuesday, in which Ashok Kumar, the patron of the association, along with the officials of the Agriculture Department were present.It was decided that the mandi would be organised once a week on Sunday at the agriculture office.Some farmers were also present in the meeting. The officials from the Agriculture Department emphasised on an important point of first getting certified from the Punjab Agri Export Corporation. The certification is done for free.Agriculture Officer Naresh Gulati said the certification was important because there should be authenticity in the system. “We have asked farmers to get themselves certified first, only then will we start with the process,” he said.Ashok Kumar said:“A five-member committee has been formed to fix the rate at which farmers will take their produce. The committee comprises five farmers, so that a genuine rate can be decided.”Notably, organic mandis are already functioning in Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/organic-mandi-in-jalandhar-district-soon-194299
06-01-2021||---||Gurpreet Sapra takes charge as Divisional Commissioner||Jalandhar, January 5 A 2005-batch IAS officer, Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, joined as the Jalandhar Divisional Commissioner here on Tuesday.  After taking the charge, she said she would accord top priority towards the implementation of pro-people and development oriented policies of the state government to benefit the masses. She said all efforts would be made to provide clean, transparent and responsive administration to people.  The Divisional Commissioner said she would carry forward the welfare programmes and policies of the Punjab Government to safeguard the interests of the weaker and underprivileged sections of society. Earlier, outgoing Divisional Commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhary also held a meeting with the new commissioner and discussed various issues concerning the Jalandhar Division. Meanwhile, DC Jalandhar, Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Senior Superintendent of Police Sandeep Kumar Garg, MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma, DCP Traffic Naresh Dogra, Additional Deputy Commissioners Vishesh Sarangal, Jasbir Singh, ACA PUDA Anupam Kler, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Gautam Jain, Dr Jai Inder Singh, Dr Vineet Kumar, MC Joint Commissioners Harcharan Singh, Shayari Malhotra, EO PUDA Navneet Kaur Bal and others welcomed the Divisional Commissioner at the Circuit House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gurpreet-sapra-takes-charge-as-divisional-commissioner-194300
06-01-2021||Jalandhar||Now, get transport services from Sewa Kendras||As many as 35 services related to the Transport Department will now be provided to citizens through the Sewa Kendras of the district. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said services, including duplicate driving licence, renewal of licence, address change, replacement licence, NOC, name change, mobile update, conductor licence renewal, online tax registered transport, duplicate RC, extension learning licence, duplicate learning licence, correction of name in learning licence, duplicate RC, checking application status, withdrawal of application, check e-payment status, online self-backlog of RC, NOC of other state and others, would be offered in 33 Sewa Kendras of the district. Thori said a facilitation fee of Rs50 would be collected by the Sewa Kendra per application. He said directions have already been given to officials to strictly adhere to the timely resolution of complaints filed by the citizens on the portal. The DC said the state government was committed to giving topmost priority to providing services of the Transport Department to citizens in a hassle-free manner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-get-transport-services-from-sewa-kendras-194301
06-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||1 dies, 19 +ve in Hoshiarpur||With 19 new positive patients, the tally rose to 7,795 in Hoshiarpur district on Tuesday. With one more death, the toll also reached 316.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said with the acquisition of 1,939 new samples, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 2,43,850. As per the reports received from the lab, 2,33,387 were negative, while 4,269 reports were still awaited and 179 were invalid. Of the 2,986 samples received today, 19 new cases of Covid-19 were traced, which includes seven from the city, while the remaining are from various health blocks of the district. The number of active cases is 86, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,393. The patient who died today is a 67-year-old woman of local Birbal Nagar locality in Hoshiarpur city. She died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-19-ve-in-hoshiarpur-194302
06-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Cooking up something good||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 5Around 4.30 am, when everyone’s still fast asleep at the Singhu border, a 60-year-old farmer wakes up daily to prepare the first meal of the day for nearly 4,000 fellowmen. By the time, the first cup of tea is ready, it’s 5.15 am.Surinder Singh Bains, a Nawanshahr-based farmer, says, he has been preparing the langar for the protesters from the first day of the ‘Delhi Chalo Andolan’. “While the young squad kept us protected from harsh weather and the water cannons, we made sure that they were not empty stomach. I along with 30-40 other middle-aged farmers work in shifts to prepare three-square meals for the protesters. Every day, we begin our day with tea and snacks langar, followed by breakfast, lunch and dinner,” added Bains.District president of the Kirti Kisan Union, Nawanshahr, Bains has named his makeshift kitchen as ‘Nawanshahriyan da langar hall’ (langar hall of the people from Nawanshahr). He and his friends have got huge cauldrons from their villages to cook huge quantities of foods. The cooking fuel keeps on burning throughout the day making sure no one returns starved.While cooking dal in a large cauldron, Bains says, “This is our sewa for all the other farmers spending days and nights here. It’s not the first time we are preparing langar, as a part of a farm union I have been serving food from past 40 years. The concept of sewa is in our blood and community food is the foremost Punjabi tradition that we are known for. No matter where we are, we never forget to feed. Besides our villages, we get fresh vegetables daily from the fields of our brothers in Haryana and also accept produce donated by well-wishers.” Over 50 kg of potato and cauliflower is peeled and kept aside for dinner. Apart from various vegetables and other raw materials, one quintal wheat flour is used to feed the protesters at our kitchen set up near Kisan Sanmyukta Morcha stage. “While a major chunk of NRIs from our district support us financially, good Samaritans came here to donate groceries, milk packets, pulses and other items.”His accomplices return home after every five days and return with ghee, vegetables, cooking oil and fruits. To give the farmers a homely atmosphere, there is lot of shuffling of menu at their kitchen. From kheer, puri-chole and gajrela to kada prashad, rajma-chawal, everything is cooked.“We are fighting this fight against these new farm laws that will finish off the future of our next generation. We want the government to rescind them. The farmers insist they won’t settle down for anything less than the withdrawal of the contentious legislation. We want MSP on our crops,” Bains and his team demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cooking-up-something-good-194303
06-01-2021||---||Youth fest: Host LPU wins overall trophy||Jalandhar, January 5  Students of host institute, Lovely Professional University, lifted the Punjab State Youth Festival overall trophy in the three-day contest of literary and fine arts events that concluded on Tuesday.  The festival was organised by the Department of Sports and Youth Services, Punjab. In the neck and neck competitions held in a total of 26 items of music, literary, dance, art, theatrics and other categories. The host institute’s teams won 22 positions including 13 first, seven second and two third positions.  First three winners of the various competitive events, held in individual as well as group items, will now further participate in the National Youth Festival-2021, to be held in New Delhi from January 12-17. Thousands of talented young men-women from different universities of the state had registered for participation. LPU Pro Chancellor Rashmi Mittal handed over the winners’ trophy to the LPU team, and individual prizes to the other winners from Panjab University, Chandigarh, Punjabi University, Patiala, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, IKG PTU Kapurthala, CU Gharauan and more. Mittal invoked all participants to always have a competitive zeal in mind for positive outcomes to regularly excel in life. Dean, division of student welfare at LPU, Dr Sorabh Lakhanpal informed that LPU won first positions in competitions of contemporary dance for both solo and group, one-act play, Indian music band, standup comedy, elocution, painting, classical instrumental (non-percussion), classical sitar vaadan, three classical dances—Bharatanatyam, Kathakali and Kathak and street play.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-fest-host-lpu-wins-overall-trophy-194304
06-01-2021||---||Focus on ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ in exams, Edu Secy talks to school heads, teachers||Jalandhar, January 5 The Education Secretary, Krishan Kumar, on Tuesday exhorted the District Education Officers, school heads and teachers to focus on achieving ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ in the upcoming PSEB examinations. He was addressing the DEOs, school heads and teachers via Edusat. “The Covid-19 pandemic forced the closure of schools at the fag end of the previous academic session, posing a grave challenge to the Education Department. However, the Education Department explored new vistas of digital applications and succeeded in making new strides in its enrolment drive and launched “Ghar Baithe Sikhiya” programme to take the classroom teaching virtually in each and every home via TV, radio, YouTube and google channels using latest digital applications,” said Kumar. The initiatives launched by the Education Department as well as the consistent efforts of schoolteachers helped in achieving incredible results, said Krishan Kumar. “The school heads, teachers, non-teaching employees and mid-day meal workers have come forward to mobilise parents, SMCs, village panchayats, NGOs, etc, to convert the drive to provide quality education during the Covid-19 period into a movement. “Employees of the Education Department acted as corona warriors to provide textbooks and mid-day meal ration, ensuring the participation of students in “Ghar Baithe Sikhiya”, Punjab achievement Survey, google quizzes, Vidhayak Muqable to commemorate the 400th Parkash Utsav of Guru Teg Bahadur by devising innovative initiatives like ‘Buddy Groups’. The capacity building of schoolteachers and students was done and students were prepared for the national and state-level competitive examinations — NTSE, NMMS, PSTSE, etc. The virtual parent-teachers meetings and interactions with lakhs of parents were held by the teachers to take feedback, were also organised, said Krishan Kumar while enumerating the various achievements of the department. Now, the “Mission Shat Pratishat” is not just a utopia for the Education Department but a well conceived plan by the department, which could be accomplished with determination, dedication and zeal among the teachers to translate the same at the cutting edge level, said the Education Secretary, adding that the Education Department had made effective steps to analyse the performance of the students by mobilising all the school heads to prepare the PPTs based data analysis of the performance of each and every student in different subjects in the house examinations during the current academic session. Besides taking online classes, the school teachers, braving the extreme cold conditions as well as adhering to the precautions pertaining to Covid-19, have started taking extra classes. The Punjab Government has also provided smartphones and tablets to 0students to enable them to have access to the latest digital applications for continuing their study as well as preparation for the PSEB examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/focus-on-mission-shat-pratishat-in-exams-edu-secy-talks-to-school-heads-teachers-194305
06-01-2021||---||Manoranjan Kalia condemns verbal attack on Guv Badnore||Jalandhar, January 5Condemning the statement issued by Cabinet Ministers Vijay Inder Singla and Sunder Sham Arora calling Punjab Governor as a puppet in the hands of the BJP-led Centre, ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia said that both the ministers had not gone through properly to what he had stated earlier.The controversy pertains to Governor VP Singh Badnore summoning Punjab DGP and Chief Secretary on the law and order issue in the state and damage to Jio towers by the farmers.Use of water cannons on farmers unfortunate, says BJP leader Manoranjan KaliaKalia said, “The Army Principle or the Principle of Maharaja rule does not apply in the functioning of elected civil government. Definitely the officers are accountable to the democratically-elected government. When a person sitting on the post of Chief Minister or minister demits office, the officers do not go with the person demitting office because they are the employees of the government not of an individual .That is why I condemned the statement of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in which he said ‘Instead of calling my officers, I should have been called’.”Kalia said, “Talks between the Central government and farmer unions are going on and there is every possibility to reach an amicable solution in future. Both the ministers must spell out first as to why the promise made in the 2017 Congress election manifesto about the waiving of Rs 90,000 crore debt of farmers have not been fulfilled? Those who betrayed the farmers have no right to talk about farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manoranjan-kalia-condemns-verbal-attack-on-guv-badnore-194306
06-01-2021||Fulfilling the pre-poll promise||'Smart' promise||Getting ready for Republic DayNawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Shena Aggarwal on Thursday held a meeting with officials and took note of the preparations of the Republic Day and informed that the rehearsal would be held on January 24. Starting from sanitation, refreshments, cleanliness, she advised the officials concerned to look after the arrangements properly. (contributed by Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smart-promise-194490
06-01-2021||Jalandhar||Live recipe show winner||3 selected for Inspire Awards-ManakThree students of Sanskriti KMV School added a feather in the glory of their institution and city as they got selected for Inspire Awards-Manak, an encouraging project by the Department of Science and Technology and National Innovation Foundation. Out of 13 students selected from Jalandhar, three students of Sanskriti KMV School had registered and all got selected. Yash Vardhan of Grade X, Vanya Kaur of Grade VIII, and Bhavansh Mahajan of Grade VI got selected and will be representing Jalandhar district for Inspire Award- Manak 2020-21. For this, each student has received a sum of Rs 10,000 towards the preparation of science project/model and participate in the district-level exhibition and project competitions to be organised by the district education authorities. Rachna Monga, Principal, in her online congratulation note to the students and parents, highly appreciated the first step of achievement. She mentioned that even during the online bridging between the school and the students, the school was able to encourage, motivate and make the things prominently winning at their end.Workshop on bakingThe department of home science of HMV College organised a workshop on ‘Baking’ under the initiative of industry-academia interface. This workshop was conducted under community college diploma in cooking and catering management. Sukhdeep Kaur, course co-ordinator, gave a brief introduction about the course. Gaganpreet Kaur was the resource person of the workshop. She highlighted about the basics of bakery and equipment used in baking. She also taught the students how to make choco lava cake. This workshop was arranged for the students of diploma in cooking and catering management. Principal Ajay Sareen also added that this course was need of the hour as for the students who wanted to go abroad it wwould be easy for them to get visa on the basis of this certification. Meenakshi Sayal, co-ordinator, community college, appraised acadamia interface for providing a platform for all students to get experiential learning.MoU signedDr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD), Moyas, Chennai. Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NIT, expressed his well wishes for both the institutions while signing this MoU. He focused over the role and applications of technology that had impacted every facet of daily lives over the last few years especially during pandemic– from personal to school, college, university systems and the ways in which we learn something new every day. Dr SK Mishra, Registrar, NIT, represented and signed the MoU with Dr TRA Devakumar, Registrar, Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD), Chennai, with a view to undertake short-term and long-term online courses on various aspects of information technology and other relevant areas of youth. Prof LK Awasthi has added that management of technology education is becoming more important for solving problem in industries in collaboration with institutions and universities like RGNIYD. The MoU has also signed to organise workshops, seminars, conferences (online and offline) on emerging issues related to mental health and well-being of youth based on the mutual discussion. Prof RK Garg (Dean Faculty Affair), Prof Anish Sachdeva (Dean Student Welfare), and Dr Pramod Kumar (Associate Dean, Research and Consultancy) were also present during signing of the MoU.Expert talksPhagwara: GNA University is going to organise a two-day conference on ‘Contemporary Issues in Engineering and Technology’ on January 8 and 9. This virtual conference will provide an excellent international forum for academicians, researchers, students and industrialists for sharing knowledge and research in theory, methodology and applications of engineering, sciences, and Information Technology. World-renowned speakers from Romania, Singapore, Japan and Spain are presenting keynote and plenary addresses in this conference. On Day 1, Dr Manoj Gupta, professor, National University of Singapore, and Dr Loan-Cosmin, MIHAI, cyber training officer, European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training, Romania, will address the delegates, which would be followed by technical sessions. On January 9, Dr Hiroyuki Kameda from Tokyo University of Technology, Japan, Dr Carlos J Ochoa Fernández from Spain and Alvin Tan, director, Siemens Digital Industries Software, Singapore, will deliver their talks. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, said that this conference was a long-awaited event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/live-recipe-show-winner-194491
06-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Jalandhar lab collects 80 bird samples from Barwala||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 5A team of Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, visited poultry farms in the Barwala area and collected 80 samples of birds to confirm the presence of avian influenza or bird flu.Confirming the same, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the team reached the Barwala area for re-sampling of birds and collected 80 samples. He said there were no confirmed reports of avian influenza yet. The chicken could have died due to Ranikhet or infectious laryngotracheitis.Department issues advisoryMukesh Kumar Ahuja said as per information, over 1.25 lakh birds had died in the past 10 days. They were awaiting report from the Jalandhar lab. They could say anything on the disease after receiving the report.Meanwhile the Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department, Haryana, has issued an advisory regarding poultry and poultry products.An official spokesperson for the department said as per the advisory, poultry and poultry products should be cooked at 70°C and consumed as usual with no fear of acquiring infection with avian influenza virus.He said before consuming poultry, consumers should ensure that all parts of the poultry were fully cooked (no “pink” parts) and eggs, too, were properly cooked (no “runny” yolks).He said four lakh poultry birds died in the past 10 days in 20 poultry farms with epicentres near Garhi Kutaha and the other near Jaloli village in the Barwala area in Panchkula district. There were a total of 77,87,450 birds in poultry farms in Panchkula district and the mortality of birds was 4,09,970.The spokesperson said during food preparation, raw poultry and poultry products should never be allowed to mix with items eaten raw. Moreover, when handling raw poultry or raw poultry products, persons involved in food preparation should wash their hands thoroughly and clean and disinfect surfaces in contact with poultry products. Soap and hot water were sufficient for this purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-lab-collects-80-bird-samples-from-barwala-194255
