07-01-2021||---||Woman, son & nephew held with 26-kg opium||Jalandhar, January 6The city police on Wednesday arrested three drug peddlers, including a woman, and seized 26-kg opium from them. The peddlers had hidden the drug consignment in the two stepneys of the vehicle they were traveling in.The accused have been identified as Poonam Devi Rao (40), her son Krishna Rao (19) of Jamshedpur and her nephew Raja Kumar Bhagat (29), a resident of East Singhbhum, Jharkhand.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said CIA staff-1 head Harminder Singh got a tip-off that the accused were traveling in a silver Sumo (JH05-AP-8743) to deliver a consignment of opium to an Amritsar-based dealer on Wednesday. Following this, a check-post was set up at Pragpur under the supervision of ACP Major Singh and the cops stopped the vehicle.“The police party, including women sleuths, checked the Sumo and found two stepneys (spare tyres). After both tyres were opened, the cops recovered 26-kg opium from one of the spare tyres, which was packed into 26 small plastic bags. Subsequently, the cops arrested the accused and a case under Sections 18, 61, and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against them at the Cantonment police station,” Bhullar said.Poonam Devi Rao has reportedly been delivering opium in Amritsar from Jharkhand for the past six months along with her son and her nephew after getting the consignment from Jharkhand-based drug smugglers. While her son Krishna Rao is studying in Class XII, her nephew is a street food vendor.The Commissioner said the accused would be produced in local courts and taken on remand for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-son-nephew-held-with-26-kg-opium-194792
07-01-2021||---||22-yr-old dies a month after moving to Dubai||Jalandhar, January 6In a tragic incident, a 22-year-old woman from Panj Peer locality here, who had moved to Dubai for alleviating her family from poverty, died in less than a month since she moved from here.Body of Meenu, who reportedly died eight days ago because of some illness, was brought back on Tuesday with the help of ‘Sarbat Da Bhala Trust’. Her last rites were performed on Wednesday. Meenu had reportedly planned to work for a beauty parlour there but even before she was to settle, the devastating news struck the family. She had reportedly taken a loan of Rs1 lakh to move to Dubai.Trust member Amarjot Singh, who got all the documentation from here, said, “The girl is from a very poor family and was not in a condition to pay for bringing her body back. So, I contacted SPS Oberoi in Dubai and he arranged to send her body back in a day. Her father passed away two years back and her mother is jobless. We have announced Rs2000 per month pension to support her mother.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/22-yr-old-dies-a-month-after-moving-to-dubai-194793
07-01-2021||---||49 +ve in Jalandhar district, tally reaches 20,068||Jalandhar, January 6With 49 more cases, the Covid-19 tally reached 20,068 in the district on Wednesday. With two deaths, the toll also increased to 649. So far, there are 265 active cases in the district, while 19,154 people have been discharged and 165 people are under home isolation.Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw four persons testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. An 85-year-old woman from Fattu Dhinga village died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, where she was brought for treatment.Hoshiarpur district reports16 new Covid casesThe district reported 16 new Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, taking the total to 7,811. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the total number of samples taken so far in the district increased to 2,46,246 with 2,396 new samples taken from people with suspected flu-like symptoms. According to reports received from the laboratory, 2,35,152 are negative, while 4,884 reports are awaited, 181 are invalid and the death toll so far is 316, while no death reported on Wednesday. The number of active cases is 93, while the number of cured patients is 7,402. On Wednesday, out of 16 positive patients found in the district, four are from Hoshiarpur city and 12 positive patients are from various other health blocks in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/49-ve-in-jalandhar-district-tally-reaches-20-068-194794
07-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmers' agitation: Soaked in blood, letters continue to stir the ‘unstirred’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6Revolutions can’t succeed without shedding blood, it is said. At Singhu, it’s being done literally!For the 15th day on Wednesday, 48-year-old Taranjit Singh Nimana sits with a thin wooden straw in his hand; its tip soaked in red. He is penning a letter to the leaders of the country. On a nearby table lies 10 more letters — red on white — in Punjabi. But in place of ink, what he writes with is the blood of farmers!Since December 20, the Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Sewa Society, a Ludhiana-based NGO, has been penning letters in blood of farmers exhorting the top leaders of the country to withdraw the three farm laws. Everyday an array of blood-soaked letters are handed over to farm leaders. This blood is donated at the NGO’s blood donation camps being held behind the main stage of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha at the Singhu border.The NGO, which has won the state award nine times for its contribution in the field on blood donation, is headed by its president Taranjit Singh Nimana. Nearly 1,000 farmers have donated blood across the 15 blood donation camps held so far. Letters have so far been sent to the Prime Minister, Home Minister, President, Vice President and the Chief Justice of India, but to no avail. Nimana now plans to send a letter written in his blood to the UNO on his birthday tomorrow (January 7) in honour of those, who died at the Delhi protests.On his recent visit to the Singhu border, environmentalist Seechewal also called upon Nimana, his old acquaintance, after Seechewal’s speech on stage.Such is the spirit that after a storm uprooted the backstage tent and damaged the mattresses and equipment at the camp, it has been shifted to a safer shed, where the camp resumed today.Nimana, says: “Ehnan chitthiyan vich kisanan da khoon raleya hai. Asi bhejde rahange jad tak kale kanoon vapas nahi hunde. Singhan de hausle chikkar vich vi buland ne. (These letters are soaked in farmers’ blood. We will keep writing these until the black laws are withdrawn. Singhs are full of courage even in mud).”Nimana adds: “We sent back doctors yesterday. Our backstage tent lost its roof. It was very windy and the tent ended up dripping in rain. We resumed at another place today. It’s my birthday on January 7. In memory of lives lost at Singhu, I shall donate blood and write in blood to the UNO to get the laws withdrawn.” Blood collected from the camp has been donated to blood banks at Ludhiana, Patiala and now to UP, Delhi and Haryana (Faridabad, Rohtak, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad, Delhi (Mayur Vihar).“While there is already a blood shortage during the pandemic, we would want the blood to be used for any emergency case. Anyone who needs blood is free to take it from us,” Nimana says. While Nimana planned to send blood-soaked letters to the PM from Ludhiana, he shifted to Singhu border when the idea was discussed with morcha leaders, who asked the NGO to shift base to Singhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-agitation-soaked-in-blood-letters-continue-to-stir-the-unstirred-194795
07-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Man dies in road accident, kin block road for an hour||Talwara, January 6 A 27-year-old man died in a road accident on Talwara - Mukerian GT Road on January 5. The deceased has been identified as Jeevan Kumar, a resident of Haled Mohalla in Dosadka. Jeevan was returning from a gym in his car, when an unidentified vehicle rammed into it. On Wednesday, the kin of the deceased kept his body at Nagar Road and demanded immediate arrest of the accused. Protesters blocked the road for an hour.  Dasuya Deputy Superintendent of Police Manish Sharma reached the spot and persuaded the deceased’s family by promising prompt action in the case.  He said footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area would be scrutinised to identify the accused. He said an FIR has been lodged in this regard. After getting assurance from the DSP, protesters performed the last rites. Talwara police have initiated action by registering a case against an unidentified driver under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-dies-in-road-accident-kin-block-road-for-an-hour-194796
07-01-2021||---||Hearing impaired woman, handicap son found dead||Jalandhar, January 6A 70-year-old woman along with her 25-year-old son were ‘murdered’ by unidentified persons at Aliwal village in Lohian on January 6.The deceased have been identified as Kartari and Mangat Ram, alias Manga. While the woman was speech and hearing impaired, her son was handicap. The duo was found murdered by villagers who then informed the police. The woman’s body was located from her home, while her son’s body was found in fields. Both were cattle grazers.The woman had suffered serious injuries on her head with a blunt weapon, said the police. They have not ruled out the possibility of an enmity or dispute given the nature of wounds on the bodies. An FIR was lodged under Sections 302, 120-B and 201 of the IPC. Lohian police station SHO Balwinder Singh said, “The bodies have been sent for the post-mortem. The woman was hit repeatedly with a blunt weapon. Things will get clear after the report arrives.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hearing-impaired-woman-handicap-son-found-dead-194797
07-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||To start or not to start classes on campus? Dilemma remains||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6The decision to allow schools to start classes from V to XII on the campus has evoked a mixed response from parents, teachers and authorities.Since the SOPs released in the evening mention that it would be mandatory for school authorities to take prior consent from parents, the authorities say it would take some time and that they would be able to take a final decision on Monday or later.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday in his subsequent release also mentioned that attending physical classes will not be mandatory and students have to be given an option to study through online classes.Some school authorities also maintain that while they had not received consent from a majority of parents of Classes IX and XII, they were least hopeful about getting a positive response from the junior classes. Teachers said hardly 6-8 students used to come for even the short doubt clearing session and holding physical classes at this stage for so many students seemed a tough decision to take.Rashmi Vij, a principal, said: “There are so many issues that need to be catered to before taking a call. It is easy for the governments to announce, but extremely difficult for schools to implement at the ground level. Our classrooms are not so big that we will be able to maintain 6-feet distance even for half the capacity. We can run buses only to full capacity as otherwise transport will not be financially viable and we cannot ask parents to pay more bus fare. Also, if children are less prone, they can be carriers bringing infection from home to school or vice versa. We have had pre-board exams and we gave both online and offline options to students. We had very recently evolved a good online teaching mechanism, wherein we had grouped students. Weak students were being made to attend extra classes and for meritorious students, we were giving extra notes and questions to practise.Also till now, we had been allowing teachers who have had a corona patient at home to attend school for two weeks. They were being told to take online classes fromhome. But with students coming to the campus, we will have to rethink on such vital issues as well. I feel the vaccination should have started and certain section of community should have at least got a dose before we restarted schools. But in any case, it will all be a call of parents.”However, some school authorities are excited about re-opening of schools.Sukhdeep Kaur, vice-principal, CT Public School, said: “I appreciate the decision of the Punjab Education Minister. When all sectors had opened up and children were already going out with their parents, opening of schools should not be a problem at all. Our students are not very serious in online classes. We can surely make arrangements for social distancing. We can call students in two slots and set their desks apart. We will have more helpers in toilets to ensure proper cleaning and use of sanitisers before and after use. We will not have any assemblies. There will be no games period and ground activities to begin with. Students will be called only for three hours a day. Rest all will depend on the consent of parents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-start-or-not-to-start-classes-on-campus-dilemma-remains-194798
07-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||At Singhu border, Seechewal pitches for organic farming||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6“Organic farming is the only way forward for the health of coming generations. It is a necessity for a strengthened farming community,” this was the exhortation of environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, who visited the farm protests at the Singhu border on January 3.Visiting the site with 10 quintals of groundnuts and 200 tarpaulins for farmers braving the rains, the environmentalist appealed to farmers to take to organic cultivation. Addressing farmers at the rain-washed Singhu border, Seechewal while backing the farmers agitation, took up the issues of depleting groundwater, crop diversification and organic farming in the state. While it was Seechewal’s first visit, jathas from his village have been heading to Delhi since the protests started.While a bevy of politicians, activists and leaders have been heading to the site, Seechewal is the first to bring up the issue of organic farming from the main stage of the protests.Raising organic farming decibels at Singhu, Seechewal said, “Punjab farmers have filled the country’s granaries with grains but lost their own water resources. Punjab’s soil and air have been polluted. The state is in the throes of a crippling water crisis. Cancer is spreading rapidly across villages. Only organic farming can ensure we leave a healthy state for our coming generations. The governments will not frame policies which will facilitate farmers to take organic and cooperative farming. Community farming will only succeed when the foundational structure of cooperative farming is strengthened.”He also appealed the Modi-led government to agree to their demands. Addressing farmers’ groups from the main stage at the Singhu border, Seechewal, who is credited with reviving the dying Holy Kali Bein at Sultanpur Lodhi, appealed to farm union leaders to encourage farmers to take up organic farming.Notably, Seechewal had also been aiding farmers with various boats from his dera pressed into service during the Punjab floods. While the environmentalist had also been working with farmers from Shahkot and Lohian belt to strengthen the bandh to prevent floods in future, the bandh’s work was kept on hold ever since the farmers’ agitation started as all cultivators from the region headed to Delhi.At Singhu, Seechewal visited along with followers from his dera bringing essentials which were disbursed among protesting farmers. Notably, the environmentalist had been sending rations and supplies and jathas from his village, including kabaddi players and the village sarpanch had also been setting up langars ever since the stir began.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-singhu-border-seechewal-pitches-for-organic-farming-194799
07-01-2021||---||‘If farmers lose their lands, even we will starve’||Jalandhar, January 6While rain failed to dampen the spirits of farmers protesting at Delhi borders, even labourers in the city have planned to head to the national capital in hordes to stand in solidarity with them.A Doaba zone convention of farm labourers was held by the members of the Pendu Mazdoor Union and the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall today. During the convention, leaders of the labourers gave them a call to head to Delhi in large numbers, ahead of the tractor parade on January 26.On the occasion, Pendu Mazdoor Union state president Tarsem Peter and Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee President Mukesh Malaud said the three farm laws would drive farming back to the dark ages. They said if peasants don’t have land, even the labourers would be forced to starve.They said due to the Electricity Act-2020, labourers shall lose even the 200 free units they were currently getting and with peasants suffering like this, labour will be even cheaper due to which they will have trouble keeping their hearths burning.They said the farm laws would hit the public distribution system which will cause poor, labourers and BPL families to lose out on the atta-dal scheme and it will also impact the mid-day meal scheme being run in schools adversely.They said the farm laws were an attack on the livelihoods of people and they shall extend solidarity to the farmers’ protests in Delhi in huge numbers. They also vented out their anger by saying that it was due to the bad policies of the government that the industry had failed and many labourers were rendered jobless. They said the farm laws would further make things difficult for farmers.They also said the Central government was bowing to corporates due to which the laws have not being withdrawn so far. Union leaders said the labourers shall head to Delhi in huge numbers to extend their support to farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/if-farmers-lose-their-lands-even-we-will-starve-194800
07-01-2021||Jalandhar||Jobs up for grabs in 7 camps||The district administration will organise seven placement camps from January 7 to 15 to open new vistas of employment for the youth.  The Security Skills Council India Limited would carry out massive registration of the youths for the security staff. DC Ghanshyam Thori said the placement camps would begin from January 7 and the first one would be organised in the office of BDPO, Nurmahal.  He further said a camp would be held at BDPO Rurka Kalan on January 8, in BDPO Adampur on January 11, BDPO Bhogpur on January 12, BDPO Lohian Khas on January 13, BDPO Jalandhar East on January 14 and in BDPO West on January 15.  Thori said only boys would be eligible for the registration which will be conducted for free. He said the height, weight and chest of the interested youths must be 168 cm, 50 kg and 80 cm respectively. Their age must range between 21 to 27 years. The DC also said the youths must have passed matric.  He said the selected youths would undergo one-month training to be offered by the Security Skills Council India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jobs-up-for-grabs-in-7-camps-194801
07-01-2021||Our Correspondent||7 peddlers held in hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 6Seven peddlers, including a woman, were arrested with liquor and intoxicants. ASI Sukhdev Singh, in-charge, Puriharan police post, said he received a tip-off that consignment of alcohol from other state was being delieverd in the area. He said he set up a special naka and recovered 10 lakh 71,000 ml of different types of liquor from a Tata 407 canter. He said the accused have been identified as Vicky Baba, a resident of Purheeran, Manpreet, alias Mamu, of New Fatehgarh, Manjit Kumar and Lakhan Kumar, of New Sunder Nagar. In another incident, the Mahilpur police arrested Rajinder Singh of Padi Sura Singh and recovered 35,820 ml of smuggled liquor from him. In the third incident, the Mehtiana police nabbed Kulvinder Kaur of Harta, and recovered 10-gram intoxicating powder from her. In another incident, the Dasuya police arrested Purshottam of Ghanta Ghar, and recovered 180-gram intoxicating powder from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-peddlers-held-in-hoshiarpur-194802
07-01-2021||The Tribune interview||‘80 per cent of our students now appearing for exams physically’||As the pandemic hit the academic cycle, Raman Deep Singh Deol, deputy director, academic administration, Lyallpur Khalsa College of Engineering, technical campus, shares an insight into the nitty-gritty being dealt with this academic year. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, he shares issues confronted by the authorities regarding admission, conduct of classes, examination and even placements. Excerpts:Have regular classes resumed on the campus? How has been the response?After the government allowed colleges to hold offline classes months after the lockdown, we sought response from students if they were willing to come to the campus. A majority of them opted for the online mode only. So, we understood the concerns and have so far continued with online mode only. But in between, students have been coming to the campus for doubt clearing sessions and some practical sessions as well.How has been the response of students for offline exams?The response for appearing on the campus for taking exams being conducted by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has been exceptionally good. As many as 80 per cent students of our campus are appearing for the examination physically. The exams have started and it has really helped in boosting the confidence of students and their parents to send students to the campus amid pandemic.How will the evaluation of remaining 20 per cent of students be done?The IKGPTU authorities have been considerate enough to accommodate students facing problems in appearing for the examination. They have been told that the varsity will take their examination in March or even later if they face any kind of problem. Most of the students who are not being able to take the examination now are from J&K or far off places. Even as the varsity allowed them to appear at any nearest centre in their vicinity, they said they would prefer to take examination later on the campus only.Is the staff coming to campus daily?We are calling only 50 per cent of the staff on a particular day. Teachers are coming on alternate days. While some are being called on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, the rest are being called on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. But in any case, they are taking classes only online, either from home or from campus.Has Covid-19 affected admissions for the ongoing 2020-21 session?No, by and large it has not affected our admissions. The number of walk-ins were comparatively less but there was a lot of query online or through telephonic mode. Overall, our admissions were not impacted.Has Covid affected campus placements?The pandemic has had a very less impact on placements. The companies offered to conduct online written examination and interviews with the pass-outs and a majority of our students, who were interested in taking jobs around this time, have got placed well.How do you intend to start classes in the near future?I will prefer in a hybrid mode – a mix of online and offline mode. The online mode has its own advantages, as students have been able to connect with students from top universities and participated in webinars and gained more exposure. It has been a very convenient mode as well.Don’t you think the hybrid mode will be taxing for the staff?Yes, I understand it will be. But everyone including the staff and the students are pretty smart to pick and switch over to either of the modes as per the situation and convenience.Is the staff facing problems of proxy attendance?The teachers cannot be really sure of the proxy attendance in online classes. Such a mischief cannot be ruled out in this mode. But I have told teachers to be more concerned about the quality of lectures. I have also told them to share all videos of the lectures on YouTube once they are done with the day’s classes. So, all those who would have missed the class can watch the video of the lecture even later.Do you think the delay in the beginning of the session can be covered quickly?We had begun the first year admissions quite early. The classes started in early September. But since the university and the UGC had allowed late admissions, we continued taking in more students till the end. But our teachers have maintained a system by which the late joiners have not been made to suffer. They have been made to attend extra classes and given extra time. Our early joiners would have covered a majority of the syllabus and would be revising this time.When do you think the physical classes will be possible at your campus?Personally speaking, I think the first year students of our campus would be able to join physical classes in April when their second semester is set to start. I believe that there is no substitute for offline classes, especially in professional and technical courses. Though, we have adapted well to the online classes, there are certain elements of study which can be taken only on one-to-one basis with students. Also, with vaccination coming in, a sizable population will be getting vaccinated by that time. We are hopeful of developing herd immunity by that time. So, I believe the classes will start in four months or so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/80-per-cent-of-our-students-now-appearing-for-exams-physically-194807
07-01-2021||Jalandhar||e-Workshop on lac culture at KMV||Bottle crusher machine installedIn yet another initiative for Swachh Bharat Campaign, a plastic bottle crusher machine has been installed at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with the Municipal Corporation Jalandhar. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said that the crusher would help in recycling plastic waste. It would also help in reducing the volume of waste generated and thus will help in effective waste management. The crushing of used water bottles will also ensure that the bottles are not used beyond the shelf life of its plastic. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen thanked Commissioner Municipal Corporation Karnesh Sharma for the collaborative efforts and said that such steps would help in sustainable development. She acknowledged the efforts of interim team leader Surjit and informed that the machine is capable of crushing and storing around 2,000 bottles and cans every day.Webinar on blockchainPhagwara: GNA University held a webinar on ‘Blockchain and Hands-on Ethereum’. Dr Mayank Aggarwal, Associate Professor and HoD, CSE, Gurukul Kangri University, Haridwar, was the resource person for the webinar. Dr Aggarwal introduced blockchain to the students in an interactive way. He explained about cryptocurrency and smart contracts that are being used globally. He emphasised on learning this latest technology as it has started gaining pace in the industry and has a lot of scope to research or work upon. He demonstrated the concepts with the help of various live examples and also demonstrated some practicals on Ethereum Blockchain to the students. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University remarked, “Despite the ongoing unprecedented times, learning at GNA University has never taken a pause. I am happy to see the zeal of students to imbibe new and upgraded technologies.” Dr Vikrant Sharma, dean, FEDA-Engineering, GNA University, motivated the students to learn the latest technologies as it will help them gain a better place in the IT industry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-workshop-on-lac-culture-at-kmv-194809
