08-01-2021||---||Amritsar-Pune flight begins||Amritsar January 7A private operator started daily flights between Amritsar and Pune with a short halt in Delhi.Sameep Singh Gumtala, convener, Fly Amritsar Initiative, said according to the schedule released on Indigo’s website, booking of flight is available till March 27, 2021. The flight operating as Indigo #6E286 departs from Amritsar at 15:45 pm and reaches Pune at 7:35 pm. The flight will have a 45 minute halt in Delhi.From Pune flight #6E602 will depart at 10:10 am and reach Amritsar at 14:50 pm. The flight will have around one hour halt in Delhi.In addition to Delhi and Mumbai, Amritsar is also directly connected to Kolkata, Bengaluru, Patna, Nanded and Srinagar.The total outbound flight time from Amritsar to Pune will be 3 hours 50 minutes, whereas the outbound flight time will be 4 hours 40 minutes, including the time for halt in Delhi.Gumtala said the new connectivity will ease travel between the two cities, especially for people working with IT firms.Also, a large number of tourists from second largest city in Maharashtra will be able to travel conveniently to Amritsar, to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and see other tourist attractions.“Many have been messaging us on social media platforms requesting us to reach out to airlines for direct connectivity between the two cities and we have been writing about this to various airlines. We are hopeful that a good response to this one-stop flight with a short halt may also result in direct flights between the two cities in future by Indigo or another airline carrier, said Gumtala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amritsar-pune-flight-begins-195410
08-01-2021||Kapurthala||Gang involved in supply of SIM cards, mobile phones busted||The police on Thursday busted a gang of six persons involved in illegal supply of mobile SIM cards and phones to convicts lodged in Kapurthala jail for carrying out illegal activities.A team was constituted under Sarabjit Singh Bahia, SP (D), along with Kotwali SHO Harinder Singh and a team of the district technical cell, to check the illegal smuggling. On information, the team nabbed Vijay of Sant Nagar in Basti Sheikh Jalandhar, Shivam of Preet Nagar Kapurthala and jail warden Lovepreet Singh.The police recovered 16 active SIMs and one Samsung mobile battery. These SIMs and the mobile battery were to be sold to other jail inmates at a huge cost for carrying out illegal activities. An FIR was lodged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-involved-in-supply-of-sim-cards-mobile-phones-busted-195182
08-01-2021||---||Five days on, no headway in rape-murder case of minor girl||Jalandhar, January 7Even after five days, the police have made no headway in the rape and murder case of a six-year-old minor girl.According to information, the minor went missing from Hazara village on January 2. Her body was recovered from a sugarcane field at Johal Bolina village on Rama Mandi on January 3. Cops said the victim was found dead in the sugarcane field around 12:30 pm.Investigations revealed that the girl was killed by Santosh, a 25-year-old migrant, who abducted, raped and strangled the minor girl.Adampur Deputy Superintendent of Police Harinder Singh Mann said from the last three days, the police have been on their toes to catch the accused.After failing to locate him in Jalandhar, two police teams left for Katihar district in Bihar. The cops also looked for the accused in Ludhiana, but to no avail.The minor was reportedly alone in her house when the accused, who was residing in her neighbourhood, abducted her on the pretext of buying chocolates for her.Later, around 5:30 pm when the victim’s parents (migrant labourers) arrived, they found their daughter missing. The victim’s friend told them that she had gone with Santosh.When they questioned Santosh about their daughter, he said, he dropped her at their house after an hour. As Santosh went underground, the victim’s parents lodged a complaint with the police.The accused had been booked under Sections 302 and 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act. Ironically, this was the second such incident reported in the district in less than 15 days. On December 22 last year, a two-year-old minor was raped by a 32-year-old man in Rama Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-days-on-no-headway-in-rape-murder-case-of-minor-girl-195183
08-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Massive tractor march by farmers in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 7The ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’ on Thursday held a massive tractor rally seeking withdrawal of agri laws framed by the Union Government to express solidarity with farmers struggling day and night on the Delhi borders in severe cold and rain.The tractor march, that was several kilometres long, involving hundreds of tractors, started from Singriwala bypass and passed through various markets and roads of the city and ended at Purhiran bypass. Strict security arrangements were in place during the march. The security was closely watched and supervised by SP (H) Raminder Singh.When the march reached Kamalpur Chowk, near the local bus stand, the police tried persuading them not to take the tractor march towards Ghanta Ghar, as it is a narrow and crowded road, but farmers were adamant and the police had to let them go. On being asked about the motive behind this march, protesters said it was held to express solidarity with farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. They said the morcha had announced a tractor march on the borders of Delhi and the farmers were holding tractor marches in every city, town and village to wake the government from its slumber. They said on the one hand the Union Government was claiming to be farmer friendly, but on the other, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not seem bothered about the daily deaths of farmers in the struggle. They said this tractor march was just a trailer, adding that if the Central Government did not repeal these agriculture laws before January 26, then a large number of farmers from all over Punjab and other states would join the Rajpath parade with tractors, exposing the government and the anti-people policies of the BJP government and its anti-farmer face all over the world. They said by enacting these black laws, the BJP government at the Centre proved that these were anti-farmers, which would only benefit the corporate houses.All set, labourers to leave for Singhu, Tikri on Jan 10Jalandhar: A tractor-trailer caravan of landless, resource-less labour families will head towards the Singhu and Tikri borders to participate in the ongoing farmers’ agitation on January 10. Under the aegis of Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, these labourers will extend support to the historic agitation to express solidarity with farmers demanding withdrawal of three farm laws.Information regarding this was provided by state president Darshan Singh Nahar, general secretary Hurnam Singh Daud, vice-secretary Mahipal, senior vice-president Chaman Lal Darajke, joint secretary Jagjit Singh Jasseana, Paramjit Singh Randhawa and Baldev Singh Nurpuri.Leaders said the grassroot level workers of the sabha were doing hectic preparations throughout the state to ensure the tractor march was a huge success and labourers who have also been at the receiving end of the government’s policies are giving an overwhelming response to the march.They said labourers were looking forward to joining the agitation and were cautious about the narrative being spread regarding the farm laws. They said farmers’ agitation had highlighted the strength of the farmers-labourer unity and also the opportunities which can be born out of such a huge protest. They said the protests had also uncovered the faces of the corporates, which have been looting resources which actually belong to people.While they appealed to farmers to be a part of the march in huge numbers, they also said the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha would implement in its entirety the struggle programme of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leading the farm agitations.400 farmers cover 30 km on tractors Jalandhar: Ahead of the Republic Day tractor march in Delhi, farmers organised a tractor rally on Thursday to urge villagers to participate in the march. As many as 400 farmers and youth under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Commitee gathered at Bhogpur grain market. They covered a distance of around 30 km and the rally concluded at Kishangarh. Langar stalls were set up to keep farmers fuelled up. Apart from tractors, farmers also arrived on motorcycles, cars and bicycles. Gurpreet Singh Atwal, district vice-president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said, “Farmers will leave for Delhi on January 24 and will join the agitators at Singhu border. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre has selected the tableau of Punjab for the Republic Day parade, we will show them the entire Punjab there. On the occassion of Lohri, a copy of the agricultural laws will be cirulated in villages to set them on fire.” Farm leaders also urged the Central Government to revoke the ‘black laws’, else they would intensify their protest with each passing day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/massive-tractor-march-by-farmers-in-hoshiarpur-195184
08-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Lending thrust to movement, women gather support||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 7A group of women under the Kirti Kisan Union recently decided to increase the participation of women in the farm stir and within three days, they have managed to take nearly 200 women along them for the cause. The efforts have started yielding results.The members have already formed nine committees, which not only include farmers, but also women belonging to all sectors and areas and it is being counted as an achievement.The committees will have active women who will further decide the next course of action to strengthen the farmers’ movement.The women’s group started the campaign from Nawanshahr villages. They are going to every household and organising meetings to make people aware of the farm laws. On Wednesday, these women had gone to Sahaabpur village. On Thursday, they went to Naaimazara, Bhaan Mazara and Langroa villages in Nawanshahr.Gurbaksh Kaur, one of the active members of the group, said more than 50 women from each village were coming to listen to them and they all were supporting the cause.She said: “We meet women, talk to them and tell them that the fight which farmers are fighting at the borders will be won only if more women join them and do their bit.”She said women were already aware of the situation and willingly offering help.On January 18, these women will be making their presence felt by holding protests at the local level and on January 26, they will accompany farmers in tractor-trailers.“We start from our homes early morning and come back in the evening. We are not going to sit back quietly. We are going to fight along with our brothers,” the members said.“We are self-employed. We do farming and earn a living. Farmers don’t get their dues and now, the government has forced these laws upon us. History tells us that women have managed to give thrust to movements, which is why we will fight too!” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lending-thrust-to-movement-women-gather-support-195185
08-01-2021||---||Cylinder explodes in GTB Nagar||Jalandhar, January 7A gas cylinder exploded at a two-storey house located near Mata Gujri Park at GTB Nagar on Thursday. The blast was so powerful that the walls of the adjoining houses also developed cracks.As per the information, house owner Vijay Kumar saw smoke billowing out of his kitchen around 6 am. He immediately went on his terrace with his family and asked for help from his neighbours.“Subsequently, I jumped on the terrace of my adjoining house and rescued my family. A few minutes later, the cylinder exploded and the entire house was up in flames. The electricity cables further compounded the problem and all walls and ceilings got damaged,” Vijay said.It took more than two hours for the fire extinguishers to control the flames. The owner suffered huge losses in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cylinder-explodes-in-gtb-nagar-195186
08-01-2021||---||Sports Minister visits Surjit hockey camp on its 100th day||Jalandhar, January 7Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi on Thursday visited Surjit Hockey Stadium where a hockey coaching camp is underway for the last 100 days.He said he was impressed by the participation of more than 200 players in the camp, being conducted in the categories under the age group of 14 and 19 years. He lauded the efforts of Surjit Hockey Society members, who are providing fruits, soaked almonds, candies and even hockey sticks and sports kits to each player. He also mentioned the contribution of NRIs of Tutt Brothers and Gakhal Brothers of the US.The Society organising international-level tournaments in memory of Olympian Surjit Singh for the last 37 years, helping poor and needy parents to get their children married as well as providing scholarships to needy players. Apart from this, the society also organises coaching camps for hockey-loving children every year, so that a ‘New Surjit’ can be discovered in them.The Sports Minister also paid homage to Olympian Surjit Singh on his 37th death anniversary while highlighting the efforts made by him to raise the standard of living of hockey players. On January 7, 1984, the former captain of the Indian hockey team, Olympian Surjit Singh Randhawa, died in a car accident at Bidhipur village, near Jalandhar.Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said he had already floated tenders to set up four new AstroTurfs at Ferozepur, Marar (Gurdaspur), Surjit Hockey Stadium, Jalandhar and Dhudike (Moga) and four new AstroTurfs will be installed in the near future. The minister also announced that when the new AstroTurfs would be installed at Surjit Hockey Stadium, Jalandhar, the state government would organise a national-level hockey tournament at its own cost. Meanwhile, the Sports Minister also announced to set up 3 six-a-side AstroTurfs at the local Guru Gobind Singh Stadium, Lyallpur Khalsa College and Kukar Pind, respectively.Secretary, Surjit Hockey Society, Iqbal Singh Sandhu thanked the minister for his visit. On the completion of 100 days of Surjit Hockey coaching camp, he announced to replace this ongoing hockey coaching camp into Surjit Hockey Coaching Centre.Olympians Col Balbir Singh, Baljit Singh Dhillon, Harpreet Singh Mander, Sanjeev Kumar Dang, Rajinder Singh Nikku, Gurmel Singh Olympian and Golden Girl International player Rajbir Kaur and ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-minister-visits-surjit-hockey-camp-on-its-100th-day-195187
08-01-2021||---||5 welfare schemes launched||Jalandhar, January 7Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi on Thursday unveiled five schemes of the state government that will benefit the residents of Punjab in a big way.Participating in the virtual programme presided over by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the ministers, accompanied by MLAs Rajinder Beri and Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Municipal Commissioner Karnesh Sharma, said the state government had taken a historic step by launching five schemes — grant of proprietary rights to slum dwellers (Basera scheme), smart meters, e-dakhil, Dheean Di Lohri and distribution of sports kits.They said Punjab could go slum-free through the Basera scheme, under which the lives of more than 1 lakh slum dwellers would be transformed.They said in Jalandhar, eight slums have been identified, including five in the jurisdiction of Municipal Corporation Jalandhar and three in Kartarpur, Adampur, and Phillaur Municipal Councils.They said survey teams were already in the field to upload the correct data on the mobile app about slums and this process would be over by February 28. The ministers informed that 4-G technology-based smart meters would not only facilitate power consumers by ensuring transparent metering, billing and collection process, but would also curtail power theft.Meanwhile, e-dakhil project is aimed at giving more powers to consumers by providing them an easy and hassle-free platform to file any complaint in the consumer commission online application portal besides lodging revision petition and first appeal here, they said.At the starting of the month-long events under ‘Dheean Di Lohri’ scheme, the ministers envisioned that celebrating traditional festivals such as Lohri with a new twist in the form of ‘Dheean Di Lohri’ would prove instrumental in further improving the sex ratio. They said it was all the more important to create a mass awakening among the masses against the menace of female foeticide, thereby empowering women.The ministers said the initiative of distributing 2,500 sports kits would give a major fillip to sports activity in the state. The ministers said these would play a pivotal role in the promotion of sports and other social activities in rural areas.Prominent among present included chairman Punjab State Water Resources Management Development Corporation (PWRMDC) Jagbir Singh Brar, Additional Deputy Commissioners Vishesh Sarangal, Jasbir Singh, DCP Traffic Naresh Dogra, SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh, Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh and DFSC Narinder Singh among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-welfare-schemes-launched-195188
08-01-2021||Jalandhar||1 dies, 22 test positive in dist||JALANDHAR ROUND-UPSamples collected 4,93,775Negative 4,51,816Positive 20,090Active 250Deceased 650Discharged 19,190Sample inappropriate 4,353Results awaited 3,072Home isolated 15616 new cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With 16 new positive cases reported in Hoshiarpur district on Thursday, the total number of cases increased to 7,827. The death toll stood at 316 as no casualty was reported today. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the total number of samples taken in the district has reached 2,48,280 to date. He said there were 98 active cases while the number of recovered patients reached 7,413. The Civil Surgeon said of 16 patients found positive, five were from Hoshiarpur city and remaining from other blocks of the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-22-test-positive-in-dist-195189
