09-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Bird flu scare brings down egg, chicken prices by 50%||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8As bird flu scare has hit the adjoining states, including Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, poultry traders in Punjab have started witnessing drop in sales by nearly 50 per cent.Even wholesale egg sellers and vendors said there has been a significant drop in the number of customers in the last two-three days. The egg sellers said earlier, they used to sell 1,000 trays a day and now, the number has come down to 700 trays.Disease Diagnostic Lab issues GuidelinesThey said a tray of 30 eggs, which costed Rs180 was now being sold for Rs100. The wholesale price of a broiler has come down to Rs90 from Rs145.Not just the wholesalers, even retailers and owners of dhabas and restaurants said sale of chicken and egg has decreased manifold.Rajesh Babu, an omelette seller, said, “The reports of bird flu have clearly impacted sales. Even my regular customers did not visit today despite such a cold weather.”Jaswinder Singh, a representative of the poultry association, rued that sales have come down drastically. “Rates of poultry items have fallen to half. Jalandhar is a fairly good market where around 50,000 broilers get sold daily, but within two-three days of reporting of bird flu, buyers have vanished all of a sudden,” he said.Dr MP Singh, Joint Director, Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, said, “There is no need to panic as of now. There is no case in Punjab so far. We have decided to step up our testing daily to 1,500 or so. We will close the Covid testing facility as of now to concentrate on the spread of bird flu testing.”Charanjeet Sarangal, microbiologist, RDDL, said, “There is no need to panic as properly cooked chicken and eggs do no harm. Also, there has been no report of any outbreak of bird flu in domestic poultry in Punjab in the last one decade.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bird-flu-scare-brings-down-egg-chicken-prices-by-50-195897
09-01-2021||Jalandhar||Nawanshahr women make their presence felt in tractor march||A tractor march was held in Nawanshahr on Friday. Members gave a call to the residents to take part in tractor march on January 26. The farmers marched on 250 tractors today. Women farmers took the lead and showed the way.Farmers marched under the Kirti Kisan Union banner. They said it was necessary to show solidarity to the cause.The march was started from Asmaanpur village and covered Sahaabpur, Majara Kalan, Majara Khurd, Mirpur, Jadla, Daulatpur, Birowal, Bhan Majara, Kishanpura, Pallian Khurd, Chokra villages.A member of the union Bhupinder Singh Warraich said farmers would not return before getting all three laws shelved. “We will be joining them on January 26. We won’t let the movement to become weak,” he said.The women members have also made their presence felt on a vast level. They have already formed nine committees, which not only includes farmers, but also women belonging to all sectors and areas and it is being counted as an achievement.The committees will have active women who will further decide the next course of action to strengthen the farmers’ movement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-women-make-their-presence-felt-in-tractor-march-195898
09-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||97 participate in Covid vaccination dry run||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8The Covid-19 vaccine dry run was held in four health facilities in the district on Friday. As many as 97 beneficiaries (health workers) participated in it. It was held at SGL Charitable Hospital, the Civil Hospital, the Primary Health Centre, Jamsher, and the Urban Health Centre, Basti Gujan.As many as 12,420 health workers have been registered in the district for the first phase of the Covid vaccination programme. Fortyseven teams have been formed in the district (23 for urban areas) which would administer vaccine in 47 centres in the district. Cold chain points have been set up in CHCs and Sub Divisional Hospitals with a storage capacity of over 12 lakh vaccines in Jalandhar.A three-room set-up each was established in the four health facilities where the dry run took place. From a waiting area, the beneficiary was routed to a vaccination room and subsequently to an observation room. The identification of the health worker was verified by a security guard (and matched with available list) followed by ID proof fed to the computer, the visitor sent to the waiting area and then to the vaccination room. The vaccination protocol was duly followed to apprise patients and staff of the final protocol they would have to follow. The AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) kits have also been placed in all 47 centres in preparation for a reaction or adverse affects of the vaccine if any.In all, 159 private hospitals in Jalandhar have sent lists of staff which has to be vaccinated. Officials said the staff did not have the name of the vaccine or the date of administering yet.District Immunisation Officer, Jalandhar, Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “All beneficiaries routed to the vaccination room would be sent only after verifying their identity and whether their names are on the list of beneficiaries. A beneficiary, administered a Covid vaccine, is told the name of the vaccine, the future date of the dose and asked to contact the nodal officer if they face any problem. The entire set up has been readied for the Covid vaccination.” “It was a rehearsal. The name of the vaccine, which is to be administered, and the date of the first vaccine have not been announced yet,” added Dr Chopra.Hoshiarpur: As per the instructions of the Government of India, a dry run was carried out at three locations — the District Civil Hospital, the Community Health Centre, Bhunga, and IVY Hospital — here on Friday.Inspecting the dry run at the Civil Hospital Vaccination Centre, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said the purpose was to review the preparations to be made before the arrival of the vaccine. During the dry run, the mock vaccine was given to the vaccine centre from the main store.Besides, a list of 25 registered beneficiaries, matching of beneficiary names as per the list on the portal by vaccination authorities, a 30-minute exercise for name verification, vaccination, counselling and monitoring was done. The line-up process and awareness content performance were also monitored during the dry run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/97-participate-in-covid-vaccination-dry-run-195899
09-01-2021||39 more test +ve in district||39 more test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 8With 39 more cases, total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached 20,129 today. The number of deceased persons in Jalandhar remained 650. The active cases in district now stand at 262. Kapurthala district saw six persons testing positive for Covid today.Three deaths, 13 new cases in HoshiarpurThe district reported three more deaths due to the Covid-19 contagion, pushing the tally to 319 on Friday. With 13 more persons testing positive for the contagion, the total number of positive patients rose to 7,840 in the district. Besides, there are 91 active cases of the virus and the number of the cured patients is 7,430. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/39-more-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-195900
09-01-2021||---||Now, summons for revenue cases to be sent via SMS, email||Jalandhar, January 8To ensure speedy redressal of revenue cases, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday said summons pertaining to revenue cases would be served through short message service (SMS), email or WhatsApp soon.Participating in a video-conference presided over by Financial Commissioner Revenue Vishwajeet Khanna, the Deputy Commissioner said following the amendment of the Punjab Land Revenue (Amendment) Act, 2020, this new service of delivering summons through digital mode, would be implemented.He said the service would not only help to quicken the pace of cases, but would also clear the pendency. Thori added that after sending summons digitally, officers would keep physical record of summons for future purpose.He informed that the Revenue Court Management System (RCMS), which was developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) to facilitate management and monitoring of court cases (revenue courts) was being effectively implemented.Thori said online services of demarcation of land and non-encumbrance certificates were being initiated through the RCMS. He said the applicant just needs to apply for demarcation online.The Deputy Commissioner said in case, the applicant fails to apply online, he/she could either visit Fard Kendra, Sewa Kendra or CRO Office and submit the application.He said the RCMS was designed specifically for revenue courts in the state, which include Financial Commissioner, Divisional Commissioner, Director Land Records, Deputy Commissioner, SDM, Tehsildar, and Naib Tehsildars courts.Thori said this system has details of properties under litigation from the land record database along with petitioners and respondents. He said besides, generation of summoning notices, the system automatically generates a date-wise cause list of different courts.The DC said all case-related documents, including interim orders, final judgments, and others could be uploaded through this system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-summons-for-revenue-cases-to-be-sent-via-sms-email-195902
09-01-2021||---||2 MC branches at loggerheads||Jalandhar, January 8Members of the building branch ad hoc committee gave an ultimatum to officials of the town planning wing of the MC on Friday. During the meeting which was attended by the committee members and wing officials, Vicky Kalia, one of the active members of the committee, said that if the town planning wing officials did not take action against erring colonisers they would take the matter to the Vigilance Department and write to the Local Bodies Department Secretary.Recently, members of the Building and Roads (B&R) Ad-hoc Committee met Mayor Jagdish Raja and asked him to initiate action against a coloniser who had carved out as many as 18 colonies on 105 acres in the Jalandhar Cantonment segment.Vicky Kalia, a member of the panel, said the coloniser only paid Rs 8 lakh for the same and owed Rs 20 crore to the MC. Apart from that, the ad hoc committee members have also given the list of 14 colonies in the Rama Mandi area to the town planning wing officials and have told them that the colonies are illegal.Kalia said, “Even the officials have accepted that four- five new colonies are being constructed. We have asked them to install a board mentioning that the colonies are illegal.”“A meeting of the sanction committee was held recently, in which the issue of non-payment of dues by colonisers was raised. The committee members had asked the MC Commissioner, who is chairman of the committee, to recover dues from all colonisers who had just given 10 per cent of the payment to the department, and remaining 90 per cent was still pending. But I have got to know that only two or three colonisers have given their dues. I have asked for the details,” he said.“I don’t understand one thing. Even after highlighting several times that illegal colonies are coming up in the city, why isn’t there any kind of action? There is no seriousness. But we have also decided that we don’t sit quietly and let the guilty walk freely. The MC can recover high amount of money from colonisers, but nobody is doing anything,” Kalia added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-mc-branches-at-loggerheads-195903
09-01-2021||---||Cheema cries land scam||Jalandhar, January 8Leader of Opposition (LoP) in Punjab Legislative Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday sought the resignation of Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora alleging a land scam. Cheema alleged a prime property of Punjab Infotech had been sold at a throwaway price. Cheema sought a CBI inquiry into the case and said if the matter was not investigated the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would approach the High Court and gherao the CM.Cheema alleged that plot number A-32, Phase-8, Industrial Area, Mohali, for 31 acres was allotted by Punjab Infotech to JCT Limited in September 1984. He alleged the unit was sold by the official liquidator. Cheema alleged it was staggering as to why the MD of Punjab Infotech, acted as a mute spectator and allowed the sale of the property for mere Rs 95 crore for 31 acres, whereas the net worth of the prime location was between Rs 350 to Rs 400 crore.Cheema alleged, “An asset management company was made as a facade to purchase the prime property from the official liquidator and then pass it on to the close associates of Industries Minister . The buyer of 31 acres of prime land, paid only 50 per cent of the sale price that is Rs 45 crore,” he said. Meanwhile, minister Sunder Sham Arora said, “The AAP is raising a baseless issue for political mileage. The Industries Department has answered on the issue twice earlier. The auction was held by a Central government agency as per the orders of the High Court. Our department has nothing to do with the sale.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cheema-cries-land-scam-195906
09-01-2021||As the state government announced to set up Wood Park in Hoshiarpur||WOODWORK WIZARDS||Passing through a narrow alley starting from Dana Mandi Chowk of Hoshiarpur, one reaches the world-famous Dabbi Bazaar of Hoshiarpur that opens to a breathtaking display of an exquisite inlay wood art. Various designer items like inlaid tables, chairs, dressing tables, jewellery and tissue boxes, chests trolleys, sceneries, sideboards, corner stands, chessboards, trays, coasters, pen stands, key hangers and elephants used in our daily lives attract visitors to this bazaar. Any tourist sauntering around the city would prefer carrying home a precious souvenir of this kind.Etched and pasted with tiny pieces of acrylic, this traditional artwork requires a lot of perfection, practice and fine manual labour. Machinery is an outcast, for artists rely upon tools like chisels, knives and hammers. They tell that though laser machines have been invented but these cannot be used for finer work as tiny pieces had to be cut and glued.What is wood inlay craft?To put it simply, inlay is a technique of engraving various small motifs into hollowed out spaces of wood to make a unique designed pattern on its surface. The motifs, which were originally made out of ivory extracted from elephant’s tusks, is now made of acrylic, plastic, bronze and even camel bone. That the task is done on sheesham or rosewood, which is a good quality timber, comes off as no surprise when one is told about the price tag; which touches the sky. The market is largely thriving on Doaba’s NRIs who usually gift such items to the newlyweds.When and how did this work originate?Wood inlay work started in Hoshiarpur about 300 years ago. Situated in the foothills of the great Himalayan ranges, high-quality timber was available in abundance in the region. The city also was home to the finest carpenters. To begin with, the work was done on stringed musical instruments like veena, sitar, sarangi etc made here. Eventually, the same work was started on furniture and decorative items. The items then embedded with ivory remained in high demand by the royal families of Punjab. Ivory ones were even exported in 1850 from here but its use was banned by the Indian government in 1989 and artists began using camel bone and acrylic as substitutes.Inlay, a dying artOriginally, most artisans hailed from Bassi Gulam Hussain and Boothgarh villages and the art was passed from generation to generation. Not more than 70 artisans are practising this craft at present. To motivate them and prevent the art from dying, the government started National Awards Completions in 1965. Till now five craftsmen have been given the awards for inlay work. The famous Albert Hall Museum in Jaipur also houses some rare ivory inlay treasures of Hoshiarpur from the 19th Century.How is inlay work done?The first step for inlay work is readying a pattern to be designed on a piece of paper. Earlier drawings were hand-drawn, however, computerised prints are used for tracing these days. The motifs in the design chosen can be geometrical or floral or traditional. This design is then copied on the wooden material as well as acrylic sheet by tracing it using an ink. Following this, begins the etching on wood with the help of sharp tools. By etching 2-3 mm depressions are created which would hold the inlay piece. Sharp knives are used to cut the motifs out of acrylic sheets. Each piece is glued on the wood. As soon as the pasting is done, they are subsequently rubbed with sandpaper to give it a smooth finish. After all pieces have been done and smoothened, the next in the line are finishing and polishing which prolongs the piece’s life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woodwork-wizards-195932
09-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Tanda rape, murder: Court fixes Jan 19 for next hearing||The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Neelam Arora on Friday fixed January 19 for hearing the case in which a six-year-old girl was raped, killed and her body was set on fire by the accused in Tanda area.Victim’s counsel Advocate Naveen Jairath said the accused in the case moved an application in the court to consider the accused Surpreet Singh as lunatic. Surpreet is currently under treatment in a Amritsar hospital. The court fixed January 19 as the next date for considering the said application and hearing of the main case.On October 22, a 6-year-old girl of a migrant labourer residing in a village under police station Tanda was raped and murdered. The half-burnt dead body of the girl was recovered from a cattle shed of the accused. The police had booked Surpreet , a resident of the same village and his grandfather Surjit Singh for rape, murder and burning the body of the victim. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tanda-rape-murder-court-fixes-jan-19-for-next-hearing-195939
09-01-2021||Jalandhar||Capt Amarinder is Centre’s puppet: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had become a puppet of the BJP-led central government and was suppressing the voices which were speaking out against the three farm laws.When will bills be sent to prez: harsimratFormer Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to tell Punjabis how long he would wait before exercising legal options to ensure the three farm Bills, passed unanimously in the Vidhan Sabha 80 days ago to counter the central laws, were forwarded by the Governor to the President of India for assent.“It is clear that the Union Home Ministry knows about the weaknesses of the CM and that is why he is taking orders directly from the ministry and registering attempt to murder cases against Punjabis protesting against BJP leaders. Similarly, song writers and singers who have sung songs in praise of the farmers’ agitation are being hauled up,” he said.Sukhbir said, “The CM should have been at the forefront of the fight to secure the rights of the farmers. He should have been ready to sacrifice all for it. Instead, he is relaxing in his farmhouse and doing lip service.”He also took on the CM for failing to take back the APMC Act, which was amended by him in 2017 and contained all provisions of the three farm laws. He said presently the situation was such that even if the Centre repealed the three laws they would still be applicable in Punjab as the Congress government had refused to take back the changes made in its APMC Act.Speaking about the problems of farmers of the Doaba region, he said sugarcane growers were suffering because of Rs 284 crore dues had not been paid to them. He said the Congress government had also not increased the sugarcane state assured price (SAP) for the last three years due to which farmers in the state were getting a price of Rs 310 per quintal only against Rs 350 per quintal being received by farmers of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capt-amarinder-is-centres-puppet-sad-195710
