10-01-2021||Jalandhar||Online radio channel at Kanya Maha Vidyalaya||Inspire Manak AwardsThe project made by the students of Innocent Hearts has been selected for ‘Inspire Manak Awards’ proposed by the Science and Technology Department. These students have been awarded a Rs10,000 to give shape to their models. The selected students from Innocent Hearts, Green Model Town, are: Divyansh Sharma, Anish Sikka, Jayesh Pandit, Hardik Chadha, and Swar Sethi, Muskan Kohli from Loharan Campus. Divyansh made a digital project to produce electricity through the air. Hardik created a project of the pre-recorded detector of senses of hand. Jayesh Pandit made a smart traffic control system. Anish Sikka formulated a wheelchair. Swar Sethi created breathalyser and Muskan Kohli created accident preventer. Rajeev Paliwal, principal, Green Model Town, and Shallu Sehgal, principal Loharan Campus, congratulated the science department and selected students and wished them good luck for next level.Virtual talk on consumer behaviourThe department of management of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Technical Campus, organised a virtual expert talk on ‘A Global Perspective on research, ethics and consumer behaviour’. The resource person for the same was Dr Manish Bhatia, Langara College, Vancouver. He elaborated three major topics of marketing field. Firstly, he discussed the concept of marketing research in business. He explained that marketing research is the integral and most important part at all stages in a business. Secondly, he discussed marketing ethics and sustainability. He explained the importance of truth and transparency in a business. Thirdly, he discussed the concept of consumer behaviour. He focused on the importance of understanding the needs, wants and demands of customers in the market. He also explained the value of empathetic behaviour of companies towards requirements of customers. The event was coordinated by Prof Anterpreet Kaur Talwar.Offline pre-board examsJalandhar: Moving ahead with the academic preparations for board exams, Sanskriti KMV School held its first offline pre-board examination for Classes X and XII on its campus. The day commenced with prayers. The school had taken all necessary precautions towards the safety of all the arriving students and staff. Santisation junctions and social distancing from gate to the examination room were the most attended concern. Conducting offline examination is in the favour of students to help them screen and review to be made by the school about their real preparations for Board Exams scheduled by CBSE ahead. Rachna Monga, principal, in her message appreciated the 100 per cent attendance and thanked the parents for their faith and support to the school policies meant to bring in best board results even during the controlled situations.Techfest at Apeejay College of Fine ArtsThe IT Forum of department of computer science of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised Techfest—an interschool competition. Various competitions were organised like business idea presentation, picture captioning, photography, poster presentation, solo dance, gustakhi maaf, website designing, declamation, poetry recitation, etc. More than 200 students from 22 schools of Jalandhar and around participated in this fest. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-radio-channel-at-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-196209
10-01-2021||---||R-Day function to be a low-key affair||Jalandhar, January 9The district-level 72nd Republic Day function this year would be a low-key affair in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. A strict adherence to safety precautions would be ensured at any cost, said Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Jasbir Singh on Saturday.He said this while chairing a review meeting to oversee the ongoing preparations for the event. As per the guidelines, the gathering would be limited this time and the function would be kept simple. Referring to the state government’s guidelines regarding R-Day function amid Covid, the ADC said there would be no massive gathering during the event as it used to be in previous years and the contingent of the Punjab Police would only give salute. He also clarified that there would be no other activities such as PT shows, cultural events, parades, etc, in order to maintain the safety guidelines.Singh said that health and safety protocols, including social distancing, wearing masks, hand sanitising, disinfecting the premises would be accorded top priorities. He directed the police officials to make sure that their security personnel abide by the safety protocols to avoid further spread of the virus.Prominent among those present included SDM Jai Inder Singh, SDM Rahul Sindhu, District Education Officer Harinder Pal Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police Arun Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/r-day-function-to-be-a-low-key-affair-196198
10-01-2021||---||Political outfits turn on election mode||Jalandhar, January 9As the civic body polls are drawing near, political parties have begun stepping up their activities.While the Congress is busy doling out funds and announcing development works, the Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party and Bharatiya Janata Party are busy approaching each other’s workers who had been working for the community.SAD chief Sukhbir Badal on Friday visited Jalandhar and held several meetings with leaders from across Doaba. Badal reportedly asked the party leaders and workers to look for good Hindu faces who could perform well in urban areas.The launching of five new schemes across Punjab, including those for slum dwellers, smart meters, e-Dakhil, Dheean Di Lohri and distribution of sports kits, too, can be seen in light of the upcoming elections.Former Punjab Youth Congress chief and Phillaur incharge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary inaugurated multiple works worth Rs56.03 lakhs in Phillaur today. These works include water tank for supplying safe drinking water to residents, laying of interlocking tiles, installation of streetlights, construction of a crematorium and boundary wall of a gymnasium.Anandpur Sahib Congress MP Manish Tewari also distributed cheques to initiate the development works. He inaugurated works costing Rs27 lakh in Balachaur block and handed over cheque for Rs33 lakh. He also gave Rs16.60 lakh for the development tasks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/political-outfits-turn-on-election-mode-196200
10-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur gets First Responder Vehicle||Hero MotoCorp has donated a specially designed ‘First Responder Vehicle (FRV)’ to the health authorities here on Friday. The FRV was handed over to Dr Ranjeet Singh, Civil Surgeon. Cabinet Minister for Industries and Commerce Sunder Sham Arora was also present on the occasion.The vehicle will be useful for patients in the rural and remote areas and comfortably moving them to the nearest hospitals. The FRV has been custom-built as an accessory on the powerful Xtreme 200R motorcycle of Hero MotoCorp. It has been equipped with a full stretcher with a foldable hood mounted on the side, essential medical equipment such as a detachable first-aid kit, oxygen cylinder, fire extinguisher and other safety features. Vijay Sethi, chief information officer and head CSR Hero MotoCorp, said, “The company has been providing FRVs to health workers in different states to assist patients.” The company has handed over 53 FRVs to the government authorities in Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-gets-first-responder-vehicle-196202
10-01-2021||---||Lovely Professional University researchers come up with novel bottle cap assembly||Phagwara, January 9A team of researchers from Lovely Professional University (LPU) has designed an innovative and cost-effective water bottle cap that will prevent tampering of both used and unused water and cold drink bottles.The cap works with minimum torque. Once the bottle is opened, the gap between its cap and the neck ring widens ensuring they cannot be stuck together seamlessly using adhesives.Tampering of fluids, especially water is a major health concern. While packaged water brands take utmost care to deliver hygienic water to consumers, in many cases, miscreants refill empty bottles and sell them as branded ones. This not only leads to health challenges for consumers, but also ends up eroding consumer trust in the packaged water brand.The new packaging technique developed by the LPU’s researchers can help counter this challenge effectively. The team has developed a prototype of the innovation and has also bagged a patent.The research team includes Dr Lovi Raj Gupta, Executive Dean of Science and Technology, Lovely Professional University, Dr Tanay Pramanik, Prashant Kumar and Rakesh Kamal.Dr Lovi Raj Gupta, Executive Dean of Science and Technology, said, “Water bottle tampering is a common issue, which has plagued mineral water and carbonated drinks industry for long. Not only does it affect the consumers monetarily, it also puts their lives at risk. At the same time, packaged bottling companies lose million due to such malpractices every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lovely-professional-university-researchers-come-up-with-novel-bottle-cap-assembly-196201
10-01-2021||---||IKGPTU civil engineering students to work with NHAI||Kapurthala, January 9To provide ground learning and practical exposure to its students and faculty, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU), Jalandhar-Kapurthala, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).This MoU has a six-point agenda of development, learning exposure and a unique initiative towards the best ground study of civil engineering students as well as the faculty.The NHAI will also offer internships with stipends to IKGPTU students.Sharing some facts of the MoU, Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, said it would carry out periodic investigation and give suitable suggestions for improving the efficiency of existing highway assets among other things covering various aspects. He said improvements in safety provision by removing existing deficiencies in the maintenance of the stretch using new technologies and localised solutions for the removal of congestion points thereby increasing the average speed of traffic flow would be the main area of work for students, faculty and researchers.Sandeep Kumar Kazal, registrar, IKGPTU, and RP Singh, regional officer (RO), NHAI, Chandigarh, signed the MoU document. Registrar Kazal said students would also work on improvements in the riding comfort through cost effective measures based on innovative technologies on practices applicable.By referring to the sixth agenda, Dr Rajiv Chauhan, head, civil engineering, IKGPTU, said the viability of new way side amenities for road users based on the existing traffic pattern and user expectations and potential solutions to old recurring problems based on local experience would also be the area of further work. Dr Hitesh Sharma of VC secretariat and Sidharth Bhatnagar, site engineer, NHAI, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-civil-engineering-students-to-work-with-nhai-196199
10-01-2021||---||‘Dhiyan Di Lohri’ celebrated with zest at Unique Home||Jalandhar, January 9Justice Daya Chaudhary, Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court and Administrative Judge, Sessions Division, celebrated ‘Dhiyan Di Lohri’ (Lohri of daughters) at Unique Home on Saturday.Justice Daya Chaudhary envisioned that such events are instrumental in eradicating the social evils like female foeticide and improving the sex ratio. She said that girls are not less than boys in any field. She said it was important that female foeticide must be stopped so that there was balance between nature and society.She told that Dhiyan Di Lohri was the need of the hour to ensure that girl child could live their lives with dignity and pride thereby immensely contributing for the socio-economic development of the state in general and district in particular.Prominent among other present on the occasion included CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Jaapinder Singh, Legal Probation Officer Sandeep Kumar, Unique Home head Bibi Parkash Kaur and others.Meanwhile, she also inaugurated a blood donation camp and Covid testing camp held in judicial complex. Earlier, District and Sessions Judge Rupinderjit Chahal, DC Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar , Industrial Tribunal Presiding Officer Tejwinder Singh and others welcomed Justice Daya Chaudhary. A guard of honour was also given to Justice Daya Chaudhary in Circuit House by the Punjab Police contingent.‘Empower the girl child’Lok Sabha MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri and Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal on Saturday called upon people to play a pivotal role by coming forward to save girl child thereby making them equal partners in the socio-economic growth of the country. Addressing the gathering during celebration of ‘Dhiyan Di Lohri’ in Ghurka organised by the World Wide Scope Welfare Society, the Lok Sabha MP and MLAs said that it was the need of the hour to educate and empower the girls for making India a front ranking country in the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dhiyan-di-lohri-celebrated-with-zest-at-unique-home-196204
10-01-2021||---||Nobel laureate Dr Har Gobind Khorana remembered||Kapurthala, January 9Pushpa Gujral Science City organised a webinar on Saturday to celebrate birth anniversary of Nobel laureate Har Gobind Khorana.Dr Felix Bast, associate professor, department of botany, Central University of PunjabKhorana’s work on the revelation of the language of DNA and RNA molecules. Understanding of genetic code is instrumental for the elucidation of the structure of coronavirus as well as identifying its spike proteins, the target antigen for most of the present vaccine development endeavours.Around 300 students and teachers from different schools of Punjab participated in the event. Dr SS Marwaha, former director, biotechnology, and presently Chairman Punjab Pollution Control Board, was the chief guest at the occasion. He informed that Dr Har Gobind Khorana was one of the first scientists to demonstrate the role of nucleotides in protein synthesis and helped crack the genetic code. He also helped develop custom-designed pieces of artificial genes and methods that anticipated the invention of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) process, a biochemical technology used to amplify a single or a few copies of a piece of DNA.Dr Felix Bast, associate professor, department of botany, Central University of Punjab, during his talk said that Khorana’s work on the revelation of the language of DNA and RNA molecules. Understanding of genetic code is instrumental for the elucidation of the structure of coronavirus as well as identifying its spike proteins, the target antigen for most of the present vaccine development endeavors. Further he said that understanding of the genetic code paved way for the development of Moderna’s mRNA vaccine as well as Pfizer-BioNTech’s mRNA vaccine against Covid-19.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science CityHar Gobind Khorana was a pioneer and a visionary. His passion for science started under a tree in the small village of Raipur, India, and grew into Nobel Prize-winning research on nucleotides and genes.Dr Vandana Jaiswal, young scientists awardee (CSIR) from Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, Palampur, delivered a special talk on ‘Molecular biology journey from DNA to genomes synthesis’. Delivering her talk she said that discovery of genetic code opened new avenues to understand the molecular and genetic mechanism. Molecular biology and DNA technology have been implemented in several human health and crop improvement programmes. Further, she said that CRISPR/Cas is the latest genome editing tool that can manipulate the genome in a precise manner to produce the desired characters; and has been successfully implemented in crop improvement programmes. In the current pandemic of Covid-19, CRISPR/Cas assay is also being utilised to test the corona virus.Speaking at the occasion, Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General Science City, said that Indian academia had always made the country proud on a global scale with their ground breaking works. Dr Khorana extraordinary work in genetics has led to the decoding of the genetic code and construction of first synthetic genes. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1968.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science City, said that Har Gobind Khorana was a pioneer and a visionary. His passion for science started under a tree in the small village of Raipur, India, and grew into Nobel Prize-winning research on nucleotides and genes. During this period, he published more than 500 papers in chemistry and in biology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nobel-laureate-dr-har-gobind-khorana-remembered-196203
10-01-2021||Jalandhar||Manoj Arora is District Planning Committee chairman||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manoj-arora-is-district-planning-committee-chairman-196196
10-01-2021||Jalandhar||32 CCTVs, repair & paint of swings at Nikku Park in a month: Deputy Commissioner||Executing his plans to give new look to the Nikku Park for boosting footfall especially of children here, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ordered the high-power committee managing the park to complete the works of installing 32 CCTV cameras, repairing and painting of swings within a month.On December 29, the DC had announced to give Rs5 lakh for the complete facelift of the park to the high-powered committee during his visit. Presiding over a meeting with the officials on Saturday again on the matter, Thori directed the officials to ensure timely completion of all these works as it is a valuable asset for the city and its people.Thori said swings, including bungee jumping, breakdance, bull ride, frog ride and others would be repaired for which the high-power committee has already invited the private company.He said the work of installing 32 CCTV cameras, painting of the boundary wall and other structures inside the park, floodlights, new grass cutting machines and renovation of the washrooms would also be carried out simultaneously.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/32-cctvs-repair-paint-of-swings-at-nikku-park-in-a-month-deputy-commissioner-196205
10-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||The law of nature||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 9Picked on mercilessly as a kid, she started hating school. Skipping classes most of the time and secluding herself, her teenage years withered away in depression. That was also the time it dawned upon her that it wasn’t her fault after all.Harwinder Kaur (Ruby), a lawyerThe scornful looks and words of ridicule forced me to doubt my capabilities as a child. Today, I am just 3 ft 11 inches tall, but now I see respect in the once-scornful eyes and the sly remarks have been turned into compliments. I feel proud of myself.Born a dwarf, she realised how mentally strong she is. Now 24, Harwinder Kaur, alias Ruby, stands tall as a lawyer who pledges to fight for differently-abled for free, as she can “feel the pain”.“The scornful looks and words of ridicule forced me to doubt my capabilities as a child. Today, I am just 3 ft 11 inches tall, but now I see respect in the once-scornful eyes and the sly remarks have been turned into compliments. I feel proud of myself,” Ruby says.She said her life had been one of a struggle but still went on not only to study law but also to win hearts. “I am currently practising law under District Bar Association vice-president Jagpal Singh Dhupar and want to pursue my career in judiciary,” she adds.A resident of Armaan Nagar in Rama Mandi here, Ruby said she came to know about her disability as a 10-year-old. All members in her family are of average height.“I was in Class IV when I noticed my body was not growing normally. With this came a lot of teasing and bullying. By the time I reached senior secondary classes, I started skipping school and spent most of my days at home. But when I decided to face the world and took admission at the KCL Institute of Laws, life changed for the better. The things I missed in school, I experienced at college,” the law aspirant says.Accepting herself the way she was instilled positivity and motivated her to fulfill all the dreams she had conjured. “Earlier, I wanted to be an air hostess but that was not possible, so I chose to study law and become a voice of the disabled,” Ruby says, adding, “People with insecurities and inferiority complexes now look up to me and appreciate my confidence.”Daughter of an ASI, she believes in hard work, resilience and positive attitude as the key to success. With 50,000 followers on Instagram, she is already popular as a social media star.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-law-of-nature-196206
10-01-2021||---||Food wing staff collects desi ghee, sweetmeat samples||Kapurthala, January 9The food wing, Kapurthala, on Saturday inspected food business operators, including jaggery manufacturers, sweet shops, retail outlets and other establishments.Officials took nine samples, including gulab jamun, desi ghee, jaggery, mustard oil, honey, groundnuts, sesame seeds and energy drink.The samples were sent sent to the State Food Laboratory, Kharar, for analysis under the Food Safety and Standards Act 2006.Dr Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, Food Wing, Kapurthala, said, “No colour or chemical can be added to jaggery. Manufacturers have been directed to keep prepared gur/shakkar properly covered and maintain proper hygienic conditions.”He said, “There is a provision of minimum six months imprisonment for samples declared ‘unsafe’ and cases are tried in criminal court. Samples declared ‘substandard’ or ‘misbranded’ or other violations are tried in civil court and invite a penalty upto Rs3 lakh.” He said food business operators working without a valid Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) licence have been directed to obtain it at the earliest, as operating any food business without a licence invites a penalty upto Rs5 lakh and imprisonment upto six months.Food businessmen are also directed to observe necessary precautions with regards to Covid-19. He said they demand cooperation from business operators to ensure safe, pure and healthy food for masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/food-wing-staff-collects-desi-ghee-sweetmeat-samples-196207
10-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Sunder Sham Arora gives Rs 2.37 cr for girls’ hostel, library||Hoshiarpur, January 9Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora handed over a cheque for Rs2.37 crore for the ongoing construction of girls hostel and library in local government college and said that both the projects would be completed soon thus ensuring requisite facilities for students pursuing higher education.Handing over cheque to principal and other staff members of the college, Arora said that construction of these projects would be accomplished by March 31, 2021 with total cost of nearly Rs6.60 crore. He said that after earlier two instalments of funds to the tune of Rs1 crore and Rs50 lakh, the state government has now provided another instalment of Rs2.37 crore. He said the remaining funds would also be ensured when needed in future, said the minister adding that the girls’ hostel would be constructed at a cost of Rs4.19 crore and library, with ultra-modern facilities, at a cost of Rs2.41 crore.Elaborating the endeavours of the Punjab Government to further strengthen the infrastructure in higher education institutes, the minister said that the state was developing 12 new government colleges and the construction of buildings in eight colleges was under progress. The minister said for the girls hostel and library in government college, the state had already provided funds of Rs1 crore and Rs50 lakh respectively. He said the girls’ hostel would provide accommodation to over 100 girl students.Those present included in charge Principal Dr Avinash Kaur, retd principal Dr Paramjit Singh, retd principal Satnam Singh, Bharti Sethi, Dr Rajesh Kumar, Dr Jaswinder Kaur, Dr Jasveera Minhas and Parvinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sunder-sham-arora-gives-rs-2-37-cr-for-girls-hostel-library-196208
10-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Tractor march in Jalandhar — A ‘trailer’ of what lies ahead||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 9Commuters were at the receiving end on Saturday after a tractor rally was taken out on the city roads to lend support to farmers protesting against the contentious agriculture laws.With rows of tractors, jeeps and cars taking over roads and highways, farmers continued to raise slogans against the Modi government.Flaunting banners of ‘Kisan Union Ekta’, ‘No Farmers, No Food, No Future’ and ‘Repeal black laws’, as many as 3,000 farmers and youth took out the rally as a massive show of strength and unity.A convoy of over 350 tractors and 300 other vehicles travelled for 25 km covering areas including Model Town, GTB Nagar, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Skylark Chowk, Nakodar Chowk, Kapurthala Chowk, BMC Chowk, bus stand, BSF Chowk and PAP. The police were also deployed to ensure that the rally remains peaceful.Gurshant Singh Sidhu, who not only participated in the rally, but was also one of the organising members, said they started their tractor rally on Saturday to further intensify the ongoing protest against the three farm laws.“It was just a trailer of the Republic Day tractor march. We want to show the government that apart from farmers on the outskirts of Delhi, a sea of supporters from across the state will also enter Delhi on January 26. We are warning the government to withdraw the controversial laws as it’s just the ‘rehearsal’ of the main show,” he said.Karanveer Singh, one of the protesters who was riding a tractor, said: “It seems like the Prime Minister cannot see us or hear us despite having so much strength. He has forgotten that we are the ones who have voted him to power. Through the tractor rally we would like to tell the government that it is better to take back the laws.”Accompanying him, Gurpreet Singh, a farmer from Lohian Khas village, said: “This tractor rally was just a preparation to the main parade. Through today’s rally, we were successful in exhibiting our preparation and strength to the government and gave them an idea of how the rally on Republic Day will look like. We are an extremely peaceful lot and we have no intention of getting into face-offs with any person or authority of any kind.”Meanwhile, around 300-400 people, carrying mashaals and candles in their hands, took out a mashaal march in the city as well. Organised by NGO V4U (The Helping Hand) and Trade Union Council, Jalandhar, the march started from Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall and concluded at Model Town.Sikh groups to hold rally in ItalyCondemning the adamant attitude of the Centre over the three farm laws, the Alliance of Sikh Organisations (a group of 35 organisations) on Saturday announced to intensify their protest and take it to international level. The organisations said farmers were spending nights on roads in winter season, but the Centre was not willing to accept their demands. On a call given by Italy-based NGO against injustice ‘Movement against Atrocities and Repression’, members of the Alliance of Sikh organisations informed to hold a rally in Rome. They said considering the Covid guidelines, around 100 people will participate in the rally, which will be organised in front of Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations on January 15. Sukhdev Singh Phagwara, spokesperson, said efforts were being made to highlight the issue to gain attention of the UN. “The alliance has decided to hold a massive farmers’ rally on January 15 in Italy. A memorandum will be submitted to the authorities concerned.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tractor-march-in-jalandhar-%E2%80%94-a-trailer-of-what-lies-ahead-196192
10-01-2021||---||Covid-19: No death; 16 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 9With 16 more cases, total number of Covid positive cases in the district on Saturday reached 20,145. The number of deceased persons in Jalandhar remained 650. The active cases in the district are 234 and 19,261 people have been discharged, while 136 people are under home isolation in the district. In Kapurthala district three persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.1 dies, 13 test positive in Hoshiarpur districtThe district reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Saturday, taking the death toll to 320, while 13 new cases pushed the infection tally to 7,853. The deceased has been identified as a 75-year-old woman of Gobindpur village, under Chakkowal health block, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.With the receipt of 1,391 new samples from the people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken so far in the district till date has become 2,51,638. According to the reports received from the lab, 2,41,834 samples are negative, while 7,853 samples are awaiting reports and 184 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 90, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,443. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said that out of Saturday’s 13 patients found positive in the district, there are 7 positive patients in Hoshiarpur city and the rest of them are from various other health blocks in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-no-death-16-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-196193
