11-01-2021||Jalandhar||Love for Hindi expressed||MGN College of Education celebrated ‘World Hindi Day’. Ramneet recited a poem ‘Ek dor meain sabko bandhti’ to depict the unifying value of Hindi as a language. Konika, with her poem ‘Hindi se Hindustan hamara’ showed her love for Hindi. Chakshu threw light on the historical perspective and objective of celebrating ‘Hindi Diwas’. Deepika with her poem entitled ‘Hindi mera naam’ depicted her affinity for Hindi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/love-for-hindi-expressed-196877
11-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Choosing heart over mind||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10‘Manpreet weds Manpreet’ engraved on the wedding invitation cards of Manpreet Kaur (32), has given the bride an ever-lasting memory. While she is an international-level para-powerlifter, her husband, Manpreet Kumar (30), is a mechanic in Bahrain. Her dedication and hard work to excel in her game made Kumar fall head over heels, compelling him to know more about her.Contrary to the conventional choice of partners, the groom not only made a difference in society but also in his family after he decided to tie the nuptial knot with Kaur. He now stands next to his wife, with all his support to make her dreams come true.Crippled due to polio, Manpreet’s journey as a para-powerlifter seems nothing short of a fairytale. While she has already represented the country in several international championships, within 20 days of her marriage she moved to her practice ground at the Sports Authority of India, Gujarat, to clear the two remaining qualifying rounds for the Tokyo Olympics. She competes in the 41-kg division.Everyone asked me to think twice before making this decision. After watching her videos on social media, I was determined to approach her for marriage. Despite having disabilities, her hard working and vibrant nature attracted me more towards her. It's even harder to believe that with the incapacity she not only completed her education but also became an international player. It took me a year to persuade my mother and other family members, before they gave their nod. —Manpreet Kumar, Manpreet Kaur's husband, who is a mechanic in bahrain“My family had been looking for my suitable match for last four years but only rejections came my way. While I was ready to marry a physically-disabled man, my dependency on a wheelchair was accepted nowhere. Surprisingly, when I had come to home from Gujarat around three months ago, my friend told me that there is a man who wants to talk to me for marriage. Considering him an able-bodied man, I initially didn’t pay much attention. However, later I got to know that he was serious and wanted to marry me,” she blushes. Thereafter, the heavens hitched them together on December 12, after he convinced and proposed her for the wedding in the month of November.A resident of Dhadday village in Phagwara, she was a distant relative of Kumar, who’s a native of Randhawa village in Gorayan. She met him around seven years ago at a common family function and the thought of marrying had never occurred to her.From going against his family’s wishes of not letting their elder son marry a physically-challenged woman, Kumar said, everyone asked me to think twice before making this decision. “After watching her videos on social media, I was determined to approach her for marriage. Despite having disabilities, her hard working and vibrant nature attracted me more towards her. It’s even harder to believe that with the incapacity she not only completed her education but also became an international player. It took me a year to persuade my mother and other family members, before they gave their nod,” added Kumar.Kaur’s brother, Daljit Kumar, double-checked before marrying his sister off. Now, he, his uncle, Sohan Lal and aunt Parveen Bala are happy that she is happily married. The couple has been receiving appreciation from the well-wishers at their villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/choosing-heart-over-mind-196825
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent||20 new cases reported in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 10The health authorities reported 20 new positive cases in Hoshiarpur district on Sunday. As a result, the total number of positive cases reached 7,873.The authorities reported zero death in the district on Sunday and the toll stood at 320. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said 590 samples of people with flu-like symptoms were taken on Sunday.The total number of samples taken till date in the district reached 2,54,376.According to information, 2,45,590 samples turned out to be negative, while the reports of 2,569 samples were awaited and 184 samples turned out invalid.At present, the district has 106 active cases and 7,447 persons recovered to date.The Civil Surgeon said of 20 new patients, eight cases were related to Hoshiarpur city and the remaining were from other health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-new-cases-reported-in-hoshiarpur-196826
11-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Amid protests, activists raise issue of sustainable future of agri models||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10Amid the historic farmers’ agitation at the Singhu, Kundli, Tikri protest sites in Delhi, a number of state organisations and activists are advocating organic farming and sustainable agricultural paradigms for the farming community in the state. Many say the mass protest has brought an awakening, which has paved the way to talk about the shift in agri models. Some say the protests could even serve as a platform to advocate sustainable farming.For three days in December, Kheti Virasat Mission’s executive director Umendra Dutt camped at the Delhi border, simultaneously holding a kodo millet porridge langar for farmers. First to raise awareness about the adverse effects of GMO foods in the state, Dutt, a staunch promoter of organic and sustainable farming model and a former RSS member and a Gandhian, returned from the protests teary eyed.Jad tak jhone, kanak da badlaav na labbheya jave, odon tak Punjab tarakki nahi kar sakda (as long as no alternative is found to the paddy wheat cycle, the state cannot prosper). —Balbir Singh Seechewal, EnvironmentalistAlong with addressing farmers’ current issues, Punjab needs an ecological and sustainable agriculture paradigm for farming to turn into a profitable vocation. Seeds, bio-diversity, water conservation are all essential, which need to be factored in to make farmers self-sufficient through a new agricultural model. Along with wheat and paddy, oil seed and pulses also need to be grown. —Umendra Dutt, Founder Member, Kheti Virasat Mission, PunjabReason: He was moved by the spirit of farmers.Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, while visiting farmers for a day, too, advocated organic farming from the main stage of Singhu earlier this month. He said: “Jad tak jhone, kanak da badlaav na labbheya jave, odon tak Punjab tarakki nahi kar sakda” (as long as no alternative is found to the paddy wheat cycle, the state cannot prosper). Kavitha Kuruganti, founder convener of Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA) and a long term votary of sustainable farming model across the country, stayed at the Delhi border for 20 days.While Umendra Dutt was a member of the RSS long ago, he has also been the editor of Swadeshi magazine of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch. A Gandhian for the past several years, he is taken seriously amid the votaries of ‘swadeshi’ farming techniques in the RSS and the Sikh farming community of the state.KVM, set up in 2005, has 5,000 farmers associated with it in the state and a majority of them are camping at Singhu. Hartej Singh Mehta, Kamajit Singh Hayer, Ramandeep Singh Pharvai and Gurmeet Singh Bahalavalpur — all votaries of organic farming and the office-bearers of the Kheti Virasat Mission — were also present at the protest site from early on.“Jin pradeshon ne desh ke kisanon ko khadya suraksha pradaan ki hai, un deshon ke kisanon ko badnaam karna unke prati anyaay hai. Kisan andolan bilkul shudh hai, kisanon ki ashankaon aur sanvaad se nikla hua hai (It is injustice to defame farmers of the states who have provided food security to the country. The farm strife is purely born out of doubts, dialogues of farmers),”said Dutt.He adds: “The energy of farmers there gave way to 100 per cent pure protest, which will give way to awakening and political shift in the state. The anger of the past many decades has poured onto the protests. Along with addressing farmers’ current issues, Punjab needs an ecological and sustainable agriculture paradigm for farming to turn into a profitable vocation. Seeds, bio-diversity, water conservation are all essential, which need to be factored in to make farmers self-sufficient through a new agricultural model. Punjab is importing oil seed. Along with wheat and paddy, oil seed and pulses also need to be grown in the state. The MSP and procurement issues will see a sea change with a change in the agri paradigm shifts itself.”Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal also said: “My concern is — suppose once the bills are withdrawn, what is the future plan? Rivayti faslan ne dharti hethla pani muka ditta (traditional crops have sucked the state waters). The overuse of pesticides has given way to cancer. I think farmers’ agitation is the right place to point out the harm caused to the farming community through decades. Farming in future needs to conserve the water table and increase the fertility of the soil and rid it of pesticides to preserve our future generations. Guru Nanak farmed land at Kartarpur and fed. He didn’t use any pesticides. That is what the state needs now.”Bangalore-based activist Kavitha Kurugati said: “I don’t believe Delhi protest could give a platform to raise the issue. But it certainly has given you the potential of dialogue to take the issue forward. Sustainability, self-reliance, freedom from corporates and natural organic practices which lead to sovereign agricultural models are the future for farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-protests-activists-raise-issue-of-sustainable-future-of-agri-models-196827
11-01-2021||Nawanshahr||MP condemns Centre’s stubborn attitude towards farming laws||Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari has condemned the stubborn attitude of the Central government in not withdrawing the farming laws despite holding several meetings with farmer organisations.Tewari was addressing a programme organised at the residence of Satvir Singh Pallizhikki, chairman of the Nawanshahr District Planning Board.During his address, Tewari said the farmers had been struggling for the last several months to protect their rights against farming laws. “During this period, nine rounds of meetings have been held with the Central government, but the government is still adopting a stubborn attitude rather than accepting the demands of the farmers,” the MP said.He said that despite all this, the farmers were facing a chilling cold.MP Tewari also said that the Congress had always been in favour of the farming community.“Under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the party brought a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha against these laws,” Tewari said.He added that he had been in charge of the Gujarat Congress and knew the trend of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP very well.In the end, he congratulated the local people for their success in the fight against corona infection in society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-condemns-centres-stubborn-attitude-towards-farming-laws-196828
11-01-2021||---||High-powered panel to woo foreign investment||Jalandhar, January 10The Government of Punjab has formed a high-powered investment committee. Jalandhar-based Karan Randhawa, NRI Coordinator, Australia, is also part of the committee. Apart from him, NRI Coordinator UK Manjit Singh Nijjar will also be part of the committee. The decision to form the committee was taken in the meeting presided over by NRI Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi.Karan Randhawa said the committee had been formed on the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi to aim for development of the state through foreign investment. “Apart from this, committee will also make efforts to help recover from Covid-imposed economic crisis taking into consideration the changing world economic scenario. The main aim of this committee would be to woo foreign investors in a strategic manner and to work towards creating coordination between the NRI Affairs Department and different departments of the Punjab Government. By including NRIs into the committee will help create a favourable environment to attract foreign investors and companies,” Randhawa said.Karan Randhawa and Manjit Nijjar said the NRI community had appreciated the decision to include NRIs into the said committee for the development of the state. It would prove a landmark decision for the socio-economic development of the state.As per the notification, Kripa Shankar Saroj, Additional Chief Secretary, NRI Affairs Department, will be its Chairman; Rajat Agarwal, CEO, INVEST PUNJAB, will be Vice-Chairman; DPS Kharbanda, Special Secretary of the NRI Affairs Department, will be the Secretary Member, and Invest Punjab Additional CEO will be member.Apart from Deepinder Dhillon, Joint Director, IT Invest Punjab, Meena Dhesi Sanghera, NRI Coordinator, USA, Harnik Singh from the UAE will be members of the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/high-powered-panel-to-woo-foreign-investment-196829
11-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Agri stir: Unions trying to rope in more youth||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10Farmers’ movement against three agri laws has catched everybody’s attention and all want to stand in solidarity with the agitating peasants.The youth wing of the Kirti Kisan Union has been working relentlessly to garner maximum support from youth for the farming community.Members of the union said they had been touring villages and trying to rope in more youth. They said youngsters were approaching them to make them a part of the movement and they were preparing for a tractor march to be held on the Republic Day on January 26.Tarpreet Singh Uppal (32), convener, Kirti Kisan Union (youth wing), who came back on Sunday after spending 20 days at Singhu and Tikri borders, said volunteers were working day and night to ensure maximum participation of youth in this movement.Tarpreet said they were looking after every arrangement, right from managing the stage and maintaining discipline. He said, “Our day starts early in the morning and we continue to work till late night. I have come back to monitor the situation here in villages. We want a plethora of youth from Punjab for the Republic Day march in Delhi.”Tarpreet said people from every faith were present at the protest sites in Delhi. “Not just youth associated with the farming community, but everyone must head to Delhi in solidarity with farmers,” he said. Members have been eyeing to maximise their reach and interact with youth through social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agri-stir-unions-trying-to-rope-in-more-youth-196830
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Tikshan Sood seeks CBI probe into ‘land worth Rs 400 cr sold for Rs 90 cr’||Hoshiarpur, January 10The scam worth crores of rupees by the Industries Department of Punjab should be probed by the CBI and the ED. This was stated by BJP leader and former minister Tikshan Sood at a press conference held here on Saturday. He said the CAG should also be included in investigation. He alleged as Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora was involved in the scam, the Chief Minister should dismiss him to ensure a fair probe.He said the recently exposed scam had exposed the real face of the Punjab Government. He demanded that for a proper investigation into the scam, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should immediately sack Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora so that investigation could be completed without any bias.In response to a question, he said the said scam pertained to 31 acres of land of plot number 32, Phase-8, Industrial Area, Mohali, which was allotted to JCT by Punjab Infotech in September 1984. He said the cost of the said plot was about Rs400 crores, but it was sold to JRG company by PSIEC for only Rs90 crores and the buyer paid only 50 per cent of the amount — only Rs45 crore.He questioned how and why the bidding was held on March 26, 2020, during curfew imposed due to the pandemic when everything was closed. This proves that it all happened in connivance. Sood alleged that the land purchased by the company was now being sold at four times the rate at which it was purchased. He demanded from the government to order an immediate inquiry into the purchase of the land by the CBI and the ED. He was accompanied by district BJP president Nipun Sharma and other BJP leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tikshan-sood-seeks-cbi-probe-into-land-worth-rs-400-cr-sold-for-rs-90-cr-196831
11-01-2021||---||Covid may affect  oral health: Expert||Ludhiana, January 10“Covid and SARS infections, although primarily affect the respiratory systems, also have an adverse impact on the oral health of a person. Bleeding gums, bad breath, gingivitis, sensitivity of teeth are some of the common problems that result from the onset and aftermath of the virus. Survivors have often complained about post-Covid dental health symptoms, including tooth loss, tooth decay, loosening of teeth and a sizable vascular damage,” said dental expert Dr Jeewan Jyoti.Addressing the local residents, including the Covid survivors, here on Wednesday, she advised them to brush twice a day and floss once daily. Further, keeping the toothbrush clean was also quoted as an effective way of combating the post-Covid side-effects.Switch to electric brush, says doctorSharing some home remedies and treatments to improve and protect your dental health, Dr Jyoti recommended switch to an electric brush, which has shown higher levels of oral hygiene, brushing thoroughly for two minutes, rinse with a non-alcohol-based mouthwash after meals for 30 seconds to tackle unwanted particles in your mouth and to reduce plaque build-up.“Oral microbiome is a key component of the immune system. Mouthwashes rich in alcohol with bactericidal components such as triclosan or other antibacterial ingredients can greatly destroy health of oral microbiome,” she further stated, while advising use of hydroxyapatite, which was less bactericidal than fluoride but rebuilds tooth enamel quality as well.Dr Jyoti recommended avoiding starchy food and drinks. “The pandemic has instilled a sense of fear in the minds of people who often wonder whether it’s safe to visit a dentist. While it is strongly recommended to regularly visit your dentist, the current circumstances make it imperative for you to be reassured that proper safety measures are being taken in dental clinics. Sterilisation and autoclaving are of paramount importance,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-may-affect-oral-health-expert-196832
11-01-2021||Jalandhar||Webinar on Justice Delivery System||Karanjit second in quiz contestLyallpur Khalsa College felicitated Karanjit Singh, a student of BSc (Non Medical) Sem-V, for securing second position in the district-level quiz competition organised by the Jalandhar District Election Officer regarding model code of conduct. Participating in the contest through the online mode, he secured the second position at the district-level competition with participants from the entire district of Jalandhar, Punjab. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra congratulated Karanjit on his victory and reiterated his commitment to provide all the facilities to the deserving students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-justice-delivery-system-196833
11-01-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Isn’t public safety prime responsibility of civic bodies?||Time to wake up from slumberIt was about a year back that I wrote a letter in the main section of The Tribune about stray cattle and dog menace. Since then the problem of stray cattle has been solved to a large extent but the problem of the dogs has only worsened. The packs of dogs roam about the streets and roads of the cities like a gang of dacoits. The municipalities are totally inactive and inert in tackling that problem. Some time back MC Ludhiana had asked a veterinary doctor, a Muslim, to sterilise the stray dogs to tame their population. Unfortunately Maneka Gandhi, then a minister and an ardent animal lover, threatened to send that doctor to Pakistan. She was roundly criticised by the people and had to give clarification about the statement. I don’t favour the killings of the dogs but they should be sterilised or at least dog shelters should be made where they could be kept and fed. Many people and social workers would come forward for that noble cause. Stray dogs cause many biting injuries to the public resulting in diseases like rabies. Rabies can also be caused by bite of the cats and bats. This costs the society money and lives. Unfortunately many people, out of compassion, try to feed stray dogs without realising the damages they are doing to the society. Rabies is a fatal disease unless timely treatment is given to that person. So it’s time that municipalities and government wakens up to tackle the dog menace.Dr JS WadhwaMC should swiftly tackle this problemIt is needless to say that the population of stray dogs has been increasing and it is the matter of deep concern. At times, stray dogs become the cause of road accidents, as they suddenly come to the center of the roads owing to which vehicles often collide. Children fall prey to stray dogs while playing in the streets and are bitten at times. Not even children, adults and old aged also succumb to these dogs because they attack in groups. It has become tough to go from one lane to another in the same area because dogs roam here and there. Nobody wants to take a risk in this scenario. The Municipal Corporation should catch all the stray dogs by the help of experts and take them to the jungle and leave them there. If this happens every person can roam freely in the streets, regardless of dog fear.Saahil HansGovt, dog lovers should come forwardIndia has earned the dubious distinction of having the highest number of stray dogs and rabies-related deaths per year in the world. Despite a slew of efforts by the governments, the judiciary, the NGOs and private individuals, humongous multiplication in their population across our cities has raised serious concern among residents. These ferocious, free-ranging feral animals cause multiple problems such as dog bites and attacks on pedestrians, the spread of many diseases and burden on the healthcare sector, vehicular accidents, spoiling of roads and streets with putrid faeces, frequent barking, howling and prolonged dogfights, disruption of smooth flow of traffic and fatal danger to wild life. Unlike developed countries, we lack judicious implementation of regulations for animal protection. As a result, these dogs are subjected to cruelty in various forms to the utter annoyance of animal rights activists. The main reasons for the existing problem are population explosion, haphazard urban planning, open and unhygienic garbage disposal system, inadequate provision for dog shelters, financial constraints and lack of coordination between governments, implementation agencies and other stakeholders. No civilised society can compromise the safety of human beings for the sake of stray dogs. If culling them is inhuman and illegal, isn’t public safety the foremost responsibility of civic authorities? The adoption of sustained scientific and systematic measures such as improved waste management mechanism, spreading awareness about the crisis, increased sterilisation, vaccination and adoption will resolve the vexing canine issue humanely. Along with the government, passionate dog lovers should help raise adequate funds for the upkeep of these unwanted, unconfined and homeless animals.DS KangIt’s Important to have Stray dog managementCatch and release is a very effective means of reducing stray dog population. It does take money and time. Large populations are public health concerns. It is important to reduce the stray animal population to control the spread of dangerous diseases and stop dog bites and attacks. It is also the cause of a lot of painful deaths for animals as well as humans. If stray dogs are not killed, their population will keep on increasing causing more danger to humans, especially to children. Stray dogs are often carriers of diseases because of the lack of care. It is time for individuals to accept personal responsibility in stray dog management. Gradually, it came to our notice that people feed the street dogs which led to more bites as well as the chance of a disease spreading increases. So, only by killing them, menace can be handled.Akshar Kumar SinglaSterilisation the only solutionThe number of street dogs is increasing day by day manifold and it becomes difficult for the children to play in park and residents feel scared for their walk in the morning, as they follow them and irritates them. It is very disturbing when they keep barking in chorus the whole night and sometimes slip in to houses in search of food and shelter. Children can’t concentrate on their studies. Small babies are mauled by the stray dogs and a large number of deaths and injuries are caused by dog bites. It becomes really sad and heart-wrenching to see the street dog dies by hitting with some car or scooter and the body lay there for two-three days. Nobody comes out of their houses, so-called dog lovers who feed them, to pay a small sum to dispose them off. It seems imminent that remedial measures be taken. The only solution is to take the dogs for sterlisation and leave them in the same area from where they are picked up. Automatically after few years the population of dogs will come to an end. Street dogs can be adopted also as there are no shelter homes for these loving animals. There will be fewer dogs in the streets.Shashi KiranPlan a comprehensive strategyThe enduring solution to stray dogs menace lies in creating and maintaining a balance between the provisions enacted as per PCAA and the broad guidelines issued by WHO on the subject. While AWBI, an organizational arm of PCAA, aims at converting stray dogs into ‘street dogs’ through an idealistic approach, and WHO emphasises upon the practical measures to combat the menace. The task of managing the persistence of stray dogs has always been a challenging one for any local administration due to dilemma created by the ground realities and relative provisional measures. However, a comprehensive strategy involving movement restrictions, habitat patterns and reproduction controls regarding stray dogs need to be formulated and implemented coherently. To start with, for managing movement and habitat control sufficient shelter homes with adequate facilities are required to be built and maintained by the local administration. In addition to this, public participation for community shelter homes must be solicited to support their love and care for street dogs. In both cases, however, the sterilisation and vaccination of dogs must be carried out under strict supervision and monitoring by local governing bodies. Once the stray dogs’ movements are regulated, suitable habitat provided and their growth is spayed/ neutered through effective process of sterilisation, the problem is expected to be satisfactorily solved over the period.Jagdish ChanderBanish them to the woodsThe stray dogs’ population has been on the rise owing to which there are innumerable cases of dog biting reported. The affliction of stray dogs is ruling the roost and people are expecting administration to take stringent action. There are endless ways to tackle this obstruction but administration does not pay heed to this. They need to take all the stray dogs into the woods and leave them there. This is the only way to get rid of it.Shailja ThakurQUESTIONCovid vaccine drive kicks off on January 16. What are your apprehensions regarding the vaccination programme?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 14).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/isnt-public-safety-prime-responsibility-of-civic-bodies-196835
11-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 held with 90K intoxicating pills||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-held-with-90k-intoxicating-pills-196836
11-01-2021||---||Farmers clash with cops near BJP protest site in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 10Angry farmers on Sunday broke barricades and clashed with the police during their protest to gherao the BJP’s venue for a sit-in at Company Bagh Chowk in Jalandhar.The BJP had on Saturday announced a sit-in to condemn the controversial statements of MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and over the deteriorating law and order in the state.However, the situation became tense when a large group of farmers, who were protesting near the Press Club Chowk, marched towards the BJP dharna site and were stopped by the police. They broke through the barricades put up by police.Sharma blames it on Cong workersProtesting farmers also tried to stop BJP state president Ashwani Sharma from entering the venue and started raising slogans against the Centre and the farm laws.The protesters also tried to push their way through the barricades and clashed with the police, resulting in some farmers receiving minor injuries. Meanwhile, the BJP president made his way to the venue amid heightened security. It took over 200 policemen to control the angry farmers.All major routes connecting to Company Bagh Chowk were barricaded. Apart from a large deployment of police personnel, 16 buses of anti-riot police, with 23 personnel in each vehicle, four JCB machines, two water cannon vehicles and four tippers were placed at the spot to prevent farmers from breaking the barricades.Kulwinder Singh, a farmer, said, “We had no intentions to indulge in violence at the BJP venue. All we wanted was to protest peacefully. However, the police blocked our way, which resulted in violence”.Condemning the police action on farmers, Kashmiri Lal, a farmer union leader, said: “We were peacefully holding the protest when the police created ruckus by placing barricades and providing high security cover to the BJP workers.” He threatened to organise a similar protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office shortly.Meanwhile, Sharma blamed Congress workers of indulging in petty politics by disrupting the law and order in the state. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) Harsimrat Singh said, “We had anticipated such a situation. Hence security arrangements were made accordingly”. Balkar Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), who was also present at the protest site, said, “The farmers broke through the barricades and the police were just trying to stop them”.When asked why the tippers were installed, he said to avoid any clash between the BJP workers and farmers, we made the necessary arrangements, including the placement of tippers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-clash-with-cops-near-bjp-protest-site-in-jalandhar-196657
11-01-2021||Jalandhar||Rs 500-cr biz down by half in 5 days: Poultry farmers||Members of the Punjab Poultry Farmers’ Association and the Punjab Broiler Board today said their Rs 500-crore business across the state had come down to just half in a matter of five days owing to the bird flu scare.Members of the association, including Vishal Gupta from Sangrur, Vivek Sindhwani from Barnala and Jatinder Singh Laddi from Ludhiana, said there had not been a single case of bird flu in Punjab so far, but it had caused scare among consumers. They said nearly 300 poultry farmers had created set-ups with a capacity to generate 1.25 crore eggs per day but the sales had reduced to less than half.Jaswant S Setia of Jalandhar said, “Three lakh eggs were being consumed in Jalandhar alone per day but we can’t find buyers now.” Sanjiv Bansal, a Sangrur-based poultry farmer, said, “While we were selling 100 eggs for Rs 550 till last Sunday, we are selling it for Rs 350 now. A 1-kg broiler which was priced at Rs 90 is now being sold for Rs 50.” Bhupinder Singh from Patiala said, “We request residents not to believe rumours.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-500-cr-biz-down-by-half-in-5-days-poultry-farmers-196671
