12-01-2021||---||Lohri celebrations begin in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 11 Even as there are still two days for Lohri to arrive, celebrations have already begun in the city.  St Soldier Group of Institutions celebrated Lohri in a traditional way. All directors, principals and students prayed for peace and harmony in the world. Managing director Prof Manhar Arora along with directors, principals and students offered groundnuts and popcorns into the bonfire. Students Harsimrat, Arpita, Shivani, Diksha, Rajan and Jaspreet came dressed in traditional attire and performed ‘Punjabi boliyan’, danced to it and sung the Lohri songs. Chairman Anil Chopra, vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra gave Lohri wishes and prayed for healthy world and appealed to everyone to burn all the negativity of life in the fire of Lohri. The students of Nobel School also celebrated the upcoming festival with lots of joy and excitement but through online mode. Classes I to V were asked to sing a Lohri song and students of Classes VI to XI were required to make a 2-3 minute video giving speech on the importance of Lohri. The students were in Punjabi attire which added charm to the festive aura. Students of Nursery, KG and Prep classes were asked to participate and perform giddha and bhangra. In each class, three best entries were shortlisted according to their performance for the final show.  Chairman Prof CL Kochher, managing director Kumar Shiv Kochher and Principal Dr Jyoti Verma appreciated the efforts of students. The chairman encouraged and congratulated the selected students and also said to remain in touch with our culture and festivals. He wished a happy Lohri to all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lohri-celebrations-begin-in-jalandhar-197285
12-01-2021||---||Dist badminton tourney to commence from Jan 19||Jalandhar, January 11 The District Badminton Association (DBA) will organise a District Badminton Championship 2020-21 from January 19 to 24 at the Raizada Hansraj Stadium. Member of the interim committee and former national player Ritin Khanna said the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government will be followed during the tournament. He said each player and one of his parents or coach will be provided a photo identitity card. Khanna said boys and girls will compete in the Under-11 to Under-19 category. He said singles and doubles will be played in the veteran category (35 years to 60 years or above). He said every player participating in the championship will get a receipt from the DBA. Khanna said January 15 will be the last date for registration and draw will be held on January 17. He added that former national players, including Lavleen Kumar and Ranjit Singh, will be Chief Referee and Assistant Chief Referee, respectively. He said spectators will not be allowed to enter the stadium in the wake of the pandemic and matches will be broadcasted live through social media. Khanna said prize distribution ceremony will be held on January 24 and Jalandhar DC-cum-District Badminton Association head Ghanshyam Thori will be the chief guest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dist-badminton-tourney-to-commence-from-jan-19-197286
12-01-2021||---||Toss decides finals of TT Master’s tourney||Jalandhar, January 11The finals of the Table Tennis Master’s Tournament were held on Sunday, in which veteran players from far-off places, including Shimla, New Delhi and Bengaluru participated.Jalandhar TT coach Manish Bhardwaj, who participated in the tournament held in Ferozepur, on Monday, said: “A very interesting turn of events took place. For the first time in the history of Punjab table tennis, toss was done in the finals because of bad weather and fatigue of both finalists, including me and Heera Goswami. It was decided that whatever will be the result of the toss, the prize money would be shared equally.” Heera won the toss.In the quarterfinals, Manish Bhardwaj had defeated Lovkesh Sharma from Ferozepur (3-1) and in the semi-finals, he defeated Munish Sharma from Ferozepur (3-2). Likewise, Heera Goswami defeated Manmeet from Ludhiana (3-1) in the quarterfinals and Harpreet from Bengaluru (3-1) in the semi-finals.In team events also, Jalandhar team got a bronze medal. The members of Jalandhar team included Pankaj Sharma, Manish Bhardwaj, Ajay Thukral, Vijay Mohan, Hardip Flora. The manager and coach of Jalandhar team were Vikas Mahajan and Rajeev Sharda, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/toss-decides-finals-of-tt-masters-tourney-197287
12-01-2021||Jalandhar||DC visits JMP, asks industry giant to offer jobs to youth||In his drive to take feedback on the manpower required in their units, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday visited the renowned JMP Industries situated at Focal Point. The DC was welcomed by Jalandhar Autoparts Manufacturing Association led by chairman Balram Kapoor, president Sanjiv Juneja, general secretary Tushar Jain, cashier Manish Kwatra, and other members.  The DC had a detailed discussion with the industry giant and got their feedback on manpower requirements to shape skill development programmes accordingly. Thori further solicited support from the autopart industry by placing maximum numbers of local youth in their industries. He asked chairman Balram Kapoor, who is also the managing director of JMP Industries, to share the auto parts industry’s manpower requirement information with the district administration, which would help in arranging manpower. Thori sought industry’s active participation in pro-people schemes of the government. He categorically mentioned that the district administration is ready to serve as a bridge between the unemployed youth and the industry by seeking their requirements. He said the collective efforts of the administration and industrialists could help in ensuring jobs for unemployed youth, therefore, eliminating unemployment in the state. He said the data on industrial requirements would enable the administration to draft a long-term strategy by redefining its priorities for skill training as per the job requirements in the industrial sector.  The chairman also apprised the DC about the legacy of the industry and how it was catering to the whole country. He mentioned that the auto parts of heavy vehicles were also being manufactured and exported by the local manufacturers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-visits-jmp-asks-industry-giant-to-offer-jobs-to-youth-197288
12-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||We are all in this together||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 11‘No farmer, no food’ reading stickers on the cars, flags with images of farmers voicing their rights, fluttering on buses and two-wheelers, several hoardings with various messages written for them have donned almost every prominent places in the city since last month. It is becoming a new trend now in the state where citizens are showing openly that they support farmers.Everybody, including residents of the city who cannot go to the Delhi borders, is lending support, enunciating their emotions in their own way for the farmers. It is a common sight now.Sarthak Mehta, an IAS aspirant, said that for last one month, he had been waiting to go to the borders but because of some personal work, he was unable to. “But I am always keeping myself updated with the news regarding the farmers who have been sitting there and facing harsh winter and this attitude of the government. By pasting stickers and flags on my car, I can aware others. And you will see plethora of cars and two-wheelers with the messages written for the farmers,” he added.At some areas like Urban Estate, ‘no farmer, no food’ stickers can also been seen pasted on fruit vends. People have also installed flags outside their homes to express solidarity.Shivani Sharma, a house maker, said that all day, news channels are on in her house. “There is no other channel we watch now, only news and just for the farmers. Even my children now know very well that farmers are fighting for their rights. We have also pasted stickers on our cars because we are with them in this fight,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-are-all-in-this-together-197289
12-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Mumbai-Adampur flight suspended temporarily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 11The first domestic flight connecting Mumbai and the Doaba region couldn’t take off from Adampur airport on Monday due to bad weather.Not the first timeWith this, the airport authorities announced that the SpiceJet flight will remain cancelled till further notice.Apart from bad weather conditions, the unavailability of passengers on the route was reported as the prime reason behind the suspension of flight operations.The Mumbai-bound plane took its last flight on Sunday. Sources said the flight was arriving late at the Adampur airport for the past few days. Owing to reduced visibility, the flight couldn’t reach here, pushing it to cancellation for five days. Making delay to the scheduled time, it was diverted from Chandigarh.The Mumbai-bound flight (SG 2402) started its operation from November 27 onwards. However, it isn’t the first time that the flight has been suspended. Prior to this, it left without any passenger in the month of November and December before suspension.The Mumbai-Adampur flight is scheduled to leave Mumbai airport around 10.05 am and lands at Adampur airport at 1.35 pm. After a halt of 30 minutes, the flight used to commence its journey at 2.05 pm and reach Mumbai at 5.25 pm. Since December 22, not only was it arriving late, but was also taking off late from the Adampur airport.As per the sources, the 72-seater flight was arriving here with merely 20-30 passengers. Owing to minimal bookings, there is uncertainty over the active resumption of the Mumbai-Adampur flight.After Amritsar, Adampur was considered the second option for air travel to Mumbai and the announcement regarding the same was made on November 14. The flight was scheduled to take around three hours to reach its destination. The airfare for an economy class is Rs4,197, which depended on route, booking time and availability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mumbai-adampur-flight-suspended-temporarily-197290
12-01-2021||---||Here to serve, be polite, Sewa Kendra staff told||Jalandhar, January 11To ensure citizen-centric services to people in a time-bound and hassle-free manner, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori conducted surprise checking at the Sewa Kendra at the District Administrative Complex here on Monday.The Deputy Commissioner said Sewa Kendras must ensure prompt delivery of services to those who visit. He said Sewa Kendras were opened by the state government to facilitate people and any sort of laxity on their part would not be tolerated at any cost.He visited various service delivery counters and interacted with the public while taking their valuable feedback. Thori reviewed various phases of citizen-centric services from issuing of a token number to delivery of the service.The DC said zero-tolerance policy must be adopted against any sort of inordinate delay by the Sewa Kendras and stern action would be taken against the management of the Sewa Kendra. He said services must be provided to people within 25 minutes of getting the token, adding that this norm must be implemented in the right earnest.The DC also asked the staff to be polite and courteous to people as they were here to serve them. The work distribution among the staff members must be done in a proper manner to streamline the system, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/here-to-serve-be-polite-sewa-kendra-staff-told-197291
12-01-2021||---||Major projects launched in Rahon & Banga||Nawanshahr, January 11Member of Parliament and former Union Minister Manish Tewari and MLA Nawanshahr Angad Singh on Monday launched multi-crore projects to change the face of the ancient and historic city of Rahon.In the presence of Punjab Large Industrial Development Board chairman Pawan Dewan and other dignitaries, he inaugurated the construction of a new building of the Municipal Council office at a cost of Rs1.50 crore. Apart from initiating various other developmental works worth crores of rupees for the rejuvenation of the city, he also handed over large machinery to the city council to improve the sanitation system, including crushers, baling machines, bait remediation machines, etc.Similarly, he also started the work of installing 1,000 LED lights. Speaking on the occasion, MP said that Rahon would be made an exemplary city. MLA Angad Singh added that no stone would be left unturned in its overall development. The MP also inaugurated Rs52 lakh worth of projects in Banga city. The projects included the newly constructed Ravidas Road, Banga Jindowal Road and Akash Hospital Road.Apart from this, he also gave nod for construction work of the magnificent park to be constructed by the Municipal Council Banga. On this occasion, he also held a meeting with the leaders and workers of Banga area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/major-projects-launched-in-rahon-banga-197292
12-01-2021||Jalandhar||Traders pin hope  on one-time settlement policy||City traders had long been asking the government not to issue ex-parte orders to them until any decision was taken on the one-time settlement policy (OTS). In what could be called a ray of hope for traders, Ravinder Dhir, from Khel Udyog Sangh, said traders had got an invite for a videoconference, wherein CM Capt Amarinder Singh will be talking about the OTS scheme.  “We are hopeful that something good lies for the industry,” Ravinder said.  He said ex-parte notices had already been sent to traders and it was nothing but sheer harassment. “The decision should have been taken by the government long time back. But, we will see what the government has in store for us,” he said. Sources had earlier said at least 10,000 cases had been pending with the Excise and Taxation Department, in which traders had to submit C-forms. Undue pressure has been mounted on industrialists to submit forms despite the fact that MLA Rajinder Beri had a talk with the Finance Minister on the matter. Nothing substantial came out of it.  Dhir said the last date of submission of C-forms for cases from 2013-2014 was December 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-pin-hope-on-one-time-settlement-policy-197293
12-01-2021||---||Pingla Ghar inmates get Aadhaar cards||Jalandhar, January 11 Deprived of state pension schemes and other medical facilities due to the unavailability of identity cards, the inmates of Pingla Ghar on Monday received their Aadhaar cards. The members of state advisory body for the disabled people organised a camp to make Aadhaar cards of the physically disabled and elderly people.  The initiative to avail Aadhaar cards to the inmates was taken by Amarjit Anand, an expert member of the state advisory board for the disabled. He said a camp was set up inside Pingla Ghar to make the identity cards. Biometric and pictures were also taken. “The camp will remain there for the next five days. On the first day, details of only 15 inmates could successfully be taken. One data entry operator and a technical officer has been deployed to make the cards,” Anand said. The camp has been organised under the provisions of the Rights For Persons With Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016. There are over 300 inmates at the Pingla Ghar and none of them are currently availing the benefits of government schemes. As most of them belong to the BPL families, the Aadhaar cards would bring them one step closer to the schemes, Anand said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pingla-ghar-inmates-get-aadhaar-cards-197294
12-01-2021||---||Health team held hostage by scan centre owner during raid||Nawanshahr, January 11A team of health officials from Ambala that raided a scanning centre at Balachaur here was taken hostage by its owner, who was caught red-handed violating various Sections of the PC-PNDT Act here on Monday.Dr Balwinder Kaur, who was leading the team from Ambala, said: “We had information that some scanning centres in Punjab were conducting pre-natal sex-determination tests on expectant mothers from Haryana after receiving hefty payment through touts. We arranged for a decoy patient and started following her from the wee hours on Monday. She was taken to Balachaur via Zirakpur-Kharar-Ropar route. We were in direct contact with our dummy patient, who messaged us at 10 am that her ultrasound had been conducted and she had been told that it was a baby girl.”The doctor said: “Since we were tracking her, we immediately barged into the scan centre. We even recovered the currency notes that she had given as payment. This included Rs19,500 from the doctor and Rs7,000 from the tout. Since the deal was struck at Rs35,000, we suspect that some employees were also involved, who perhaps managed to flee.”Dr Balwinder said she contacted the Civil Hospital authorities of Nawanshahr and Balachaur also, who, too, reached the spot. She said she contacted the local police and two cops turned up. She said she soon started the documentation finding that there were other violations too, which indicated that the scanning centre was involved in such activities in the past. No CCTV cameras were installed at the scanning centre, which is mandatory as per the PC-PNDT Act. The patient was not made to fill up any form. The owner was not keeping the scanned images saved, which is a must. She said she had started making spot memos required to hand over the accused to the police, when she started getting bribery offers. Realising that it won’t work, she said the scanning centre owner held her team and even that of Nawanshahr health officials, hostage for about 30-45 minutes. Dr Balwinder said she sealed the machine and authorised the local health team to get the FIR registered, handing them all documents. Davinder Singh, DSP Balachaur, said an FIR had been lodged against the owner under relevant Sections of the PC-PNDT Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-team-held-hostage-by-scan-centre-owner-during-raid-197295
12-01-2021||Jalandhar||Show and tell competition||e-workshop organised at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an e-workshop on Argus Lab under DBT Star College Scheme for undergraduate and post graduate students. The workshop was organised by the PG Department of Chemistry. More than 225 students and 35 faculty members joined the workshop. This e-workshop provided an opportunity to get hands on training on the Argus Lab, important software in the field of computational chemistry. The resource person for the workshop was Dr Smriti Sharma Bhatia, Asst Prof, department of chemistry, Miranda House, University of Delhi. In her lecture, Dr Bhatia highlighted the important role of computational chemistry in designing more productive and efficient processes, characterising new compounds and materials, identifying sites on protein molecules that are most likely to bind a new drug molecule. She also highlighted the involvement of computational chemistry to design a new drug using various software to reduce the quantity of experiments in lab, saving the wastage of chemicals, money and time during this current pandemic Covid-19 situation. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded the efforts of Dr Manju Sahni, Head, PG Department of Chemistry, for conducting the workshop.Webinar on Power of social mediaThe PG Department of mass communication and video production organised a webinar on ‘Power of Social Media’. Naveen Sharma, media and communication strategist, was the resource person. Webinar coordinator and Community College coordinator Meenakshi Syal welcomed the resource person. Naveen Sharma highlighted the positive aspects of social media and motivated the young minds to utilise these tools for their betterment. He said that social media has emerged as the strongest and the most powerful network in the history of mankind. With three billion users, the impact and power of social media does not stop online, it has now become a section of a much larger sphere of influence. He also discussed the role that social media played during Covid-19 crisis. In an interactive session with students, he guided the students about different startups and guided them to follow their dreams with the help of social media. Vote of thanks was presented by Rama Sharma, HoD.DAVIET students get jobsFour students from various departments of DAVIET were selected for the Athmin Technologies at a pay package of Rs3 LPA. Athmin Technologies is one of the leading IT firm providing offshore development services covering end-to-end impeccable digital solutions for mobile, web and desktop applications. Athmin Technologies has worked with startups and SMEs by providing them solutions to all of their diverse IT requirements. Also, helps them to reduce cost and time-to-market with a dedicated offshore team. The selected students Mohit Kumar, Jasmine Kaur, Yuvraj Singh and Girish Arora had shared that they had started preparing for the placement drive early and concentrated on developing their interpersonal skills along with the enhancing their knowledge about the core areas. Dr Manoj Kumar, principal, DAVIET congratulated the students on their success.Webinar on nanomaterials heldR Venkataraman Chemical Society, postgraduate department of chemistry, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, organised a webinar on ‘Nanomaterials for diagnostics and therapy’. Dr Yashveer Singh, Associate Prof, department of chemistry and associate faculty at Centre for Biomedical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar was the resource person. He briefly introduced the audience with basic knowledge of nanoscience and its applications, specifically emphasising on biomedical areas. Biomedical nanotechnology aims at exploiting nanoscience for the well-being of humans and animals. He explained the properties of nanomaterials which can be used in such a way that they can target specific cells and to act as drug carriers. He also explained the synthesis of nanopatterned surfaces in laboratories which can kill bacteria. Citing some of the practical examples, he concluded his talk by saying that although nanotechnology has proven to be an important achievement of science, still there are some concerns which are under scrutiny and undergoing research. The webinar ended by the vote of thanks given by Deepshikha.International Missionary DayInternational Missionary Day was observed in Eklavya School to spread awareness about the day and its importance in our life. A speech was written by students in which they highlighted the importance of the day illustrating the most important duty of missionaries to teach people about Jesus Christ, and his great commandment to love God and to love others. Students made videos which presented glimpses of family life around the world. Each video shares the lives of two children from separate countries and their daily lives,.Students provided information and fascinating lenses through which they viewed human family and their environment.Virtual Annual Appreciation DayApeejay School, Tanda Road, celebrated its Annual Appreciation Day virtually, woven around the theme-’AKTH, pleasure of togetherness’, encapsulating plethora of activities and a gamut of emotions. The chief guest of the day was Dr Shayari Bhandari, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. The guest of honour was Balkar Singh, DCP (Law and Order), Jalandhar. The function was presided over by Dr Neha Berlia, co-promoter, Apeejay Stya and Svran Group. The event unfolded with the lighting of the lamp followed by the invocation to Lord Ganesha. Next came an enthralling dance performance by the students, ‘Ghoomar- The essence of grace’. The coordinator of the school, Deepti Kaushal, read the school’s annual report. A tribute to the corona warriors was paid through ‘Farishtey - A salute to Corona warriors’ and the changes that occurred in the lifestyles of the people during the pandemic were depicted by a beautiful enactment, ‘Muskuraega India’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/show-and-tell-competition-197303
12-01-2021||In a bid to encourage women empowerment in village||A stitch in time saves nine||Error 404!BGNA University, Phagwara, organised a two-day virtual international conference on ‘Contemporary Issues in Engineering and Technology’ (CIET 2021) last Friday. The researchers, presenters, delegates from all over the globe participated and shared their research work. In this international conference, world renowned speakers from Romania, Singapore, Japan, Spain presented their keynotes and plenary addresses. On the first day, January 8, Dr Manoj Gupta, professor, National University of Singapore and Dr Ioan-Cosmin Mihai, Cyber Training Officer, European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training, Romania, addressed the delegates from across the globe. Dr Gupta in his address mentioned how Magnesium is an abundant element of our planet and our body and its non-toxicity and lightness (33 per cent lighter than aluminum) makes it eligible for perhaps a trillion-dollar market in engineering and biomedical applications. More than 50 researchers presented their work in five different technical sessions over two days and shared their findings. The sessions witnessed research acumen from the inter-disciplinary fields as well. (Contributed by Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-stitch-in-time-saves-nine-197304
