13-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Kayakalp: Mukerian hospital 1st in state||‘Policy to benefit 10,000 traders’Jalandhar: Punjab Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Tuesday said the one-time settlement scheme would benefit almost 10,000 small and medium scale businessmen of the region. Participating in a virtual launch of the scheme, he said, around 10,000 traders of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, and the SBS Nagar would be covered under this scheme. He said this scheme would resolve the long-pending issue of unavailability of C-forms and others raised by the industrialists. He said the OTS scheme would facilitate the business community which was already facing problems due to the C-forms. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kayakalp-mukerian-hospital-1st-in-state-197829
13-01-2021||Jalandhar||Divya first in MSc Maths (Sem IV)||Apeejay students shine in Youth festThe students of Apeejay College of Fine Arts represented Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar in Punjab State Youth Festival held at Lovely Professional University. The students participated in 11 items and bagged the first, second and third positions in seven items. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra shared that these winners will now participate in National Open Youth Festival to be held from January 12 to 16 at Delhi. She wished them good luck and motivated them to prepare and give best in the upcoming competitions as well. She gave the credit of the success of students to Dr Arun Mishra, cultural advisor, Dr Amita Mishra, HoD, Music Vocal, Dr Vivek Verma and Dr Micky Verma. The positions bagged by students in event were: First in folk song group, second in music instrumental percussion, folk orchestra, contemporary group dance, and third in contemporary solo dance and nukkad natak. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/divya-first-in-msc-maths-sem-iv-197828
13-01-2021||---||Ticket to Tokyo? Only time will tell what the fate holds for Sandhu||Jalandhar, January 12After a gap of 13 long years a wrestler from Punjab won a medal at a major international wrestling event, the Asian Championships in 2016. After that there was no looking back for Harpreet Sandhu, an international level wrestler posted as Sub-Inspector in PAP, Jalandhar.During coronavirus-laden 2020, Sandhu spent quality time at home with his family and horses at his farm, but never divagated from his routine keeping himself fit through cycling and a homely workout routine. Now, the star wrestler has eyes set on qualifying for the Olympics and other upcoming events in 2021.Sandhu said that he is preparing for the National Championships to be held in Jalandhar in February and if he manages to turn the tide in his favour, he could also book a ticket to Tokyo Games. “My only target and agenda for this year is to qualify for the Games and give my best on the mat,” he says of his New Year resolution.During the lockdown, Sandhu used the time judiciously. “Being a sportsperson, my routine hadn’t changed. I woke up on time and would always sleep on time. I used to exercise daily,” he told.Talking about the brewing topic, the farmers’ protest, he’s practicing 10 km away from the Singhu border, and said that he couldn’t go there because of Covid the players have been barred from moving outside. But his heart is with them. “I really wish that the farmers get what they want.”Belonging to a wrestlers’ family, the 30-year-old basically hails from Karail village in Sangrur and has been into the game since 2004. He is touted as the first Indian wrestler to have constantly won medals for three years in international events and since then has several to his credit. By winning an Asian Championships medal, the big bruiser had ended Punjab’s long wait for an international wrestling medal.He had consistently won in the 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 Asian Championships. In the Senior National Wrestling Championships, held in Jalandhar in 2019, Sandhu had bagged a gold. Enjoying the home support, Punjab’s one of the best had outwitted Rajbir Chhikara of the Railways with the scoreboard reading 4-1. The Asian Games silver medallist used his bountiful of international experience to dislodge his opponent’s confidence and won in the 82kg category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ticket-to-tokyo-only-time-will-tell-what-the-fate-holds-for-sandhu-197761
13-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||A greenie’s eccentric eco-friendly pursuits||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 12While the Local Bodies Department has failed to set up a proper waste management system, a simple yet very scientific set-up for handling garbage has been created by a local entrepreneur, which has become an eye-opener for many.With just 7-8 young boys at his disposal, Harpreet Badwal (49) has set up a waste disposing unit just outside Jalandhar bus stand, where 3 tonnes of segregated wet waste is being shredded, processed and converted into organic manure daily. Owner of Acme Engineering firm, he is not just producing manure, but also generating coco peat from coconut shells, eco-bricks out of disposable bottles and one-time use plastic, cow dung pots from cow dung collected from gaushalas and cow dung cakes of Sahiwal cow, besides organic liquid manure.After having taken training, attending workshops and touring Indore and Bengaluru for gaining expertise, Badwal says he has recently set up his waste management units.“My boys are daily collecting waste from Jain Colony, Kamal Vihar, Silver Oak apartments, some city-based hotels and restaurants. We have given them two coloured dustbins for waste segregation for Rs30 each. In one, they put dry waste and in the other wet. We provided training to women in these areas and even domestic helpers on how to keep the waste segregated. These houses are also paying monthly wages to my boys for lifting the waste. While the dry waste acts as incentive for my ragpickers, who sell it as scrap, the wet is re-segregated before being shredded and processed with bio-cultures at our unit.”The process does not just end here. “The shredded waste starts decomposing after three days or so through enzymes present in it. It is then lifted and moved to the curing plant, 10 km from here, where windrows are formed. The windrows ensure proper temperature for composting. After 30 days, this 3 tonne waste will convert into 300-500 kg of organic manure ready for sales. My manure has got certification from the Punjab Agricultural University and I sell it for Rs12 to Rs15, depending on the quantity of packaging, which varies between 1 kg and 40 kg,” the greenie shared, adding: “I do not even let the leached liquid go waste. I collect it and sell it as concentrated liquid organic manure in bottles, which is diluted and used in gardens.”Badwal says he has been running his business of submersible pumps and had recently shifted to the business of waste management.“We collect cow dung from gaushalas of the city every day. Managing cow dung has been difficult for cowsheds within cities, as these tend to choke the MC sewage drains. But we are using it for making cow dung pots in another unit. People can pot seedlings inside these pots and later transfer the entire cow dung pots inside ordinary pots. The cow dung starts dissolving and gives nutrients to the growing plant. My friend takes all these pots from me and sell these via Amazon,” he said.His unique eco-friendly pursuits do not end just here. He is also making eco-bricks at his other unit on Kapurthala Road. “We segregate all mineral water bottles. We stuff each bottle with 350-370 gm of one-time use plastic like chips and milk packets. This becomes stiff and can be used to make slum houses with layers of mud in between,” he said.Badwal also has a way to deal with coconut shells making it to the city in large quantities on a daily basis. “I have also set up a plant to make coco peat out of the fibres of these shells.”Besides, he is getting cow dung cakes made out of Sahiwal cow and supplying these to Hindu families, who like to use it to light it up. “I have plans to make cow dung diyas ahead of Diwali this year and have plans to tie up with Kamdhenu Aayog for gaining the expertise. I also have plans to make use of 2.5 tonnes of banana leaves daily making to the city and will share it sometime later,” he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-greenies-eccentric-eco-friendly-pursuits-197762
13-01-2021||---||Revenue officials told to submit proposals by Jan 15||Kapurthala, January 12Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal asked the revenue officials to submit the proposal to fix fresh collector rates in the district till January 15. While addressing revenue officials at a meeting on Tuesday, the Deputy Commissioner said the fixation of new collector rates would be very useful for development works in future.Taking serious note of pendency in revenue court cases for more than 2-3 years, the DC asked revenue officials to dispose of the pending revenue cases in a stipulated time frame. She also advised them to decide on 2-year-old cases on a priority. She said the revenue court management system should be updated on a daily basis.Advocating strict action against wilful defaulters, she said the process of recovery would be expedited to avoid any kind of revenue loss in the state finance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revenue-officials-told-to-submit-proposals-by-jan-15-197763
13-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Copies of farm laws to be burnt on Lohri||Hoshiarpur, January 12 The Dal Khalsa has termed the staying of three contentious farm laws by the Apex court as a judicial trap laid by the Government of India to scuttle the farmers’ agitation.  The organisation called the setting up of four-member panel as an eye-wash, as the views of a majority of the members are pro-laws.  Notwithstanding the Supreme Court orders, the youth wing of the Dal Khalsa said their activists will go ahead with the protest programme and burn the copies of the said law on Lohri. SYP leaders Paramjit Singh Mand, Gurnam Singh and Gurpreet Singh said putting on hold was neither a solution nor acceptable, adding that repealing the laws is the real and only solution to end the stalemate. They fired a salvo against the Narendra Modi government for misguiding the judiciary and furnishing false information before the court by alleging that Khalistanis have penetrated into the farmers’ agitation. They said all those who are supporting, participating and spearheading the agitation are farmers first and ideology comes later. They categorically said that farming and farmers were the backbone of Punjab and its economy.  They blamed PM Modi for once again subverting the justice system to further his government’s policies, which were authoritarian in nature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/copies-of-farm-laws-to-be-burnt-on-lohri-197764
13-01-2021||Jalandhar||DC: Set up camps for UDID card of specially-abled||DC Ghanshyam Thori directed the Health Department to organise special camps in the district to speed up the enrollment of specially-abled persons for the Unique Disability Identity Card (UDID). He told the department officials  to set up one camp in each community-primary health centre and create awareness among the public in advance through councillors /sarpanches/ Asha workers, so that the specially-abled persons can avail maximum benefit from schemes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-set-up-camps-for-udid-card-of-specially-abled-197765
13-01-2021||---||Admn targets 1,000 enrolments daily under health insurance scheme||Jalandhar, January 12To scale up enrolment and e-cards generation under the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori asked all Common Service Centres (CSCs) to ensure 1,000 enrolments and e-cards generation daily.Chairing a meeting with the entrepreneurs running CSCs across the district, the DC said the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana could empower people, especially the underprivileged sections of society, to make the social security system more robust.Thori said under this scheme, beneficiaries could avail the benefit of cashless treatment up to Rs 5 lakh from various empanelled private hospitals, adding the CSCs could play a pivotal role in achieving this goal. He said there were about 200 CSCs in the district and with the concerted efforts of each one of them, as many as 1,000 enrolments and e-cards generation could be done daily.Motivating the operators, the DC said the top performing CSCs would be felicitated at the district-level Republic Day function at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium. He asked all operators to display the services under this scheme outside their CSCs, so that people can avail the benefit.Thori said all community health centres, sub-divisional hospitals, CSCs, and the district hospital were providing enrolment and e-card generation services under this scheme. He called upon people to carry their Aadhaar cards while visiting these establishments to avail on the spot enrolment and e-card generation facilities.The DC said all 13 government health institutions and 57 private hospitals were empanelled in the district, where people can seek cashless treatment up to Rs5 lakh. He said the list of empanelled hospitals and eligibility of the beneficiaries can be viewed at sha.punjab.gov.in.The scheme offers 1,579 packages to beneficiaries including 180 packages reserved for public hospitals, of which 25 packages were referable to private hospitals, the DC said.He said the Punjab Government had appointed Vidal Health Insurance TPA to carry out enrolment and e-card generation tasks. The company was holding mobile camps at various locations in the district, of which one permanent camp was set up at type-1 Sewa Kendra at the District Administrative Complex, he said.The company has also set up exclusive camps for J-form holder farmers at the premises of market committees across the district.About Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima schemeAyushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima is the flagship state health insurance scheme for the beneficiaries of Punjab. This scheme will provide financial protection to 75% population of Punjab. The scheme provides an entitlement based cashless health insurance cover of Rs5 lakh/family/year. Cashless and paperless treatment can be availed at government and empanelled private hospitals.Avail benefit at just Rs30Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori called upon the people to avail the benefit of the enrolment and e-card generation services at Sewa Kendra just by paying nominal fees of Rs30.The beneficiariesThe scheme covers beneficiaries holding NFSA ration cards, construction workers, SECC beneficiaries, small traders, yellow cardholders or accredited journalists, J-form holder farmers, and all PMJAY families (Blue card holder families).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-targets-1-000-enrolments-daily-under-health-insurance-scheme-197766
13-01-2021||---||IMA offers full support to govt||Jalandhar, January 12The Indian Medical Association (IMA), in an official statement on Monday, said after an extensive review of the scientific data, indexed articles, expert panel reports and in discussion with IMA, ICMR and WHO experts, they have decided to take part in Covid-19 vaccination programme rolled out by the Government of India.Besides, it requested its 3.5 lakh members in 1,800 local branches to voluntarily come out to get vaccinated first so as to show to the world that these vaccines are safe and efficacious.Divulging the details, IMA President, Punjab Unit, Paramjit Mann, said the IMA appreciates the hard work of Indian scientists, modern medicine doctors and the government for bringing out two Indian vaccines against SARS Covid-19.Dr Mann said it was a proud moment for the nation as it was heading towards becoming super power with the research and development in the field of modern medicine.“IMA rightfully stands firm as a natural and professional stakeholder in this achievement not only in the development of the vaccine but also in delivering the vaccine. All infrastructure facilities of IMA branches across the country will be available voluntarily for this vaccination programme and all our members of Indian Medical Association will voluntarily serve with technical and supportive manpower,” he added.Dr Mann also said IMA Punjab believed getting vaccination is not only to protect the individual but also to promote the herd immunity.“We stand with scientists to endorse safety and efficacy of both these vaccines, so public awareness and countering with myths on vaccine percolating in social media shall be our priority. Our modern medicine doctors will vouch for the safety, quality and professionalism in these difficult times and support the emergency approval for the usage of vaccines,” he said.Dr Supreek Kaur Virk, Secretary, IMA unit Phagwara, said, “We are giving full support to the vaccination drive. We organised an awareness meet with civil authorities and private practitioners. Besides, we have decided to actively participate in the dry run of vaccination.”“We appeal to the public to adhere to the Covid protocol even agter getting vaccinated,” she said, adding that the Indian Medical Association Headquarters has also constituted a Pharmacovigilance Centre in IMA HQs Building, New Delhi, for monitoring post vaccination reactions and render appropriate support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-offers-full-support-to-govt-197767
13-01-2021||---||Contests mark 128th birth anniversary of Vivekananda||Jalandhar, January 12The 128th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda was celebrated as National Youth Day on Tuesday. Various institutes in the cities organised webinars and held online contests for poster making, poetry recitation, slogan writing, essay writing and powerpoint presentation.Pushpa Gujral Science CityA webinar was organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City to celebrate National Youth Day. More than 200 students and teachers from different schools of Punjab participated in the event. DPS Kharbanda, Special Secretary and Director Sports and Youth Services, Punjab, was the chief guest. In his inaugural address, he said that energy, creativity, enthusiasm, determination, and spirit of youth needs to be channelised to achieve progress in the field of science and technology, finances, health, sports and nation building. He informed that during Covid-19 pandemic, 13,000 youth clubs of Punjab participated in the sanitisation drive initiated by the respective district administrations.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General Science City, said Swami Vivekananda, whose birthday falls on this day, tried to bridge the divide between science and religion and had a scientific bent of mind. Dr Parmvir Singh, professor, sports sciences, Punjabi University, Patiala, while delivering an expert talk said, “Youth power can do wonders provided its potential is tapped for the developmental projects of the nation”. Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science City, said, “Empowered youth can prove to be the greatest force that drives a nation towards success and prosperity. The future of a nation lies in the hands of its generations to come.”Kanya Maha VidyalayaThe department of political science of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with NSS and Students Welfare Club celebrated Rashtriya Yuva Diwas. Due to Covid-19, online celebrations were held with a motto to make youth aware of Swami Vivekananda’s thought and his contribution in making India a global icon. The students during the celebration participated in different activities such as poster making, slogan writing, essay writing and powerpoint presentation. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi said that Swami Vivekananda was a role model for the youths, because of his strong mind, body, and spirit. She further added that students must ensure that they had been registered as a voter and the college was extensively engaged in voter education-related activities in collaboration with 36-Jalandhar north.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contests-mark-128th-birth-anniversary-of-vivekananda-197768
13-01-2021||---||Heralding gender equality, Lohri fire burns bright||Jalandhar, January 12Tamanreet Kaur, councillor of ward number 1 celebrated ‘Dhiyan Di Lohri’ held at an anganwari in Gurbachan Nagar.She also distributed suits, shawls and sweaters to as many as 28 mothers of newly-born girls. Although, Tamanreet has been celebrating the Lohri of girls since last three years now, but this year was special for her as she was blessed with a girl this year who she has named Gurmehar.She said, “It was a different feeling altogether this year. In my ward, I want women and the families to celebrate whenever a girl takes birth. Nothing better than being blessed with an angel,” she said.Last year too, she had given blankets to the women belonging to humble families.“The aim was to spread the message that Lohri should be celebrated for daughters too,” she said.Kaur said the intent was to uplift the status of the birth of girl child and to make them equal partners in socio-economic growth of the country.This young candidate has a PhD degree in zoology in her pocket. Kaur is the highly educated Councilor candidate in all the 80 wards of the city. She has done her doctorate degree in entomology and then she became a lecturer in DAV College.The councillor also raises her voice in the General House meeting for several times and makes sure that she remains connected with local residents.“I did not have any political lineage, but after my marriage, I developed a political inclination. Thus, this time, I thought of getting into politics because for me, my people will be like my students only and I will listen to their every problem and at the same time, will try to solve these too,” she had said when she was contesting for the Municipal Corporation elections.Tamanreet, who has remained a state-level athlete in the college, said she had been working with dedication for people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heralding-gender-equality-lohri-fire-burns-bright-197769
13-01-2021||---||Educational Park opens at govt school||Nawanshahr, January 12 District Education Officer (Senior) Jagjit Singh inaugurated ‘Arya Bhatt Educational and Herbal Park’ at Government Middle School, Bhangal Khurd, in Nawanshahr district.  The educational park is equipped with models related to science, mathematics, social studies, English, Punjabi and Hindi. The main attraction of the park will be the ‘working globe’. Besides, herbal plantation has also been done in the park.  The DEO also planted an amla sapling on the occasion. He lauded the efforts of school in-charge Parvinder Singh (state awardee) and the school staff for implementing various projects and activities with dedication for bringing in qualitative improvement in school education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/educational-park-opens-at-govt-school-197770
