14-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||He plans to set up a stadium in memory of two Saragarhi martyrs at his village||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 13Jatinder Jay Minhas was 23 when he left Damunda village — his native place — in Adampur and moved to Canada.Now 60, he makes sure he visits his village at least 3-4 times every year to support social activities back home.Having returned just four days ago, his first stopover was at Tikri border, where he donated 3,000 shawls to farmers. Calling in specialists and staff from Lions Eye Hospital that he is financially supporting in Adampur, he also organised an eye camp for farmers before he finally came back home last evening. From morning till evening, he remained busy attending a host of Lohri celebrations at a school and Baba Bhag Singh University, Adampur, which, too, get monetary support from him.Though Minhas is settled in Richmond, he is running a construction business and a film production company in Surrey.“I have two daughters, both of whom are now handling my business. I love to be here and enjoy spending time here. This time, I have come with a target to get the work of setting up a multi-purpose sports stadium in my village. I have a dream to set up a stadium in the memory of two Saragarhi martyrs — Gurmukh Singh Minhas and Jeewan Singh Minhas —who were engaged in that battle and were from my village.”While sharing his plan he said: “I have already arranged for 2 acre land and we are in the process of adding one more acre, so that we can have grounds for soccer, basketball and volleyball. I also intend to set up a gym, changing room, good washrooms and all other required facilities. I have already engaged an architect, but we are yet to finalise the plan. I hope the work will start at the site by mid-2021 and the most interesting aspect of it is that I want to give the stadium the shape of a fort.”Minhas said most of his activities in Adampur have been around improving health and education facilities for his people here. “When I moved to Canada in 1983, I realised that both these facilities are government-sponsored there. It took me sometime to establish myself there and when I did, I started returning in the ’90s and began extending some donations on each visit. In 2005, I supported in the setting up of Sant Baba Bhag Singh Engineering College here, which 10 years later got upgraded as a university. I have remained involved in this project closely. I have also contributed towards setting up a bridge near Padhiana village.”About his works on the health front, he said: “With five more NRIs, I am associated with the Guru Nanak Mission Hospital at Mithapur village. Since 2010, I am also associated with Lions Eye Hospital. They were conducting 150 free eye surgeries annually. For the past 10 years, I am organising an annual eye camp for them which gets 3,000 poor patients in the OPD. We offer them free medicines, spectacles etc. We also conduct free 800-900 cataract surgeries. I also got an operation theatre set up here, which I opened from Canadian High Commissioner, who especially came here on my invite. I spent Rs22 lakh on re-laying a road in front of the hospital.”He said: “We have even converted our ancestral house into a training centre for stitching and computer classes. I set it up in 2015 in the memory of my father, who passed away the same year. He had expressed his desire that our house should be put to some useful work for the betterment of villagers. In 2013, I also spent Rs22 lakh on setting up two blocks of a government primary school in the village with local Akali MLA Pawan Tinu. Besides, I have also been contributing for laying sewer system in the village.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-plans-to-set-up-a-stadium-in-memory-of-two-saragarhi-martyrs-at-his-village-198162
14-01-2021||---||Administration offers ‘fair’ compensation after farmers refused to give land||Jalandhar, January 13After farmers refused to give their land for the Katra-Delhi Expressway, the district administration on Wednesday directed all competent authorities for land acquisition (CALAs) to immediately implement modified multiplication factor rates in the district.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said these multiplication factors have been modified by the state government under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Act, 2013, through a notification on January 12, 2021.At present, there were three major projects in the district, where compensation award fixation was due — Delhi-Katra Expressway, Jalandhar Ring Road Project, and Bathinda Green Field project. He said the new factors would be applied on all three.He said according to these factors, the market value of a rural property is multiplied in case the government wished to acquire it for any development project. Earlier, there were only two thresholds of multiplication factor i.e. factor of 1, and 1.25, modifying which the state government has taken these factors up to 2 according to the distance of rural land from the urban body.Now, the market value of the land will be calculated by the CALA keeping in view the newly modified factors. As per the notification, in case the land falls within 5 km from the outer boundary of any urban area in the state, the market value will be multiplied by 1.0, adding that the factor of 1.25 will be applicable on land 5 km to 10 km from the outer boundary of any urban (Municipal Council/Municipal Committees/Nagar Panchayat). Similarly, the factor will be 1.5 for the distance from above 10 to 15 km, 1.75 for the distance from above 15 to 20 km, and the market value will be multiplied by the factor of 2 if the land falls above 20 km away from urban areas.Pointing out further, competent authority for land acquisition (CALA)-cum-SDM-2 Rahul Sindhu and district revenue officer-cum-CALA Jashanjit Singh said the multiplication factor formula is applied to fix the market value of land in case of land acquisition. The higher the multiplication factor, the higher the market value will be. They said this new formula would apply to land acquisitions, where compensation award was yet to be fixed by the authorities and on all future projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-offers-fair-compensation-after-farmers-refused-to-give-land-198163
14-01-2021||---||On Lohri, cops show some warmth||Jalandhar, January 13The Saanjh and Women and Child Protection Unit of Jalandhar Commissionerate celebrated Lohri with the underprivileged kids at Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Jalandhar.Over 200 kids from the economically weaker section of society participated in the celebrations. Under Project Winter Warmth, blankets, school bags, groundnut, popcorns were shared with kids.Ishaant Gupta from Himco Charitable Trust and Dr Vandana from Ushayaan contributed in providing Lohri goodies to kids. Ritu Kochhar of Pranic Healing Foundation made the kids aware about child abuse and asked them to raise their voice if they face it.Arun Saini, DCP headquarters, motivated kids to face difficulties of life, work hard and never waiver from the right path.Project ‘Winter Warmth’ launched in KapurthalaSaanjh, the community outreach arm of the Punjab Police, on Wednesday launched Project ‘Winter Warmth’ at Kapurthala. The Kapurthala police distributed 900 blankets to poor and needy families on the occasion of Lohri in the sub-divisions of Phagwara, Bholath, Sultanpur Lodhi and Kaputhala.The project has been initiated by ADGP, head of Community Affairs Division, Saanjh, Gurpreet Deo. Project Winter Warmth is an initiative to reach out to the poorest of poor and provide them some warmth and solace during the harsh winter conditions. Saanjh, assisted by Punjab CSR authority, reached out to leading companies of Punjab and solicited their help and support. Many corporates have stepped forward to lend a helping hand in this noble initiative.Senior Superintendent of Police, Kapurthala, Kanwardeep Kaur along with other officers launched the project in Kapurthala.Corporates of Kapurthala district, mainly JCT Mill Phagwara, EIPL Phagwara, Starch Mill Phagwara and Jagatjeet Mill Hamira Kapurthala contributed liberally towards the project. The SSP said: “The Punjab Police have proved its devotion to its citizen through their exemplary services in the worst time of the pandemic. The Winter Warmth project is just another small initiative to fill the gap between the police and common people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-lohri-cops-show-some-warmth-198164
14-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar district all set for first phase of inoculation drive||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 13After the dry run for Covid vaccine in Jalandhar on January 8, the district is all set for the first phase of its inoculation drive on January 16.FactfileCapacity to store over 12 lakh vaccines available in JalandharThe 16,000 doses shall be stacked across 11 storage points in Jalandhar - 8 rural and 3 urban, including storage points at the Civil Hospital, CHCs and sub-divisional hospitals.As per the final lists, 11,800 health workers (government, private as well as military) shall be vaccinated across 29 centres in the district on the first day of the vaccination drive. As many as 16,000 doses of Covishield vaccine are set to arrive in the district within a day or two.The 16,000 doses shall be stacked across 11 storage points in Jalandhar — 8 rural and 3 urban, including storage points at the Civil Hospital, CHCs and sub-divisional hospitals. As many as 29 teams shall be administering vaccines across these 29 centres in the district. Each storage point has been stacked with ILRs (ice-lined refrigerators) to store the vaccines.The second dose of the vaccine shall be administered to all health workers listed with the Health Department 28 days after the first dose. In the second stage of the vaccine, all frontline workers shall be included. The second stage workforce shall include the administration and police frontline officials, journalists and paramilitary forces.The 29 teams are supposed to meet a target of vaccinating 2,900 people on a single day. As per the health officials, each of the 29 teams shall have a target of vaccinating 100 beneficiaries (per team), so the 29 teams will cover 2,900 people in a day. Any health workers that are left out shall be vaccinated during the second dose.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said: “For the first phase, 16,000 doses of Covishield vaccine shall be arriving in the district. It has reached Chandigarh and will come to Jalandhar tomorrow or day after. Since a margin of 10 per cent wastage has also been kept, currently 16,000 doses shall be arriving. In a single day, there is a target of vaccinating 2,900 people in the district. All arrangements are in place and the teams and centres might also be expanded depending on the first phase. Lists of frontline workers are also being prepared. The data shall keep getting updated. We have a capacity to store 12 lakh vaccines in all, but they are being brought as per the current need and as per the vaccinating phase.”The Covishield vaccine shall arrive in vials, each of which has 10 doses. Vaccines will be stored at 2°C to 8°C and can be stored until they expire. However, the Health Department expects to use these all in six months.Dist reports 14 new Covid cases Jalandhar: With 14 more cases, total number of Covid positive cases in the district on Wednesday reached 20,249. The number of deceased persons in Jalandhar remained 653. The active cases in the district are 244, while 19,352 people have been discharged and 141 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar. In Kapurthala district, 14 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-all-set-for-first-phase-of-inoculation-drive-198165
14-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Traders demand increase in tax slab up to Rs 2.5L||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 13After several fights, scores of meetings and plethora of requests, the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for VAT dues was finally unveiled on Tuesday.Ravinder Dhir, convener of the Khel Udyog Sangh, who had been going to Chandigarh and holding meetings with the ministers to convince them to release notification of the policy, said that it was a good step but he also demanded increase in the slab of tax from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh so that it could benefit maximum number of traders and industrialists.“With this policy the traders having tax demand of up to Rs 1 lakh will only have to pay 10 per cent of the tax demand and thus the policy is good for them. But those above it i.e. those who have tax demand above Rs 1 lakh will just be relieved from paying interest penalty, but will have to pay full tax,” he said adding that there is demand from the government that they increase the slab as above 90 per cent of the traders will get relief.“It will definitely be beneficial for most of the traders, but those who have tax demand above Rs 1 lakh will not be benefited much,” he said.Dhir also held a special event where he thanked MLA Rajinder Beri who was the only one to always visit along with the traders and put pressure on the government to unveil the policy.The Industry Minister said that this scheme would resolve the long-pending issue of unavailability of C-forms and others raised by the industrialists in Punjab.Arora also termed it as a ‘historic step’ to give much-needed relief to the industrialists. He said the scheme would benefit almost 10,000 small and medium scale businessmen of the Doaba region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-demand-increase-in-tax-slab-up-to-rs-2-5l-198167
14-01-2021||---||A bonfire of cheer & abundance||Jalandhar/ Hoshiarpur, January 13The Hoshiarpur district administration celebrated Lohri with the orphans residing in Children’s Home at the Child Welfare Complex. Rajesh Kumar Bhagat, chairman, Child Welfare Committee, Hoshiarpur, with Harbir Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Hoshiarpur, and Dr R Prasad, deputy general manager, Punjab National Bank, and other staff members held the celebrations for the children. They distributed sweets and playing kits to the children apart from interacting and wishing them on this occasion. Bhagat encouraged children to work hard to achieve their goals. He told them that they should not lose heart as it will always bring sweet fruits. Rachpal Singh, Jagmeet Singh and Shalini, members of Child Welfare Committee, were also present.IVY World SchoolIVY World School organised the Lohri as the ‘bonfire of abundance’. Lohri marks the onset of fair weather and receding cold leading to abundance and fervent activity. The virtual celebration started with highlighting the importance of the festival. The little ones from pre-primary were told about the traditions associated with Lohri, attire to be worn and seasonal dishes for eating bringing them closer to their culture and roots. Ivyians were enthusiastically attired in traditional Punjabi clothes and showcased their favourite Lohri food like jaggery, rewari, sesame seed, popcorns, groundnuts, etc. The students and teachers celebrated this festival together virtually through art and craft activities like campfire making from paint and ice-cream sticks by K1 children, Sundar Mundariye scene in which our young learners of K2 depicted a beautiful and creative Lohri surroundings on a tray. Tiny tots enjoyed a lot making popcorn holders with fire and wood paper craft. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, wished the students and all educators a happy Lohri.DAV UniversityTeaching and non-teaching staff and students at DAV University organised a function to celebrate Lohri – a traditional festival associated with the passing of the winter solstice. The celebration started with the lighting of the bonfire by Dr Jasbir Rishi, officiating Vice-Chancellor of the University, while others, including the dean Academics Dr RK Seth were also present. The staff and students gathered around the bonfire, offered peanuts, sesame seeds and other edibles to fire and prayed for well-being and prosperity. The participants also followed the Covid-19 protocol during the function. Students of the university put on an impressive show all along. They performed folk dances, songs and greeted each other. Visibly happy to be back on the campus after the lockdown, the students could not hold back their enthusiasm. Addressing the students, Dr Jasbir Rishi said that Lohri was a festival of warmth and change. Lohri marked the changing season and impending spring. Dr Jasbir said the festival was a symbol of new beginning which held more significance amid the pandemic. “We hope that Lohri will end the suffering of mankind and give way to a Covid-free world,” she said.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated the festival of Lohri with fervour and enthusiasm. The celebrations commenced with the address of Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi. She extended her Lohri wishes to each and every member of KMV family. She appreciated the contribution of all staff members of KMV for working hard and efficiently and taking the college to the new heights. She wished everyone great prosperity and health in the coming times. A cultural programme was also organised during the celebration. The Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Gurjot, Dr Madhumeet and the organising committee for holding the celebrations.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School celebrated Lohri festival with boundless joy and fervour. The students showcased their talent in various online activities. The day began by creating awareness among the students about the significance of the most-awaited Punjabi festival. Dances and melodious songs were presented by students as a part of the celebrations. The students of primary school also prepared various craft items associated to Lohri. The students of middle and senior school presented Punjabi ‘Boliyaan’, Punjabi folk songs, Lohri songs and poems. Seema Handa (Director) appreciated all the activities done by the students and encouraged them to understand the value of each festival deeply.Apeejay RhythmsLohri was celebrated at Apeejay Rhythms, Model Town, with exuberance and fanfare. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, children were not able to attend their school from last one year, so on this festival school planned ‘Gathering on the wheels’. School premises were decorated with colourful kites and flowers. Teachers dressed in traditional attire welcomed their students while parents drove by with their kids in the car. Children were excited to meet their teachers. They seemed highly elated at the occasion and expressed their gratitude for providing them an opportunity to visit the school. The guest of honour, Aruna Arora, joined in the festive celebration in the school premises to give her blessings to everyone on this auspicious occasion. Principal Sinia Sajith and pre-primary in-charge Madhu Bhoocher lit the bonfire and were very happy witnessing the spurring moments.HMV CollegeThe student council of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya celebrated Lohri with enthusiasm. Dean student council Urvashi Mishra , dean student welfare Dr Anjana Bhatia, student office bearers of student council Gurkirat, Jyot Sifat presented a beautiful handmade Lohri card to Principal Ajay Sareen. Navjot Kaur and Ravneet Kaur presented Punjabi folk songs and tappe. Dr Prem Sagar, Shelly, Khushi, Komal and Anjali Bhagat of the music department presented songs based on Lohri festival. Principal along with all faculty, staff members and students gathered around the bonfire and offered peanuts, sesame seeds, rewari, maize seeds and worshipped God and wished for everyone’s good health and progress. Principal Sareen blessed everyone on this occasion.Sanskriti KMV SchoolBeating the winter chill, Sanskriti KMV School Principal and staff joined for the holy rituals of Lohri and sought blessings for the prosperous New Year and progressive days ahead. Even being at home, students of all grades joined in online for prayers and gave cultural presentations on Lohri. Rachna Monga, Principal, in her online address to the staff and students expressed her great hopes for the New Year and wished for all-round productivity in days to come. Chander Mohan, president, Arya Shiksha Mandal, extended his good wishes on online platform to the students and members of the school for the festival.Lyallpur Khalsa College for WomenLyallpur Khalsa College for Women celebrated the Lohri festival in the college campus. The festive fervour was dedicated to support the farmers’ protests and their rights. Varinder Kaur, an eminent social activist, was the chief guest on the occasion. This marked the traditional bonfire, Giddha (Punjabi dance) and Boliyan(Punjabi songs). Principal Navjot Kaur wished everyone and also explained the importance of Lohri , thereby telling about the traditional folktale of Dulha Bhatti. A slogan writing and face painting competition was also organised by the fine arts department. In slogan writing, Jasleen of BA (Sem-3 applied arts) got first position, Manpreet of BA (Sem-V applied arts) second and Kashish of BA (Sem-V fine arts) third. In face painting contest, Jasleen got the first position, Himanshi Pant second and Kashish got the third spot.State Public SchoolLohri was celebrated at State Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, with zeal and enthusiasm. The mood of the campus was up beaten and the students wore traditional attires performed and lifted the festive spirit of Lohri. The day began by creating awareness among the students about the significance of the most awaited Lohri festivals. The event was aimed to make the kids aware about the value of the festivals. The children had a gala time as they danced around the bonfire and offered their prayers for the prosperity of the nation. School president Dr Narotam Singh, vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur and Principal Savina Bahl greeted the students and wished them success, good health and prosperous future.Punjab Institute of Medical SciencesThe Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) celebrated Lohri in a festive mood. Celebration began with the lighting up of the bonfire by resident director Amit Singh and director-principal Dr Kulbir Kaur. Entire PIMS family including doctors, nursing staff, MBBS students and paramedical staff gathered to celebrate the very first festival of the year. Amit Singh, resident director of PIMS, greeted everybody and said Lohri is one of the finest and oldest cultural festivals of Punjab. He also added because of pandemic, last year was very stressful for everybody and especially for healthcare workers. As with announcement of vaccine, a ray of hope has arisen for all. Amit Singh said hope this year beings a lot of happiness and good health for everybody. Dr Kulbir Kaur said the PIMS was celebrating the festival to uplift the spirit of doctors, staff and students.A Lohri dedicated to farmers Jalandhar: Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, celebrated Lohri in the college campus on January 13 under Principal Dr Navjot. This festive fervour was dedicated to show support to the protesting farmers. Varinder Kaur, an eminent social activist was the chief guest on the occasion. Traditional bonfire was organised, along with other activities. Principal Dr Navjot wished everyone and also talked about the importance of Lohri, thereby telling about the traditional folktale of Dulha Bhatti. She also said this function was dedicated to the cause of availing our rights and supporting farmers. A slogan writing and face painting competition was also organised by the Fine Arts Department. TNS Lawyers celebrate Lohri with gusto in KapurthalaKapurthala: The festival of Lohri was celebrated with great fervour by the Kapurthala Bar Association in the presence of judicial officials of Kapurthala in the court complex. District and Sessions Judge, Kapurthala, was the chief guest of the day along with his subordinate judicial officers, including Additional District and Session Judges Rajwinder Kaur, Dr Ram Kumar Singla, Jaspal Verma, Raman Kumar, Chief Judicial Magistrate Monika Lamba and Judicial Magistrates Priyanka Sharma and Poonam Kashyam. DBA President Malkiat Singh Thind Secretary Sandeep Singh and Press Secretary Pawan Kalia welcomed the all Judicial Magistrates. Congratulating everybody on the occasion, District and Sessions Judge Kishore Kumar said Lohri is a festival of warmth and abundance. He said Lohri is predominately celebrated in Punjab and its neighbouring region. He conveyed his best wishes for better health and future to all Judicial Officers and the Bar members. DBA President Malkiat Singh Thind also congratulated all the Judicial Magistrates and his colleagues for their prosperity and happiness in future endeavours. He laid stress on better Bar-bench relations and assured all judicial officers for extending full co-operation in court functioning to clear the pendency of cases. Also senior advocates Harcharan Singh, JJS Arora, Rakesh Sharma, Manjit Singh Raja threw light on the history of celebration of this festival. SS Malhi conducted the stage in an entertaining manner. Vice President Pardeep Thakur, Harpreet Singh Baba, Piyush Manchanda, Gian Singh Noorpuri, Jugraj Singh Kahlon, Sushil Kapoor, Narinder Walia among hundreds of advocates were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-bonfire-of-cheer-abundance-198168
14-01-2021||Jalandhar||Online physics quiz||Honour for promoting researchUnder the Research Incentive Scheme, CT Group has honoured additional director (division of admissions) Dr Vaneet Kumar, and deputy director research and innovation as well as associate professor (department of biotechnology) Dr Saruchi for conducting and promoting research. They have received a cheque of Rs 12,600 from the CT group management. Dr Vaneet and Dr Saruchi published five research papers in various world-class quality journals like Springer (journal of environmental health science and engineering), Elsevier (journal of molecular liquid, the journal of chemical thermodynamics) and American Chemical Society (journal of chemical and engineering data) having impact factor between 2 to 6. Telling about the same, Dr Vaneet said, “In these published research papers, we have given very useful results for the removal of harmful dye (ethidium bromide and eosin) by the use of nanoparticles (magnesium (II) doped zinc oxide nanoparticles). They also have studied investigation of (solute-solute) and (solute-solvent) interactions in ternary {amino acids + 1-dodecyl-3-methylimidazolium bromide [C12mim] [Br] + water} system at different temperatures.” Dr GS Kalra, campus director, appreciated the efforts of both and said that papers published by them will be very useful for the society as environment point of view.Two-day innovation summitPhagwara: The Division of Student Welfare at LPU organised a two-day Innovation Summit-2021 with industry top global leaders. The summit was held under the banner of AICTE, MHRD, IIC (Institution’s Innovation Council), and MHRD’s Innovation Cell (Government of India). Thousands of participating LPU students interacted virtually with the leaders of top ranks including MD, CEO, co-founder from diverse sectors, like Wipro (US), Accenture Ventures, ICT Mumbai, Animal Aid Unlimited, TIF Labs, Kool-Kanya and more. LPU students gained an understanding of innovation across all verticals of the industry, and also imbibed the essential role of innovation in digital era businesses. Co-founder Animal Aid Unlimited Erica Abrams, originally hailing from US, talked about problems faced by street animals and various service possibilities and opportunities thereof. Innovator-cum-entrepreneur and a research scholar at ICT Mumbai Amit S. Lokhande shared his views about innovations and business ideas. Managing director (Accenture Ventures) Avnish Sabharwal suggested innovating in the ‘Never Normal World’ and encouraged students to create and adopt the new normal world. Head of global strategic alliances (Wipro, US) and world peace ambassador Damodar Sahi discussed the role of digital marketing strategies in achieving the business objectives, different opportunities in the digital era, and design thinking. CEO (TIF Labs) Pranay Agarwal discussed how ‘startup’ entrepreneurship will change post-Covid-19 era; and, CEO of Kool-Kanya, Vanshika Goenka focussed on the rise of women, job opportunities for them and discussed empowering women entrepreneurs to drive economic growth.Photography competitionHarmanjot Singh, a student of Eklavya School, secured third position in photography competition conducted by Apeejay School, Mahavir Marg. Like every year, Eklavya School students participate in number of contests, competitions, held by different institutions. This year also, the students participated in different competitions i.e. web designing, role play, photography, solo dance etc. in Techfest organised by Apeejay School. This year Techfest was conducted online due to Covid-19 pandemic. Harmanjot is a very passionate for photography and videography. He also helps his father in his business by shooting photos, videos in weddings. He says that he has very advance knowledge of photo and video editing. He also wants to pursue the graduation in this field. Director Eklavya School Seema Handa said that along with formal education, these kinds of skills should also be in the children.TechFest-2021State Public School Jalandhar Cantt students participated in the TechFest-2021. Diya and Sahil bagged second position in mobile app idea presentation category while Preeti Madaan bagged third position in Gustakhi Maaf category. The schools and parents overwhelmed with this success and congratulated the winners. President Dr Narotam Singh, vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur and Principal Savina Bahl congratulated all winners and wished them best of luck for their future endevours.National youth DayApeejay College of Fine Arts celebrated National Youth Day. Principal Neerja Dhingra said that Swami Vivekananda was indeed an ideal personality for the youngsters. He had always considered youth power as the most significant for nation building and universal brotherhood. He was a personality who had a vision for a new modern India. Vishavbandhu from the department of history presented a powerpoint presentation on 'A Prophet of harmony and political synthesis' in which he talked of his simple life style and high thinking. He also shared with the gathering Swami Vivekananda's teachings as - 'Arise, awake, and stop not till the goal is reached', 'Whatever you think, you will be', 'Be a hero, say I have no fear' etc. Rashmi from the department of philosophy did the anchoring of the entire event.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School Jalandhar celebrated National Youth Day with great enthusiasm and gusto. The main objective of the day was to promote rational thinking among the youth, believed to be the future of the country. It expected of the youth to rise to the occasion, fight for the right and channel their inner energies, just like Swami Vivekananda would have. The school educators conducted poster making competition for primary students in which students participated with great zeal. Essay writing competitions was also organised for all students of middle and senior school. JK Gupta, school chairman, inspired the students to instill such values and qualities which would help in building a New India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-physics-quiz-198177
