15-01-2021||Jalandhar||Vajra Corps holds veterans’ day at Jalandhar Cantt||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-corps-holds-veterans-day-at-jalandhar-cantt-198866
15-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers mobilising support for D-Day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 14Aao vai chaliye hun, vadiye kaafile banaake, says Tarsem Singh, secretary of Kisan Union Committee, as he meets people in Nawanshahr to sensitise them.Preparation for the January 26 journey towards Delhi is on full swing. As many as 250 tractors from Nawanshahr are expected to go to Delhi. In the district, the Kirti Kisan Union is going to hold two tractor marches — on January 15 (Friday) and January 19.On Friday, the march will start from Khatkar Kalan, the birth place of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, in the morning and will reach Banga. Around 10 villages will be covered during the march.Tarsem said on Lohri, the copies of farm laws were burnt. “We are forming several committees of women and will celebrate Mahila Kisan Diwas on January 18. We are asking people to join us and show support in this huge movement,” he said.Volunteers from villages are being selected and are also assigned duties for January 26. On January 19, the march will cover 26 villages. It will start from Mehrampur and cover Malpur, Dharamkot, Hansro, Kariam, Aur, Buhara and Mahlon among other villages.Bhupinder Singh Warriach, state committee member of Kirti Kisan Union, said: “Every march is like a rehearsal before January 26. We are warming people up so that they get ready for the D-Day. Tractor trolleys are getting transformed into rooms. Blankets, tents, mats, we will carry everything. There is no returning without getting the laws repealed,” he said.Women committees have also been formed and have active women who are playing an important role in deciding the next course of action to strengthen the farmers’ movement.The women’s group started the campaign from Nawanshahr villages. They are going to every household and organising meetings to make people aware of the farm laws on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-mobilising-support-for-d-day-198503
15-01-2021||---||Road mishaps: 45 black spots identified in Jalandhar dist||Jalandhar, January 14To reduce road fatalities, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday said the district administration has identified 45 black spots in an extensive road safety exercise and directed officials concerned to remove these spots at the earliest.Chairing a meet of various departments at the District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner said Fair Farm Resort, Verka Milk Point Under Bridge, Y-Point Bhagat Singh colony, T-Point Hill View Kalia colony, Butta Singh Building Material Store, Pathankot Chowk, Lamba Pind Chowk, T-Point Suchi Pind, opposite JC Resorts, PAP Chowk, Rama Mandi Chowk, Birring Gate Dakoha railway crossing, Modi Resort, Dhanowali Road, Garha Road opposite Jawahar Nagar bus atand road, Chunmun Chowk, Avtar Nagar, Jyoti Chowk, Sheetal Nagar Maqsudan, Tagore Hospital, T-Point Jinda Road and Reru, have been identified as black spots.He said in rural areas Pepsi factory Phillaur, Goraya Filling Station, bus stop Goraya, opposite Mansurpur Gate, opposite Lidhran Flyover, Bidhipur, Verka Chowk, Kishangarh Chowk, Adampur Chowk and Chitti Road have been marked as black spots.The Deputy Commissioner stated that 14 black spots have been identified on the national highway. He said as per the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, a road is termed as a black spot when on any 500 metres stretch more than five accidents had taken place in three consecutive years, causing death and fatal injuries.Thori directed officials to ensure the execution of rectification of these spots at the earliest adding he would also take up the matter at the appropriate level. He said he has already sanctioned Rs one lakh to the Road Safety Committee and if needed, he would also issue more funds for urgent corrective measures.Thori asked officials to shift stray cattle from roads to Kaniya Kalan gaushala. He asked asked the National Highways Authority of India to get the approach roads of the highway repaired to facilitate commuters.He asked the Municipal Corporation to ensure that all encroachments, especially on the main roads were removed.Sub-Divisonal Magistrate Dr Vineet Kumar Sharma, Sanjiv Kumar Sharma and MC Joint Commissioner Shayari Malhotra, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/road-mishaps-45-black-spots-identified-in-jalandhar-dist-198504
15-01-2021||---||DC reviews preparedness for inoculation drive at 29 sites||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 14Gearing up for the mammoth inoculation drive in the district on January 16, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday reviewed the preparedness to vaccinate as many as 11,800 frontline healthcare workers in the district in the first phase.The Deputy Commissioner said a total of five session sites had been finalised to administer the vaccine — Sub-Divisional Government Hospital, Nakodar; the Urban Community Health Centre, Basti Gujan; SGL Charitable Hospital; Shriman Hospital; and the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. However, on the first day of the vaccination drive on Saturday, the vaccination will be administered at three sites – PIMS, the Civil Hospital and Sub-Divisional Hospital, Nakodar.As many as 16,490 doses of the Covid vaccine also arrived in the district on Thursday, which had been stored at the Civil Hospital.The DC said the district administration had planned vaccination at as many as 29 sites in the district. The sites would be different CHCs, PHCs, the district hospital, sub-divisional hospitals, and some private hospitals. The DC said a total of 57 cold chain points, with a storing capacity of over 12 lakh vaccines, had been set up. Of them, 11 points (eight in rural and three in urban areas) would be utilised to store the first slot of vaccine.Thori said after 28 days of the first dose, the second one would be administered to the listed healthcare workers and for which, an elaborate mechanism had been evolved to ensure a smooth vaccination drive. He said a total of 31 health teams would be administering vaccines across all 29 session sites and each team would have a target to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries per day, which would mean as many as 2,900 beneficiaries daily, he added.Giving information about the storage capacity and preparedness, the Deputy Commissioner said the district administration had created enough space to store over 12 lakh vaccines with all points linked with cooling features to maintain the required temperature for the vaccine.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said the number of sites where vaccines would be administered would be expanded by Monday but on the first day (January 16) it would start from three sites.Those present on the occasion included SDM Rahul Sindhu, SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh, SDM Gaurav Jain, SDM Dr Vineet Kumar, SDM Dr Sanjiv Sharma, Civil Surgeon Dr Balwinder Singh, and District Immunisation Officer Rakesh Chopra, among others.ADC among 42 corona warriors honouredJalandhar: Members of the Jalandhar Auto Parts Manufacturers’ Association honoured corona warriors and frontline workers at a function held here on Thursday. DC Ghanshyam Thori was the chief guest. Among the 42 awardees were ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal, AC (G) Hardeep Singh, Dr Jyoti Sharma, Dr Balwinder Singh, GM District Industries Centre Deep Singh Gill, Dr Anil Kala, Dr Gurpreet Singh, Dr Rohit Sharma, Dr Rajesh Sharma, Dr Alfred, Dr Kamaljit Kaur, Dr Harkamaljit Singh. The function was presided over by association chairman Balram Kapoor and president Sanjeev Juneja. The function began with the introduction of the association and its presence in the city since 1960s. The DC apprised everyone about the hard work put up by health workers, sewa kendra staff, backend data entry staff during the unprecedented time and even now. He gave certificates to all 42 awardees. TNS34 test +ve in dist, tally reaches 20,283Jalandhar: With 34 more cases, the Covid tally reached 20,283 in the district on Thursday. The number of deceased persons in Jalandhar rose to 654 with one more death. So far, there are 249 active cases, 19,380 people have been discharged, while 142 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw 11 persons testing positive for coronavirus on Thursday.Hoshiarpur logs just 1 +ve case, no death reportedWith a considerate decline in new Covid cases, just one patient tested positive out of 281 samples reported in Hoshiarpur on Thursday. With it, the number of total positive patients has increased to 7,907. No new death was reported on Thursday, so the toll remained at 323. With 1,113 new samples taken on Thursday from people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 2,58,935. According to reports received from the lab, 2,50,059 were negative, while 2,603 reports were still awaited, 184 were invalid. The number of active cases is 78, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,506. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said there was no positive patient in Hoshiarpur city and only one patient belonging to another health block of the district tested positive. OCJALANDHAR ROUND-UPSamples collected 5,16,489Negative 4,74,727Positive 20,283Active 249Deceased 654Discharged 19,380Sample inappropriate 4,788Results awaited 2,642Home isolated 142||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-reviews-preparedness-for-inoculation-drive-at-29-sites-198505
15-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Insurance firm penalised for repudiating claim||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 14The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed an insurance firm to pay Rs 3,82,315 to a resident for repudiating a policy claim. Friends Cold Storage through its partner, Ramanjit Singh Bedi, had registered a case against Future Generali India Insurance Company Limited.The complainant had reportedly insured his car from the insurance company on January 23, 2014 to January 22, 2015 and paid a premium of Rs 32,084. Meanwhile, the car met with an accident on December 12, 2014. Intimation regarding the accident was given to the company four days later.However, it was further alleged that the insurance company wrongly repudiated the claim of the complainant on the ground that the vehicle was not registered with the Transport Authorities at the time of accident and its temporary registration certificate also expired. But at the time of issuance of insurance policy it was made specifically cleared to the company that the vehicle was not registered and the temporary registration certificate had also expired, however, they received the premium amount and issued the policy. The car was kept at Kosmo Automobiles to assess the damage.In the meantime, the car was registered with the Transport Department on February 7, 2015, but the company wrongly again repudiated the claim. After that the complainant served a legal notice to the opposite parties to lift the salvage from Kosmo Automobiles at the earliest and to make the payment of the claim amount but to no avail.The complainant after the expiry period of the notice sold the salvage for Rs 2.5 lakh as the same was deteriorating and Kosmo Automobiles was charging parking fees.“The car was insured with the insurance firm for the sum of Rs 8,60,000 and it was liable to pay a sum of Rs 9,57,000 i.e. the insured value of the vehicle in question along with interest from the delayed payment at the rate of 15 per cent per annum”, the complainant said.Whereas, upon receiving the notice of the complainant, the opposite parties filed a written reply taking preliminary objections, and stated, as per Section 39 of the Motor Vehicle Act, no person should drive any such vehicle in any public place.Hence, Sunil Chawla surveyor and loss assessor of the insurance company informed the complainant through a letter that the claim was not payable as per terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Chawla assessed the loss to the tune of Rs 6,32,315.Subsequently, consumer forum president Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsa after hearing arguments of both the parties concluded that, while it was an admitted fact that at the time of issuance of insurance policy the complainant was not having registration certificate of the vehicle and temporary registration certificate of the vehicle was also expired, but even then the opposite parties received the premium amount from the complainant and also issued an insurance policy.Citing a National Commission order, the forum stated that since the insurance company had received the insurance premium and there was no violation of any specific condition in the insurance policy, the insurance company was liable to indemnify the insured amount for the loss suffered by the insured.“Though plying a vehicle on road without registration is a violation of provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act, the competent authority to take action against a non-registered vehicle. The insurance company after accepting the premium, cannot escape from its liability and repudiate the claim on this technical ground”, reads the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/insurance-firm-penalised-for-repudiating-claim-198507
15-01-2021||---||Kidnapped minor girl rescued||Kapurthala, January 14 The district police have recovered a kidnapped 16-year-old girl of Shimla.  The minor was kidnapped on January 1 and an FIR was registered under Sections 363 and 366-A of the Indian Penal Code in the  Kapurthala city police station.  SSP Kapurthala Kanwardeep Kaur said that the accused had been identified as Daljit Singh of Bishanpur locality.  She said that the accused was a habitual offender and was also involved in kidnapping of a minor girl from Jalandhar in 2019.   In December, the district police had rescued 11 kidnapped girls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kidnapped-minor-girl-rescued-198508
15-01-2021||---||Focus on ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’, teachers told||Jalandhar, January 14Salinder Singh, Assistant Director, SCERT, on Thursday exhorted nodal in-charges, zila sikhiya sudhar team, district mentors, block mentors of different subjects to focus on achieving ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ in the upcoming PSEB board examinations.While addressing the meeting he asked them to concentrate on upgrading the level of education and learning outcomes of the weak students and monitor the meritorious students properly so that result could be improved qualitatively.He appreciated the officials, school heads and teachers for taking mission ‘shat pratishat’ on priority and for gearing up for final exams in the right perspective. He said that the department had launched various innovative initiatives like ‘Daily Slides, Word Of the Day , English Booster Clubs, Buddy Groups’ as well as virtual PTMs to keep in constant touch with the students and parents during the pandemic .“All heads and principals are motivating the students to attend schools and thousands of teachers are taking extra classes by adhering to Covid-19 precautions,” he said.He also interacted with nodal in-charges, DMs and BMs and took stock of the micro planning made by them to achieve the desired goal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/focus-on-mission-shat-pratishat-teachers-told-198509
15-01-2021||Jalandhar||‘MC poll timings may be reviewed’||Member of the State Election Committee of Congress for the upcoming local body poll, Raj Kumar Verka on Thursday said the timings of the MC election could be reviewed keeping in mind a large number of farmers were protesting against the three agri laws in Delhi. Verka, who was in the city to hold a meet with observers of the 13 municipal bodies, said, “If we come across a situation where we feel that many voters will miss elections, we might review the schedule.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-poll-timings-may-be-reviewed-198510
15-01-2021||Jalandhar||MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary visits Ballan dera On Maghi||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-santokh-singh-chaudhary-visits-ballan-dera-on-maghi-198512
