16-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Done with flashy music, he wants to sing a divine tune now||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 15While most celebrities of his ilk would prefer to up their glamour quotient in 2021, ace music director Dharminder Kathak is a class apart.As the world went through a tough phase in 2020, Kathak is determined to devote this year to meditation and spirituality. “The year 2020 gave us lessons for life, showing us how we need to keep our air clean, have fresh soothing, music around and believe in the power of the Almighty. I have my plans ready for this year. The title of my project is ‘Tera-Tera’ and I have finalised a composition which I will get recorded in the voice of 1008 youngsters. I will record all of them one by one. As they will all recite ‘Satnam waheguru’ for few minutes, it will spread good vibes all around,” he said.Kathak, who has been imparting training to budding musicians for the past 38 years, including the likes of Master Saleem, Sugandha Mishra, Navraj Hans and Jyotica Tangri adds, “It is perhaps with the blessings of the Almighty that I got this assignment. All our actions are governed by him. The planning too has happened so quickly. The first youth to record for me is Mehneen Kaur of MGN Public School. We will begin it from next Sunday. The Sukhmani Sewa Society too has joined me in this project and they say that they will get me youth from the entire India. It has also been decided that training of the youth for the composition from far off places will be done via Zoom and then they will get their voice recorded at a studio around them and send it to me.”Kathak said, “I have another plan under the ‘Tera-Tera’ project. I intend to record voices of 13 male celebrities and 13 female celebrities for another devotional album. The male celebrities could be Master Saleem and Nachhatar Gill while female ones could be Jaspinder Narula or Rupinder Handa.”He added, “I also wish to organise a large religious and musical convention which could happen at a stadium. There have been enough of flashy songs and videos. My idea is now to motivate people towards meditation. Also, I intend to tell all budding singers of Punjab not to detach themselves from the roots and always stay connected. I want to motivate them to keep Punjabiyat alive wherever they go.”Kathak added, “In this new year, I have also somehow decided that I will train only 10 students at a time and not more. All these 10 students will have to show their commitment towards learning music and achieving new heights.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/done-with-flashy-music-he-wants-to-sing-a-divine-tune-now-199139
16-01-2021||---||CBSE schools begin offline classes||Jalandhar, January 15After the state government issued the guidelines last week, some schools affiliated with the CBSE have also resumed classes. Since the attendance remained quite low, school authorities were in a fix and stated that blended teaching would have to be followed in such circumstances.Around 20 per cent attendance was seen at Innocent Hearts School which reopened from Class V to XII on Friday. As the students came to the school after nine months, there was no morning assembly. Students went straight to their classrooms and attended classes for three hours (10 am to 1 pm). As transport facilities were not provided, parents dropped and picked up their wards.Prerna Sharma, a mother, said, “My daughter is in Class VIII. Though I was little reluctant to send her to school, I allowed her as she insisted. She told me that only 10 students came in her class, but she enjoyed wearing the uniform and sitting on her bench. I am not sure if I will allow her to continue as the school will in any case hold online classes for the remaining 80 per cent students.”Kanwaljit Singh Randhawa, Principal, MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, said, “We will start school for Class VI onwards from January 18. We are not calling Class V students as of now. Of the total 800 students in Classes VI to VIII, only 97 parents have given their consent. We have a meeting tomorrow and will plan on how to go about it as we will have to follow hybrid teaching.” He said, “We have already been running Classes for students of IX to XII. While for Class X, the attendance is usually 65 per cent, it is around 40 per cent for Class XII.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cbse-schools-begin-offline-classes-199140
16-01-2021||---||Vajra Corps celebrates Army Day||Jalandhar, January 15A host of events, including wreath-laying ceremony, weapon and equipment display, mini marathon and band display, were organised at Vajra Corps headquarters in Jalandhar Cantonment on Friday.The events were organised as part of Army Day celebration and to commemorate 50 years of victory of 1971 war under the theme of Swarnim Vijay Varsh 2021. Numerous civil dignitaries, veterans, ex-servicemen and families witnessed and participated in the events.Mini marathon was flagged off by Arjuna Awardee Brigadier Harcharan Singh (retd) and Major General Raju Baijal. The audiences were enthralled by the live performance of military bands which played the martial tunes enthused the crowd with their majestic display and skills.The equipment display under the theme ‘Know your forces’ was also organised which included infantry weapons, artillery guns, surveillance devices which was educative and widely appreciated. The events kindled the pride and patriotic fervour among all, especially the school children. The saga of sacrifice and heroism of Indian Army was celebrated through the events.Patriotic fervour in airThe equipment display under the theme 'Know your forces' was also organised which included infantry weapons, artillery guns, surveillance devices which was educative and widely appreciated. The events kindled the pride and patriotic fervour among all, especially the school children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-corps-celebrates-army-day-199141
16-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Committed towards improving access to farm loans: Indian Bank||Hoshiarpur, January 15 A review meeting of the Indian Bank, under the chairmanship of Ashok Patnaik, Field General Manager, Chandigarh, was organised here. OP Kalra, Zonal Manager, Amritsar, welcomed officials of NABARD, Hoshiarpur.  Addressing the officers and customers, the chairman appreciated the achievements of branches as well as their efforts for making various services of bank easily available to each and every citizen. “There is a huge scope for disbursing agriculture loans to farmers of Punjab,” he said, adding that several schemes are being run by the Government of India and subsidy is also being provided on them. He said the Indian Bank was specially focusing on agriculture loan.  Hemraj, Assistant General Manager, Chandigarh, also lauded the attempts of branches to provide facilities of bank to the needy under the guidance of the zonal office. Customers from 15 branches of Hoshiarpur joined the meeting. The Zonal Manager said the Indian Bank is always ready to finance rice shellers, poly houses etc. under various schemes available to them. He also introduced the new schemes and policy of bank. He assured every assistance by the bank in this regard. Anil Sharma, Deputy Zonal Manager, Zonal Office, Amritsar concluded the meeting with vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/committed-towards-improving-access-to-farm-loans-indian-bank-199142
16-01-2021||---||Microplastics are now part of human food chain, says NGO||Jalandhar, January 15Peeved over the fact that a ban on the use of single-use plastic bags imposed by the state government in 2016 has not been implemented, a Jalandhar-based NGO — Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAPP) — has written an open letter to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Set up in August 2020, Dr Anjali Arora, a medico by profession and a volunteer with the NGO, said, “We believe that we cannot just sit and let Earth and oceans bear the brunt of our negligence. This must stop. Microplastics are now a part of human food chain and are being detected in human faeces. A 100 million marine animals are dying each year mistaking plastic bags piled in our oceans for food. It is an unprecedented ecological emergency. The ban is there but sans any implementation. We believe that we citizens must take control now.Ahead of writing an open letter to CM, the members met environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal and got it signed from him at Seechewal village of January 9. Sant Seechewal also made a video appeal to the public to not accept plastic bags from vendors and encouraged vendors to buy compostable bags, which he said would be supplied at much subsidised rates. He said these had been certified by the Punjab Pollution Control Board, are made of starch from potatoes, sugarcane and maize and are completely biodegradable.AGAPP is working with several school systems in Jalandhar also urging them to write letters to CM to enforce this ban. “Colleges must get on board. The PPCB is being mobilised to conduct a seminar of sellers and the public on compostable bag use.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/microplastics-are-now-part-of-human-food-chain-says-ngo-199144
16-01-2021||---||Jalandhar Administration gears up for a cattle-free campaign||Jalandhar, January 15The administration has started a special campaign to rid of the stray cattle menace which has become a cause for concern for road mishaps in the foggy season.On the first day of the campaign, six stray cattle from the city were shifted to Kaniya Kalan Gaushala. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the drive would continue till all stray cattle are sent to the gaushala. He said the administration would leave no stone unturned to ensure the roads are clear from the stray cattle as the menace has become a major cause of road mishaps.He also directed the Municipal Corporation officials to take all possible steps to ensure proper care of stray cattle while being shifted to the gaushala. The DC said the district administration had adopted a multi-pronged strategy to deal with the menace and also launched a drive to put night-glowing radium belts around the necks of street animals. He said these radium plates would be installed for all such cattle that cannot be taken to the cowshed.Further, the officials have been instructed to start a helpline for the convenience of people, where people will be able to give information about stray cattle, he added. Thori said apart from this, directions have been issued to Rural Development and Panchayat Department and Municipal Corporation to find suitable land to construct another gaushala in Jalandhar.He also appealed to farmers and livestock owners not to leave their animals open on the roads, so that accidents could be prevented on roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-gears-up-for-a-cattle-free-campaign-199145
16-01-2021||Jalandhar||Cyber awareness camps held to sensitise masses to online frauds||To sensitise people against the internet frauds, the Commissionerate Police on Friday held cyber awareness camps at Nehru Garden Senior Secondary School and Government Senior Secondary School Bhargav Camp.Cyber experts disseminated key information among the participants to keep themselves away from the cyber crimes. Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that a special drive had been launched by the department to spread cyber awareness among the masses. The cyber safety guidelines include to not to sharing ones OTPs/ATM pins with others, changing the ATM passwords from time to time, avoid downloading unnecessary mobile apps, not share finger prints and biometric details at unauthorised places and keeping hotspot password protected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cyber-awareness-camps-held-to-sensitise-masses-to-online-frauds-199146
16-01-2021||---||28 fresh Covid cases reported in Jalandhar district, no death||Jalandhar, January 15With 28 more cases, total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district today reached 20,311. The number of deceased in Jalandhar remained 654. The active cases in district are 247 until today. 19,410 persons have been discharged while as many as 145 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar currently. Kapurthala district saw nine persons testing positive for Covid-19 today. Two more deaths were also reported from Kapurthala. The deceased include a 77-year-old man from Baghana village in Phagwara who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 49-year-old man from Hardaspur village in Phagwara who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.2 deaths, 13 new positive cases in HoshiarpurThe district tally reached 7,920 with 13 new positive patients today. With two Covid-19 deaths, the toll reached 325. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/28-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-199147
16-01-2021||---||IKGPTU sets the agenda for its silver jubilee year||Kapurthala, January 15IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) has entered its 25th year of foundation, the university has prepared its year-long agenda for academic affairs and development.The university is focusing this year for academic competence, research and development and to support students with maximum user-friendly technology. Also, the authorities have set a target that this year the university will work on its subsistence parallel to the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. University Vice-Chancellor Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma shared these goals and agendas with the university team members during the beginning of silver jubilee year celebrations. A yearly calendar of the university and the silver jubilee year logo were also released as part of the celebrations.Upliftment of the university and preparation of roadmap for holistic technical education as a large multidisciplinary university is top priority this year, the VC said.On the other important agenda, he said that skill enhancement of students as per market requirement, imparting vocational education with higher technical education, active involvement with industry to enhance employability, quality improvement, modernisation and capacity building will be continued as before.During the foundation day celebrations, officers, faculty, students and staff of the university participated in prayer ‘Sarbat Da Bhala’. The recitation of Sri Akhand Path for universal brotherhood and all-round progress of the nation was also organised in a religious atmosphere. After it, ‘Guru Ka Langar’ was distributed among all attendees.On the occasion, university registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal, dean academic Prof Vikas Chawla, dean students welfare professor Yadavinder Singh Brar, director ODL Dr Balkar Singh, controller of examination Dr Paramjit Singh, joint registrar Dr RPS Bedi, Dr Gaurav Bhargav, Dr Hitesh Sharma and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-sets-the-agenda-for-its-silver-jubilee-year-199149
16-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||300 health workers in Jalandhar district to get first dose today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 15Ten months after the first Covid case was reported in the district last year, the first batch of health workers from the district are finally going to get the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine tomorrow (January 16). After a year of lockdown, gloom, uncertainty and health concerns, 300 health workers would be the first in the district to be vaccinated against the virus.About CoviShieldAfter the arrival of 16,490 doses of the Covishield vaccine in the district on Friday, the vaccine was dispatched to the three centres where it would be administered. The Oxford-developed Covishield vaccine would be administered to health workers listed in Jalandhar.Notably, the first Covid case was reported at Virk village (where three persons contracted the virus) in the district on March 24 last year. They were all relatives of Nawanshahr-based Baldev Singh who was then referred to as the super spreader.The vaccine would be administered to 300 health workers at three health facilities — the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar; the Sub-Divisional Hospital, Nakodar, and the CHC, Basti Gujan. A team of health workers has been deployed at these centres which will administer the dose to 100 beneficiaries. Around 500 to 600 vaccines have been dispatched to each centre for the vaccination drive.About 400 health workers — doctors, nurses and paramedical staff — have been deputed at the Civil Hospital. Of them, 100 would be vaccinated. Twentyeight days after the first dose, the second dose of the vaccine would be administered to the same set of health professionals.A total of 31 health teams would be administering the vaccines across all 29 session sites and each team has a target to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries per day, which would mean 2,900 persons to be vaccinated daily. District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “All arrangements have been ready and the vaccines have been sent to the three centres. The vaccine will be administered to 300 health workers on Saturday and on subsequent dates, starting Monday, the number of centres where health workers are to be vaccinated would be increased.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/300-health-workers-in-jalandhar-district-to-get-first-dose-today-199151
16-01-2021||---||Jalandhar district has 16.21L registered voters||Jalandhar, January 15The district administration today handed over the final voter lists of nine legislative Assembly segments, prepared after a Special Summary Revision, to the representatives of the various political parties under Election Verification Programme (EVP).Handing over the lists to representatives of various political parties, Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said the lists had been prepared by the Election Commission of India after a thorough process was carried out minutely in the district under EVP.He added that there were 16,01,523 voters in Jalandhar when the draft electoral were published and now after the completion of EVP, Jalandhar has now 16,21,161 voters which show that a total of 19,638 new voters have been registered. Among a total of 16,21,161 voters, 8,44,619 are male, 7,76,516 are female and 26 belong to the third gender.He said these lists were available with the District Election Office, Office of EROs and even with the Booth Level Officers at the respective polling booths. He said these lists could also be seen on website ceopunjab.nic.in.In order to facilitate people to get them enrolled as voters for participating in the democratic process more enthusiastically, the Election Commission of India had announced the schedule for special summary revision of photo electoral roll under EVP.The claims and objections for the draft publication of rolls were received from November 16 to December 15 at the concerned polling booths or the offices of the Registration Officers/ Assistant Registration Officers. Likewise on January 5, the claims and objections were settled and as per the instructions of the ECI, the database was updated under the EVP. On the occasion, Election Kanungo Rakesh Kumar and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-has-16-21l-registered-voters-199154
16-01-2021||Jalandhar||National Youth Day celebrated||MGN College of EducationThe Red Ribbon Club and NSS unit of MGN College of Education celebrated National Youth Day on the theme ‘Yuva-Utsah Naye Bharat Ka’, to seek enthusiastic contribution of youth in the national development. On this day, Jasbir Kaur with her poems evoked youth to stand against the evils and to become an agent to bring social change. Vidhi with her video threw light on the life of Swami Vivekananda and appealed the youth to follow his footsteps. At the end of the event, a song ‘Mann Ki Taqat’ was played to fill the zeal in the hearts of youth to stand for their nation. An online workshop on ‘Yoga and its role in physical and mental wellbeing’ was also held. Resource person, Kamal Aggarwal, president of the Bhartiya Yog Organisation, demonstrated different yoga poses. Principal Neelu Jhanji recalled Swami Vivekananda played a major role in reviving India’s image as a land of spirituality and his life motivated the youth to an extent that they started voicing the changes they desired and ultimately accomplish them. She also appealed to learn the art of practicing yoga which brought together physical and mental disciplines to achieve a peaceful body and mind. These events were coordinated by Dr Seema Rani, Dr Kiran Walia, Geetanjali Mittu and Gaganpreet Kaur. The event was hosted by Ramneet Kaur.Annual day celebrated virtuallyApeejay School, Model Town, celebrated its annual appreciation day- Resilience 2.0 virtually. The chief guest on the occasion was Jagdish Raja, Mayor, Jalandhar. The guest of honour was Digvijay Chaudhary, Assistant Commissioner. Aditya Berlia, co-promoter, APJ Stya, and Svran group presided over the function. The event was dedicated to the resilient soul of mankind which has sailed through the pandemic and is looking forward to a new beginning. The event had many mesmerising performances be it a classical dance, diamonds in the sky and seeds of happiness a play by rhythms kindergarten. The highlight of the event was a play ‘Where Eagles Dare’ dedicated to the armed forces. Principal Sinia Sajith in her annual report laid forth the immense efforts that the school faculty is putting in to provide education to the students. The event concluded with a tribute to the Virasat of Punjab.IELTS coaching at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya has set up KMV Institute of IELTS. This institute has been equipped to prepare the students to clear IELTS exam. In a highly commercialised scenario, KMV Institute of IELTS ensures quality, expert guidance and provides an edge above the rest. The doors of this institute have been opened for the outsiders as well, apart from KMV students. The institute promises nominal fee, flexible timings and highly qualified and trained faculty are the hallmarks of this Institute. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, Institute of IELTS provided education to the students by shifting to the digital platform. Blended learning is also a part of the Institute of IELTS. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the institute is beneficial for the students aspiring to clear IELTS exam with high bands.Army Day celebratedVarious online activities were conducted by Eklavya School on the occasion of the Army Day. In primary classes, teachers apprised the students of the Indian Army and when the Indian Army originated. They were told that the forces of the East India Company got later known as the ‘British Indian Army’ which eventually after Independence got its name as National Army. Chairman of the School JK Gupta said that this is a great initiative by the school as children get to know about the lives of our soldiers. Director Seema Handa, administrator Dimple Malhotra and principal Arwinder Kaur appreciated the work done by the students.Gauri Verma Ist in BD (Multimedia)Students of BD (Multimedia) Sem VIII of Apeejay College of Fine Arts have bagged top positions in the results of Guru Nanak Dev University. Gauri Verma has come first, followed by Anmol Batra who came second and Aanchal who stood third in the university. College principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students and wished them to work hard in future too. She appreciated Varinder Singh Saggu, Head of the Department of multimedia and Ankit Goel for guiding the students towards a sparkling success. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-youth-day-celebrated-199160
16-01-2021||Students' attendance in the government schools has reached 80 per cent after reopening. It is a kind of achievement in itself as there are various other districts||80% attendance in government schools||Segregation of wasteRajeev Sareen, Executive Officer, Nawanshahr Municipal Committee, who was first looking after Nawanshahr city, now looks after Rahon as well. When he was in Nawanshahr MC, the district had scored a hat-trick in retaining first position in the Swachh Survekshan Awards-2020 in 25,000 to 50,000 population category for north zone with 5,145.17 points. He has same plans for Rahon.Cooperative Society distributes dividendThe Urapar Agriculture Cooperative Society held a meet of its general body. Its chief Sukhwinder Singh Dhawa distributed cheques of dividend to farmers. Dhawa said Urapar Agriculture Cooperative Society had earned a profit of Rs 2,14,91,144 in the last three years. Besides distributing dividend among shareholders, the society utilised Rs 25 lakh as building fund, Rs 6 lakh as welfare fund, Rs 24,000 as educational fund.Contributed by Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/80-attendance-in-government-schools-199161
16-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Visually impaired operated upon||Ensure individual attention: DEONawanshahr: District Education Officer Jagjit Singh exhorted teachers to ensure individual attention on each and every student to transform ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ into reality. The Education Department has chalked out a meticulous plan for achieving ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ through simplified learning material, question banks, model test papers as per the revised syllabus and structure of question papers are being provided to the students. Progress report of students on the basis of previous house examinations has been done and micro planning for preparing weak, average and meritorious students, for the ensuing board examinations has been formulated, he said. He was addressing the meet of district and block mentors of different subjects, zila sikhiya sudhar team to take stock of the progress report. The DEO asked them to ensure that learning material, question banks, model test papers and other latest guidelines should reach to the students. He asked them to mobilise teachers and students to download ‘Punjab Educare App’ for easy access to requisite material and latest information. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/visually-impaired-operated-upon-199162
