17-01-2021||Our Correspondent ---||DC visits Garhshankar hospital to review arrangements||Hoshiarpur, January 16 Joining the Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through a videoconference here for the roll out of Covid-19 vaccine, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Saturday said the vaccination had started at three session sites in the district — Garhshankar, Dasuya and Mukerian. Arora, who was taking part in the virtual state-level launch of the vaccine at the District Administrative Complex, said the vaccine would be administered on the first day for registered healthcare workers, including 81 beneficiaries at Garhshankar, 100 at Dasuya, besides 95 at Mukerian.  Following the directives of the Government of India, the vaccine will also be administered at the remaining sites in the coming days, said the minister, adding that in the first phase, healthcare workers would be inoculated followed by the frontline workers, including police and other staff performing duties at the forefront. Thereafter, people in the age group of above 50 years and under 50 with co-morbid conditions. Giving further details, he said the district had received 9,570 doses of the vaccine, of which 9,540 were for state healthcare workers, while 30 for Central healthcare workers. As many as nearly 9,000 healthcare workers got themselves registered for the vaccination, Arora said, adding that the availability of more vaccine would be ensured as per the registration in future. In the district, 32 teams are fully geared up for the vaccination process with 20 session sites identified across Hoshiarpur, he said. The second dose of the vaccine would be administered after a gap of 28 days and the requisite information regarding the vaccination would be sent through SMS on the mobile phones of the beneficiaries. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait went to the Garhshankar Civil Hospital to take stock of arrangements at the session site. After meeting the teams and beneficiaries, Riyait said the district administration had already ensured the requisite facilities and arrangements at all three session sites —Garhshankar, Dasuya and Mukerian, where 81, 100 and 95 beneficiaries were registered, respectively, for the inoculation on the first day. After administration of Covid vaccine, the beneficiaries were kept in the observation room for half an hour, said Riyait, adding that the process of vaccination at other sites would also be started shortly in accordance with the directives of the Government of India. Nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Garhshankar Civil Hospital, Dr Jaswant Singh, who was the first to get the vaccination, not only thanked the government for rolling out the vaccine, but also appealed to the people to not fall prey to rumour-mongering, as the vaccination was a must for all in the larger interest of the country, state and public.  Other beneficiaries Arun Minhas of Garhshankar Civil Hospital, while sharing his experiences after the vaccination, said he was quiet well and people should not hesitate for vaccination since the immunisation of Covid vaccine was necessary amid the current health crisis.  Another beneficiary Harinder Kaur of Dasuya Civil Hospital said besides having vaccinated, all beneficiaries and other people should ensure meticulous adherence of Covid protocols as issued by the government and Health Department from time to time to keep the coronavirus at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-visits-garhshankar-hospital-to-review-arrangements-199635
17-01-2021||Jalandhar||Vajra Corps starts vaccination drive||As part of the nationwide drive, Vajra Corps commenced the rollout of Covid-19 vaccination at MH Jalandhar on Saturday. Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GOC, Vajra Corps, visited the immunisation centre at the hospital, where 100 healthcare workers were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine, provided by the Punjab Government through the district health authorities. Interacting with healthcare workers, GOC Vajra Corps lauded their efforts in combating the pandemic.The hospital has prioritised all healthcare workers, based on the extent of their professional exposure to the risk of Covid-19 infection. All healthcare workers posted at the hospital and nearby affiliated healthcare establishments would be immunised in different phases. The second round of immunisation of personnel receiving the vaccine on Saturday will be carried out after four weeks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-corps-starts-vaccination-drive-199636
17-01-2021||---||300 healthcare workers get the first shot in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, January 16The vaccination drive started at three government hospitals in Kapurthala, Phagwara and Bholath with 300 health workers getting their first shot of Covishield vaccine.While launching the drive at the Civil Hospital, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the district administration has chalked out a comprehensive plan for the vaccination drive in Kapurthala as the cold chain systems, logistics and technology were all in place along with the well-trained workforce. On the first day, there was no report of any adverse effect on human body across the district, she said.A staff nurse named Bimla from Kapurthala Civil Hospital became the first health worker to get the vaccine shot, followed by Dr Shubhra.The DC said the database prepared by the administration included the health workers from government and private sectors, comprising more than 4,000 workers. The DC said a dedicated 24×7 control room has been set up at the Civil Hospital in Kapurthala (88720-94737) where people can get all kinds of information regarding the vaccination, its effect and registration among other things.The first 10 health workers who got the vaccine shot includes staff nurse Bimal, Dr Shubhra Singh (AHA) Jeet Bahadar ward attendant, Bir Davinder Singla, chief pharmacist, Rajan Kumar, Dr Paritosh Garg pathologist, Dr Prem Pal, blood infusion officer and Rajni. Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Kumar, Dr Asha Mangat, Dr Ramesh Kumari Banga, Dr Rajiv Bhagat, Dr Sandeep Bhola and Dr Kuljeet Singh were present on the occasion.‘Proudly vaccinated’ selfie pointKapurthala: In a sweet gesture to thank and encourage people having Covid vaccination shots, the district administration would provide a wrist band besides providing a selfie platform to the ‘proudly vaccinated’ people in the district. The wrist band would be provided to all people after the vaccination at all vaccination points in the district. Under the first phase, 4,000 wrist bands would be given to people. The selfie point has been set up by District Public Relations Office, Kapurthala, at the Civil Hospital. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal urged the Health Department officials to post the selfie on social media platforms after getting vaccinated to encourage people for vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/300-healthcare-workers-get-the-first-shot-in-kapurthala-199637
17-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||136 turn up for inoculation on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 16The historic process of the much awaited first phase of Covid vaccination drive received a lukewarm response in the district on Saturday. Merely 136 turned up for vaccination on Saturday, of the 300 invited by sending messages. Among those who skipped included former MS Mandeep Kaur and Dr Paramjit Singh, anesthesiologist.Of the 300 summoned,164 beneficiary health workers skipped the process on the first day. More than half of the staff stayed away from the process. Of those who skipped coming, a majority was paramedical staff. The dearth of health workers reporting to be vaccinated was also attributed to delay in the receiving of messages by some and the server of the vaccination portal being down repeatedly since last night. A majority of the listings of the health workers being vaccinated today was manually made by the health staff as the server remained down for a long time. The process was started soon after the PM’s address earlier this morning.The three session sites were Civil Hospital, Jalandhar; Basti Gujan CHC, Jalandhar; and Sub-Divisional Hospital, Nakodar.At the primary session centre at the Civil Hospital, 40 people out of the 100 expected had turned up until 2 pm.On the flip side, the vaccination drive began with much enthusiasm amid several senior frontline doctors getting vaccinated amid applause and jubilation.The first to get vaccinated was retired SMO Dr Kashmiri Lal, frontline health worker for Covid emergency care. He was followed by Dr Bhupinder and SMO medicine Dr Tarsem Lal. Former Civil Surgeon Jalandhar Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, nodal officer for the vaccination drive Dr Indu Bala, blood transfusion officer Dr Gagandeep Singh, anesthesia frontline staff, paramedical staff, Asha workers and Class IV health workers were vaccinated on Saturday.At least four frontline health staff, doctors who had previously tested positive for Covid themselves, were also on the list of the workers vaccinated today. A reactive response to the Covid vaccine wasn’t reported from any of the persons vaccinated today. The vaccination drive kick started amid the supervision of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh, MS Dr Parminder and District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra.Having posted in Jalandhar recently, both the Civil Surgeon and the district immunization officer aren’t yet listed among the 11,800 health workers in Jalandhar, as they were listed with districts they were previously posted at.Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunisation Officer, said, “It is a great moment for us. We were waiting for this for the past one year. Server issues and apprehensions persisting among much of the health staff are partly the reasons for the limited turn up on Saturday. However, we expect a much more enthusiastic response from Monday onwards as many are expected to come in. Today was just a start of the process.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/136-turn-up-for-inoculation-on-day-1-199639
17-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||From hiding, to proudly flaunting his abs, he aspires to make fitness his career||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 16‘Height Choti, Soch Badi’ reads his bio on his social media accounts. Just 23, he wants to eclipse his 3’8” height with his chiseled body.In a family of normal heighted people, Ganesh Kumar, always considered himself a misfit. But not anymore. Walking on the footprints of popular American bodybuilder Kai Greene, Kumar has made bodybuilding his passion. With his growing social media following, his workout videos have already been seen and shared by lakhs of users.When he was just 7 or 8-years old, he started noticing his body growing abnormally. Then started frequent visits to doctors. His parents would take him to various medical experts to get adequate treatment for his stunted growth, but to no avail. Youngest of five siblings, while he was pampered in his house, the world outside was exactly opposite to it.Unable to focus on studies while growing up, he couldn’t complete his education and skipped school after Class X. At school, he used to overcome his weakness and his peers’ reaction to his dwarf body by singing. However, life changed after he started lifting weights.“Gyming was never on the cards. Had I not met my coach Gagandeep Singh, I wouldn’t have ever been able to stand with confidence. Before bodybuilding, I used to work in a factory. Three years ago, when I was going home after completing my shift, my neighbour Lucky, asked me to start working out. On his insistence, I started going to the gym, hiding myself behind his muscular built. I didn’t know what I would do there. But, things turned differently, after I met Gagan. He not only motivated me, but also trained me for free. He even made sure that I wouldn’t have to pay the gym fee. Afterwards, it took me two years to build my physique. Subsequently, my coach asked me to participate in bodybuilding events,” Ganesh said.From hiding himself to proudly flaunting his biceps and abs, he now aspires to make a career in fitness.Competing in the physically challenged category, he has already won two medals and is now preparing for the upcoming ‘Pathankot Classic Bodybuilding Championship’.“Since muscles require a strict diet, my parents used to give me Rs30 per day initially, but seeing my growth, they now give me Rs50 per day. Despite opposition from doctors and my relatives, my family has now started supporting me. While I workout for nearly one-and-a-half-hours daily, for the rest of the day I work in our kiryana store. It feels respectful when people ask me for a fitness regime and seek my advice. Earlier, people used to stare at me and make fun of my height. But now, they look at me both smilingly and shockingly,” Kumar smiles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/from-hiding-to-proudly-flaunting-his-abs-he-aspires-to-make-fitness-his-career-199641
17-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 die, 11 +ve in Hoshiarpur||The district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the toll to 327, while 11 new cases pushed the infection count to 7,931. With the receipt of 1,362 new samples from people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 2,61,641. According to the reports, 2,53,004 are negative, while 2353 are waiting for the reports and 184 are invalid. The number of active cases is 63, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,541. Dr Ranjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said of today’s 11 patients found positive in the district, one positive patient is from Hoshiarpur city and 10 are related to other health blocks. The deceased reported from the district included a 67-year-old Kotla Nodh Singh resident who died at private hospital in Jalandhar, while a 31-year-old resident of Bassi Wazid village died at the PGI, Chandigarh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-die-11-ve-in-hoshiarpur-199642
17-01-2021||---||Beneficiaries get ration depot licences||Jalandhar, January 16Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday handed over allotment letters for 97 fair price shops (ration depots) to the candidates.Participating in a virtual launch of the programme by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Mohali, Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the allottees had been appointed by the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department in a month-long exercise following the generation of 124 vacancies of ration depots in urban areas of the district.They said 184 candidates had applied for these vacancies based on the size of the population in a particular area. They said after scrutiny of documents, 160 of them were called for the interview out of which 142 turned up and today, 97 were given allotment letters for running ration depots.They said the Ghar-Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission had already been acting as a catalyst to transform the destiny of the youth and providing jobs to unemployed youths. They said the district administration had been holding job fairs/placement camps regularly.Arora hands over six licences in HoshiarpurHanding over licences for ration depots to six beneficiaries under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar & the Karobar Mission of the state government at the local DAC complex, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the Punjab Government would also provide ration depot licenses in villages across the district.After the launch of ration depot allotment at the state level by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, through a video conference from Mohali, the minister, who joined the online programme from the DAC here, said as many as 34 vacancies were lying in the urban areas of districts of which six had been filled through the transparent process. He said five licences had been handed over here while the process of the remaining ones was underway. He also said after the urban areas, over 450 ration depot licences would be given in the rural areas of Hoshiarpur district, thus paving a way to ensure employment for the unemployed beneficiaries under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission. The minister said the Punjab Government had rolled out the process for filling 987 vacancies of ration depots in urban areas as well as 6,232 in rural areas, which would be accomplished soon through a transparent manner.Arora added that Punjab Government led by the Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had introduced the Smart Ration Card scheme, inter-state portability, which envisaged that the beneficiaries could get their essential commodities from anywhere in the country and from any ration depot across Punjab.The Minister handed over licenses to five beneficiaries namely Harshvardhan Sharma for ward no 42, Hardeep Singh for Ward no 47, Kiran Verma, Naveen Kumar for ward no 15 and Ashima Singla for ward no 31. Meanwhile, the SDM Dasuya Randeep Singh Heer also gave away one license to beneficiary Kuldeep Singh at his office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beneficiaries-get-ration-depot-licences-199643
17-01-2021||---||MC poll: 336 EVMs reach Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 16 As many as 336 electronic voting machines (EVMs) and control units reached Jalandhar for the Municipal Council elections on Friday night. The EVMs and control units were kept in a strong room in the Government Polytechnic College, Ladowali road, by a team led by ADC Development Vishesh Sarangal. ADC said elections were going to be held in Jalandhar’s six Municipal Councils, including Kartarpur, Phillaur, Nakodar, Nurmahal, Alawalpur, Adampur and Nagar Panchayats in Mehatpur and Lohian Khas. He said these elections were going to be held in 110 wards of six councils and two nagar panchayats. He said a team had gone to Gurdaspur to get 336 EVM and control units for these elections in the morning, which was received at 8.30 pm. He lauded the efforts of the staff that despite dense fog and bone chilling cold, they had shown a great spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-poll-336-evms-reach-jalandhar-199644
17-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Your heart needs more care in winter season, says expert||Hoshiarpur, January 16“Whenever we are in a cold environment, our body makes certain adjustments in order to maintain our body temperature. These changes include; increase in heart rate, increase in blood pressure and increased risk of blood clotting. These changes can lead to more stress on heart in patients with pre-existing heart disease, leading to increased frequency of angina/ chest pain and heart attack and worsening of symptoms of heart failure.”Dr Munish Dev, Cardiologist at Ivy Hospital said this while addressing a special online session. He said.” During winters, we prefer to stay indoors which leads to a decrease in our physical activity, which further increases the risk of cardiac events. Also, people have a tendency to indulge in food items high in trans-fat, sugar and salt, which increases risk of diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and obesity.During winter season, there is a heightened risk of various chest infections such as common flu and pneumonia. These infections tend to worsen the symptoms of heart disease. In the current scenario, cases of Covid-19 infection are on the rise and can cause cardiac complications in heart patients.Talking about the precautions, Dr Munish said limit the time you spend out in the cold weather. Regular exercise is a good way of keeping the body and heart healthy. Don’t exert yourself too much in outdoor activities.Don’t let yourself become overheated. Dressing warmly while engaged in physical activity can lead to overheating. Overheating, causes blood vessels to suddenly dilate which can lead to sudden fall in blood pressure which can be hazardous for a person with heart disease.Eat healthy and avoid overindulgence in food. Don’t drink excess alcohol especially before going outdoors as it dilates blood vessels in the skin, making you feel warmer while actually drawing heat away from your vital organs.Sun exposure is important for vitamin D formation. Monitor your blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol levels regularly. Vaccination against influenza and pneumonia is recommended in elderly patients with heart disease to prevent these chest infections, maintained Dr Munish.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/your-heart-needs-more-care-in-winter-season-says-expert-199645
17-01-2021||---||Three held for stealing  money at gunpoint||Jalandhar, January 16 The police have arrested three persons, including a woman, for stealing Rs 6 lakh from Arora Western Union (a money exchange centre). The police have seized stolen currency, besides an illegal .32 bore pistol and a mobile phone on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Jaspal Singh (22), of Pandori Gola village, Gagandeep Singh (22), and Sarbjeet Kaur (45), of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, in Tarn Taran district. Fourth accused, Gurkirpal Singh of Bilianwal village, has been on the run. The incident had occured on January 15 evening. Two- masked men arrived at Arora Western Union and fled with currency and three mobile phones after pointing a gun at a woman staffer. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said unidentified persons had robbed Rs 2.59 lakh in Indian currency, 2000 Canadian dollar, 850 Euro, 779 US dollar, 800 dirham, 16,000 Thai baht and three phones from Arora Westen Union. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC and 25,54 and 59 of the Arms Act at Model Town police station on the complaint of money exchanger Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Krar Khan Mohalla. “While Jaspal and Gagandeep committed the crime, Sarbjeet was known to the complainant as she used to visit his office for the last six years. She was even present in his office when the incident took place. She was equally involved in the robbery. Before hatching a conspiracy, she told the accused about Rakesh,” said Bhullar. Jaspal was reportedly booked in a murder case in Tarn Taran. Bhullar announced a reward for the CIA-1 team for solving the crime within 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-for-stealing-money-at-gunpoint-199646
17-01-2021||---||RBI holds virtual meet for MSME entrepreneurs||Jalandhar, January 16The Financial Inclusion and Development Department, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Chandigarh, organised a virtual meeting for MSME entrepreneurs here today.The meeting was chaired by the Regional Director (Punjab, Haryana & UT Chandigarh), Reserve Bank of India, JK Pandey.As many as 40 participants consist of representatives of various industry associations/ trade bodies, entrepreneurs from different industries in Jalandhar such as sports goods, leather goods, hardware manufacturing, forging tools, machine tools, auto parts, and valve items and officials of various banks active in the region attended the meeting.In his address, Regional Director, RBI, Chandigarh JK Pandey emphasised that the purpose of the town hall meeting was to create awareness about the bank schemes for lending to MSME customers and to resolve the issues between bankers and entrepreneurs by bringing them together on a common platform. He urged the banking fraternity to have an empathetic approach in dealing with the MSME borrowers and provide timely and adequate finance to these units.He advised the bankers to disseminate information regarding various MSME loan products to the entrepreneurs. He also appreciated various policy measures and efforts put in by Central Government, RBI, State Governments, financial institutions, and banks in mitigating the financial stress caused by the Covid–19 pandemic to MSME sector in the country.General Manager, SIDBI Rahul Priyadarshi, also appraised various schemes operated by SIDBI for the benefit of the MSME sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rbi-holds-virtual-meet-for-msme-entrepreneurs-199648
17-01-2021||---||Three held with illicit liquor||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-with-illicit-liquor-199649
17-01-2021||Identity cards will be issued to all drug addicts registered at the OOAT clinics at Kapurthala. DC Deepti Uppal said this was being done to speed up the process of rehabilitation of drugs users. During a DAPO meeting here today to work for the eradication of drugs||ID-entifying drug addicts||A battery unit for e-vehiclesUnder the efforts of ease of doing business across the state with the Right to Business Act, 2020, the industrial unit in Kapurthala has got the in-principle approval for their project in a single day after applying on the business first portal. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal handed over the approval letter to Kanwaljeet Singh, who represents the Apex Eng industry, which will invest Rs5.30 crore to set up a battery unit for e-vehicles. The representative of the industry, while thanking the district administration for quick response on their approach for setting up new unit, said their unit would provide employment to 100 people directly. The Deputy Commissioner said the business first portal has provided the single window clearance to project in very short period even after getting approvals from PPCB, Forest etc. She further said under the Right to Business Act -2020, new proposed units which has to be set up in Master plans, would get the approval in 15 days and in approved industrial parks, the applicant would get the approval in 3 days only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/id-entifying-drug-addicts-199655
17-01-2021||Jalandhar||Havan yajna organised||Makar Sankranti celebrationsIvy World School celebrated Makar Sankranti in the kindergarten wing. The little Ivyians celebrated the occasion dressed in colourful traditional Punjabi attires. The virtual celebration started with sharing information with the significance of Makar Sankranthi as one of the important festivals. The students also learnt about the reason for the celebration of the festival. The main attraction of Makar Sankranti celebration included activities such as my favourite food, vocab enrichment and many more. The highlight of the celebration was the kite making craft. S Chauhan, principal of the school, congratulated the children for their efforts and also made them aware about scientific importance of the festival. She extended her festival wishes to everyone.National Youth Parliament FestJaahnvi Aggarwal of (BA Semester-V) Apeejay College of Fine Arts brought laurels to college by bagging the second position in the National Youth Parliament Festival at district and state-level organised by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India. Principal Neerja Dhingra congratulated her for exemplary achievement and also appreciated the efforts of Dr Navjot Deol and Simkee Dev for guiding her towards the path of success.Faculty Development WorkshopKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an International Faculty Development Workshop on ‘Building a college writing programme’. The eminent resource persons for this workshop were Dr Maria Zlateva, director of ESL, Boston University, USA, and Dr Malavika Shetty, lecturer, linguistics and writing, Boston University, USA. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that writing was very much essential to every educated person and it should be learnt at any stage of life. She emphasised on the fact that through these kinds of workshops, better writing skills could be developed. Dr Maria discussed in detail the key concepts in writing pedagogy such as learning outcomes, portfolio and metacognition, evaluation and grading, instructor-student conferences, written corrective feedback. Dr Maria further discussed various steps in writing process such as critical thinking, reading, drafting, editing and proofreading, avoiding plagiarism of text and images and writing support.Virtual Alumni ReunionThe alumni of MGN College of Education got a chance to reconnect with their alma mater to recreate their old memories, to interact with their faculties and to have lots of fun through virtual alumni reunion 2020 ‘Revisiting Nostalgia’. The event began with college ‘Shabad’. SS Walia, president, Alumni Association, welcomed the gathering. Around 150 alumni from various sessions attended the event. The alumni interacted with the current students and had a discussion. Alumni Harpreet Kaur and Khushboo mesmerised the audience with their beautiful songs. Kirat Kaur recited a beautiful poem and cherished her memories during her stay in the college. Ved Plash, Sonia, Kishore, Parul Sharma, Ravneet Kaur and Harpreet Kaur shared their experiences and filled the atmosphere with nostalgic feelings. Bhawna with her beautiful dance performance adorned the event. Overseas alumnus Gurpreet Kaur and Aman Singh from Canada and Manpreet Kaur Kang from New Zealand also sent their messages and wishes in the video form. Ramesh alias ‘Mintoo, the famous comedian and alumnus of the college also gave a comic touch to the event. Principal Neelu Jhanji, also one of the alumnus of the college, gave formal vote of thanks.Statue of martyr cleanedThe NCC cadets of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya paid obeisance to Shaheed Udham Singh by cleaning statue of great martyr situated at Lamma Pind Chowk. This initiative was done under the Swachhta Abhiyaan launched by Prime Minister Narender Modi. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that involving youth in social activities helps the younger generation to become more responsible and ideal citizens of the country. She further maintained that the NCC cadets of KMV were involved in various activities like cleaning and maintaining public parks and donating blood etc from time to time during the academic session. She averred that KMV has also adopted villages under Unnat Bharat Abhiyaan. The principal lauded the efforts of all NCC cadets and Lt Seema Arora, Incharge, NCC, for this initiative.Panel discussion on Farm LawsAn open panel discussion on the new Farm laws was held by MAC Forum of PG department of commerce of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, for the students of BBA and BCom. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra asserted that Brazil and Mexico too had adopted open market system underneath which the farmers had to struggle a lot in order to find their identity. The students talked of new farming laws, minimum support price, contract farming, essential commodities. Aarti, dean, MAC Forum talked in length about the farming rules. The best speakers of the day were Harsh Gupta, Ansh Mahajan and Jasmine Gill.Dhiyan di Lohri celebratedPrincipal Prof Ajay Sareen, HMV hostel, celebrated ‘Dhiyan di Lohri’ with enthusiasm. The motive was to upgrade the position of women in society. Students presented cultural programme. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated all hostellers on Lohri. Meenakshi Syal (coordinator resident scholar) also addressed students and told them about the historical aspect of the festival. She said the aim of celebrating ‘Dhiyan di Lohri’ was to inculcate such qualities in them so that they can change the thinking of society towards them. Superintendent (administration) Ravi Maini also congratulated students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/havan-yajna-organised-199656
