18-01-2021||---||Paraplegic govt schoolteacher felicitated for her arduous efforts||Nawanshahr, January 17The Institute of Scholars, Bengaluru, honoured Pooja Sharma, an English lecturer, Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Nawanshahr, with the ‘Best Teacher Award-2020’ for her contribution in the field of education. She was honoured with a certificate and trophy along with a lifetime membership of this institution.Pooja Sharma, a physically challenged teacher, taught English to her students during the lockdown period with utmost devotion and prepared 30 video lectures and 20 audio lectures for her students.While the video lectures were telecasted on DD Punjabi (Jalandhar Doordarshan) and Swayam Prabha (National TV Channel), audio lectures were broadcasted on the All India Radio Patiala and Doaba Radio. She also created a YouTube channel for students of her school in which 47 video lectures were uploaded to help students in English.Besides, she has also contributed more than 50 articles on the problems and solutions of disabled children and other issues related to society and environment which were published in local newspapers and papers of America, Canada, England, Germany and Italy. Pooja Sharma also prepared more than 20 videos of pronunciation which is an essential part of State Project ‘Root Word of the Day’ under the Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab programme and these were shared on the Facebook page of the Education Department, Punjab.District Education Officer (DEO) (Secondary Education) Jagjit Singh said though she suffered from innumerable physical ailments, she had been making an exemplary contribution towards education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paraplegic-govt-schoolteacher-felicitated-for-her-arduous-efforts-200057
18-01-2021||---||Identifying fake, cloned journals||Jalandhar, January 17The PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communications of Doaba College organised a webinar in collaboration with Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) on ‘Decluttering the Clutter- Fake, Cloned and Predatory Journals in Academics’.Dr Sumit Narula, Amity School of Communication and Director Amity University, Gwalior graced the occasion as a resource person. He was accorded a warm welcome by Principal Dr Naresh Kumar Dhiman, Prof Sandeep Chahal-IQAC Coordinator, Dr Simran Sidhu, head, faculty, and 89 participants.Dr Sumit Narula demonstrated the difference between fake, cloned and predatory journals by using internet tool viz Scopus Links, UGC Care List, Digital Object Identifier, ORCID, bibliometric analysis and identifying cloned websites.Dr Sumit said the fake and cloned journals have no deadline for the submission of research paper and they print it within 24 hours.Such journals are published in all 12 months, there is no contact detail of editor and the names in the editorial board are without requisite profiles. Such journals unnecessarily use UGC and Scopus Logos in their websites which is against the norms.Dr Sumit emphasised on digital identity so that no one is able to copy their research and should also take help of Google alert internet tool to safeguard themselves. He also discussed in detail the other relevant terminology viz impact factor, citation index, h-index, GIF etc, used in research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/identifying-fake-cloned-journals-200058
18-01-2021||Our Correspondent||DG’s commendation disc, certificate for CRPF officer||Hoshiarpur, January 17DG’s disc and commendation certificate has been awarded to CRPF’s Deputy Commandant Vijay Kumar for his commendable services in conducting ‘Amarnath yatra’ successfully and facilitating the companies deployed there.CRPF’s Operations Directorate IGP Nalin Prabhat awarded the disc and certificate to Vijay who’s presently posted as Deputy Commandant Welfare Special Cell, CRPF Directorate in Delhi. Presently, he is looking after ‘Bharat Ke Veer’ web portal to facilitate voluntary contributions directly into the accounts of NOKs of martyrs of Central Armed police Forces and monitoring terminal dues, grievances of NOKs/families of CRPF martyrs.Vijay Kumar is son of a wooden inlay artisan Hari Pal and Gian Kaur of Boothgarh village in Hoshiarpur district. He did his schooling from Government High School, Bohan, SBAC Senior Secondary School, Bajwara, and did his graduation and post-graduation from Government College, Hoshiarpur.The disc and the commendation certificate has been awarded to him for successful completion of Amarnath Yatra during his tenure at Udhampur (J and K), without any untoward incident. Prior to this he was also awarded commendation certificate by IG CRPF Jammu Sector AV Chouhan. A highly decorated officer Vijay has two Police Internal Security Service Medals, two DG discs and commendations certificates, one DC appreciation letters, one ADG hq commendation certificate, three IGP commendation certificates and three commandant appreciation letters to his credit.During his deployment in Jammu and Kashmir, Vijay was responsible to arrange stay and accommodation for visitors in consultation with the civil and police administrations. As a result of which they were moved and safely reached to their next destination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dgs-commendation-disc-certificate-for-crpf-officer-200059
18-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Struggle to get cash awards from state still on||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 17Despite winning several national and international medals, para players in the region haven’t received their prize money for the last many years. Owing to the government’s apathy, players are even forced to take early retirement.Government order According to the notification released on June 4, 2007, by the Department of Sports and Youth Services, cash incentives are provided to sportspersons who excel in international and national events. For handicapped games’ category in international event, Rs 5 lakh are awarded to those who win a gold medal, Rs3 lakh for silver medal winners and Rs 2 lakh for bronze medal winners.While cash rewards in the form of financial assistance are offered to players in the state to further encourage them to excel in their game, but the negligence of sports authorities in releasing these rewards has demotivated them.Playing presently in the 88-weight category, Varinder said: “I have been winning medals since 2007, but not once have I been offered any prize money by the state government. When our government remains silent in disbursing cash awards, it demotivates us. In our neighbouring states, medal winners are conferred with cash rewards in lakhs, which eventually encourage them to improve their game in future championships. Whereas here, we are just given false promises and every year after submitting our documents for the award, we are only given assurances that never see the light of day.”A senior para player (identity withheld), who not only made his district and the state proud of his achievements, but also trained many other physically disabled players, said: “The sports policy was announced in 2007 for medal winners of the Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and other national championships, but a large number of para power-lifters were deprived of it. Apart from motivation, cash rewards help supplement diet and training expenses, of players, which is always tough to manage. The game has become costly and players need the money to fulfil their daily need.”As per these players, the government has kept Rs40,000, Rs25,000 and Rs15,000 cash awards for gold, silver and bronze medal winners, respectively, in different national events.Similarly Manpreet Kaur (32), a para player from Phagwara, who even holds world ranking, hasn’t been given cash awards for the last five years. She has five gold and two silver medals in her kitty that she bagged from national and international games, including Asian games.Many para players who had dreamt of securing a job for themselves after winning national and international medals have reportedly left practising their game, due to lack of prize money.Varinder works in his fields to supplement income for his family. “Most of our seniors, including Manjit Singh, who is a talented and awards winning player, and Rajdeep Kaur, a Commonwealth and Asian championship medalist, have left the game,” Varinder said.DPS Kharbanda, Director of Sports, Punjab, said: “The department has been providing cash awards to all eligible players and has asked all deserving recipients of the cash award to approach for their awards. The contact details can be sought from the website.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/struggle-to-get-cash-awards-from-state-still-on-200060
18-01-2021||---||‘Govt implicating us in false cases’||Jalandhar, January 17A day before appearing before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in New Delhi, Jasbir Singh, a Jalandhar-based farmer, who was issued a notice by the agency, said the government was only trying to threaten farmers by unnecessarily implicating them in false cases.Summoned by NIAJasbir was reportedly among the 30-40 farm leaders who were summoned by the NIA to be examined as significant testimonies in a fresh case registered against Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), a US-based secessionist group that supports the secession of Punjab from India as Khalistan. The notices were issued under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).After approaching his lawyer, Jasbir said the notice (a copy of which is with The Tribune) mentioned serious allegations against Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, an SFJ leader. And his attendance was sought to answer certain questions related to the case registered under FIR (number 40/2020) under Sections 120-B, 124-A, 153-A and 153-B of the IPC and Sections 13, 17, 18, 18-B and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).“This is just yet another ‘attempt’ by the government to instill fear in farmers. The motive of such notices is to impede our peaceful agitation against the controversial farm laws. However, we are not at all affected by it. Even if we are arrested, we will continue to intensify our agitation until our demands are met,” added Jasbir, a resident of New Hardayal Nagar here.Founder of the internationally constituted Kisan Bachao Morcha, Jasbir said he had been at the protest sites on the outskirts of the national capital since December 2 and had been organising langar and medical camps for the protesting farmers. He claimed to have no connections with the SFJ.“I have been called at the NIA headquarters on Monday and I’ll definitely coorporate. We will neither disrupt our protest nor the tractor march on January 26 due to such petty politics by the government,” he said.Apart from the farm leaders, a journalist, an actor and others have also been summoned at the NIA between January 18 and 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-implicating-us-in-false-cases-200061
18-01-2021||---||...traders to hold candlelight march||Jalandhar, January 17 Traders will be organising a candlelight march in support of protesting farmers on January 18.  Industrialists under the banner of the Veopar Sena said farmers were suffering a lot and the Central Government was not listening to them. People from different walks of life have come forward to assist agitating farmers. Ravinder Dhir, chief, Veopar Sena, said it was so unfortunate that the government had turned a blind eye towards the farmers’ issue. “More than a month has passed away and the situation is heartbreaking. How can a leader be so careless towards its own citizens? Farmers are braving harsh winter and adamant attitude of the Centre. We are standing in solidarity with farmers,” he said. On December 6, some industrialists had pasted banners highlighting ‘We Support Farmers’ outside their units and had shunned work from 8 am to 3 pm. The industrial organiaations, which supported the Bharat Bandh, included the Jalandhar Industrial Focal Point Extension Association, Udyog Nagar Manufacturers’ Association and Northern Chamber of Small and Medium Industries. Meanwhile, some industrialists said although they were in support of farmers, they could not halt their activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-to-hold-candlelight-march-200062
18-01-2021||---||Amid low turnout & server issues, 3 session sites again today||Jalandhar, January 17With the Covid vaccination drive getting a lukewarm response on the first day in the district, the authorities have decided against expanding the drive on the second day tomorrow (January 18). Earlier, the District Health Department had planned to increase the number of session sites where vaccination would be held on Monday, but taking into consideration poor response they would continue to stick with three sites — the local Civil Hospital, the Community Health Centre, Basti Gujan, and Sub-Divisional Hospital, Nakodar.Another factor which has spoiled the plan is the problem with the server of the official portal which has the vaccine database. As the server remained mostly down on the first day of the vaccination, the department had to make all entries of those being vaccinated manually.On the first day, 300 out of the 11,800 health workers were to be vaccinated. However, of them, only 136 turned up and 164 stayed away from the procedure. For the second day of the vaccination drive tomorrow, messages will be sent again to the 164 people who failed to show up on Day 1.At the Basti Gujan CHC where staff expressed reservations about the vaccine, there were other doctors who said they couldn’t make it to the sites due to previous engagements.Reputed doctors to give fillip to driveIn a bid to increase the number of health workers for the vaccination drive, the Health Department is also planning to rope in prestigious doctors on the lines of Day 1 so that people could get inspired and get the dose.As Kashmiri Lal, former Civil Surgeon, and IMA state chapter president Navjot Dahiya were vaccinated on Saturday, Dr Chanjeev Singh (who retired recently), the only working plastic surgeon in the state, is expected to get vaccinated tomorrow.On skipping the process on Saturday, Dr Paramjit Singh (anaesthetist) said, “I had gone out of station for some work due to which I didn’t get vaccinated on Saturday. I also received the message as late as 12.45 last night, by then it was too late to cancel my plans. All other staff and fellow anaesthetists have received the vaccine. I would be getting the dose on Monday.”Dr Paramjit has been in-charge of the ventilator support provided to all serious Covid patients in the course of the pandemic.Dr Paramjit added, “I think all doctors are more than willing to get themselves vaccinated. Those who didn’t turn up would do so on Monday. I do not believe that there is any reason to skip the vaccination process which is happening after such a long wait.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-low-turnout-server-issues-3-session-sites-again-today-200063
18-01-2021||---||1 death, 27 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 17The health authorities reported 27 new Covid-19 cases in the district on Sunday. With this, total number of cases reached 20,358. The authorities reported one death related to the virus and the toll increased to 659 today. At present, the district has 242 active cases. A total of 19,457 persons have been discharged while as many as 140 people were under home isolation in the district. In Kapurthala, nine persons tested positive today. The health authorities reported to more deaths in the district.No death, only 1 positive case in HoshiarpurThe Covid-19 tally reached 7,932 as one person tested positive out of 1,127 samples reported today. The number of deaths remained 327 with no death reported today. With 685 new samples taken from people with suspected flu-like symptoms today, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 2,62,320. According to the reports received from the lab 2,54,131 are negative, while 1,904 are waiting for the reports and 184 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 50, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,555. Dr Ranjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said a positive case was reported from the Hoshiarpur city. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-death-27-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-200064
18-01-2021||'Vaccination vital to achieve herd immunity'||‘Apprehensions of the vaccine have to go’||Dr Navneet, a Medical Officer at the Civil Hospital, tested positive on October 18 last year. She has a five- year-old daughter and a 14-year-old son. Her husband runs a private hospital. She says the Covid-19 phase was the most challenging part of her career.“I was among the health workers treating Covid patients. We were always at the frontlines and took all precautions. Despite wearing PPE kit all the time, I tested positive. Days of body aches and fever were followed by slow and steady recovery. Both my husband and I got quarantined. I stayed at my husband’s hospital for 15 days to avoid spreading infection to my children. I recently got myself tested for antibodies. Despite the fact that I had developed Covid antibodies, I still went forth to get vaccinated on Saturday. I believe the apprehensions regarding the vaccines had to go.”“I have been convincing my colleagues to get Covishield vaccine shots. On January 16, the first day of the of the inoculation drive, I was among the frontline workers getting vaccinated.”She adds, “I have friends here who are not getting the shot since they have developed antibodies. Taking the first vaccine jab is smooth, but after the second phase, fever or mild pains are reported by some. But it can happen with other vaccines too. Vaccine shots are required in the long run to ensure herd immunity. The sooner the better.”She said, “Many of my friends are apprehensive about getting vaccinated. But I share my vaccination experience with everybody to allay the fears in the minds of people and inspire them to come forth.”(As told to Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apprehensions-of-the-vaccine-have-to-go-200065
18-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Update Aadhaar at Post offices||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/update-aadhaar-at-post-offices-200066
18-01-2021||What are your apprehensions regarding the vaccination programme?||Initiative fraught with logistic challenges, its efficacy||Efficacy of vaccine a big issueIt is needless to mention that everyone has been waiting for the vaccine for so long. However, people are in a state of dilemma. They have apprehensions, blame it on notions such as the vaccine has deleterious impact on human body. Certain people think that the two vaccines — ‘Covishield’ and ‘Covaxin’ — might be detrimental to humans. They do not want to put their lives at risk by taking the vaccine. A few people say that the Prime Minister and Home Minister should take the vaccine first to apprise people of India that the vaccine is absolutely genuine.Saahil HansDue precautions mustIt’s remarkable that scientists have developed vaccines against Covid-19 in such a short time. From Edward Jenner in 1796, who developed smallpox vaccine from cowpox to Louis Pasteur in 1885, who developed vaccine against Rabies, scientists have developed vaccines against many viruses and bacterial diseases which were a bane and curse to humanity causing millions of deaths. Both vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — are going to be used for inoculation. But some people are sceptical about the efficacy of Covaxin. In previous vaccines, there were some allergic reactions and some deaths as well. Medical studies reveal that no drug is 100 per cent safe and effective. So, they are sceptical about these vaccines as well. Doctors have rightly informed people to wait for half an hour in to know about any allergic reaction or any side-effect. Also, the vaccine shot is not mandatory. The antibodies against the virus will be developed in the body two weeks after the second dose. So during that time, due precautions such as wearing of masks, frequent hand-washing and avoiding large gatherings should be duly observed. Sometimes there can be Anaphylactic Shock which can prove fatal. So, due precautions have to be taken before starting the vaccination programme.Dr JS WadhwaA new problem unfoldsAs Covid-19 vaccines are being distributed in various parts of the world, India seems to be dealing with a new problem. People are scared due to some messages doing the rounds. With the first vaccine getting a go-ahead for emergency use anytime in India now, the cyber safety wing of the Union Home Ministry has issued a warning against fraudulent offers on vaccine. Any link, email, message or phone call offering priority to receiving Covid-19 vaccine is fraud. Due to apprehensions associated with the vaccine, cyber criminals are offering to register in getting a priority to receive the vaccine through fraud links, mails, messages or phone calls.Akshar Kumar SinglaRope in private playersAs Covid-19 vaccine trials are still going on, the Centre’s decision to commence a historic vaccination drive on January 16 to achieve herd immunity has evoked a mixed response. Some are hopeful and optimistic that this gigantic rollout exercise will contain and finally eliminate the insidious coronavirus pathogen. But due to the hastily approved emergency use of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines amid declining rate of infections and low relative mortality and withholding of crucial empirical data, others have expressed serious apprehensions over their safety, quality, immunogenicity and efficacy. Though states have started working on strategies for inoculating prioritised millions, this noble initiative is certainly fraught with overwhelming administrative, logistical and financial challenges. The government has to follow certain imperatives to ensure a fair and strategic distribution and administration of these indigenous vaccines. First and foremost, it should make strenuous efforts to boost public confidence and overcome vaccine hesitancy. It should ensure smooth functioning of Co-WIN delivery management system, including proper information of vaccine stock, storage, temperature, hassle-free supply chain, transportation, tracking and verification of pre-registered beneficiaries, proper medical follow-up for adverse reactions and generation of digital certificate upon completion of the vaccine schedule. The government should also resolve several network and other glitches encountered during dry runs across the country. Since public healthcare sector is inadequately equipped and insufficient, the authorities should rope in private players for more vaccines, skilled professionals and robust infrastructure despite their scarily exorbitant rates. Moreover, cooperation and collaboration at multiple levels and spreading awareness about health and safety protocols and their strict implementation will help in the desired completion of this much-touted anti-Covid vaccination programme.DS KangNGOs can assist in inoculation driveDevising a comprehensive strategy, the Government of India has prioritised for the first dose of medicine to healthcare workers, frontline workers, elderly above 50 years of age and people with co-morbidities even of less than 50 years, thereby covering almost 25 per cent of its population in the first phase. While all preparedness and protocols are laid down, some rumours are afloat in public domain about the efficacy and side-effects of the medicine besides polity playing an obnoxious role alongside, which needs to be curbed at the very outset. It is observed that lockdowns, social distancing and wearing of mask, too, initially had to be enforced through stricter means, but on habituation, such measures such as sanitisation and repeatedly hand-washing stay as a new normal in public life. The coronavirus fear is still not over, as mutated Covid-19 has been detected in the UK, which is even more infectious and some recent overseas returnees to India have tested positive of this new strain. Therefore, to win the battle against this severest ordeal of our times, vaccination has to be carried without any let off, contemplating strict action against violations or negligence at any level. Apprehending the campaign may not be obstructed in any manner, the government ought to ensure impeccable vaccine delivery management system and proper tracking of beneficiaries. For this, it may also involve NGOs and civic societies to assist the Health Department officials in addition to the use of technology. Such public participation will help to curb the vicious propaganda and garner support to the workforce deployed in administering the dose smoothly. Like well-engineered pulse-polio campaign eradicated polio, hopefully corona vaccination carried in the same spirit and forbearance will overcome deadly virus and bring back normalcy to the world again.NJ Singh ChatrathProxy beneficiaries haunting authoritiesAs our country is prepared to carry out world’s largest exercise of inoculating citizens against Covid-19, the emergence of certain apprehensions regarding the efficacy and safety of mass vaccination is quite consequential. Under such a scenario, the government needs to adopt a pro-active approach to educate the public in the right perspective and remove all apprehensions regarding post-vaccination complications. A mechanism ensuring proper and effective monitoring to deal with the cases of side-effects may be kept in place. Online platform such as Co-WIN developed for the delivery of vaccination services may also be used to follow up all cases till defined safe period after vaccination is over. Who will bear the cost for public vaccination is another major apprehension, which is still not clear. However, the cost of one dose has already been made public, which does not appear to be abnormal in the context of immunity against adverse consequences of the deadly virus. The incidence of proxy beneficiaries is another apprehension which is haunting the administration. However, most of these are apprehensions only and one hopes that the country will successfully wade through all the phases of vaccination tasks over the period.Jagdish ChanderMy apprehension: Will it be affordable to all?The Covid vaccine is out, but most of the people are in no hurry to get the vaccine shot immediately because there are apprehensions about its efficacy. They want to wait for a few months before getting the first shot to watch the side-effects and efficacy of the vaccine. Most of the people believe that Covid cannot affect them because of good immunity. While the vaccine may take a while to reach the general public, there are myths and misconception about its safety. People are apprehensive as to who all can afford to get vaccinated. What about others who can’t? It needs to be administered to everyone if the government wants to end Covid-19 and stay safe from the virus. There may be risks and side-effects, but these are all temporary. Ultimately, vaccination is a must.Shashi KiranQUESTIONHow can health infrastructure be upgraded to tackle health emergencies like Covid-19 and avian flu in future and how can it be made affordable to all sections of society?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 21).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/initiative-fraught-with-logistic-challenges-its-efficacy-200069
