19-01-2021||Aparna Banerji ---||‘It’s time to shed apprehensions about vaccine’||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, January 18 From serving as a frontline warrior during Covid-19 outbreak to now being the nodal vaccination officer, who received her first shot recently, life has come full circle for Dr Indu Bala.  A general surgeon posted in Jalandhar, the doctor was among the first batch of medical professionals, who received the first shot of Covid vaccination on Saturday.  Dr Bala was deputed at the Civil Hospital, when the very first Covid patients — residents of Virk village and relatives of Nawanshahr-based Baldev Singh (Punjab’s first Covid case) — were reported in Jalandhar. She also remained deputed during the reportage of subsequent initial patients — daughter of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa as well as the 70-year-old Nijatam Nagar woman.  Dr Indu said: “I was among the first batch of doctors to begin working at the isolation ward when the national emergency was declared on March 21. We spent a considerable time in much anxiety. We have seen so many deaths. My own sister-in-law remained admitted to the hospital for a month. Since no one had ever witnessed this kind of a pandemic in their lifetime, people were scared. Families were scared. Eventually the panic has subsided and things are getting smooth.” She goes on to add: “Initially, we worked with OT gowns too and then later PPE kits arrived. After those initial gloomy days, the arrival of the vaccine is like a breath of fresh air. While there were a lot of negativity regarding the vaccine, I believe things will change quickly.” Now spearheading the team of officials who carry out the vaccination drive, Dr Bala said: “It was a very happy occasion for me. We finally got the shots after a year of hard work. We planned days ahead for the vaccination drive and the process is going on smoothly in the district.” On myths about the vaccine and many health workers still not turning up to vaccinate themselves, she said: “I have myself taken the shots. So, people should have a positive approach towards it. This is the moment we have been waiting for. We are administering the Covishield vaccine in Jalandhar. We have adequate facilities and trained staff administering the vaccine in Jalandhar. People can take a cue from us, who have already been vaccinated. The biggest thing is that this vaccine is being administered for free.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-time-to-shed-apprehensions-about-vaccine-200526
19-01-2021||---||Level-I check: EVMs ready for use||Jalandhar, January 18Additional Deputy Commissioner (D)-cum-Additional District Electoral Officer Vishesh Sarangal on Monday conducted the first-level checking of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) to be used in the elections of six municipal councils (MCs) and two nagar panchayats of Jalandhar.Sarangal along with the officials visited Government Polytechnic College for Women at Ladowali Road and inspected all 336 EVMs. The ADC checked the functioning of 336 ballot units and 336 control unit machines to be used during the elections, in the presence of the representatives of various political parties.Sarangal held a detailed interaction with the engineers from BEL India, who have been specially deputed here for the elections at the college. He was apprised by the engineers that all these EVMs were ready for use.He said elections would be held in Jalandhar’s six municipal councils — Kartarpur, Phillaur, Nakodar, Nurmahal, Alawalpur, Adampur; and two nagar panchayats — Mehatpur and Lohian Khas. He said these elections would be held in 110 wards of six councils and two nagar panchayats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/level-i-check-evms-ready-for-use-200527
19-01-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar records 1 death, 15 +ve cases||With 15 more cases, the Covid tally in district reached 20,373 today. With one more death, the toll reached 660 in Jalandhar. The active cases in district are 226 until today. As many as 19,487 persons have been discharged while as many as 142 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar currently. Kapurthala district saw five persons testing positive for Covid-19 today. TNSJALANDHAR ROUND-UPSamples collected 5,26,471Negative 4,86,892Positive 20,373Active 226Deceased 660Discharged 19,487Sample inappropriate 5,320Results awaited 395Home isolated 1421 dies, 13 test positive in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district received 1,371 sample reports on Monday, of which 13 people tested positive taking the tally to 7,945. With the death of an 81-year-old resident of Haveli village, the death toll reached 328 on Monday. She died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. The total number of samples taken so far in the district has increased to 2,63,636 with 1,316 new samples taken from people with suspected flu-like symptoms. According to the reports received from the lab, 2,55,487 were negative, while 1,854 reports are awaited and 184 were invalid. The number of active cases is 44, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,573. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said out of the 13 positive patients found in the district today, two were from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining 11 from different health blocks. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-records-1-death-15-ve-cases-200530
19-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||War of words, blame game rule Jalandhar MC House meeting||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 18The Municipal Corporation (MC) General House meeting took place at the Red Cross Bhawan here on Monday. After paying tributes to the farmers who lost their lives during their agitation, the House proceedings went ahead. The meeting continued for nearly 90 minutes in which 23 new agendas along with the old ones were passed by Mayor Jagdish Raja and MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma.While Raja insisted on holding a zero hour and clearing the agendas first, councillors of the ruling and opposition parties asked MC officials to answer their questions regarding development-related issues.There was uproar over the LED lights and blue boards installed in the city. Councillors argued that no proper arrangements had been made in the LED lights project. Despite spending a huge amount on it, the work was still incomplete. Nobody walked out of the hall or boycotted the meeting but a war of words and blame game between the councillors continued till the end. Meanwhile, the agenda branch of the officials passed the agendas. Repair and maintenance of rock garden in Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar park, repair and maintenance of park at Ajit Nagar, repair and maintenance of Gulab Park and others were among the few agendas passed.A heated discussion between Davinder Singh Roni, councillor of Ward No.66, and Sushil Kalia forced the Mayor to intervene and told Roni to not cross the limit of the House meeting.Illegal buildings issueWhile Kawaljit Kaur Gullu, councillor of Ward No.67, was the first one to raise the issue of the construction of illegal buildings and encroachments in streets, the Mayor interrupted her asking her to raise a question not a complaint. Following which, the councillors in unison opposed the House proceedings and said if their questions on civic issues were being taken as complaints then there was no need to organise such House meetings. Heated arguments were also witnessed over the MC elections. Following which, Shelly Khanna, councillor of Ward No.17, said despite sending various written complaints, none was resolved.LED lights not installedJaspal Kaur Bhatia, Shiromani Akali Dal councillor from Ward No.45, asked the Mayor if the LED lights project was a lottery system as no lights had been installed in her ward. Gurvinderpal Singh Bunty, councillor of Ward No.66, said a detailed report on the LED lights project needed to be presented on the table by the officials. “There is no information on quality and quantity of the lights used; when the tender was passed; and how these would be maintained,” added Bunty. Likewise, Ward No.65 councillor Anjali said who was having the contract of the LED lights and when it would be completed. To this, the MC Commissioner assured that the street lights project would be completed by March and April. Bhatia further demanded the recruitment of new sanitation workers.Drinking water issueTanmanpreet Kaur, councillor of Ward No.1, started her question by lifting a water bottle filled with contaminated water. She said people living in Indira Colony were forced to drink unsafe water. Despite complaining on several occasions about the damaged pipe lines, no action was taken, she added. It has been almost 10 months since Indira Colony residents were getting the dirty water supply.Misappropriation of fundsShushil Kumar, after raising a question on the bio-mining project, questioned the accountability of MC officials on the street vendor’s policy. He said though financial help was provided to street vendors during the lockdown, it was reported that a large number of street vendors didn’t receive it.Similarly, Aruna Arora, councillor of the Model Town area, asked who was “siphoning off” the earnings from street vendors. Des Raj Jassal, councillor of Ward No.81, said despite the utilisation of around Rs20 crore, blue boards were not installed in major locations and colonies in the city. He said the MC had become a den of corruption.Chandarjit Kaur Sandha, councillor of Ward No.73, touched the issue related to maintenance of books kept at the MC’s library. She said it should be maintained by the Jalandhar Literary Forum. Meanwhile, Jagdish Ram Samrai, councillor of Ward No.78, raised the issue on waste management at the Wariana dump site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/war-of-words-blame-game-rule-jalandhar-mc-house-meeting-200531
19-01-2021||---||157 report for inoculation on Day 2||Jalandhar, January 18A marginal increase in the number of people reporting to get vaccinated for Covid-19 was registered on Monday.On the second day of the vaccination drive, as many as 157 health workers received the shots in Jalandhar. Of 300 medical professionals, who had been sent messages, 143 gave the process a miss. Dr Chanjeev, Dr Sacchar, anesthetist Dr Paramjit Singh along with other doctors of the Civil Hospital also got vaccinated.Even though marginal rise in the numbers is being registered, doctors at the Civil Hospital on Monday said the exercise would continue with three centres on Tuesday as well due to the limitations of the vaccination portal.The three session sites continue to be the Civil Hospital Jalandhar; Basti Gujan CHC, Jalandhar; and Sub-Divisional Hospital, Nakodar.As many as 11,800 health workers in Jalandhar have been listed to be vaccinated in the district in the first phase of the Covid vaccine. Notably, a majority of volunteers or beneficiaries of the vaccine continue to be from the government sector.As many as 293 of the 600 people (300 each on Saturday and Monday) called on for the vaccination drive so far, which is a little less than the halfway mark. Besides, at various health centres and hospitals, the health staff continues to be wary of getting the shot and are waiting instead for other colleagues to be vaccinated first.Amid apprehensions, the good news is that no adverse reaction to the Covishield vaccine has been reported in any of the doctors, paramedical or support staff vaccinated so far.Dr Paramjit Singh, anesthetist and frontline worker, who is in charge of the ICU at the Civil Hospital, said: “Since I was away for some personal work on Saturday, I got the vaccine shots on Monday. I was kept under observation for half an hour. But no adverse reaction has been reported from anyone so far. Your arm is sore or a bit painful for a while after being vaccinated, but that’s about it. This is common among many other previous vaccines too.”Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunisation Officer, said: “There has been a marginal but encouraging increase in the number of health workers reporting for being vaccinated. From 136 on Saturday, the number rose to 157 on Monday. We expect the number to gradually increase. If need be, another session site at PIMS shall also be made operational soon depending on the response. For now, we will continue to have three vaccination sites since currently the server is only picking as many entries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/157-report-for-inoculation-on-day-2-200532
19-01-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||His gardening stock has always been on the rise||Hoshiarpur, January 18Paramjit Sachdeva, the managing director of Sachdeva Stocks Private Limited, deals in stocks and securities but his love for gardening is the biggest investment he makes in his leisure time.A lush green garden at his home indicates that he is an ardent nature lover. His place is stocked with various medicinal plants and fruit trees like aloe vera, jamun, guava, amla, tulsi, chikku, lemon, orange, malta, monkey jack and jackfruit. “Mango trees are my favourite and there are 15-16 of different varieties in my garden,” said Sachdeva.My love for gardening flourished when I shifted to this new house on Jodhamal Road in 2014, and the garden was developed. We have planted different varieties of fruits and vegetables. When this was being built in 2013, the builder came to me and said that there were two old trees which needed to be cut as their space was to be used for raising a part of the building. I called the architect and got the site plan changed accordingly so that the trees could be saved. —Paramjit Sachdeva, MD, Sachdeva Stocks Private LimitedHe said that he always had a love for greens and was fond of gardening but at his previous residence there was not much space for it.“But when in 2014 I shifted to this new house on Jodhamal road, my love for gardening flourished and the garden was developed. We have planted different varieties of fruits and vegetables,” Sachdeva told.There are also numerous flowers of various varieties, several plants in pots and in the lawn of the house.“There are around 2,000 plants of flowers. Some of them are seasonal and they change with the season while there are others which remain the same way for the whole year,” he said, adding that generally he has almost no time being busy with the business and social work, yet whenever he finds time he prefers to spend it with the green friends at his house shaping them.“Seasonal veggies are a regular in my kitchen garden. Radish, mint, carrot, spring onions and coriander are there. Chillies, capsicum, brinjal and other veggies also find space in it.”He’s got so much love for plants that he even had to change the site plan of his house. “When this was being built in 2013, the builder came to me and said that there were two old trees which needed to be cut as their space was to be used for raising a part of the building. I called the architect and got the site plan changed accordingly so that the trees could be saved,” Sachdeva quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/his-gardening-stock-has-always-been-on-the-rise-200534
19-01-2021||---||Back to school, their excitement knows no bounds||Jalandhar, January 18Getting ready, going to school and teaching students is an altogether different feeling, feel teachers. Teachers and students alike are excited to go back to school after almost a year.Ram Krishan, a teacher at Government Primary School, Bhan Singhpura in Phillaur, said although he was constantly in touch with students, getting back to the class was something he wanted for long.“The same was with students and their parents. They all wanted schools to reopen. It was a long wait. They are enthusiastic,” he said.Although I was constantly in touch with students, getting back to the class was something I wanted for long. The same was with students and their parents. They all wanted schools to reopen. It was a long wait. They are enthusiastic. —Ram Krishan, A teacher at Govt Primary School, Bhan Singhpura, PhillaurI was finding it hard to cope during online studies, but when I got to know that schools were reopening, my parents and I were extremely happy. I missed my friends too. Now, I am happy. —Sukhmanpreet Kaur, A Class V student from GPS,  UGGISchools open at 10 in the morning and classes go on till 3 pm. Krishan said there were 15 students in Class V that he teaches. “We make them sit at a distance, wearing masks in a big hall. There is no problem of space and we make sure everyone follows every norm,” he said.He said even students from Class I to IV want to join as soon as possible. “We are waiting for the go ahead from the government. Otherwise, we are fully prepared,” he said.Ravinder Kang from Government Primary School, Uggi, also shared his happiness. “I was very happy to see students praying and studying in front of me after so many months. We can now make them understand every lecture and question with much ease,” he said.Sukhmanpreet Kaur, a Class V student from GPS, Uggi, said she was finding it hard to cope during online studies, but when she got to know that schools were reopening, she and her parents were extremely happy.“I missed my friends too. Ajeeb lagg raha tha ghar baithe baithe. Ab khush hu (I felt odd sitting at home. Now, I am happy),” she said.Another student Shivraj Singh said he used to wait for his father to return home in the evening and then study. “I missed school and my teachers so much. Nothing can match classroom studies,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/back-to-school-their-excitement-knows-no-bounds-200535
19-01-2021||---||Array of activities planned to mark road safety month||Jalandhar, January 18The virtual inauguration ceremony of the National Road Safety Month has marked the onset of a series of activities to be held in the district. Participating in the inauguration ceremony, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday roped in all key departments and assigned them various duties about organising several events ranging from January 18 to February 17.The DC said the Road Safety Month would be observed this year with the theme of `Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha’ under which a series of activities would be held in the district.He said the month-long awareness drive entails activities such as the rectification of black spots, removal of extra vegetation along the roads, and holding of health checkup camps at the block, subdivision, and district level for taxi drivers, school bus drivers, and three-wheeler drivers.Similarly, awareness activities such as walkathon, helmet awareness rally, pedestrians’ safety day, pasting of reflectors on vehicles, awareness camp on women safety in public and transport, checking of pressure horns, and lectures on road safety to students in schools and colleges would also be organised, Thori added.He said all have been asked to appoint nodal officers to ensure the smooth execution of this month-long activity plan and no laxity in this mammoth exercise would be tolerated.The Deputy Commissioner further mentioned that the district administration had already identified 45 black spots in the district and an amount of Rs1 lakh was issued by the administration from CSR funds to rectify these spots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/array-of-activities-planned-to-mark-road-safety-month-200536
19-01-2021||Amid series of tractor rallies by the farmers in the region ahead of the ‘Republic Day tractor march’||We got your back!||How’s it going?In the ongoing vaccination drive, managing director, Punjab Health System Corporation, Tanu Kashyap, along with Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, inspected observational area, vaccination room and cold chain room in Phagwara. Kashyap stated while 4,000 healthcare workers have been undergoing vaccination, people need not worry about the inoculation. 26 cold chain points have been set up in the district along with 10 session sites. Both officials also visited the drug de-addiction centre, blood bank, emergency ward and checked vaccination roll out plan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-got-your-back-200537
19-01-2021||Jalandhar||Most socially active school||English rhyme contestIvy World School, under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society, organised an English rhyme contest for the kindergarten wing. The little Ivyians got an opportunity to exhibit their talent and confidence. The young learners of Ivy chose a variety of subjects to recite like trees, five senses, nature, flowers, teacher, mother, unity in diversity and so on. Although it was a virtual competition but every child spoke with lot of enthusiasm. The selection of poems was good and students performed with due emphasis on rhyme, rhythm, intonation, pronunciation and diction. It was overwhelming to see students recite beautiful poems in their sweet voices. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, congratulated and applauded all students for their wonderful performances. She reiterated that such competitions are a platform for young talents to develop confidence for speaking fluently and coherently.Lecture on cyber securityThe MAC Forum of PG Department of Commerce of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised a guest lecture on ‘Cyber laws and provisions relating to cyber security’. The resource person of the day was alumni of the college advocate Suteekshan Samrol. Principal Neerja Dhingra sharing her views on the lecture put forth that in this techno savvy age where everyone accesses so many online platforms for various purposes, it is important to be aware about the security of the data as well. The resource person began the lecture with the relevance of cyber laws and covered the legal provisions concerning infringement in the privacy of individuals on social media. Further, he highlighted the distinctive provisions related to cyber terrorism, sharing of obscene content, hacking, along with the new privacy policy of WhatsApp. He emphasised on the significance of cyber cell, online fraud, online defamation, and cyber stalking by giving suitable examples from web series as well as recent news. He also explained the various remedies available for the aggrieved party and penalty with reference to IPC and Information Technology Act. The session was coordinated by Shikha Kakkar and Mitali.An Activity on sense organsSmart Wings, a foundation learning studio under Tagore’s International Smart School, conducted an activity of sense organs online through various props like flash cards and white board. Tamanna explained about the different sense organs to tiny tots. They were taught, “All our knowledge begins with the sense, proceeds then to the understanding and ends with reason.” Children enthusiastically participated in this activity and enjoyed it thoroughly. Dean of the school Vinod Shashi Jain and Principal Dr Rakesh Gupta appreciated the students for their efforts.E-declamation contestPlanning Forum, the subject society of PG Department of Economics of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, organised an e-declamation contest. The topics chosen were the contemporary issues prevailing in the society like ‘Farm Bills 2020: Challenges for the society and farmers’, ‘New Education Policy: Challenges and Opportunities’, ‘Impact of Covid-19 on the Indian economy’. Students from various departments, actively participated in the competition, Vidhi Jain of BBA Sem-III, Mamta Chingotra of MA (Economics) Sem-III and Kashika Jain of BSc (Economics) Sem-V got I, II and III prizes respectively. Judges of the competition were Nita Malik and Ritu Bajaj. They congratulated all winners. Shallu Batra, head, PG Department of Economics, appreciated all the participants. Principal Ajay Sareen also congratulated the winners and said that discussing these issues was the need of the hour.GK quiz at Cambridge internationalAn online GK test was organised in two rounds at Cambridge International School. The first round was GK quiz contest conducted in live class. It was compulsory for all students to participate in the first round. Students who scored cent percent in first round sat for final round which was an online test. The response was overwhelming and students were given away e-certificates for their incredible intelligence.Most aspiring youthThe United Nations (UN) has decorated BTech mechanical engineering international student of LPU Sm Sammam Sakti Ibn Sahadat with the coveted title of ‘The most aspiring youth activist and global youth leader’. He has been picked for an ongoing global campaign-‘Unite 2030: Youth action for better world’ by the United Nations. For this campaign, more than 12,000 change-makers from 1,800 universities and colleges are inspired to take 1000-plus actions and change the world by 2030. Hailing from Bangladesh, Sammam will now represent LPU and lead the chosen 250 youth leaders of 32 countries in New York, USA, in September 2021. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/most-socially-active-school-200539
19-01-2021||Talwara||Man killed in road accident||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-killed-in-road-accident-200541
