20-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two killed in road accidents||Travel agent held for duping coupleHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have registered a case against a travel agent and arrested him for allegedly duping a couple of Rs8 lakh on the pretext of sending them to Portugal. Santosh Kumari, wife of Iqbal Singh, a resident of Pyalan village, had lodged a complaint with the police, saying Munish Kumar, alias Kamal, a resident of Alawalpur in Jalandhar district, had a deal to send her daughter Shivani and son-in-law to Portugal. The accused took Rs8 lakh from them and after that neither sent them abroad nor refunded the money. After investigating, the police have registered a case and arrested the accused. OCOpium, poppy husk seized, 3 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers with a large quantity of opium and poppy husk from them. According to the information, the Dasuya police arrested a smuggler at Hajipur Chowk during a special check-point in the area and recovered 200-gram opium from him. The accused has been identified as Ajaib Singh, alias Jaiba, a resident of Khokharwal district, Gurdaspur. Meanwhile, the Mukerian police arrested Amandeep Singh, alias Aman, of Sahnewal and Seva Ram of Banur and recovered 15-kg poppy husk from them. The police have also seized the canter of the accused. Separate FIRs were lodged against the accused under the NDPS Act. OC6-day Badminton tourney startsJalandhar: The six-day District Badminton Championship being organised by the District Badminton Association got underway at Raizada Hansraj Stadium on Tuesday. As many as 32 events are being organised, in which 387 entries have been received. Today 62 matches were played in the U-11, U-13, U-15, U-17 categories for boys and girls. Draws for the event were held on Monday and participants had been given schedule a day prior. Players from Dipankar and Ratti Academy took major leads today. All players, their parents and coaches had been issued ID cards and entry was kept restricted in the wake of the Covid-19 guidelines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accidents-201056
20-01-2021||Jalandhar||Chess competition held||Faculty development programmeKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised week-long online national faculty development programme in collaboration with Guru Angad Dev Teaching Learning Centre, SGTB Khalsa College, University of Delhi, on the ‘Development of e-content’. More than 200 teachers from 18 states of India participated in this programme. Dr AK Bakshi, chairman, Guru Angad Dev Teaching Learning Centre, SGTB Khalsa College, University of Delhi, was the chief guest for the inaugural session. Dr Vimal Rarh, national co-ordinator, project head and joint director, Guru Angad Dev Teaching Learning Centre, was also present. In her address, Dr Vimal Rarh explained ways of generating e-content at national level. She also elaborated that for upgrading a teacher: faculty empowering workshops, preparation of teacher’s e-kit and multimedia enriched videos should be developed. Development of ICT skills and pedagogy for virtual and online teaching is the need of hour, she said. Dr Rarh divided teacher’s e-kit into four quadrants viz. teacher’s manual, teacher’s video for flipped class room, teacher’s assignment and teacher’s know more. Prof AK Bakshi gave a talk on ‘Digital transformation in higher education in India: Opportunities and challenges’. Dr Bakshi began his talk by stressing that education should motivate the students to think critically and instill logical reasoning in them. Prof Bakshi also acquainted all participants about the Swayam portal of Government of India in which any teacher or student can access course of any subject for digital learning. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chess-competition-held-201054
20-01-2021||---||3 beneficiaries get land rights||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 19Member of Legislative Assembly from Jalandhar Cantonment Pargat Singh on Tuesday conferred property rights upon three beneficiaries from Jiwan S Colony under the CM Grant of Proprietary Rights to Slum Dwellers (Basera Scheme).Presiding over an event, the MLA termed the programme as a landmark step towards urban development by giving proprietary rights to every slum household occupying the state government land in a slum of any city area.He said Punjab was the first state in the country to launch such a programme that aims at transforming urban slum areas with basic civic amenities, including potable drinking water, street lighting and roads to slum dwellers.Singh asked officials to ensure that every slum dweller gets the benefit of the scheme, which will make Jalandhar slum-free and everyone would lead a comfortable life. Those present on the occasion included MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma and Joint Commissioner Shayari Malhotra among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-beneficiaries-get-land-rights-201053
20-01-2021||---||‘NIA notices another attempt  of Centre to scuttle agitation’||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, January 19By issuing NIA notices to farm leaders and supporters of agriculture agitation, the BJP-led NDA government has proven that it was hell bent on killing democracy by brutal misuse of power, said former minister and chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Monday.In a statement, Mann said: “Right from demonetisation to passing of draconian anti-farmer laws, the Modi government has left no stone unturned in sounding the death knell to democracy.” He said the valiant, hard working and resilient farmers of the country, who had played a major role in making the country self-reliant, have been now forced to sleep on roads amid spine-chilling cold due to haughty attitude of the Centre.Mann said as a fact of matter Modi and his coterie want to kill democracy through these measures. The Central agencies such as ED, NIA and others have been assigned role to suppress the voice of democracy by serving notices to sympathisers of farmers. Mann said this was in contrast with the democratic ideals enshrined in the Constitution of the country.The former minister said this would never be tolerated and the farmers of Punjab would not bow down in front of such tactics of the Modi government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nia-notices-another-attempt-of-centre-to-scuttle-agitation-201051
20-01-2021||---||Women stand their ground against farm laws||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 19On Mahila Kisan Diwas, a morcha was held at the Jandiala Manjki bus stand on Monday by 200 to 250 women of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal). They participated enthusiastically and raised slogans against the government. Women leaders said they would continue to hold protests against the Centre and extend solidarity to the protests unless the government repeals the laws.The BKU (Rajewal) women members have also been heading to Singhu in buses in support of the movement. Buses have gone from Daduwal, Sarhali, Samrawan, Jandiala among other villages, from where 30 to 35 women set off for the Delhi border daily. Women who participated at the Jandiala morcha on Monday included Kuljit Kaur Jandiala, Jaswinder Kaur Jandiala, Manjti Kaur, Gurbaksh Kaur, Jasbir Kaur, Swaranjit Kaur and Hardeep Kaur Macheana among others.On the call of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the Istri Jagriti Manch and Kirti Kisan Union celebrated the Mahila Kisan Diwas and appealed to women to participate in large numbers in the tractor protest rallies heading to Delhi border on January 26. Women offered tributes to those who lost lives at the farmers’ protests and burnt an effigy of the Centre at the Mehatpur bus stand. They called on farmer-labourer women workers to head to Delhi January 23 onwards. Istri Jagriti Manch district president Anita Peter, Kirti Kisan Union leader Surjit Kaur, Baksho, Baljit kaur, Sukhmani, Kudeep Kaur, Sukhwinder Kaur and Paramjit Kaur among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-stand-their-ground-against-farm-laws-201049
20-01-2021||---||The message is loud and clear — ‘Farmers matter’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 19Being the first industry forum to come out in the open to support farmers at such a large scale, Veopar Sena held a huge candlelight march in the city on Monday, through which a message was also spread that the farmers’ movement was not only restricted to one religion or community.The participation of traders was overwhelming, as hundreds of traders and industrialists marked their presence and expressed solidarity with farmers. Everyone shared their thoughts during the march. Holding banners, traders’ message was loud and clear — ‘Farmers matter’.President Ravinder Dhir said several meetings had already been held with farmers, but nothing was being done by the Central government.“This was not acceptable. How can they do this to farmers? If farmers suffer, we will all suffer,” he said.On December 6, some industrialists had pasted banners highlighting ‘We Support Farmers’ outside their units and shunned work from 8 am to 3 pm.The industrial organisations that supported the Bharat Bandh included the Jalandhar Industrial Focal Point Extension Association, Udyog Nagar Manufacturers’ Association and Northern Chamber of Small and Medium Industries. Meanwhile, some industrialists said although they were in support of farmers, they could not halt activities at their units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-message-is-loud-and-clear-%E2%80%94-farmers-matter-201048
20-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Learning lessons quite early in life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 19‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’, ‘Kaale kanoon vaapis lao’, echoes the resolute voice of 7-year-old Gurshaan Singh Sandhu at the Singhu border. He is the son of Davinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr. Not only farmers and women, but children, too, are marking their presence at the Delhi borders.Lending support to the cause, they have been speaking on stage against the Centre. Gurshaan also raised slogans against the Modi Government.Davinder is at the Singhu border for the last 55 days. He said, “My son used to miss me a lot. I have gone home just once ever since the protests began. I couldn’t meet my son properly then also. So, Gurshaan called me up and told me that he wanted to meet me. He asked me to come but when I told him that I couldn’t, he came here with his mother.”Singh said when he arrived, his son also expressed his desire to speak on the mic so as to make the government ‘hear’ his voice. “I didn’t stop him and it was for the first time that he spoke on any stage and that too on the stage that will script history,” Singh said with proud.He said his son wanted to stay here with him for as much time his father is here.“I have asked my wife to take him back now. I am concerned about his health too,” he said. Tarsem Singh, who is also at Singhu border said it was not about age anymore. “Everyone, even a child now knows about the conspiracy of the Central government. You will see several other kids speaking on stage and venting out their feelings,” he said.Farmer Bhupinder Singh from Hoshiarpur also shared that his 12-year-old son had also raised his voice against the ill-treatment being meted out by the government.“Our children miss us. They often ask us to come back, but they also know that we are here for a long haul,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/learning-lessons-quite-early-in-life-201047
20-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Keeping on track for the golden run||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 19Gurvinder Singh (20), a star athlete from the district, who had won several international and national championships prior to the lockdown in 2020, is aiming to maintain his record in the 100m event this year. His personal best is 10.35 seconds but now he’s a man on a mission who’s looking forward to better that number. Having recovered from injuries, he is back on the track to prepare for the upcoming events announced by the Athletics Federation of India (AFI).He is on to it. Besides waking up early in the wee hours, he is also preparing his daily meals as per his diet these days due to the college hostel being closed. He says that for the forthcoming athletic meets he is training his body for five hours daily. From strength to endurance, his coach is training him on various scales. A student of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Gurvinder clocked 10.42s in the boys’ 100m event to bag the gold in the (U-20) Asian Athletics Championships in 2019.The 24th edition of National Federation Cup Seniors Athletics Championships 2021 is to be organised between 10th and 14th March in Patiala will define his athletic journey as it is the Olympics qualifying competition.“After this competition our international tours will start. From 60th National Inter-State Seniors 2021 to Asian Youth Athletics Championships 2021, and four-five qualifying competitions for the Olympics are of massive importance to me,” added Gurvinder. His coach mainly focuses on stamina, rope drills, core strengthening and functional workouts. While most of the championships were postponed in 2020 due to the Covid-induced lockdown, however, it helped him gain the lost strength due to an injury.“I spent most of my time recovering myself and gearing up for the next start,” he said. In the list of his achievement tally, his major achievements include a gold in the 2017 Youth Asia Championships, a silver medal in South Asian Games 2019, a bronze in Junior Asia Championships 2018 in the relay event and another gold in the Euro Asian Championships. He said the government should provide players with all the basic facilities for polishing the performance. Apart from a dedicated ground, they need a new block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/keeping-on-track-for-the-golden-run-201029
20-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Reaping the fruits of his labour||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 19While farmers are largely dependent on the government for adequate pricing and tax waivers, an enterprising agriculturist — Harkirat Ahluwalia — has emerged as a role model for them.He has diversified into agri-tourism business that ensures him rich dividends throughout the year. He has achieved this by converting his two plantation sites of citrus and poplar trees into farm-stays.The 70 acre site at Chhauni Kalan, on Chandigarh Road, has AC-equipped nine tent accommodations, another on 15 acres at Firdaus, on Una Road, has seven huts of concrete. Within a span of just a few years, his farm-stays have become extremely popular among NRIs and foreign travellers.Even Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh likes to visit his farms and spend some leisurely hours at his villas, as he did two weeks ago.Enter his farm at Firdaus and one gets a feeling of an altogether new world. Light classical music also plays in the background. The tables are set up in the garden area between two huts. On a cold, winter day, a bonfire lit up alongside spreads some warmth. One can sight huge citrus plantations a few hundred metres away. Chefs in uniforms come and serve some hot coffee or spiced tea.Harkirat, who has studied mass communication from PU, Chandigarh, shares: “When I got into my ancestral business of citrus cultivation, I realised that the input costs were increasing and not matching with the static income from the produce. Nothing much could be expected from the Horticulture Department or the governments. So, that was when it struck my mind that we could set up rural homestays here and have guests and foreign farmers from the UK, Australia and other countries, whom we can show trends of citrus plantation in Punjab while giving them a feel of Punjab’s countryside.”Harkirat adds: “While the tent houses came up in 2008, this one is a new property. Even I am living here and enjoying being in nature. My presence here ensures that all visitors are taken care of well by the staff, all of whom are from nearby villages and have been trained by me. We have many activities for visitors including tractor-trailer rides, fruit plucking, cycling, bush walks and outdoor lunches. We have created set-ups within the plantations, where we arrange for lunches. Our chefs cook on the spot and offer a variety of cuisines as per the demand of the visitors. For children, we have an activity to help them learn how to sow vegetables.”A diehard supporter of farm protests, Harkirat says he recently sent oranges and kiwis for the protesting farmers. “Being a farmer, I can empathise with them. It is not easy to carry on with such a long protest and that too in such cold weather. I believe that autocracy cannot work in the country and it is wrong to thrust laws upon farmers. Our PM could have been sensitive. He should understand that governments are not just meant to do business, they have social obligations too. He should have spoken to farmers before finalising the draft.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reaping-the-fruits-of-his-labour-201027
20-01-2021||---||72-year-old man found murdered, cops clueless||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 19A 72-year-old man was reportedly killed by some unidentified persons late on Monday. Apparently attacked with sharp-edged weapons, his body was found in a pool of blood at Nau Gajja on Tuesday.According to the information, Seva Singh, a resident of Nau Gajja village, went missing from Nau Gajja Kala Bahia link road around 5 pm on Monday. His family members told the police that as per routine, he had gone there to get fodder for their cattle.However, he didn’t return for hours, following which, his family members approached the local police. Bhagat Singh, his son, said after searching for hours, his body was found from a field.Rajeev Kumar, SHO, Kartarpur police station, said there were severe injury marks on his body. While they were yet to ascertain the exact reason behind the murder, they were investigating the matter. On receiving the information, DSP Kartarpur and a team of CIA Staff-2 also reached the spot. After sending the body for the post-mortem examination, a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/72-year-old-man-found-murdered-cops-clueless-201023
20-01-2021||---||Covid vaccination drive: Third day’s a no charm||Jalandhar, January 19It seems that there are still inhibitions among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. The trust is still to be gained. On third day, only 25 healthcare workers turned up for the jab while the list entailed 100 for Tuesday. Dr Indu Bala, the nodal vaccination officer, said that the percentage of the healthcare workers for vaccination hasn’t increased as per the expectations.When asked about the reason, Dr Bala said it was entirely a personal choice and there was no pressure from the Health Department or the government. She said that promotional videos were also being made and circulated to encourage the staff.As per the information, there is a problem with software too. Dr Bala said some people do come voluntarily for vaccination, but the names of the workers who have refused should get omitted from the list.“Those who refused on Day 1, their names we were still appearing. Whereas, other healthcare workers are coming but since their names are not enlisted, they cannot be inoculated,” she said.70 staff members get vaccine shots at PIMSThe Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) joined the India’s Covid vaccination drive under the supervision of district health officials on Tuesday.Dr Tanya Moudgil was the first person to get vaccinated along with Dr Kulbir Kaur, director principal, PIMS, and other doctors of the hospital. On the inaugural occasion, resident director Amit Singh and Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh were also present to encourage the health workers. Nearly 70 health workers were vaccinated at the PIMS on Tuesday.Dr Kulbir Kaur said after a long wait, the vaccination for Covid-19 has finally arrived and doctors and staff of the PIMS would be the first to take the dose of Covishield. People are in a state of dilemma regarding the vaccine, but by getting vaccinated themselves, the PIMS doctors have sent out a message that the vaccine was safe. She said PIMS also want to spread awareness about health and safety protocols about anti-Covid vaccination programme. Amit Singh, resident director of the PIMS, said: “Beneficiaries will be closely monitored after the vaccination and our staff will be in touch with them to know about their experience. Elaborate system has been put in place to deal with any adverse effects of immunisation.”Meanwhile, an orientation ceremony was held for the first year MBBS students. On this occasion, Dr Kulbir Kaur, director principal, and Amit Singh, resident director, addressed students and wished them a bright and prosperous future. Dr Kulbir Kaur said: “Students will get a very friendly environment to study at PIMS, as the faculty members are very helpful and always available for students.” She said PIMS had strict rules for ragging as anti-ragging committee had been formed to deal with any issues faced by new students.Dr Rajiv Arora, vice-principal, and other faculty members were also present at the orientation ceremony.5 test positive in Hoshiarpur, no death reportedHoshiarpur: With five new positive patients traced in Hoshiarpur district, the total number of positive patients has risen to 7,950. The number of deaths remained 328 as no death was reported on Tuesday. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh informed that with the receipt of 1,286 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms the total number taken in the district till date has reached 2,64, 922. According to the reports received from the lab, 2,56, 260 samples are negative while 2,363 are awaiting results and 184 are invalid. The number of active cases is 45, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,577. Out of 5 patients who tested positive today, three are from Hoshiarpur, while two hail from other health blocks of the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-vaccination-drive-third-days-a-no-charm-201018
20-01-2021||---||Fudging of electoral rolls in Phagwara: Police, administration tight-lipped||Phagwara, January 19Even six days after arrest of a Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) clerk and getting an FIR registered against him for tampering with electoral rolls for the Phagwara Municipal Corporation, the police and administration remained tight-lipped on the moot point as who was behind the act. It was because of this FIR that the Phagwara MC poll was put off.On January 13, the Phagwara (city) police had lodged an FIR on the complaint of Sub-Divisonal Magistrate (SDM) Major Amit Sareen. Sareen, who had joined his office just three weeks ago, found glaring anomalies in the voters’ list and immediately reported the matter to the State Election Commissioner.The SDM said, “PSPCL clerk Sandeep Singh, who was working in the Election Branch, committed several violations. He used his mobile phone to access the data, which itself is a violation. He made all the changes using his phone and taking advantage of the fact that I was on a transition mode and had just got transferred. He changed all passwords, including that of an email. He even changed passwords of recovery email. He deleted a few vote entries, which ideally he should not have done. He made wrong voter entries. He shifted votes from one ward to another in a wrong manner. There are 50 wards and he fudged with entries of many wards.”Asked at whose behest Sandeep was working at, Sareen said, “That is for the police to find out.” He added that there were at least 36 entries, which Sandeep had fudged. “These were all related to objections, which our office had received recently for the revision of electoral rolls. Owing to his wrong conduct, we cannot deal with as many as 1,400 objections out of 1,800 we received in total,” he said.Phagwara Superintendent of Police Sarabjit Bahia said, “The accused is in our custody till tomorrow. We might not seek extension of his police remand. This inquiry needs clarifications at the administrative level and we have sought more details from the SDM on the matter.”Phagwara ADC-cum-Commissioner Municipal Corporation Rajeev Verma said, “Since the complaint came from the SDM and is being dealt with by the police, I do not have much to say.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fudging-of-electoral-rolls-in-phagwara-police-administration-tight-lipped-200990
