21-01-2021||---||Hindu organisations demand case against makers of  Tandav||Jalandhar, January 20 Amid series of nationwide protest against the recently released web series ‘Tandav’, members of various Hindu organisations on Wednesday approached the Police Commissioner to register a case against the actors and makers of the web series streaming on Amazon Prime. In addition, the members also demanded that the broadcasting of the series be immediately curtailed.  The agitated members while submitting a memorandum against the actors and directors today here stated that the Hindu gods and deities were portrayed in a bad light in Tandav, which has deeply hurt their sentiments. Manoj Nanha, a leader of Hind Kranti Dal, stated the religious sentiments of most of the viewers were hurt after watching few episodes of the video-based series. Apart from lord Shiva, the makers of Tandav have also depicted other deities in a wrong way. “Strict action should be taken against the actor, director, and producer of the web series,” added Nanha. The controversy erupted after BJP leaders also staged a protest against the video streaming platform at their head office. The Hindu Sanghathan members said there were scenes in  which they believe insult their gods and deities. “It is quite disconcerting that a global platform like Amazon Prime would allow streaming of such controversial content,” added, Kishan Lal, Kunal Kohli, Narinder Thapar, Sanjiv Verma, who belong to different Hindu organisations. They also asked the Censor Board to keep a strict eye on such web series. Besides, they demanded that the shows, videos and content that hurt religious sentiments should be monitored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hindu-organisations-demand-case-against-makers-of-tandav-201561
21-01-2021||---||Beekeeping a viable option for farmers, says expert||Jalandhar, January 20To improve the economic condition of farmers in the state by enhancing their income, the Horticulture Department, in association with Krishi Vigyan Kendra and Farm Advisory Centre, organised a beekeeping training course from January 11 to 19.Presiding over the concluding session of the course on Tuesday, Assistant Director Horticulture Dr Bhajan Singh Saini said the Horticulture Department had been encouraging farmers to adopt allied occupations such as beekeeping to enhance their income.He asked trainees to register with the National Bee-Board and avail financial benefits under various schemes. He called upon farmers to get themselves enrolled under various training courses conducted by the Punjab Government to make their profession more profitable.Dr Sanjeev Kumar Kataria and Dr Ritu Raj detailed the trainees about the necessary equipment needed to start the business and how to ensure proper care of bees in different seasons.Assistant Director Dr Sukhdeep Singh Hundal also gave information regarding the facilities provided by the Horticulture Department.Horticulture Development Officer Dr Pritpal Singh Bath thanked the experts. The literature on beekeeping was also distributed among trainees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beekeeping-a-viable-option-for-farmers-says-expert-201562
21-01-2021||---||Top seed Manya powers into U-15 final||Jalandhar, January 20On the second day of the District Badminton Championships being played at the Raizada Hansraj Stadium, the under-15 singles girls’ semifinals match between top seeds Liza Taank and Manya Ralhan proved to be a headturner on Wednesday.The thrilling match started with both Liza and Manya scoring a deuce in the first set. Liza managed to take the lead in the set by going as far as 26-24. A trainee of Ratti Academy, Manya, however, managed to make a good comeback by scoring 21-11. In the third set Liza, who is taking training from Dipankar Academy, again trailed with 11-21, eventually losing the match.Now, Manya will lineup against Samridhi Bhardwaj on Thursday. Bhardwaj defeated Trisha 21-10 and 21-16 in the second semifinals in the same category.Another high-voltage performance was witnessed in the mixed doubles match in the U-15 category between Raghav and Liza and siblings Samrath and Samridhi Bhardwaj on the other side. Amid a stiff competition and display of smashes and fast drops, the brother-sister duo folded, losing 22-24 and 20-22. As many as 61 matches were played today, including the semifinals for the doubles and quarterfinals or pre-quarterfinals for the singles matches in U-11, U-13, U-15 and U-17 categories.Quarterfinals (Boys singles U-11): Viraj bt Arshvir (21-2, 21-7); Fateh bt Ishant (22-20, 21-10); Zorawar bt Aarav (21-4, 21-8); Viren bt Kumar Shaurya (21-16, 21-12)Quarterfinals (Girls singles U-11): Manya Ratti bt Yashika (21-5, 21-18); Manseerat bt Tanisha (21-6, 21-9); Jaskeerat bt Aradhya (21-14, 21-12); Saanvi bt Shivali (21-6, 21-9)Semifinals (Boys doubles U-11): Zorawar and Viraj bt Arnav and Pankush (21-7, 21-2); Kumar Shaurya and Viren bt Swayam and Advay (21-3, 21-4)Semifinals (Girls doubles U-11): Saanvi and Manya Ratti got a bye. Manseerat and Shivali bt Yashika and Japneet (21-10, 21-13)Pre-quarters (Boys singles U-13): Divyum bt Harman (21-9, 21-13); Vansh bt Saksham (21-18, 21-14); Danish bt Aakarsh (21-13, 21-18); Viraj bt Aditya (21-3, 21-4); Samrath bt Tanish (21-5, 21-7); Geetansh bt Arman (21-11, 21-9); Ashwin bt Kumar Shaurya (21-11, 21-6); Kunwar Arora bt Shivansh Puri (21-7, 21-9)Quarterfinals (Girls singles U-13): Unnati bt Yashika (21-3, 21-0); Janya Kochhar bt Manseerat (21-15, 21-11); Gauri beat Akshita (21-6, 21-9); Saanvi bt Shivali (21-12, 21-18)Semifinals (Boys doubles U-13): Achyut and Shivansh got bye; Kunwar Arora and Ashwin bt Tanish and Aakarsh (21-17, 21-12); Prathamnoor and Geetansh bt Vansh and Heavanjit (18-21, 21-17, 21-14)Semifinals (Girls doubles U-13): Unnati and Gauri got a bye; Saanvi and Manya Ratti bt Janya and Akshita (21-7, 21-18)Pre-quarters (Boys singles U-15): Ishan bt Krish (21-1, 21-0); Samrath bt Divyum (21-0, 21-3); Achyut bt Vansh (21-9, 21-9); Raghav bt Garv (21-14, 21-9); Divyum bt Danish (21-14, 21-14); Abhishek bt Prabal (21-14, 21-20); Kunal bt Prathamnoor (21-10, 21-12); Hemang bt Manrajbir (21-13, 21-16)Semifinals (Girls singles U-15): Manya bt Liza Taank (24-26, 21-11, 21-11); Samridhi bt Trisha (21-10, 21-16)Quarterfinals (Boys U-15): Divyum and Ishant bt Ashwin and Prabal (21-6, 21-12); Abhishek and Yaksh Arora bt Garv and Anish (21-15, 22-20); Achyut and Shivansh bt Kunal and Riyan (21-17, 21-16); Himang and Raghav bt Utsavdeep and Divyum (21-4, 21-2)Mixed Doubles U-15: Raghav and Liza beat Samrath and Samridhi Bhardwaj (24-22, 22-20)Pre-quarters (Boys singles U-17): Ankit bt Bhavneet (21-7, 21-5); Divyang bt Raghav (21-9, 21-19); Divjot bt Nishant (21-16, 19-21, 21-14); Ishan bt Aryan (21-8, 21-8)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/top-seed-manya-powers-into-u-15-final-201563
21-01-2021||---||PF office gets ISO 9001 certificate||Jalandhar, January 20 Employees’ Provident Fund (PF) Organisation’s regional office here received the ISO (9001: 2015) certificate for provision of services to subscribers under the EPF and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.  Regional Commissioner Sunil Kumar Yadav said Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala come under the jurisdiction of Jalandhar district office, which caters to about 9 lakh accounts in respect of 8,559 covered establishments having approximate 1.82 lakh contributory members. He said  93,072 claims worth Rs337.86 crore were settled during the period April-2020 to December-2020, including 19,281 special Covid advance claims to the tune of Rs36.31 crore.  He said during the pandemic, more than 1,100 establishments had benefitted to the tune of more than Rs2.75 crore as EPF contribution to 17,251 members, which was deposited directly into their PF accounts under PMGKY. He said this office had completed 93%Aadhaar seeding as KYC of its members and urged employers as well as members to get their KYC seeded on a priority for various online benefits being extended by the EPFO. He said the Centre had implemented Atam Nirbhar Rojgar Yojana to promote employment and encourage new employment opportunities. Under this scheme, the government will provide subsidy of 12%as employee contribution and 12%employer contribution (both) 24%of salary allowances for a period of two years for those employees, who joined on or after October 1, 2020, and till June 30, 2021, depending upon the employment strength of the establishment. He appealed to all employers and members to avail maximum advantage of this scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pf-office-gets-iso-9001-certificate-201564
21-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Come, learn how to give||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 20Master Gopal Singh Memorial Government High School Kalyanpur is no less than any leading school in a city. It has a beautiful, stylish building, a full-fledged science lab and a library brimming with a plethora of books. The students of the school have one person to thank – Hari Singh Auluck (77), an NRI based at Kalyanpur village. He travelled overseas to settle in Canada 50 years ago but his heart lies here.The name of the school was kept after his father in 2014 under a policy of the state government, when Auluck donated Rs20 lakh for the renovation of the building. Then he splurged for the construction of a library, a science lab and also donated a lot of books. Until now, he has donated Rs50 lakh for the school.As per the information, it was a middle school and got upgraded to high school in 2001. Even after the upgradation, the infrastructure could not be provided by the government accordingly. When Auluck visited the school, he donated to do justice to the tag of high school.“My only desire is that no student should be deprived of anything. They must get everything here like other students in public schools,” he said.Auluck always wanted the students there to touch new heights in their lives and always stands for them. He also got three washrooms built in the school along with hall, besides providing benches and chair.Sukhwinder Paul, a Punjabi master from the school, said that Auluck had gushed forth all kind of happiness in the school. “He is such a dedicated person that he talks to me about the development of the school and education every day. We are thankful to him,” he said.Auluck visits his village every year and meets the students of the school. “This year I couldn’t come due to Covid, but next time I’ll definitely come,” he spoke of his plans. Interestingly, he also distributes trophies to the toppers of Class X every year to motivate them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/come-learn-how-to-give-201565
21-01-2021||---||Blind guess: When to stop, when to go?||Jalandhar, January 20While National Road Safety Month is being observed in the district these days under theme ‘Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha’, there seems no solution to the inconvenience faced by commuters on the roads due to the dysfunctional traffic lights. It has become a regular scene that the traffic police have to manually manage the traffic.The traffic lights on the busiest chowks of the city apparently need repair as they have been lying defunct for the past many weeks. Locals also took to social media to highlight their plight. Besides criticising the civic body, they are also accusing it of not doing the needful.Commuters said that due to cold there was more risk involved. At times, the traffic lights stop giving signals and they rely on the mercy of the lights erupting from vehicles. One of the users wrote on social media that on Tuesday stoplights at the Guru Nanak Mission Chowk were not working, leading to chaos on the road. It took more than the usual time for the officials to clear the traffic from one direction. Similarly, problems related to the traffic lights at Pathankot bypass Chowk, Ravidas Chowk, Workshop Chowk, and Nakodar Road were also underlined by the residents.Moreover, as several stretches on Jalandhar-Amritsar highway and other city roads, including Ravidas Chowk were recently mentioned among the black spots or the accident-prone zones, it has become more significant to resolve the issue.It is also prominent to mention here that Maqsudan bypass is one of the busiest roads in the city which receives heavy traffic during the day as well as night. People usually take this route to commute to Amritsar or subsequent areas. Vimal Kumar, a resident of the Urban Estate Phase-2 area, said, “A number of traffic signals in my area have been lying defunct for a long time but the authorities concerned have not done anything in this regard.” While accusing the authorities of not maintaining traffic lights, he urged them to streamline the mechanism to ensure proper maintenance.Traffic cops overburdenedASI Kamaljit Singh, a traffic police personnel, said the repair was done by the Chandigarh-based technicians, however, this time the repair has been delayed. Apart from the Guru Nanak Mission Chowk and Apeejay College, the traffic police in large numbers remain deployed at Kapurthala Chowk, Model Town and other areas to manage traffic. In the absence of stoplights, a portable beam light is used to move the vehicles smoothly on busy roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blind-guess-when-to-stop-when-to-go-201566
21-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||140 beneficiaries inoculated in Jalandhar distrct||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 20With beneficiaries refusing vaccination in Jalandhar, the health authorities have roped in private hospitals to give a fillip to the drive in the district.With various vaccination centres closed in Jalandhar on the occasion of Gurpurb on Wednesday, as many as 140 staff members were administered the dose at the Tagore Hospital session site on Wednesday. The drive began with Dr Vijay Mahajan, managing director, Tagore Hospital, getting vaccinated along with his staff.Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh and the District Immunisation Officer, Dr Rakesh Chopra, visited the vaccination centre at the Tagore Hospital. While the session site at the PIMS became operational yesterday, the district saw closure of two session sites, including the Nakodar Sub-Divisional Hospital and the CHC Basti Gujan, due to limited response.On Tuesday, around four to five beneficiaries came forward to get vaccinated at the Nakodar Sub-Divisional Hospital. Across all the sites, only doctors were coming forward to get vaccinated as very less paramedical or support staff has been willing to get the dose.In broadened protocol to ensure more vaccination, it has been directed that if beneficiaries receiving the message don’t turn up, other registered health workers at the session site may also be included in the vaccination process.With more private hospitals added as the session sites, the vaccination sites for tomorrow include the Civil Hospital, PIMS, Tagore Hospital, SGL Charitable Hospital and Shriman Hospital.Dr Mahajan said, “We have 600 employees and all of them have been registered with the vaccine database. The staff will be vaccinated in subsequent days. No adverse reaction was reported among any of our employees and the drive went off smoothly.”Dr Chopra said, “Health workers vaccinated today were from the Tagore Hospital. The process went on smoothly. Due to Gurpurb, the Civil Hospital session site was closed. The PIMS site was also not operational. The Shriman Hospital vaccination site will become operational tomorrow. The Nakodar and Basti Gujan session sites have been closed due to limited response. From tomorrow onwards, more private hospitals will be roped in.”Dr Chopra said due to technical glitches in the portal, numerous health workers could not be vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/140-beneficiaries-inoculated-in-jalandhar-distrct-201567
21-01-2021||---||No death, 18 new cases reported||Jalandhar, January 20With 18 more people testing positive for Covid-19, the tally reached 20,407 in the district on Wednesday.The death toll remained at 662. There are 204 active cases in the district. So far, as many as 19,541 persons have been discharged, while 126 persons were under home isolation in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw 12 persons testing positive for Covid on Wednesday.Two positive in Hoshiarpur, no death reportedTwo people tested positive for Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur, taking the count to 7,952. Meanwhile, no death was reported on Wednesday, and the toll remained at 328. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said with the receipt of 821 new samples from people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 2,65,743. According to the reports received from the lab, 2,56,472 samples were negative, while 2,971 report are still awaited and 184 were invalid. The number of active cases is 40, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,584. Of today’s two positive patients, one is from Hoshiarpur city and the other patient belongs to another health block of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-death-18-new-cases-reported-201568
21-01-2021||---||Villagers accuse depot holder of corruption||Jalandhar, January 20 A depot holder of Mehrajwala was gheraoed by residents of Mehrajwala, Chak Wadala, Gatta Mundi Kasu, Mandala Channa, Dhakka Basti, Bhanewal and other villages on Wednesday. They alleged that ration due to be distributed to them under the Pradhan Mantri Ann Yojana, hadn’t been disbursed to them during the pandemic. Six families of Mandala Channa alleged that free ration papers given to them were taken back by a local inspector. Now, they were running from pillar to post for it.  After hours of demonstration, the Lohian police reached the spot with the depot holder, but the demonstration continued due to non-satisfactory answer by the depot holder. Labourers warned of blocking roads if no action was taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/villagers-accuse-depot-holder-of-corruption-201569
21-01-2021||Kapurthala||3 held with 3.5-kg heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-held-with-3-5-kg-heroin-201570
21-01-2021||Jalandhar||Gurpurb celebrated at DPS||Reading scientific literature webinarA webinar on ‘How to read scientific literature’ was organised by the Department of Biotechnology of HMV College in collaboration with the department of biotechnology, GOI, under series Human Atlas initiative by IISER, Pune. The resource person was Dr Anupma Harshal, consultant (Science Communication and Public Engagement), IISER, Pune, on Google meet followed by online test. On this occasion principal Prof Ajay Sareen welcomed the resource person in the virtual campus of HMV, Jalandhar, and highlighted the importance of research and development activities in the field of biotechnology especially in Covid-19 period. Dr Anupma elaborated to the participants on how to read, write and search a research paper. Further she told what is the importance of abstract, how to read introduction, how to study and review of literature and note various parameters of material and methods and how to drive inferences from result and discussion. She explained how a full research paper could be read in 30 minutes, besides, she explained how to use research online tools. Webinar coordinator was Dr Jatinder Kumar and moderator was Sumit Sharma. The students were given e-certificates by DBT Govt of India.Abacus contestAarush Wadhawan, a student of Class VII from Eklavya School, brought laurels to the school by securing 7th rank in the 13th Punjab and Chandigarh UCMAS Abacus and Mental Arithmetic state-level competition. Universal Concept of Mental Arithmetic Systems (UCMAS) is an international educational organisation globally recognised as a leader in whole brain development and mental arithmetic training. Aarush has been participating in many competitions since childhood. By securing this prize, he added one more feather to his cap. He gave the credit of his success to his parents and teachers. The Chairman of the school, JK Gupta, appreciated the hard work of Aarush and encouraged everyone to seek inspiration from him .Felicitation ceremonyCT Group of Institutions organised a felicitation ceremony titled ‘Gracias’ in which 70 winners along with 24 academies were honored. These winners participated in various online events organised by CT Group during the period of lockdown. The list of events includes names like bhangra in D Lockdown, chalchitra, Lockdown Ka Jalwa, Singing Sensation, Beat the Heat Dance competition etc. The chief guest for the occasion was renowned Punjabi singer Mangi Mahal. The lamp lighting ceremony was conducted by CT Group Chairman Charanjit S Channi, Managing Director Manbir Singh, co-chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi, campus director Dr GS Kalra, and deputy dean, students affairs, and cultural officer Davinder Singh along with the guests were present. Various academies were also honored for organising events in the lockdown and providing platforms to people sitting inside their homes to showcase their skills. CT Group Chairman Charanjit S Channi congratulated the winners.LPU bags 10 medals at National FestPhagwara: Massive winning contributions made by the talented students of Lovely Professional University (LPU) enabled Punjab lift winners’ trophy of the fest in the 24th National Youth Festival. Out of the total 23 winning positions declared for Punjab, LPU students won 10 positions, including five gold medals and five bronze medals. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal applauded them for the glorious participation. The LPU teams won gold medals in the activities of film contemporary dance (solo); street play; group play; creative writing; and panel discussion (in a team). Bronze medals were won in film contemporary dance (group); design traditional; stand-up comedian act; poetry writing and narration; and panel discussion (in a team). This year, the theme of the fest was ‘Yuvaah’-Utsah Naye Bharat Ka, which celebrated and acknowledged the energy of new India by providing a platform to the youth to showcase their talent. The fest was carried out in three parts and covered genres like music, dance, regional, theatre, visual arts and more.British Council award for schoolSwami Sant Dass Public School has been awarded the British Council’s prestigious International School Award (ISA) in recognition of its work to bring the world into the classroom. Anju Mehta, Principal, said that the process was initiated to instill a global dimension into the learning experience and the school was registered for the British Council ISA in 2019. As part of the ISA action plan, the school planned and executed seven different projects for students of different age groups which were entitled as penmanship, means of communication, personal hygiene, be a water saver, walk for freedom, making life a celebration and let’s rise for climate justice. The students within the school were involved in the international framework with partner schools, collaborative curriculum-based work and year-round international activities. The evidence-based dossier was submitted to the British Council for accreditation and the school has been successfully awarded with British Council International School Award for the period 2020-23. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gurpurb-celebrated-at-dps-201571
21-01-2021||Kirti Kisan Union members announced that more than 300 are expected to go towards New Delhi from Nawanshahr in their tractor-trailers on January 23 to take part in the January 26 march. “The fight is against three farm laws and we won’t come back until we win the fight||Gearing up for D-Day||Exemplary model to followTo motivate staff members, Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Gurpal Kataria got inoculated himself first. He said he wanted to tell them that there was no side-effect of the vaccination. “There is no need to pay attention to any kind of rumors. There are no side-effects. I am feeling perfectly fine. Also, it is perfectly safe, so, no need to worry,” he said. Until now, 76 healthcare workers have been inoculated. Kataria said everyone should shun their inhibitions. “Last year was tough, when the pandemic hit us. We waited for the vaccine and now it has arrived. So, we should be thankful,” he said.Getting ‘smart’ at schoolsTo sensitise teachers and students about the utility of Punjab Educare App for accomplishing ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’, District Education Officer (SE), Jagjit Singh and Deputy District Education Officer (SE), Amrik have started a training programme for schoolteachers to equip them with the technical knowhow to use smart classrooms in school for operating the Punjab Educare App on LED projectors. Younes Khokhar, District Mentor (computer faculty) has prepared a presentation depicting steps to download the app on smartphones as well as to connect it with the LED projectors in the existing smart classrooms in government schools. The ICT wing of the district Education Department has organised a special training programme in as many as 106 high and senior secondary schools. Under this programme, computer teachers are imparted training to teachers in their respective schools. Lakhwinder Singh, Assistant District Mentor (computer faculty), said all computer teachers of the district have made their contribution in imparting training to teachers. In the next phase, virtual training workshop for teachers of middle schools would be organised shortly. Jagjit Singh exhorted schoolteachers to make students aware about contents like revised syllabus, simplified learning material, question banks, model test papers, practice sheets, revision papers and latest updates for preparing for the ensuing Board examinations in a well-planned manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gearing-up-for-d-day-201574
21-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Farm union flags in demand,100-200 sales daily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 20Ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, the demand for farm protest-related flags has surged in the market.While local printing press dealers said 100-200 flags on farmers’ protests were being sold on a daily basis, there weren’t any such takers for the national flag as of now. Besides, members of various farm unions said despite making over 1,000 flags daily, they weren’t able to meet the demand.Considering the tractor march scheduled for the Republic Day, many vehicles in the state are sporting flags of different farm outfits. Subsequently, apart from the farmers, the demand has doubled among locals too.Pushkar Raj, a volunteer of the Kirti Kisan Union, who has been preparing flags of his union for the past three months at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall, said, “Since mid-October, we have been designing and making flags for our union. Till now, we have made over 30,000 flags and are making 1,000-1,500 daily.”Similarly, Jasbir Kaur, another volunteer, said they had a team of eight members who worked in shifts to prepare the flags. “The satin fabric is ordered from Amritsar. When we don’t get readymade flag-shaped clothes, we stitch them here. Afterwards, we have a painting board embedded with the logo of the union. We place the stitched flag there. It takes five-10 minutes to prepare one flag. Apart from flags, we also have stickers for bikes, cars and other vehicles. While we also supply our flags to Delhi and Haryana, the demand has increased manifold locally. At least five to six flags are being demanded from one family of farmers,” she added.Narinder Kumar, a wholesale dealer of printing solutions and novelty items at Partap Bagh, said the demand for flags and stickers of farmers’ protest had increased in the past three weeks. “However, as schools and colleges are closed due to Covid, the demand for the Tricolour is dismally low. In addition, people are ordering farm union flags in bulk,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-union-flags-in-demand-100-200-sales-daily-201308
