22-01-2021||---||Man immolates self outside ‘wife’s’ house||Jalandhar, January 21In a shocking incident reported in the city on late Wednesday night, a 30-year-old man died after ‘self-immolation’ at the doorstep of a woman’s house at Geeta Colony in the Bhargo Camp area.The man had allegedly married her secretly around a month ago and wanted to take her to his home.While the incident came to light on Wednesday midnight, the man succumbed to his burn injuries on Thursday morning, the police said.The deceased, Deepak Kumar Chahal, was a resident of Kashi Nagar locality of the same area. He used to work as an electrician. On the statement of his mother Kanta Devi, a case under Section 306 of the IPC (abetment of suicide) was registered against the 27-year-old woman’s family members.Kanta Devi told the police that while Deepak was already fighting a divorce case against his first wife, he got married to the woman secretly and her parents were against this marriage.Bhagwant Singh, SHO, Bhargo Camp, said Deepak and the woman knew each other for quite some years, however, their family members were against their marriage.“While the deceased also shot a video of the entire incident and blamed the family members of the woman for forcing him to take such an extreme step, the woman’s family claimed that Deepak himself brought petrol to their house, sprinkled it on himself and set himself ablaze with a matchstick,” the SHO said.With 60 per cent burn injuries, Deepak was rushed to the district Civil Hospital, where he failed to respond to the treatment and died on Thursday.Before setting himself on fire, Deepak tried to convince the woman’s family to send her with him, however, he was allegedly intimidated by her father and her brothers. Subsequently, he poured fuel on himself and immolated self.On the basis of the video and the statements of Deepak’s mother, a case was registered against the woman’s father and other family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-immolates-self-outside-wifes-house-202036
22-01-2021||---||#MannKiBaatSuno — an initiative in support of farmers||Jalandhar, January 21Discussion on the farmers’ movement is not limited to one region or a country, but it is everywhere. Everyone is doing their bit to lend their support to the farmers.A group of enthusiastic and thoughtful volunteers from different cities around the world are working on a very interesting postcard initiative called, #MannKiBaatSuno, wherein they invite messages from all over the world with regard to the farmers’ movement. The tagline for this campaign is on the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio programme “Mann Ki Baat”.The group is working under the name of ‘Hamari.awaaz’.As per the information, there are currently six volunteers working on this initiative day and night from different countries. The volunteers are Kanwar Kaur, Manu Buttar, Neet Kaur, Sartaj Singh, Param Singh and Arsh Singh.Those working with the group expressed that they were trying to unite the nation and the world for a common goal by writing to the Prime Minister of India.“With this initiative we are hoping to give the commoners a safe platform where their voices can be heard without any judgement, discrimination on the basis of colour, religion or race,” the volunteers shared.“We all want a peaceful resolution to the stalemate. We have been reaching out to people online and then getting messages from those sitting in support of farmers at the Singhu and Tikri borders. Right now we have gathered every message and our volunteers transfer the same message on to the postcard (handwritten message),” said Manu Buttar.“We had expected to get 50,000 postcards, but the way we are receiving messages from folks around the world, we believe that the number would cross the 50,000 mark,” Manu shared. A message from Beant Kaur reads, “Modiji, don’t you see the annadata sleeping on the road in these cold nights. Please have some compassion.”Another message from Nikita reads, “You should be distressed to see people dying at the protesting sites in Delhi. Over 70 farmers have lost their lives, how many more people have to die to awake the humanity inside you? Please take back these black laws and let this nation bloom.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mannkibaatsuno-%E2%80%94-an-initiative-in-support-of-farmers-202037
22-01-2021||Our Correspondent||10 samples of milk, food products sent for lab test||Hoshiarpur, January 21District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Lakhvir Singh on Thursday collected 10 samples of milk, milk products, jaggery and other food products and sent them to the Food Testing Laboratory in Kharar.Dr Lakhvir said he and his team members took samples from Verka milk plant at Ajjowal village and various jaggery production units on the Hoshiarpur-Dasuya road. He said the team collected four samples of milk and milk products from Verka milk plant, while six samples of jaggery were taken from units on Dasuya road. He said the Health Department would receive the reports in three weeks.The DHO said adulteration would not be tolerated and strict action would be initiated against those found indulged in this malpractice.Urging the manufacturers and sellers of food items in the district to ensure strict compliance of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, Dr Lakhvir Singh called the owners of eating joints, street vendors, sweet shops, dhabas etc for mandatory registration.He appealed to the food manufacturers and sellers to make pure and quality food products to make Mission Tandarust Punjab a huge success. Stressing that the campaign against adulteration would be intensified in the coming days, the District Health Officer solicited people support and said that this mission could not be successful without their active participation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-samples-of-milk-food-products-sent-for-lab-test-202038
22-01-2021||---||Liza Taank, Manya Ralhan steal the show||Jalandhar, January 21On Day 3 of the District Badminton Championships at the Raizada Hansraj Stadium, top seeds Liza Taank and Jasmine Malhi faced each other in two matches.While Liza trounced Jasmine in the fiercely contested final of the U-17 girls’ singles with 21-18, 22-20 scoreline, Jasmine avenged the defeat in the next match by defeating Liza in the semifinals of the U-19 girls’ singles.The U-17 champion got eliminated from the final of the U-19 category losing 17-21, 19-21. Jasmine will now play against Ria Kundra, a Class XII student of MGN Public School, in the U-19 final, slated for tomorrow. After two encounters, Jasmine and Liza paired to contest U-19 girls’ doubles defeating Krita and Chahat 21-17, 21-12.Elsewhere, Manya Ralhan won the U-15 final topping Samridhi Bhardwaj with a score of 21-13, 21-13. Most of the final matches were broadcast live on the FB page of District Badminton Association (DBA).District Badminton Championship Day 3 Results||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/liza-taank-manya-ralhan-steal-the-show-202039
22-01-2021||---||Buzz back as offline classes resume in colleges||Jalandhar, January 21College campuses returned to life with offline teaching beginning for all classes here on Thursday. Three days ago, the state government had directed all colleges to offer offline teaching for all classes. Earlier, most colleges had started regular teaching only for the final year college students and PG students, but on Thursday students of all courses were asked to attend physical classes.As it was the first day, attendance in most Guru Nanak Dev University-affiliated colleges remained low. Hans Raj Mahila Mahavidyalaya recorded only 15-20 per cent attendance in most classes. All teachers conducted offline and online classes simultaneously from their classrooms. They said the cold, harsh weather, too, seemed to be deterring students from joining classes.HMV College Principal Ajay Sareen said, “We have started the hostel facility for outsider students. We are accommodating two students in each room where the occupancy was earlier three or four students. We are yet to resume transport facilities from satellite towns as viability remains an issue.”At Lyallpur Khalsa College, the attendance was slightly better at 40%. Principal Dr GS Samra said, “Our campus was abuzz with activities after a long time. We are encouraging more students to take offline classes, as it will be in their interest to have a one-to-one interaction with the staff. As the physical examination is expected to start by mid-February, we want them to get into the habit of coming to the college.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/buzz-back-as-offline-classes-resume-in-colleges-202040
22-01-2021||---||Jalandhar District meets biggest one-day target as 458 vaccinated||Jalandhar, January 21The Health Department’s drive to involve private hospitals in the Covid-19 vaccination drive seems to be paying off rich dividends. On the fifth day of the drive in the district, 458 beneficiaries received the dose. This was the largest single day number of people vaccinated in the district so far. As many as 200 health workers got vaccinated at Tagore Hospital, 106 at PIMS, 64 each at SGL Charitable and Shriman Hospitals and 24 persons at the Civil Hospital.While the session sites at the Basti Gujan and Nakodar hospitals have already been closed, the Health Department now mulls closing the session site at the Civil Hospital too due to low turnout of volunteers. District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “Since Tagore Hospital has more than 600 staff members and PIMS has over 900 staff, the session sites at these facilities will continue for the next few days. We are also visiting more private hospitals and have planned to start at least six to seven more session sites at private hospitals in the coming days. Meanwhile, with the number of volunteers visiting the Civil Hospital is decreasing by the day, we also plan to close the Civil Hospital session site soon.”While the district had ordered 16,490 doses of the Covid vaccination, even 1,000 of these have not been used so far in the first five days of the drive. Responding to apprehensions of the damage to vaccine (vials) if the stored doses remained unused for long, Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “The expiry of the vaccination is six months. We expect to cover all 11,800 health workers till then. While one vial of the vaccine (which has 10 doses) has to be used within six hours of opening it, we do not open the vial until we have at least six to seven patients lined up. We already have a 10 per cent margin of wastage. So, at present there are no concerns of vaccines going bad.”378 get Covid shots on fourth day in HoshiarpurOn the fourth day of the vaccination drive, 378 beneficiaries, including the in-charge of Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, Dr Jaswinder Singh, were vaccinated on Thursday.The doctors, para-medical and sanitation staff of the Civil Hospital also got themselves vaccinated. District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema Garg said as per the instructions of the Health Department, Covid-19 immunisation was being done at health institutions and vaccination was being done by matching the mobile number and identity card of the already registered health workers. After getting the jab, Senior Medical Officer Dr Jaswinder Singh said the vaccine was safe and health workers should get vaccinated without any fear. He said the vaccination centre has been set up in the hospital as per the instructions of the Government of India and the beneficiaries were kept under the care of medical team for 30 minutes after vaccination.Kulwant Kaur, Anita Luthra, Mandeep Saini Manju and Amarjit Singh served as vaccinators and Jai Kumar was the data operator. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-meets-biggest-one-day-target-as-458-vaccinated-202041
22-01-2021||Jalandhar||Surjit Academy affiliated to HI||Dead crow sample sent for testingTalwara: The sample of the crow found dead near Pratap Bhawan located in Sandpur No 1, a village near Talwara, has been sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to get the bird flu test done. Veterinarian Dr Charanjit Singh Mukerian said if the sample of the crow found dead in Talwara was found positive for bird flu, then the samples would be examined from the laboratory in Bhopal. He said on January 9, two pigeons were found dead with Mukerian’s Mata Rani Chowk. These were also investigated for bird flu in Jalandhar and their report came out to be negative. Similarly, on January 13, a pigeon was found dead in ITI Talwara. Its sample was sent to Jalandhar, too, for investigation and the report was negative. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-academy-affiliated-to-hi-202050
