23-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Ayushman Bharat: Boon for poor, but discrepancies play spoilsport||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 22The Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY) launched on August 20, 2019 opened up benefits of free healthcare for BPL families, farmers, journalists, small traders and requisite card holders. The scheme has acted as a boon for lakhs of beneficiaries burdened by unaffordable healthcare. However, discrepancies and persistent denial of services to beneficiaries has given way to serious anomalies.With 54.57 per cent coverage, Jalandhar ranked 13th in the state in terms of the coverage of the scheme. Of 2,62,609 families, the scheme has so far covered as many as 1,43,316 families and 2,92,562 individual e-cards had been generated in the district.Treatment for beneficiariesSo far, claims of 48,086 beneficiaries had been submitted in the district and a total of Rs 62 crore and 15,59,056 has been released for treatment. In total, claims of 4,521 beneficiaries were rejected.Within less than two years of the scheme, at least three hospitals had been de-empanelled in the district after discrepancies were found against them and several others had been issued notices after they were found overcharging.As per a response to an RTI query filed by a Jalandhar- based activist and journalist Kumar Amit, 129 complaints had been made regarding the Ayushman Bharat Scheme on the 104 helpline in the district. Of these 129 complaints, 126 were hospital related and three were regarding common service centres. The district ranks second in the state with respect to complaints made regarding the scheme. It stands at third position with respect to complaints made against hospitals not entertaining card holders.Dr Jyoti, Deputy Medical Commissioner-cum-Nodal Officer, Ayushman Bharat Scheme, said, “Thirteen public and 57 private hospitals have been empanelled under the scheme in Jalandhar district. We have 54.57 per cent coverage. We have recently started holding camps to enlist more beneficiaries on priority basis. Vidal Health Insurance has been roped in to increase the number of enrolment camps. At present, manpower is not sufficient. Constant efforts are being made to increase the reach of the scheme.”The Deputy Medical Commissioner said, “We are reaching out to various departments to increase beneficiaries. The ASHA and ANM workers are taking lists from depot holders. We are also targeting common service centres and have requested all the departments to send lists of beneficiaries.”Dr Jyoti said, “The District Grievances Officer formally solves the issues and in case he/she fails then they come to me. If issues still remain unaddressed then we take up them in the District Greivances Committee meeting.”The Nodal Officer informed that the empanelled hospitals, which had been de-empaneled in the district, include Kapoor Hospital, Balaji Hospital and Rattan Hospital. Show-cause notices have been issued to two more empanelled hospitals regarding discrepancies in the scheme.Know more about AB-SSBYThe AB-SSBY, a flagship health insurance scheme aims to provide financial protection to 75 per cent of the population of the state. It is entitlement-based cashless health insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per year. Under this scheme, cashless and paperless treatment is available at the government and empanelled private hospitals.Who all are eligibleNFSA ration card holders, J-form holder farmers, construction workers, Yellow card holder journalists, small traders and SECC (beneficiaries identified based on Socio Economic Caste Census of 2011 by the Government of India).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ayushman-bharat-boon-for-poor-but-discrepancies-play-spoilsport-202349
23-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||4 killed in bus-car collision||Talwara, January 22 Four persons, including a three-year-old child, were killed after a bus collided with their car on Friday morning. The accident took place on  the Talwara-Hajipur road.  The victims have been identified as Sarabjit Singh (23), Sushil Kumar (20), both residents of Roli village, Kuldeep Singh (19), of Sarabha Nagar, Jalandhar, and three-year-old Aryan, a resident Bagrian village, Gurdaspur district. Ajmer Singh, in-charge, Talwara police station, said a private bus (Kartar Transport), was heading towards Jalandhar and the car was on its way towards Talwara.  He said the vehicles collided near the bridge on Kandi Canal. The crash was so powerful that the bodies of the car occupants got stuck in the vehicle and rescuers had to use hammers and crowbars to pull them out of the ill-fated car. The bodies of the victims were sent to the BBMB Hospital, Talwara.  The bus driver, who has been identidfied as Makhan Singh, a resident of Anandpur Sahib, fled from the spot after the accident. A case has been registered under Sections 304 A, 279 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the bus driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-killed-in-bus-car-collision-202350
23-01-2021||---||AAP announces candidates||Jalandhar, January 22The Aam Aadmi Party, on Friday, announced its list for the nagar council and nagar panchayat elections. The party also announced to hold a bike rally on January 23, in solidarity with the farmers’ protest. District party (urban) president Rajwinder Kaur and district (rural) president Principal Prem Kumar said the party workers would hold a motorcycle rally on January 23 to lend solidarity to the kisan tractor march held by farmers on January 26. He exhorted several persons to participate in the tractor march.They said the party workers would also participate in huge numbers to lend support to the tractor march on January 26.Addressing the press, Rajwinder Kaur said it was for the first time in the history of the nation that on one hand, jawans would be holding the January 26 Republic Day march and on the other, farmers will be holding their own march. She said the party workers would participate in the kisan march.Announcing candidates for Mehatpur, Nakodar, Adampur, Nurmahal, Kartarpur, Lohian Khas and Phillaur she said while the other parties had duped the people of the state, the AAP, if voted to power in Punjab, will provide free water, cheap electricity, good schools, state-of-the-art Mohalla clinics, sanitary arrangements, proper waste management, and various key facilities on the doorsteps of people. A list of 41 candidates for the nagar panchayat and nagar council polls was released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-announces-candidates-202351
23-01-2021||---||1,595 administered Covishield shots||Jalandhar, January 22The vaccination drive was carried out at 24 session sites in the district on Friday. Of them, 14 were held at private and 10 at the government health facilities.As many as 1,595 health workers were inoculated against the contagion. Several CHCs also saw the drive for the first time today. These include Lohian, Shahkot, Adampur, Kartarpur, Phillaur, Kala Bakra, among others.On Thursday, 458 health workers had received the vaccine shots while 1,595 workers were administered the dose – the biggest number achieved in the district so far. As many as 11,800 health workers have been registered for vaccination in the first phase in Jalandhar. So far, no incident of adverse reactions has been reported in the district.Medicos and paramedical staff of New Ruby Hospital were administered the Covid doses at the hospital. Dr SPS Grover, MD, and Harwinder Grover and Dr Kulwant Singh Baghiana were immunised. Dr. SPS Grover was the first to receive the shot and presented himself to quell fears prevailing in hospital medical and paramedical staff. District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “The session sites have been increased to include maximum workers for the drive. Over 2,000 health workers have so far been inoculated in the district and more private hospitals are also being involved in the process. Several new sites will also see inoculation in the coming days.”1 more Covid death in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district reported the death of a person due to the Covid-19 contagion, pushing the toll to 329 on Friday. Besides, the district reported 10 more positive cases, taking the tally to 7,980. At present, the number of active cases stands at 57. Around 7,594 patients have recovered in the district. — OCTwo die, 28 test positive in jalandhar district  Jalandhar: The district reported the death of two persons due to the Covid-19 contagion taking the toll to 666 on Friday. Besides, the district reported 28 more positive cases of Covid-19, taking the total count to 20,455. The number of active cases was 209. At present, while 19,580 people have been discharged, 116 persons are also under home isolation in the district. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district reported five more positive cases on Friday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-595-administered-covishield-shots-202352
23-01-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA Dr Raj slams SAD leader Pawan Tinu over SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme||Hoshiarpur, January 22Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar on Friday hailed the decision of the high-power committee to release pending dues of private institutions to the tune of Rs 309 crore for the year 2015-16 under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.Lauding Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh for safeguarding interests of the SC students, Dr Raj said the state government had taken historic decision to start its own Dr BR Ambedkar Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.He appreciated the state government to foot the bill (40 per cent) under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20.Dr Raj ridiculed the allegations made by SAD leader Pawan Kumar Tinu regarding funds. He said the UPA government led by Dr Manmohan Singh had ensured 90:10 center-state share in the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme while the same share was squeezed to 60:40 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government, besides halting funds deliberately.He said Prime Minister Modi not only put an additional burden of 30 per cent on the states, but didn’t paid a heed be release its share for 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20.Dr Raj said the SAD, which had an alliance with the BJP at the Centre, left the SC students in the lurch with discontinuation of the said scheme.He asked why Tinu remained mum when they were in alliance with the saffron outfit and now shedding crocodile tears.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-dr-raj-slams-sad-leader-pawan-tinu-over-sc-post-matric-scholarship-scheme-202353
23-01-2021||Jalandhar||Theatrical workshop held at Doaba College||The PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Doaba College, organised a five-day workshop on ‘Personality and Theatre in Life’, titled ‘Zindagi Ek Tamasha’.Maintaining strict pandemic guidelines, a wide array of topics through group based exercises, including types of voice, diction, speech, various stages and methods of acting were covered. The participants were made aware of importance of body movement, observation and imagination in order to create a creative work of art. Through various personality development activities students were engaged to make finest of facial and eye expressions.Every day was set in motion with yoga and spiritual exercise including, ‘Om’, followed by sessions taken by extremely talented old students of the department, including Deepak Sharma, Kirti Gill, Rahul, Tarun; three of them are associated with well-recognised theatre groups, performed at national and international theatre festivals. Prof Deepak Sharma coordinated the entire workshop.As many as 19 students along with the faculty members participated, prepared and performed four different nukkad nataks namely ‘udaan’, ‘back to normal’, ‘everyone is perfect in their own way’ and ‘azadi’. Dr Simran Sidhu, head, PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, shared, that the purpose of this workshop was to bring the students back to routine after a long forced break due to the Covid.Not only meant for theatre, the workshop aimed to at overall personality development of the students to meet the requirements of media industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theatrical-workshop-held-at-doaba-college-202354
23-01-2021||---||Jasmine blossoms, wins U-19 singles||Jalandhar, January 20On Day 4 of the District Badminton Championships being played at at the Raizada Hansraj Stadium here, it was a comeback time for Jasmine Malhi, who had lost in U-17 girls’ singles final on Thursday as she grabbed the U-19 title on Friday afternoon.She trounced Ria Kundra 21-8 and 21-18 in the final. It was a golden day for Jasmine as she hit won the U-19 doubles pairing with Liza Taank as well. The duo defeated Ria Kundra and Manya Ralhan 21-17 21-17.Meanwhile, in the junior category, the U-11 girls’ singles final between Saanvi Ralhan and Manya Ratti proved to be an interesting encounter. Saanvi won the first set 21-12 but amidst some heavy shots trickling over the lines the second set tilted in favour of Manya with a 21-16 score. However, in the third set Saanvi found her groove to win 21-12.Elsewhere, Unnati got a clear edge in the U-13 girls’ singles final against Gauri Arora with a score of 21-12 and 21-9. In the U-11 boys’ final, Viraj breezed past Viren 21-7 21-15.Results:Boys’ singles (U-13 semifinals): Divyum bt Danish 21-13, 21-1, Samrath bt Shivansh 21-14, 24-22Boys’ singles (U-15 semifinals): Divyum bt Hemang 21-13, 21-17, Ishan bt Raghav 21-15, 21-15Boys’ singles (U-17 semifinals): Sarthak bt Pulkit 21-13, 12-21, 21-13, Ankit bt Ishan 21-14, 21-15Boys’ singles (U-19 semifinals): Samrath Singh bt Sarthak 21-15, 21-11, Ankit bt Jiyanshu 21-15, 21-13Boys’ singles (U-11 finals): Viraj bt Viren 21-7, 21-15Girls’ singles (U-11 finals): Sanvi bt Manya Ratti 21-12, 16-21, 21-12Girls’ singles (U-13 finals): Unnati bt Gauri 21-12, 21-9Girls’ singles (U-19 finals): Jasmine Malhi bt Ria Kundra 21-8, 21-18Mixed doubles (U-15 finals): Raghav and Liza bt Hemang and Trisha 21-17, 15-21, 21-16Boys Doubles (U-15 finals): Divyum and Ishan bt Hemang and Raghav (21-13, 21-12).Mixed Doubles (U-17 finals): Ankit and Manya Ralhan bt Nishant and Trisha (21-16, 21-12).Boys Doubles (U-19 finals): Jivesh and Ankit bt Samrath and Divjot (21-10, 21-17).Girls Doubles (U-19 finals): Jasmine and Liza bt Ria and Manya (21-17, 21-17).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jasmine-blossoms-wins-u-19-singles-202358
23-01-2021||---||Minister Sunder Sham Arora lays foundation stone of link roads in Dhogri||Jalandhar, January 22Punjab Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora today laid the foundation stone for construction, widening, and strengthening of link roads in the industrial zone at Dhogri Industrial Park at the cost of Rs 2.62 crore.The minister, accompanied by Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary, MLAs Chaudhary Surinder Singh, Avtar Singh Junior Bawa Henry, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the funds had been sanctioned by Punjab Rural Development Board funds and approximately 4.72 km-long road stretch would be widened, strengthened and constructed at the cost of Rs. 2.62 crore at the Dhogri Industrial Estate.He said tenders had also been given to the Jalandhar-based company and this work would be over within five months as the construction work has already begun. He said this would benefit a large number of industries of Dhogri, and Raipur Rasulpur and would attract more industries to at Dhogri. He said the new industry would offer more jobs to the local youths and hence would help them deal with unemployment.MP distributes cheques for Rs 6.78 cr to 28 villagesMahilpur: MP Manish Tewari distribured development funds to different villages during a public meeting organised at Babora village in Block Mahilpur here on Friday.MP Tewari said that the Punjab government, under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, was committed to the all-round development of villages, so that all kinds of facilities can be provided at the city level even in rural areas.He said that there will be no shortage of funds for development. He also targeted the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and said that on one hand, the soldiers are protecting the country on the borders, on the other side, the farmers are protecting the farming on the borders of Delhi. On this occasion, funds worth about 6.78 crore were provided to 28 villages in the block by MP Tewari for different development works like parks, alleys, drains, clean drinking water supply, roads, etc. While funds have already been provided to five villages.Former MLA Luv Kumar Goldie thanked MP Tewari for releasing funds for development works in the area. He said that there will be no lack of development in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minister-sunder-sham-arora-lays-foundation-stone-of-link-roads-in-dhogri-202363
23-01-2021||Jalandhar||Christian bodies support farmers||Excise Dept raids 3 tobacco firmsJalandhar: The Excise and Taxation Department raided premises of three cigarette and tobacco dealers at Gur Mandi on January 21 evening. The teams were headed by Kamaljit Singh, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner (AETC), Jalandhar II, and Darveer Raj Kaur, AETC, Jalandhar I. The officials said they received a tip-off that these firms were purchasing cigarettes without bills. Paramjit Singh, District Excise and Taxation Commissioner (DETC), said dealers used to transport beedi from Delhi in cars without bills (due to high Goods and Services Tax on these items). “They used to put beedi in cartons and take bill of only one carton. We have taken the stock from five godowns in our custody and have started further investigation,” the DETC said. He said they would recover purchase bills from the dealers. The District Excise and Taxation Commissioner, said, “There is 28 per cent GST on these items apart from 50 per cent cess. Thus, tax evasion is always suspected.” Earlier, raids were conducted in Bathinda and Amritsar. “More raids will be conducted in near future. The drive won’t stop,” said Paramjit. TNSRs 2 lakh given for bar libraryKapurthala: Chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, Karanjit Singh on Friday visited the District Bar Association (DBA) office and handed over a cheque of Rs2 lakh to President DBA, Kapurthala Malkiat Singh Thind for the upgrade of Kapurthala Bar Library. DBA press secretary Pawan Kalia, said Chairman Karanjit Singh also declared one of the members of DBA, Kapurthala, Khalaar Singh Dham as co-opted member of State Bar Disciplinary Committee. Senior members of the DBA, Kapurthala, including JJS Arora, Rakesh Sharma and Harcharan Singh addressed the gathering and presented different grievances being faced by the advocates especially during lockdown before the Chairman of Bar Council Punjab and Haryana. During his address, the council chairman assured them extending all kind of help. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/christian-bodies-support-farmers-202366
23-01-2021||---||Minister Aruna Chaudhary to unfurl Tricolour in Jalandhar on R-Day||Jalandhar, January 22Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday participated in the full dress rehearsal ahead of the Republic Day celebrations at Guru Gobind Singh stadium.During the rehearsal, the Deputy Commissioner unfurled the national flag and the march past was led by parade commander Jyoti Yadav.Thori gave necessary directions to officers regarding fool-proof preparations for the mega event in which Social Security, Women and Child Development, Minister Aruna Chaudhary, would unfurl the Tricolour.The DC said preparations for this mega event were going on in full swing and every effort would be made to make sure that the auspicious day was celebrated with fervour.Deputy Commissioner of Police Arun Saini, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, Sub-Divisional Magistrates Rahul Sindhu, Dr Jai Inder Singh, and Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh, among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minister-aruna-chaudhary-to-unfurl-tricolour-in-jalandhar-on-r-day-202368
23-01-2021||The PG department of multimedia of HMV College organised a webinar on ‘Use of Java and its applications in IT and Multimedia under the initiative of Industry Academia Interface. Sarvesh Chopra||Webinar on ‘Use of JAVA’||Indo-Hungarian classes at KMVJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has initiated an international series of Indo-Hungarian classes. Online international classes have commenced for the students of psychology in which they are studying health psychology from Dr Robert Urban, eminent prof from the prestigious EotvosLorand University, Hungary. A memorandum of understanding was signed recently when KMV Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi visited EotvosLorand University, Hungary. Every week Dr Robert Urban interacts with the students and also provides online videos, presentations and study material to them. Psychology students have interactive classes with Dr Robert where he discusses the concepts in detail and also dispels the doubts of the students. Through these active online classes students are learning how to enhance one’s health and well-being even during adverse conditions and are enriching their intellect and are also getting an immense international exposure. Principal Prof Dwivedi averred that this exchange programme has received much appreciation from the students.Road safety activityUnder road safety month with a theme ‘Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha’, CT Group, in association with Jalandhar Traffic Police, honoured commuters who were following traffic rules during an activity organised at BSF Chowk. The commuters found that observing rules got an appreciation certificate by the traffic cops and members of the management of CT Group of Institution. During the activity, the commuters were checked on following parameters as obeying traffic rules, wearing helmets, seat belt and carrying all required documents. The commuters who were found following all the rules were awarded a certificate, appreciation sticker and a red rose on the spot. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP, Traffic) Harbinder Singh appreciated the effort and said, “When people break traffic rules, they were penalised instantly. But what about those who observe all the rules and drive safely? This time, we have given certificates of appreciation to such commuters so that they can get motivated. We will come up with more such activities for the betterment of society.” Harpreet Singh, vice- chairman, CT Group said, “I congratulate Police Commissionerate especially traffic police team to carry this month-long awareness drive. We have always been supporting them to instill a sense of safe driving among people.”Bioinformatics department resultsThe students of MSc Bioinformatics (Sem II) and (Sem IV) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got university positions and brought laurels to the college. Pratibha Saini got the first position with 454/525. Arvinpreet Kaur got the second position with 431/525 and Akarshita Thakur got the third position with 420/525 in the II Sem. Manpreet Kaur and Robandeep got first position with 1567/1800 Poonam got second position with 1533/1800 and Pardeep Kaur got third position with 1502/1800. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students and faculty of the department for the success.Thank you CardsThe students of KG-II of Innocent Hearts School beautifully wrote messages making ‘Thankyou Cards’. These loving messages were for the supporters of the society who help us in one way or the other. The moment they gave these cards to the supporters of life they made the memories mortal by capturing the pictures and shared them on the Facebook page of Innocent Hearts Group. Alka Arora, Director of Innokids, endorsed the importance of morality and ethics at the very onset of the lives of a child. That is why this activity was conducted, she said. The students were taught to show gratitude for these people and always be appreciative to them. The students participated with verve and such activities aim to encompass the all-around development of a pupil.e-talk for zoology deptDr Sheeraz Saleem Bhat, Scientist at Indian Council of Agricultural Research- Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Srinagar, delivered an e-talk on the topic ‘Livestock Productivity in India: Concerns and measures for sustainable production’. The e-talk was organised by PG department of zoology of KMV College. Dr Bhat highlighted that as per 20th livestock census (2019) India has the largest livestock population in the world. Moreover, the rate of increase in livestock population is 4,85,002 per day. Further he discussed the ways of improving the livestock production and different types of markets available. Finally, he concluded his talk by sharing videos related to the topic with the participants. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi maintained that the talk could open up new vistas for the students. She lauded the efforts of Sadhna Tandon, HoD, for organising the talk.Show and tell competitionIvy World School, organised the ‘Show and tell competition’ in the kindergarten wing. Children described and spoke a few lines about the object of their choice. They even managed to include a social message in their descriptions. Tiny tots participated in the competition with full zeal and enthusiasm as they came up with various interesting objects like model of solar system, solar energy, demonetized currency notes, Olympic rings, medicinal plants, story-book, mobile phone, flag, tree etc. and explained their characteristics in an impressive manner. They also spoke about the life of a pen and how you can save money. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-use-of-java-202374
23-01-2021||National Road Safety Month was held as per which the traffic awareness cell held various workshops and lectures. The traffic police held an awareness drive at the JK Public Senior Secondary School||Follow traffic rules for your own safety||That’s my nature!During a five-day online session of the Parliament Research and Training Institute for Democracy, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal shared his experiences on the environment. The online session started on January 18 in which 20 personalities awarded with Padma Shri addressed, who have done big works of social service in their respective fields. In the final session, Seechewal spoke in detail about the Kali Bein, polluted Sutlej river, Bikaner cancer hospital and works done during the floods. The online session was inaugurated by the Lok Sabha speaker on January 18. Seechewal was the first personality to address the session. In the online address, he raised the issue of farmers and mentioned the works done for farmers in past 20 years. He said the country will survive only if farmers survive. And it is through them that the country will be ‘Atmanirbhar’. Roads, the revival of groundwater levels, reuse of wastewater through Seechewal model among other experiences were shared by him. A documentary film recalled former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. Seechewal shared, Dr Kalam had once told him to always take political personalities to task so that they keep doing their work.Vaccination drive is waxingAs many as 457 people were vaccinated in the district in the Covid inoculation drive held so far. As many as 70 people were vaccinated in Kapurthala on sixth day of the Covid vaccination drive on Friday. Starting with three session sites, the district has branched 10 session sites now. While on Saturday, 120 people were vaccinated in Kapurthala, 128 were vaccinated yesterday and 70 were vaccinated today. The session sites include Civil Hospital Kapurthala, sub-divisional hospitals Phagwara, CH Bholath and Sultanpur Lodhi, the SGL (private hospital), Subhanpur. CHCs Tibba, Fattu Dhinga, Begowal and Panchatta. District Immunisation Officer Dr Asha Mangat said, “The vaccination drive has been going smoothly so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/follow-traffic-rules-for-your-own-safety-202381
