24-01-2021||---||25 test +ve, Jalandhar tally reaches 20,480||Jalandhar, January 23With 25 people testing positive for Covid-19, the tally reached 20,480 in the district on Saturday. With one more death, the toll reached 667. There are 205 active cases in the district so far and 19,608 people have been discharged, while 114 are under home isolation. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw eight persons testing positive for the virus on Saturday.One dies, 21 test positive in HoshiarpurWith one more death, the Hoshiarpur district toll reached 330 on Saturday. As many as 21 new cases were also reported. Of these, 11 were from Hoshiarpur city. An 82-year-old woman of Garhdiwala died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. There are 44 active cases in the district and the number of patients who have recovered is 7,573. Total 8,001 people have tested positive for Covid patients in the district so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-test-ve-jalandhar-tally-reaches-20-480-202896
24-01-2021||Ajay Joshi---||Farmers’ cavalcade leaves for national capital||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, January 23 With tractors, jeeps and cars taking over roads and highways, thousands of farmers from the region left for the Singhu border on Saturday to participate in the ‘tractor march’ to be observed on Republic Day.  Flaunting banners of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) with slogans such as ‘No Farmers, No Food, No Future’ and ‘Repeal black laws’, around 6,000-7,000 farmers and youth under the banner of BKU Doaba first assembled at Phagwara to show massive strength and unity. Apart from organising the langar, the fuel tanks of farmers’ tractors were also filled with diesel by the union workers. After decorating their vehicles with flags and banners, farmers were seen storing ration and other essential items for the next 15 days. Manjit Singh, a farmer from Phagwara, said, they were heading to the national capital to further intensify the ongoing protest against the three farm laws.  “No matter what, we will enter the national capital. With our tractors, we are ready to endure all pain. We have also placed iron rods around the tractors to prevent them from damage during the protest march. We want to show the government that apart from farmers on the outskirts of Delhi, a sea of supporters from across the state will also enter Delhi on January 26. We are warning the government to withdraw the controversial laws, as it’s just the ‘rehearsal’ of the main show,” Manjit said. Satnam Singh Sahni, general secretary of the union, said a large convoy of tractors from Doaba has been sent to the Haryana-Delhi border. Addressing the young brigade of farmers, he said: “The tractor march is being organised to just pressurise the government to not consider the farmers illiterate. We are very well aware of our rights. It seems like the Prime Minister cannot see us or hear us despite having so much strength. He has forgotten that we are the ones who have voted him to power. Through the tractor march, we would like to make an appeal to the government to take back the laws.” Accompanying him, Gurpal Singh, a farmer from Phagwara said: “The tractor march will be observed just to make them hear our voices. We are an extremely peaceful lot and we have no intention of getting into face-offs with any person or authority of any kind. However, we won’t allow anyone to play with our rights and the associated sentiments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-cavalcade-leaves-for-national-capital-202897
24-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Cong declares candidates for 50 wards in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 23 The District Congress Committee on Saturday released the list of party candidates for all 50 wards of the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation.  Addressing mediapersons on the occasion of releasing the list in the presence of Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora, district president Dr Kuldeep Nanda said the election campaign had been formally launched after the release of the list. He claimed that the Congress would win all the 50 seats.  The Cabinet Minister said the Congress was contesting the MC elections on the issue of development and would have a landslide victory. Among others present on the occasion were Rakesh Marwaha, Chairman, Improvement Trust, Sarwan Singh, Rajneesh Tandon and other senior Congress leaders. Other parties yet to announce their candidates The BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party and various other parties are yet to announce the names of their candidates. The Shiromani Akali Dal is said to have agreed on the names of about 30 candidates, but the BJP has not finalised the names so far. The Aam Aadmi Party has also claimed to be contesting from 50 wards, but has not yet officially announced its candidates. Shiv Sena and other smaller parties claim to be contesting from all seats, but no one has released a list of candidates yet. Other parties are said to be releasing their lists of candidates in the next one to two days. Meanwhile, the Congress may face a major challenge in the days to come as many of the ticket aspirants, including some senior party leaders who have been denied a ticket, may pose a challenge to party candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-declares-candidates-for-50-wards-in-hoshiarpur-202899
24-01-2021||Ajay Joshi---||Insurance firm told to pay Rs 1.07L for repudiating claim||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, January 23  The District Consumer Forum has directed the HDFC Ergo General Insurance Company and HDFC Bank to pay Rs1,07,000 to a city-based resident for repudiating the claim of the insurance policy.  In a complaint filed by Naveen Kumar (20), he alleged that the insurance firm denied the claim of his father Mangat Rai Paul, who died on October 21, 2018. He was reportedly working as a Head Constable. Before his death, Mangat Rai had reportedly taken a personal loan from the bank and against the same loan itself, he was insured by the bank under the Master Policy No 2999201366179901, of which the HDFC Bank Limited was the master policy holder. Subsequently, the deceased was insured by the firm after being fully satisfied and premium to that effect as consideration had also been charged by the bsank.  Meanwhile, Paul was kept under medical treatment due to his ailment. Subsequently, he suffered critical illness and he died of heart attack and the policy itself covered critical illness for the sum assured of Rs1 lakh. The deceased even remained hospitalised and was medically treated at Shriman Super Specialty Hospital at Pathankot Road, Jalandhar. Even for the treatment itself, an expenditure of Rs91,000 was incurred, as he remained on ventilator during his treatment.  Apart from coverage for critical illness, the insurance firm had also covered Paul under ‘Credit Shield Insurance’ for sum insured of Rs5 lakh, for which a premium of Rs1,400 was paid. The complainant said his father was regularly paying installments towards loan and on the date of the death, an amount of Rs3,73,775 was outstanding. Thus on account of unfortunate death, as per insurance policy, the complainant and his family were entitled to receive an amount of Rs1 lakh on account of critical illness and further for waiver of Rs3,73,775 on account of credit shield insurance.  Denying the claim, the complainant was provided only with the cover note and no actual detail of the insurance policy was further provided thus violating the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) guidelines.  The complainant said the insurance firm was guilty of unfair trade practice and deficiency in service and it should be directed to remit an amount of Rs1,00,000 on account of critical illness and to provide waiver of outstanding loan amount of Rs3,73,775 to pay damages for mental tension, agony and harassment to the tune of Rs50,000 with interest.  The officials of the insurance firm appeared through its counsel and filed a joint reply, contesting the complaint by taking preliminary objections that the complainant has alleged that policy terms and conditions were not provided by them.  “It is pertinent to mention here that the policy was issued to the insured person and only he could raise objection to it,” the officials of the firm claimed.  After considering the overall facts and circumstances, the counsel of the court comprising its president Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsna, came to the conclusion that the complainant was entitled for the relief as the deceased was covered under ‘credit shield insurance’ as well as ‘critical illness’ as per the policy. The complaint filed under the Consumer Protection Act was partly accepted and insurance firm was directed to pay an amount of Rs1,00,000 on account of critical illness and a waiver of outstanding amount of Rs3,73,775 to remit the installment of Rs12,881 and it was also directed to pay compensation as well as litigation expenses to the complainant to the tune of Rs7,000 for causing mental tension and harassment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/insurance-firm-told-to-pay-rs-1-07l-for-repudiating-claim-202900
24-01-2021||---||Driving change: Empowering women behind the wheels||Jalandhar, January 23 Having trained about 70 girls in driving skills a few months ago, the district administration is all set to again organise a second phase of free driving training camp for 150 girls under the `Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ drive. DC Ghanshyam Thori said the district administration had decided to launch the second phase of this project to make girls self-reliant and skilled in this highly competitive world.  He said in the present competitive world, learning driving skills were quite crucial and sometimes prove to be a game-changer from the employment point of view. The DC said organising such camps for girls to help them seek equal job opportunities was the need of the hour. He said earlier in September, a free-of-cost driving training camp for about 70 girls was organised, which proved to be beneficial for them in many ways. The administration, after the culmination of the camp, also assisted the girls to obtain learner’s driving license from the Transport Department, adding that during the second phase, training to as many as 150 girls would be provided in 12 different classes. Thori said the core motive behind this idea was to make girls self-reliant and help them build confidence so that they don’t miss out on any opportunity due to the lack of driving skills. He added that with this new skill, girls would not rely on others for movement from one place to another. Pointing out further, District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa mentioned that on the directives of the Deputy Commissioner, the bids have been called from the interested driving schools, which would be opened on February 2. The coaching shall include theory and practical sessions simultaneously, with 8 kms of mandatory training during each class, he added. Terming the driving training a unique move, Isha Pushkarna of Basti Danishmanda, a participant of the first camp, said the training would not just build confidence in her but also open doorways of multiple career opportunities for her. She said she also obtained a learner’s driving licence with the help of the administration and this new skill has also scaled-up her confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/driving-change-empowering-women-behind-the-wheels-202901
24-01-2021||---||MP lays foundation stones for Rs 74-L works||Phillaur, January 23 Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary and Phillaur Assembly segment incharge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary on Saturday laid foundation stones of development works worth Rs 74.4 lakh in Bundala and Nangal villages under the Smart Village Campaign scheme of the Punjab Government. Out of this amount, Rs 32.02 lakh would be spent on construction of a bus stand, sitting benches, beautification of panchayat office, submersible bore and sewage system in Bundala, while Rs 42.38 lakhs were allocated for street lights, drainage system, cleaning of pond and installation of RO system in Nangal. MP Chaudhary said, “Demands of people of Bundala and Nangal have been accepted by Capt Amarinder Singh-led government. Ample funds have been released for development works of these villages.” He said, “Upgradation of urban and rural infrastructure is topmost priority of the Congress government.”  In Bundala, the duo participated in Lohri celebrations of 23 new born girls. To strengthen the Congress at the grassroots level, they appointed Inderjeet Singh Indu and Jagroop Singh as president and vice-president, respectively. Phillaur block samiti chairman Davinder Singh Lasara, Rurka Kalan block panchayat samiti chairperson Harjinder Kaur, Phillaur block samiti vice-chairman Jaswinder Singh Jassi, Rurka Kalan BDPO Rampal Rana, Rurka Kalan block Congress chief Rakesh Duggal, Phillaur constituency Youth Congress chief Naveen Sharma, Bundala sarpanch Sarabjit Singh, Nangal sarpanch Jagtar Chand, Chaman Lal, Balwinder Singh, Jassa Bundala, Ashok Phillauri, Surjit Ramgarh, Desraj Jakho and Ravinder Ramgarh, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-lays-foundation-stones-for-rs-74-l-works-202902
24-01-2021||---||Admn writes to NHAI officials to ensure smooth flow of traffic on NH-44||Jalandhar, January 23To ensure smooth flow of traffic and safety of commuters on NH-44, the District Administration has approached National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for construction of a subway at Dakoha railway crossing falling on one of the busiest Delhi-Amritsar rail sections. In a communique to NHAI, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori apprised that the Dakoha railway crossing is just 25m away from NH-44, where an underpass is necessitated in view of heavy volume of vehicular traffic on the causeway to avert road mishaps.He said that Dakoha railway crossing adjacent to NH-44 witnessed long queue of vehicular traffic when trains were scheduled to pass.The DC, who also inspected the site along with officials of Public Works Department (PWD) and Railway, Jalandhar, said that it had become a major traffic bottleneck for the vehicle coming straight on the highway with high-speed, which often causes mishaps here.He said as per feasibility report of the PWD, railway overbridge could not be built at the Dakoha railway crossing due to its proximity with NH-44. However, vehicular underpass could be constructed, as reported by the PWD, which would also give relief to the residents of the nearby areas. Thori said vehicular underpass is the best suitable solution for smoothening traffic-related problems and directed the officials from revenue to start demarcation of land. He said that several people have lost their lives due to mishaps at this black spot and its immediate rectification is required for saving precious lives.In the letter to NHAI Chairman Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, Thori appealed him to direct Project Director Ambala/Jalandhar to prepare a report on vehicular underpass. Prominent among present occasion included SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh, PWD Executive Engineer (B&R) Bhagwinder Singh Tuli, SDO Vishal Kumar, Assistant Engineer Rahul, and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-writes-to-nhai-officials-to-ensure-smooth-flow-of-traffic-on-nh-44-202903
24-01-2021||Jalandhar||‘Dera Ballan uplifted Dalits’||Former Uttarakhand CMand AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat paid obeisance at Dera Sachkhand Ballan and sought blessings of Sant Niranjan Dass. Rawat said Dera Ballan has played an enormous role in uplifting Dalits in Punjab and other parts of the world. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dera-ballan-uplifted-dalits-202904
24-01-2021||Jalandhar||Ankit hits jackpot, wins 2 gold medals||The Day 5 of the District Badminton Championships being played at the Raizada Hansraj Stadium was a junior boys’ affair on Saturday. The finals were played in the under-13, under-15 and under-17 categories among them. In the U-13 singles, Divyam Sachdeva emerged as the winner against Samarth Bhardwaj. While Divyam lost the first set 18-21, he came back stronger to win back the second set 21-6. In the third set, he hit top gear and raced past Samarth 21-10.  The clouds of gloom rained pain for already blue Divyam as he was not so lucky in the U-15 finals as well. He was outwitted by Ishaan Sharma 18-21 14-21. Meanwhile, the day couldn’t have shone brighter for Ankit Soni as he won two gold medals today. He notched a comfortable 21-15 21-12 win against Sarthak in the U-17 singles finals. Both then paired to win another U-17 doubles finals beating Ishaan Sharma and Hemang 21-8 21-7.  Finals of men’s, women’s singles and doubles category will be held tomorrow on the concluding day of the tourney. Matches for the veterans in the 45-plus and 50-plus categories were held today evening. A prize distribution ceremony for bronze winners was also held. The top two position holders in the 32 events are to receive their awards tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ankit-hits-jackpot-wins-2-gold-medals-202905
24-01-2021||Jalandhar||Online session dwells on aspects of copyright||The one-week online national faculty development program (FDP) held in collaboration with Guru Angad Dev- Teaching Learning Centre, SGTB Khalsa College, University of Delhi, on development of e-content and MOOCS in four quadrants sponsored by the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India concluded at Kanya Maha Vidyalaya. The technical session for the last day was delivered by Dr Nisha Singh, deputy director, Centre for Online Education (COE), IGNOU, New Delhi. The topic was “Open Education Resources”. Nisha defined the term and the concept of copyrighting. Throughout her presentation, she talked about various aspects of copyright. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-session-dwells-on-aspects-of-copyright-202906
24-01-2021||---||1,981 vaccinated across 28 session sites||Jalandhar, January 23In a steadily increasing number of session sites and persons being vaccinated per day, as many as 1,981 people were inoculated for the Covid-19 vaccine across 28 session sites in the district here today.While 1,651 health workers, who were vaccinated were private health workers, as many as 330 were government health workers. Of the 28 session sites, seven were government sites while 21 were private ones. The seven government sites include the ESI hospital and CHCs Lohian, Shahkot, Adampur, Kartarpur, Phillaur, Kala Bakra among others.The private sites included Tagore Hospital, Joshi Hospital, Capitol Hospital, Shriman Hospital, SGL Charitable Hospital, PIMS, Patel Hospital, New Ruby Hospital among others. On Friday, 1,595 health workers in the district were inoculated.In all, a total of over 4,500 health workers have already been registered in the week since the vaccination started. In all, 11,800 have been registered for the vaccination drive.Meanwhile, with all government establishments and many private ones also closed on Sunday, the vaccination is expected to be on fewer sites on Sunday.District Immunisation Officer, Rakesh Chopra, said, “It being Sunday tomorrow, fewer centres shall be working. But we expect the vaccination session sites at six to seven private hospitals to carry out the procedure.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-981-vaccinated-across-28-session-sites-202909
24-01-2021||---||12 mgmt students of Rayat Bahra secure jobs||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, January 23A campus recruitment drive was conducted at Rayat Bahra Educity Hoshiarpur by renowned companies including PVH Arvind Fashion Pvt Ltd (Tommy Hilfiger & Calvin Klein) and Pin Click recently.The director principal RBIM Dr Harinder Singh Gill informed that four students of MBA batch-2019-2021 from the department of management studies got placement in Tommy Hilfiger & Calvin Klein at a pay package of Rs4 lakh per annum (LPA) and incentives, with job location pan India.Also five students from MBA were placed at a pay package of Rs5.16 LPA and three students of BBA at a pay package of Rs4.8 lakh per annum got placed in Pin Click.The selected students are Athira Keshav, Dipinder Kaur, Harry, Vishali, Ankush Kumar, Mandeep Kaushal, Sameer Roshan, Shubham Jaswal, Vishawjit Grewal , Rahul Gupta, Ritvik Gupta and Sukhjeet Sandhu.The selected students thanked the institute to provide them with life changing opportunities even during this pandemic situation.Rayat and Bahra Group chairman Gurvinder Singh Bahra said this was a reward for Rayat Bahra’s dedicated commitment of faculty and continuous strive by students to achieve a successful milestone.He congratulated HoD Dr Parul Khanna and her team for this flourishing achievement. The campus director Dr Chander Mohan also give best wishes to the selected students, their families and faculty for this achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-mgmt-students-of-rayat-bahra-secure-jobs-202937
24-01-2021||---||‘Akali Dal (D) to join tractor parade in Delhi’||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, January 23The Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) would join the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26 to support the struggle of the peasants. The patron of Youth Akali Dal (D) and former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said this while addressing a press conference here.He said the BJP was constantly hatching nefarious conspiracies to weaken the peasant struggle but the saffron party leaders had forgotten that farmers and all sections of the farming community were now well aware of the ill effects of these agricultural laws framed by the Center and would continue their struggle till the goal was achieved. He said that Shiromani Akali Dal (D) would give full support to the struggle of the farmers.Commenting on the Congress government in Punjab, Dhindsa said the Congress government had become a government of scams and instead of getting the multi-crore scams investigated, it is giving clean chit to its ministers, which shows that most of the Congress ministers are completely corrupt and stuck neck deep in corruption. He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had not fulfilled any of his promises made to the people of the state.Declaring the appointment of Satwinderpal Singh Dhatt Ramdaspur as Hoshiarpur district president, he said with the appointment of Ramdaspur the party would be stronger in the district.Dhindsa was accompanied by district president Satwinderpal Singh Dhatt Ramdaspur, Avtar Singh Johal, Kulwinder Singh Janda, Sant Karamjit Singh and Sant Balvir Singh Tibba Sahib, Sant Tarlochan Singh Dera Virakt, Parminder Singh Pannu, Jarnail Singh Dheer and many others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/akali-dal-d-to-join-tractor-parade-in-delhi-202938
24-01-2021||Jalandhar||Ekampreet, Hargun win gold||BD (SEM VIII) ResultsStudents of BD (Sem VIII) of Apeejay College of Fine Arts have bagged top positions in the results of Guru Nanak Dev University. Ridhi Ohri, Priyanksa, Cherry Bagga, Simarpreet K Gujral, Gayatri Sharma and Palak have stood first, second, fourth, sixth, seventh and ninth, respectively, in the university. College Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students and wished them to work hard in future too. She appreciated Rajni Gupta, HOD - department of design and Rajni Kumar for guiding the students.National Girl Child Day celebratedWomen Welfare Committee of MGN College of Education celebrated National Girl Child Day through virtual mode on the theme ‘Empowering girls for a brighter future’. On this day, student of the college Ramneet through her speech elaborated the importance of girl empowerment. Liview with her poem reciprocated the relevance and need of ‘Naari Shakti’. Vidhi with her speech expressed her hope with women empowerment as girls hold the key to a better future. Konica Sehgal with a video inspired women to give wings to their dreams. Shivani Passi with her self-composed poem ‘Kanya Shashaktikaran’ appealed for providing equal opportunities to women. Navreet Kaur with her melodious song ‘Betiyan’ touched the emotions of the audience. Principal Neelu Jhanji said that celebrations of such days are important as it helps in promoting awareness about the right of the girl child and to increase awareness on the importance of girl education and their health and nutrition. The event was hosted by Milan Madhuri Mahanta. The entire event was coordinated by Dr Radha Arora and Anju.PTM heldKeeping in mind all the safety, hygiene, and distancing measures, HMV Collegiate Sr Sec School held the first parent-teachers meeting of the session to well inform and discuss the academic performance of students in pre-boards conducted earlier in this month. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen appreciated the initiative taken up by the school and she also said that the academic commitments are over and above the challenges. She also thanked the parents for their active participation in enabling and providing their children with the facility to attend online classes throughout the session. Meenakshi Syal said that every effort will be made by the institution to provide proper education to the students at the academic level as well as at the non-academic level so that they can become a good citizen and can also illuminate the name of their institution, teachers and parents. The parents also expressed their contentment for the persistent efforts of the school to conduct various webinars catering to the needs of students from different streams that kept them engaged in the online interactive sessions also. On this occasion, Punjabi department of the school displayed an exhibition depicting traditional Artifacts of Punjabi culture and heritage. History and economics department also displayed projects based on history and economical facts and figures.FDP on Cyber SecurityThe department of computer science and engineering, University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Sant Baba Bhag Singh University organised a six-day Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on ‘Cyber Security’. The FDP programme received an overwhelming response with 155 participants from different colleges and universities of the country. It was organised in collaboration with IIT Kanpur. The resource person for the FDP was Rahul Gupta, Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT), and EC Council Certified Security Analyst, IIT Kanpur. The workshop was specially designed to give the best knowledge to enthusiasts. It reviewed the weaknesses of various sites by discussing the technical background behind it and by actually performing the attacks on dummy websites. The various topics discussed in the FDP were introduction to ethical hacking, footprinting and reconnaisanace, Scanning networks, system hacking, social engineering and sniffing. The tools and operating system used were footprinting, scanning and system hacking. At the end of the workshop, the faculty understood how different security measures can be used while using the web browser issues and be shaped up with hacking skills that are highly in demand. They were also able to analyse and understand the procedure to resolve the security issues in the networks and computer systems to secure IT infrastructure. They also understood the human role in security systems with an emphasis on ethics, social engineering vulnerabilities and training. All the participants enjoyed practical hands-on experience and learnt a lot.Birth Anniv of Netaji celebratedOn Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary, Eklavya School, Jalandhar, organised an online modeling competition for tiny tots, while the students of primary classes participated in online flag making competition and a virtual speech competition was held for the students of middle and senior school. JK Gupta (Chairman of the school) threw some light on ‘Nationalism’. Seema Handa (director) and Arvinder Kaur (principal) also explained the importance of ‘the role of citizens in nation building.’TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ekampreet-hargun-win-gold-202939
