25-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmers raring to join Kisan Gantantra Parade||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 24With the Delhi Police finally granting permission to farmers to hold the ‘tractor march’ in Delhi on Republic Day, elated farmers termed this decision as a step closer to getting the three controversial farm laws repealed.No sooner did the news of permission for the tractor march spread, social media platforms were abuzz with posters and messages of ‘Kisan Gantantra Parade’ i.e. tractor march on social media. From Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and Instagram to YouTube, farmers were seen sharing messages about tractor march. Some farmers said it was a big boost for them and a further motivation for many others, who were yet to reach Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders for the tractor parade.Amarjot Singh, the youth president of BKU (Rajewal), Jalandhar, said it’s an immense victory for farmers. He said: “Sarkar nu permission deni hi paini si. (The government was bound to give permission). For us, this is a victory. However, the real victory would be on the day, when these three black laws would be scrapped. Farmers’ protest has become one of the longest, peaceful and non-violent protest not just in the country, but across the world, too! The entire international spotlight is on farmers’ protest and we will lead by example.”He shared that the enthusiasm of farmers was on cloud nine. “Even on Sunday, over 100 tractors left for Delhi from Samrai, Jamsher, Pholariwal, Sarhali, Jandiala and other villages. While small villages were sending around five to six tractors, big villages were sending 15 to 20 tractors each. We have arranged funds for farmers, who cannot afford hefty diesel expenses and buses for women and children, who want to participate in the tractor march,” he said.Another farmer, Gurpreet Singh Atwal, also the spokesperson of Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said by now, the Modi government has understood that the farmers would not listen.“It is good that the Delhi Police gave permission for the tractor march, as even the government knew that there was no other option. Farmers were already upbeat about the tractor march, but this development has given them a big reason to cheer. After all, we are also the citizens of this country and have every right to so.Farmers were also seen sharing messages of ‘Dos and Don’ts’ of tractor march in Punjabi on social media, where the prime emphasis was laid on peaceful, disciplined and a dedicated march for their cause. Notably, the farmer unions had already announced that no ‘political party flags’ were allowed in the tractor march. Farmers were informed that only Tricolour and farmer union flags were allowed.As all roads leading to Delhi were flooded with tractors till late night and even on Sunday morning, farmers from other rural areas such as Phagwara, Adampur, Nakodar, Shahkot, Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi, Begowal were also seen carrying enough supply of ration. “Though, all unions and independent groups have got enough ration, we were informed to bring more of it. Our aim is to participate in the protest and ensure its success,” said Harminder Singh, a farmer’s son heading to Tikri border.Vipan Pal, another young farmer from Adampur, also said the moment he got to know that Delhi Police had granted permission for the tractor march, he decided to leave for Singhu border. “I had already planned to attend the tractor march, but this development boosted my morale. We would be leaving on Sunday night with a group of over 15 people from surrounding villages in cars,” he said.Notably, the farmers’ unions were conducting meetings with the Delhi Police to reach a consensus. On Saturday evening, Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav had informed that the police have given them permission to conduct the tractor parade. The Delhi Police have announced that they would remove the barricades at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders for the tractor march on January 26.Healing touch: Medicines donated to agitating farmers Jalandhar: As the farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws entered its 60th day, many of them have been supporting the cause in their own unique ways. From setting up the blood bank at the Delhi-Haryana borders to supplying all essential items to farmers, people are doing their bit to contribute towards the historic protest. Members of a city-based social service group ‘Vish Foundation’ have also come out in support of peasants and donated medicines to the farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders. The youth distributed all essential medicines to farmers. “In case of emergency, these medicines can be used by food growers away from their homes for almost two months now. While they are camping outside in such cold weather, we have brought some essential medicines that will come to their aid,” said Vish Karam Pal Singh Dhiman (29), the owner of the foundation. The donated medicines include; Vitamin C tablets, nasal drops, anti-rash treatment, Vitamin B12 capsules, crepe bandages, cough syrups, packets of petroleum jelly, vics and cofsils, diclofenac spray and tube, paracetamol tablets, painkillers and others. Dhiman said the medicines were stocked after consulting doctors working at the borders to providing medical aid to farmers. Petroleum jellies, bandages and multivitamins were in demand at the protest sites. TNSEnthusiasm at its peak as farmers proceed to DelhiJalandhar: The enthusiasm is at its peak these days not just among farmers, but everyone expressing solidarity with them. As scores of farmers leave for Delhi, they are receiving so much love and appreciation on the way. Residents salute them and raise hands in respect. Rakesh Kumar, an industrialist, said the moment he sees tractors marching, he wants to let them know that everyone is with them. Hundreds of tractors moved towards the Singhu and Tikri borders and 300 tractors of Kirti Kisan Union alone marched towards the capital from Nawanshahr on Saturday. Youngsters, women joined the procession and expressed their desire to add more strength to the movement. Gurbaksh Kaur, president of Istri Jagriti Manch, said history clearly tells that whenever women have become a part of any movement, they have always won. She said: “Women are playing a very important role in this movement and for Republic Day, we are fully prepared.” Ravinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, said preparations started days ago. “We formed teams, made people aware and asked them to join us. Before we could convince them, they were all ready to accompany us. We have never seen such a response in any other movement before,” he said. Farmers have been saying that the support for them was evident as residents were with them and supporting them. “Some saluted us while we marched past them, others flashed a thumbs up sign and raised their hands in respect. It is a great feeling. This is our win,” a farmer said. Slogans were also raised against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and farmers relayed the messages on loudspeakers as they proceeded for the big parade on January 26. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-raring-to-join-kisan-gantantra-parade-203290
25-01-2021||Dr Calm||A medico with natural healing powers||Aparna BanerjiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 24Having joined the medical services 27 years ago, he was famously referred to as a ‘one-stop-shop’ in the medical profession for his calm approach as a doctor as well as an administrator. When the vaccination drive started in the district, he was the first to be vaccinated because he was thought to be the apt inspiration for others.Having negotiated a fair bit of landmines in his over two decade-long stay in the medical services, Dr Kashmiri Lal retired as SMO at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, in December last year, the day the notorious pandemic year 2020 ended. Having served as the overall Covid in-charge and having handled the worst of the pandemic times in Jalandhar, Dr Lal is now looking forward to a private practise from his own home.Having joined the medical profession at the CHC Panchatt in Kapurthala, he pursued MD medicine at the Medical College, Patiala. He had been working at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, since November 2006.While he has worked at the hospital in some of the most trying outbreaks – dengue and swine flu – you could say that working during the Covid pandemic was another weighty asset to be noted down in his CV.The go-to doctor for many patients in such trying times, sharing his mantra for popularity, Dr Lal said, “In government health services, most patients are from poor backgrounds. They want someone polite to talk to them…someone who listens to them. That is the only thing I did. And I tried to provide them with their needs. If they get the right treatment and a doctor gives them a patient hearing, things get right.”He has had his fair share of abstruse, awkward moments. He’s had patients intruding into the OPD to click pictures and interrupt work. Moreover, he’s pacified many hotheads, with as cool a disposition as ice, during the busy dengue times, who would ask him ‘why he was the only doctor on duty!’“Patients have different approaches and some don’t want to listen or understand. But it’s our job to handle all kinds of people,” the 59-year-old underlined.During Covid while serving as in-charge of the ward, he was credited to have patients’ wards, addresses and histories on his tips. He recently also won appreciation form from the district administration for his services.“I was called the ‘one-stop-shop’ during the Covid,” he quipped, before swelling, “I was appreciated by former DC Varinder Singh with the nickname. But I was just doing my duty. One of the patients asked for fans and cleaner toilets, another asked for a TV. The key was being patient because for everyone it was a new experience. In the beginning there were several hiccups to Covid treatment. But as a joint team we overcame them all. I am happy that I could serve patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-medico-with-natural-healing-powers-203291
25-01-2021||Jalandhar||Will try to revive Sports College: Jalandhar DC||Aiming to bring back the glorious days of the first Government Arts and Sports College in Punjab, DC Ghanshyam Thori said the district administration would make efforts on a war footing to restore the prestige of the college in the upcoming months. The DC along with a battery of officials inspected the swimming pool, athletics track, gymnastics, boxing and multipurpose indoor hall. He said he would ensure complete makeover of the facilities, including sports infrastructure, grounds and equipment here, which would encourage budding players from across the state to join this prestigious institute. Thori said he was well-aware about the history of the college, which has remained a nursery of international sportspersons and produced hundreds of players of national and international repute since its inception in 1961. The officials of the Sports and PWD Departments informed him that the works of the college’s main building, hostel block, internal roads, new pavilion block, gymnasium hall have been completed, but some progress was pending in the completion of the multipurpose indoor hall and playground, following which the DC rang up the higher officials and sought immediate release of grant of around Rs3.94 crore. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-try-to-revive-sports-college-jalandhar-dc-203294
25-01-2021||Jalandhar||15 test +ve in Jalandhar district||With as many as 15 new Covid cases, the district tally reached 20,495 on Sunday. No death was reported in the district and the toll remained at 667. There are 192 active cases so far and 19,636 people have been discharged. As many as 109 people are also under home isolation. Meanwhile, Kapurthala saw as many as nine new Covid cases on Sunday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-203295
25-01-2021||---||NRI from California spends lakhs on mineral water for protesting farmers||Jalandhar, January 24NRI Satwinder Singh from Bagga village in Jalandhar came to Punjab a year ago. Living in California for the past 20 years, he came back only last year. Little did he know that he would be staying here for longer than he decided.When the farmers’ movement began, he went full throttle to participate in the campaign. For the last two months, Satwinder has gone all out to participate in the movement. He has been organising langar for farmers and those who are going to be a part of the movement.Satwinder said, ‘Until now, we have brought mineral water worth Rs 10 lakh, along with the support of other volunteers. Right now, we are just 4 km away from Fatehgarh, where we provide water bottles to those who don’t have it,” he said.Satwinder said while towards Singhu border he met a group of people who had ration with them, but not water. “So, I decided to organise a langar of water for the passers-by,” he said.Singh said he was a farmer himself and couldn’t see their pain. “Asi apne bhrava layi khade haan. Jo vi zarurat hai, poori karange (We are there for our brothers, will provide them whatever they need).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-from-california-spends-lakhs-on-mineral-water-for-protesting-farmers-203296
25-01-2021||---||300 attend talk on emerging trends in engg & mgmt||Jalandhar, January 24 Having organised only webinars for the past nearly 10 months, an offline conference was held at Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus on Saturday. The conference was held on ‘Emerging trends in engineering and management’ in which more than 300 faculty members from India and abroad, i.e. Ghana, South Africa, Kenya and Australia participated and exchanged their ideas and views on the topic. Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKG-PTU, Kapurthala, was the chief guest of the day. Dr RK Gupta, Vice-Chancellor, Agarsen University Solan, was the guest of honour. Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma said the conference came at the most opportune time as the entire world was on its heels to fight the pandemic. During this period of lockdowns and inactivity, such forums harness hidden knowledge and creativity of scholars to contribute to the pool of education in the fields of engineering and management.  In his key note speech, Dr Sonia Singh, Director, Toss Global Management, UAE, said, “Emerging technologies have the ability to put a positive impact on our society and offers exciting new teaching options for teachers and new learning options for students. It can enhance the learning process and outcome by making many difficult topics much easier to cover, minimise the learning time, eliminate the risk, and reduce the cost effective. Universities should increasingly look at emerging technologies and use them for the higher order skills to offer flexible, more effective, low-cost educational environments to the students.” Dr Upasana Singh, senior lecturer, University of Kwazulu Natal, Durban, South Africa, highlighted the benefits of ‘Big Data Analytics: A Paradigm shift in Management and Technology’. Dr Inderpal Singh, HoD, management, and Dr Pooja Dhand, HoD,CSE, coordinated the conference and presented the valedictory report, in which they highlighted that more than 100 papers were presented by research depicting the emerging trends in management, computer science, civil engineering, electronics and communication engineering, mechanical engineering and applied science. Dr RS Deol presented a vote of thanks to the dignitaries and paper presenters. He stated that in current scenario curriculum and pedagogy is to be designed as per the need of industry. Earlier, the conference started with the lighting of lamp by Balbir Kaur, president governing council, of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/300-attend-talk-on-emerging-trends-in-engg-mgmt-203297
25-01-2021||---||Manya, Madhav clinch badminton titles||Jalandhar, January 24Madhav Kanojia and Manya Ralhan won the much-coveted men’s and women’s titles, respectively, in the six-day District Badminton Championship that concluded at Raizada Hansraj Stadium here on Sunday.Final matches for both titles were held on Sunday. While Manya defeated Ria Kundra, Madhav competed with Manmohit Sandhu in the final. The final matches in all categories and the prize distribution function was screened live on FB and YouTube pages of the District Badminton Association.DC Ghanshyam Thori was the chief guest and he distributed prizes among the winners of different categories. He lauded the efforts of District Badminton Association for organising such a mega event, while strictly adhering to the Covid-19 safety guidelines. He called upon youth to take up some sport in their lives, as it would enable them to be physically fit besides infusing a sense of confidence in them.Member of the interim committee and former national player Ritin Khanna said as many as 387 entries were received for the tournament with multiple-level participation of 200 players in six days. He said around 32 events were organised during the championship and players participated in different categories ranging from under-11 to veteran category of players aged above 50.Cash prizes and gifts worth Rs1.50 lakh was distributed among winners besides other consolation prizes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manya-madhav-clinch-badminton-titles-203298
25-01-2021||---||Students enjoy patriotic ride ahead of 72nd R-Day||Jalandhar, January 24 As part of the Republic Day celebrations, Mayor World School organised ‘India’s Glory on Wheels’ for the students of Mayor Galaxy and Grade I and II here on Sunday. As a part of the patriotic ride, children visited the school in their well-decorated vehicles (car, scooter, bike, bicycle, etc) depicting the ethnicity and culture of the state of their choice. The families were dressed in traditional attires of different states of India. Chairman Rajesh Mayor, vice-chairperson Neerza Mayor, director Sarita Madhok, deputy vice-principal Charu Trehan and headmistress of Mayor Galaxy Aarti Gulati graced the occasion. The young Mayorites looked all excited to return to their synagogue, their temple of learning. The patriotic fervour seemed to have warmed up the cold winter afternoon. An interaction with teachers, which the children had been missing for a long time, brought cheer to their faces. A tableau of Punjab was beautifully represented by Mayor World School. The students, doing bhangra and giddha, exhibited exuberant performances and charged the whole atmosphere. The ambient music and vibrant songs added to the charm and gaiety of the event. In this first ever drive-through event, the students entered the school premises from gate No.2 and exited from gate No.3. The students enthralled the gathering with their beautiful words about their country, celebrating its unity in diversity and rich culture. Before leaving, they were supposed to leave a loving message in the drop box for their teachers. The children were also given small boxes of sweets as a token of love and appreciation. The event turned out to be a stupendous success. The school management appreciated the enthusiasm displayed by students, parents and teachers. The day filled everyone’s hearts with nationalistic zeal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-enjoy-patriotic-ride-ahead-of-72nd-r-day-203299
25-01-2021||Jalandhar||Free coaching for banking exam||Mini-marathon promotes peaceJalandhar: The Vajra Corps held a mini-marathon at the Jalandhar Cantonment to promote national integration, peace and harmony as part of the 73rd Army Day and Republic Day celebrations under the theme ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh 2021’. A large number of serving Army personnel and their families participated. Similar events were also organised at the adjoining military stations of Ferozepur, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Beas. The highlight was the enthusiasm and patriotic fervour displayed by all. The event saw the incorporation of the ‘Green India Initiative’, in which plants were presented to the participants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-coaching-for-banking-exam-203301
25-01-2021||Open House||‘Enhance budgetary allocation to healthcare sector’||Centre and state should chart a planThe world will still continue to face uncertainties and agonies relating to viruses and flues till the medical scientists are able to invent real causes behind such unfortunate incidences and come out with preventive medications thereof. Keeping in view the time taken and the quality of research work carried out after the emergence of the deadly virus, the possibility of such a miracle still eludes the medical fraternity all over the world. Given such a scenario, the best available options are massive upgradation of existing health infrastructure with emphasis on reorienting healthcare about increasing medical immunity in general and in children and senior citizens with co-morbid diseases in special. As our Constitution keeps the health portfolio in ‘concurrent list’, both the Centre and states are bound to work in unison to prepare the blue print and time-bound implementation of such a national programme. To begin with, both the federal entities should enhance their respective budgetary allocation to health sector which presently is in need of drastic changes. Besides this, the Centre should raise a massive ‘contingency fund’ over the period to make its use during future emergencies emanating from unpredictable viruses and flues in order to deal speedily and efficiently for preventable casualties. Given the present experience of dealing with Covid-19, more national laboratories for testing and diagnostic purposes are needed. In addition to this, the capacity and capability of manufacturing emergency equipments like PPE kits at a short notice are required to be enhanced drastically.Jagdish ChanderQUESTIONNow that the Covid vaccination drive has started and fresh cases are on the decline, should parents send their children to school as the Punjab Government has allowed resumption of classes from Class V onwards?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 28).Quality does make a differenceCovid-19 makes no difference between rich and poor but a lot can depend on the quality and cost of treatment. It varies from state to state and private to public hospitals. It doesn’t cost anything in some states while others have to pay a hefty amount depending on the hospitals. Government should make the charges and package for testing, treatment and medicines fixed so that even the poor can afford it. The package should be used by all the empanelled hospitals for Covid care treatment. Some percentage of beds should be there for critical patients in all public hospitals. Of course government hospitals offer free treatment but the attitude and infrastructure are substandard. Government should raise the standard of such hospitals with proper ICU, ventilators support and provide free medicines to poor who can’t afford. Government should ensure a thorough transparency in their schemes. Hospital’s top priority is well-being of patient. They should feel comfortable and safe during their stay. Create a well-balanced team with good PR to communicate. There is no danger of avian flu to humans but can infect if one happens to be around sick birds. Health facility will automatically improve if the condition of hospitals is improved.Shashi KiranGovt hospitals should be given more fundsIt is a matter of pride that India has received widespread international appreciation for the control and treatment of the coronavirus despite its huge population size, courtesy imposition of the lockdown, enforcement of mandatory health and safety protocols, invention of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines and the ongoing mass inoculation drive to boost immunity. Although the country has witnessed a steep slide in the number of positive cases and fatalities, the possibility of a second surge or emergence of a new strain cannot be ruled out. In order to deal effectively with any public health emergencies that might be more contagious and lethal than Covid and the avian flu for human health, economy and environment in future, the government should bring substantial systematic changes in the existing public healthcare facilities and infrastructure because the private sector, with its eye on profit-making, is exorbitant and beyond the reach of the common people. The medical authorities should also identify and plug various loopholes encountered during its handling of the current crisis, such as the failure in anticipating the disease and recognising its enormity and severity in time, poor preparedness and apathetic policy response to take necessary medical safeguards. They should give timely, truthful information regarding the safety, quality and adverse effects, if any, of the vaccines to win public’s confidence and cooperation in their drive against the pandemic. There should be a quantum increase in budgetary allocations for the public healthcare sector. Involving private hospitals, industrial houses and NGOs, keeping a tab on pricing and fair supply of jabs, and strict implementation of precautionary measures are some other imperatives.DS KangTake cues from other countriesAs far as the health infrastructure in our country is concerned, the conditions are pitiable, more so in the public sector. Though the private sector hospitals are well-equipped but they charge hefty fees. It creates trouble for the middle class and the poor – unless they are covered by insurance companies or are in government services as their expenses are reimbursed. Though there have been some improvements in the public sector health facilities, but not to an optimum level. The pharmaceutical companies also exploit the people with exorbitant prices for their medicines. The government needs to upgrade the facilities in the public sector hospitals so that people have confidence in them and don’t have to run to the private hospitals. The rural sector health facilities need more upgradations. It is unfortunate that health and education have a low priority in the government thinking as budgets are concerned, both at the central and state level. Compare it to Asian tiger economies which have invested heavily in both health and education services so that the people are healthy and educated which will automatically result in better living conditions and progress. It is good that the government has offered free vaccinations to the health and other frontline workers. More people, particularly the weaker sections, should also be freely inoculated.Dr JS WadhwaGovt needs to do something productiveThe medical care of India is not up to the mark and people are grappling with ailments. The downtrodden people of our society lost their lives since they do not have superior medical facilities. The government should provide all the facilities to those who are encountering financial problems. There are innumerable afflictions faced by common man at the hospitals. For instance, they do not have adequate funds, are not being provided with beds at hospitals, they are being ignored by hospital staff, etc. In such a situation, the government needs to do something productive.Saahil HansPvt, govt hospitals must work in tandemThe private sector plays a significant role in delivering healthcare services to people in developing countries. By some estimates, more than one-half of all healthcare – even to the poorest people – is provided by private doctors, other health workers and other non-state actors. The government needs to find ways to work with the private sector to accelerate progress toward high-priority health objectives. Household decision-makers in developing countries often choose private providers because they respond more to patients’ needs or preferences. People value the convenience, flexible payment plans, and ease of access to healthcare providers and drugs at private health homes. They also value the closer locations and more responsive services. India’s public expenditure on health as a percentage of the GDP is far lower than countries classified as the ‘poorest’ in the world. India’s public expenditure on health now stands at 1.28 per cent of the GDP, but even then, it is way lower than the average expenditure of poor countries. The viral diseases are going to define how medical and surgical sciences are going to be practised in future. Since the explosion HIV, HCV, HBV, swine flu and now Covid, the habitat flora of surgical patients is changing. We will need to develop dedicated and specialised viral units in hospitals which will exclusively cater to these patients in a perfect isolation. The human resource department for such dedicated units will also need to be developed. This way a normal patient who is not infected with deadly viruses will be able to avail treatment. Remember it’s this latter subset of patients which suffered the most because the whole attention as well as the resource was diverted to Covid.Dr Rakesh Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/enhance-budgetary-allocation-to-healthcare-sector-203303
