26-01-2021||---||Tractors turn into tableaux for Republic Day march||Jalandhar, January 25‘Jhuke nahee kat gaye, oh si asi’, ‘Kheti andolan da saada nayak Dulla Bhatti’, ‘Baba Banda Singh Bahadur ne duniya vich pehli vaar aam loka nu zameena de maalik banaya’, these are some of the messages written on various tableaux prepared by the farmers of Sanyukt Morcha for the Republic Day march.During a protest by the Kisan Morcha in 1938, five Ghadar revolutionaries — Sardar Santa Singh, Sardar Sohan Singh Bhakna, Darshan Singh Pheruman, Fauja Singh and Karam Singh Cheema — fought for the rights of farmers. They were arrested and tied to chains at the Amritsar railway station.The iconic picture also finds a spot on the tableaux.Gurtej Singh from Mehatpur village, who is the grandnephew of Santa Singh — one of the Ghadarites — said: “The morcha has also been circulating information regarding the tableaux in detail. Farmers are sending out a clear message — repeal the three laws. Kheti Sangharsh Zindabad has been written on some of the tableaux.”Holding the picture of five Ghadarites and walking on foot continuously for four days, Singh, from Mehatpur village had reached Singhu border to support the protesting farmers earlier this month.Anganwadi workers mark their presenceAnganwadi workers are also going in hordes to Delhi borders and offering their services there. An anganwari worker, Krishna Kumari, from Jalandhar is at the border with several other workers. Nirlep Kaur, from Phillaur, said she came back from Singhu on Sunday and has been holding protests back in Phillaur too. “We are protesting at the toll plaza and supporting farmers,” she said.Elaborate security in place for celebrations Jalandhar: The Commissionerate Police have made elaborate arrangements to ensure foolproof arrangements for security during the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday at the local Guru Gobind Singh stadium.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Monday finalised the security arrangements for the function at the venue. He said in view of the Republic Day celebrations, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police had made elaborate security arrangements in the city.Bhullar said security had already been beefed up and the entire area around the venue of the event cordoned off by the police. The Commissioner of Police further said around 1,000 police officers had been deployed to keep a strict vigil.He said CCTV cameras had been installed at the venue for keeping a regular check in and around the stadium. Security had also been enhanced in the city to check any sort of anti-social activity, he said.Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a round-the-clock vigil was being kept in the city for which various police patrolling parties had been formed. Likewise, he said senior officers had been instructed to conduct night domination exercise in the city to closely monitor law and order situation. Bhullar said a control room had been set up at the stadium to constantly monitor the situation. He said regular anti-sabotage checking was being done in and around the stadium, besides the deployment of firefighting and medical teams.Meanwhile, he also held a meeting with senior officials at the stadium and took stock of the security arrangements at the ground level. He also passed on necessary directions to the officers/ officials for the smooth conduct of this mega event. — TNSAIG Khakh selected for CM’s medalJalandhar:Harkamal Preet Singh Khakh, Commandant 7th battalion, PAP, having the additional charge of AIG Counter Intelligence (Jalandhar zone), is among the eight Punjab Police personnel, who have been selected for the coveted Chief Minister’s medal for outstanding devotion to duty. CM Capt Amarinder Singh will confer the medal to them during the Republic Day function in Patiala. All eight police personnel have been selected for the award for displaying consistent performance at work. A decorated police officer, Khakh has been selected for the medal for his outstanding performance as AIG, CI (Jalandhar). He has been instrumental in busting various terror modules in the past few years and attempting to wipe out the gangster culture from the state. Khakh has also played a vital role in the campaign against drugs initiated by the Punjab Government. A big haul of heroin (50-kg) was seized by the police team led by Khakh at one go in Phagwara in 2009, which till date remains one of biggest recoveries by the Punjab Police till date. Khakh joined the Punjab Police as an Inspector in 1994 and was posted in various districts across the state as Inspector, DSP and SP before being promoted as SSP in 2016. He received the DGP’s commendation disc from then DGP, Punjab, Suresh Arora for his outstanding performance as SSP Amritsar (Rural). Since 2017, Khakh has been handling the dual charge of Commandant 7th Battalion of PAP and AIG, CI (Jalandhar zone). Other personnel to be awarded include DSP (city) Bathinda Gurjit Singh; DSP Harwinderpal Singh and Gurcharan Singh SSOC Amritsar and Mohali, respectively; DSP Arun Sharma and ASI (LR) Kashmir Singh from the STF; Inspector Binderjit Singh and ASI Pawan Kumar from Jehan Khalan. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tractors-turn-into-tableaux-for-republic-day-march-203612
26-01-2021||---||Spirits high, patriotic zeal all-pervasive in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 25The Republic Day marks the day when India formally adopted the Constitution as the guiding document and became an independent republic. Special assemblies, patriotic songs, poetry sessions, dances, slogan writing and speeches marked the Republic Day functions held at different parts of the city and in schools and colleges as a prelude to the national festival.The authorities taught students lessons in maintaining patriotic spirit and remembering the sacrifices of the revolutionary leaders for the country. Kids got dressed up like freedom fighters as a part of the celebrations, which were held partly on online and offline mode.State Public SchoolA special assembly was held for the students of State Public School, Jalandhar Cantonment, as a part of the celebrations. Students presented gala performance on this eve. Different patriotic songs were sang by the students of different classes. A few students dedicated poems to the motherland and sacrifices done to gain freedom. It concluded with Principal Savina Bahl’s thoughts. Students were told, “Constitution is not a mere lawyer’s document, it is a vehicle of life, and its spirit is always the spirit of age.” The National Anthem was played at the end.Ivy World SchoolIvy World School celebrated Republic Day in the kindergarten wing. Educators explained the importance of this day followed by medley of patriotic songs, slogans and speeches by the little Ivyians. The dance performances given by the tiny tots had a glimpse of unity in diversity. Their performances helped them understand the value of a free nation and the sacrifices our ancestors had made for the country’s freedom. Principal S Chauhan, while addressing children, highlighted the significance of the day. They were told, “A nation’s culture resides in the hearts and souls of its people.”Cambridge International School, PhagwaraCambridge International School celebrated the 72nd Republic Day with patriotic zeal and fervour. Young students sang patriotic songs and poems. An incredibly informative as well as interesting speech was delivered to enlighten the gathering about the significance of the day. Next was a scintillating dance performance which kindled the patriotic spirit in every Indian heart.Innocent Hearts GroupStudents from pre-school to college of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions took part in the Republic Day celebration with great enthusiasm. Several activities were organised to align with the theme of ‘proud to be an Indian’ and ‘rejoice in the glory of the nation’. All activities were organised online. Children expressed gratitude and respect towards the nation. Online poetry recitation competition was organised on Zoom. Under the theme ‘nanhe desh bhagat’ tiny tots recited poems full of love for the nation. They wrote thoughtful slogans on Republic Day. Students celebrated the forthcoming day with great verve.Pyramid CollegeThe 72nd Republic Day was celebrated with gaiety and patriotic fervour at Pyramid College of Business and Technology. The ceremony commenced with the unfurling of the national flag. This was accompanied by the rendition of National Anthem led by students. The programme moved forward with an incredible display of parade by students. The energetic performances were then graced through dancing, singing, poetry, speech and play by students of various departments filling the crowd with great energy and enthusiasm. The heartfelt renditions of patriotic songs aroused the feelings of love and brotherhood among all. All faculty, staff and students stood together to take oath at the event which emphasised to abide by the Constitution, promote harmony, stay away from the menace of drugs and to defend the women and culture of the country. The hour-long ceremony culminated with the release of tri-coloured balloons.DAV Public SchoolRepublic Day celebrations were held at DAV Public School keeping in mind all the safety norms. The staff and the students paid tribute to all the freedom fighters and leaders of India. To commemorate the day, speeches were delivered by teachers and they exhibited their pride in being an Indian by singing the national anthem and patriotic songs.Shri Ram Ashram Public SchoolThe students of Shri Ram Ashram Public School, too, held the celebrations with great zeal and enthusiasm. Though it was an online celebration due to the risk of pandemic, students paid their tribute to the patriots who laid down their lives through a medley of patriotic songs, delivered speeches on the lives of our great patriots and also presented a short play. President of the school, Balbir Bajaj, advised the students to get inspiration from the martyrs and leaders and encouraged them to work for the nation with dedication and honesty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spirits-high-patriotic-zeal-all-pervasive-in-jalandhar-203621
26-01-2021||Jalandhar||Vote judiciously, youth told||Working women hostel in Doaba soonJalandhar: In a major initiative aimed at ensuring protective and comfortable stay for working women, the Punjab Government is set to establish the first working women hostel in Doaba to be constructed at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said to ensure women empowerment, the state government had been making stupendous efforts for constructing a working women hostel in the city. He said this hostel was required to ensure quality living atmosphere for the women who were working in the city after coming from other parts of the country and state. Thori said acceding to the demand of the district administration, the Ministry of Women and Child Development has given its consent to construct the working women hostel in the city. The DC further said the multi-storey building would come up at Gandhi Vanita Ashram, Kapurthala road, and would house 80 working women besides 20 day care children. He said the building would come up at an area of 36,000 sq feet and first instalment of Rs 1.36 crore for the project has been issued by the ministry. Thori said the total expenditure for constructing the building was Rs 4.5 crore, which would be borne by the Union, state government and implementing agency in the ratio of 60:15:25, respectively. Meanwhile, the DC said the work on the project would start soon and would be completed within the coming 24 months. He said working women hostel was a sub-scheme of the Centrally-sponsored umbrella scheme ‘Mission for Protection and Empowerment of Women’. TNSRight to Business: First certificate issuedJalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori on Monday issued the first certificate under the Punjab Right to Business Act — 2020 to Tushar Jain for setting up an auto manufacturing unit. The DC, accompanied by ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal, handed over the certificate to Jain for starting an auto-manufacturing unit in Jandu Singha after he applied at the Business First Portal. The DC said under this Act, all NOCs related to set up a new enterprise would be completed within 15 days after applying at the ‘Business First Portal’. All formalities and NOCs related to the new business/ business start-up would be awarded through this single medium in a record time, he said, adding that the Department of Industries and Commerce had taken this new initiative to promote the business in the state besides providing ease of doing business with the required approvals. General Manager DIC Deep Singh Gill urged industrialists to avail the benefits of ease of doing business initiatives for various regulatory clearances and fiscal incentives through Business First portal of the Department of Industries and Commerce, Punjab. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vote-judiciously-youth-told-203622
