28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar NIT develops service robot for use in hospitals and by security agencies||A multi-purpose service robot ‘Cutebot' has been developed by Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, for multiple uses, including in a hospital environment as well as by security agencies for surveillance.The robot is also enabled with a wheeled mobile platform.Doctors and medical staff can interact with patients of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases through the audio-visual screen of the robot while sitting in their rooms as it is equipped with a camera and voice communication system, an official statement said on Thursday.They can help in guiding patients on medicines and also deliver refreshments in the isolation wards.For security personnel, it can help in surveillance and in some other required areas, it said.The robot has been designed jointly by Kuldeep Singh Nagla, Associate Professor and a specialist in robotics and automation, and Professor LK Awasthi, director of the institute.It was recently unveiled by Chairperson of Board of Governors of NIT Jalandhar Subhash Chandra Ralhan here.The robot can carry around 15 kg weight in the hospital environment besides doing some other jobs.Nagla said Cutebot can be controlled both through the internet and wire-based joy stick within a radius of 25-30 meters. It moves at a variable speed with a maximum of 22 meters per minute.It can easily maneuver between two hospital beds. After continuously working for a minimum of two hours, the robot can be recharged. It can also adopt independent UV light disinfector on its platform, he said, as per the statement.Besides, it can further be used as an electronic cart to carry garbage, hospital waste and other materials in the hospitals. It can also be used as a station inside the hospital wards to monitor the activities around the patient.The same robot can be used in domestic environments to attend to elders or disabled persons, in hotels and marriage ceremonies to serve food, among others.“Interestingly, the robot can easily be modified to control from several hundred kilometres through the internet just by changing the software. This up-gradation may prove to be suitable for security agencies while working in operational fields,” Nagla said."Costing between Rs 2 to Rs 2.5 lakh after mass production, the Cutebot is unique because of its low cost as compared to other such robots available in foreign markets,” said Prof Awasthi.He said it could rotate its head, which is a screen, more than 360 degrees to communicate.He said the institute had transferred the technology to a Gujarat-based company for its mass production and commercialisation.Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for Atmanirbhar Bharat, the faculty and students of the institute have filed more than 50 Intellectual Property Rights in the form of patents, copyright and designs during the last couple of years, he said.He also said that during the pandemic time, the institute had transferred five technologies to the industry and products invented by NIT Jalandhar are in the market now. These are air purifiers, facemasks, ultraviolet cleaner, among others, Awasthi added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-nit-develops-service-robot-for-use-in-hospitals-and-by-security-agencies-204637
28-01-2021||---||Projects worth Rs 23.44 crore announced for Jalandhar district on R-Day||Jalandhar, January 27Women and Child Development Minister, Punjab, Aruna Chaudhary announced a slew of projects worth Rs23.44 crore for the development of the district during Republic Day function on Tuesday.Unfurling the Tricolour during the district-level function organised at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium, the minister, accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar announced 80 development projects for the district, including water supply and sanitation project in 64 villages worth Rs21.34 crore; construction of streets, playground, parks and stadiums in 14 villages worth Rs1.09 crore and water supply and sanitation works in Partapura Market worth Rs1.01 crore. She also announced the upgrade of Government Middle School, Khusropur, to a smart school.The minister also reminded people of the enormous contribution of Punjabis in the national freedom struggle. Citing that above 80 per cent people, who were either martyred, exiled or imprisoned for life were Punjabis, she said the brave Punjabi soldiers have always safeguarded the integrity of the country from external aggression and internal disturbances. Besides, she said the hard working and resilient Punjabi farmers made the country self-reliant in food production despite having just 2.5 per cent of country’s total area. The minister said Punjabis were all the more proud for this sacred land, from where the pivotal movements of freedom struggle such as Kuka, Pagri Sambhal, Ghadar, Gurdwara Reform, Babbar Akali and others were spearheaded.She said the state government was committed towards the welfare of all sections of society, especially the poor and the disadvantaged ones. Chaudhary said Mata Tripta Mahila Yojana, approved by the Punjab Government, is an effort to empower women-headed households in the state. Around 7,96,030 households are headed by women as per the Census 2011 and the objective of this new policy was to empower such households, who have an adult female and the sole or main income earner and decision-maker.The minister categorically said the Punjab Government was fully committed to safeguarding the interests of farmer community in the state. She said Punjab was the first state in the country to repeal the three anti-farmers’ laws framed by the Modi government.Earlier, the minister took salute from an impressive parade comprising the contingents of the Punjab Police, Home Guards, PAP, Police Band, NCC, Bharat Scouts and Guides led by IPS Jyoti Yadav.The minister honoured renowned personalities in recognition to their outstanding performance in their respective fields. Prominent among those present on the occasion were MLAs Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Sushil Rinku, Avtar Singh Bawa Henry, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, chairman District Planning Board Manoj Arora, Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, SDM Rahul Sindhu, and SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh.ITBP contingent adjudged best at R-Day paradeJalandhar: The contingent of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was adjudged the best contingent of parade during the Republic Day celebrations here on Tuesday. Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary handed over the prizes to the winners. Inspector Pardeep Kumar of the ITBP received the prize on behalf of the contingent whereas Sub-Inspector Bhushan Kumar-led Punjab Police (Men) contingent received the second best prize. The contingent of the Rapid Action Force led by Sub-Inspector Ali Sher Malik received the third prize. Likewise, the contingents of the Punjab Police (Women), the Punjab Home Guards, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) Boys and NCC Girls bagged consolation prizes. The minister also felicitated parade commander IPS Jyoti Yadav who led the march past. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/projects-worth-rs-23-44-crore-announced-for-jalandhar-district-on-r-day-204267
28-01-2021||---||117 Covid warriors, staff awarded in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, January 27People of Punjab were urged to work for the unity and integrity of the nation by safeguarding the democratic values of the country.Those honoured52 government officials and employees were also awarded for their distinguish services in official capacity.Addressing people here at Guru Nanak stadium after unfurling the national flag, Cabinet Minister for Medical Education and Research, Freedom Fighters and Food Processing, OP Soni, on Tuesday said: “Our great Constitution has provided equality and brotherhood to its citizens, ignoring their caste, religion etc. and we must ensure the democratic values in the country to remain intact.”On this occasion, tableaux were also presented by the Health, Education, Municipal Corporation, Agriculture and Rural Development departments, of which the Education Department’s tableau won the first position, followed by the Health and Agriculture Department.Earlier, the minister also distributed sewing machines and tricycles to the needy. The parade and march past was commanded by DSP Sandeep Singh Mand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/117-covid-warriors-staff-awarded-in-kapurthala-204268
28-01-2021||Jalandhar||Eight government schoolteachers honoured||Cabinet Minister Aruna Chaudhary honoured a team of government schoolteachers who had been instrumental in developing ‘Punjab Educare App’, to give a fillip to online education during the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, on Republic Day event held in Jalandhar. The teachers include Deepak Kumar of Government Senior Secondary School, Nurpur; Jaswinder Singh of Government Middle School, Rampur; Harjit Kumar of Government Senior Secondary School Boys, Goraya; Haridarshan Singh of Government High School, Basti Bawa Khel; Chander Shekhar of Government Senior Secondary School, Ladowali road; Omeshwar Narayan of Government High School, Sheikhe Pind; Sharanjit Singh of Government High School, Jalbhe; and Dharampal of Government High School, Patara. The teachers were without any technical background, but having an innovative bent of mind coupled with dedicated efforts evolved the ‘Punjab Educare app’, to help both teaching faculty and students to have an easy and hassle-free access to study material from pre-primary to Class XII. The ‘Punjab Educare App’ has syllabus, text books in pdf format, video lectures, worksheets, assignments, quizzes, ‘Ajj da shabad’ and ‘Udaan sheets’ among others. The app has ensured complete implementation of ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ through simplified learning material, new structure of papers, question banks, and revision tests. “The ‘Punjab Educare App’, which was launched by Education Secretary Krishan Kumar on July 11 last year, has emerged as a pioneer in digital education. So far, it has more than 21 lakh users and around 16 crores page views. Its rating is 4.5 out of 5,” said Deepak Kumar of Government Senior Secondary School, Nurpur.Former headmaster felicitatedEx- headmaster Sanjivan Dadhwal of Government High School, Patara, was also honoured on Republic Day for his services and his contribution to society by donating blood for the 100th time. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-government-schoolteachers-honoured-204269
28-01-2021||Jalandhar||145 personalities honoured in Jalandhar district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/145-personalities-honoured-in-jalandhar-district-204270
28-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Resolve farmers’ issues on priority, Channi urges Centre||Hoshiarpur, January 27Urging the Centre to immediately scrap the three contentious farm laws, Punjab Technical Education, Tourism & Cultural Affairs and Employment Generation Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday demanded that these anti-farmer laws be repealed without any further delay in the interest of the country’s peasantry.He was addressing a gathering after unfurling the national flag here at the local Police Lines ground during the district-level 72nd Republic Day function. Channi said the Centre should resolve the farmers’ issues amicably instead of imposing the farm laws forcibly on them.He said, “Today, all of us are celebrating the historic day when our Constitution was implemented on January 26 in 1950. We are facing many challenges to safeguard the constitutional values. Agriculture is the state subject as per the Constitution. The Centre should not violate its ambit and avoid its unnecessary intervention in the farmers’ issues.”Talking to mediapersons, Channi said the Punjab Government had already initiated tourism projects worth Rs 500 crore. After the completion of these projects, Punjab would emerge as a leading destination on the tourism map. The tourism sector was showing signs of recovery with the renovation and facelift of historic and heritage buildings and the development of new tourist sites.On the plight of Floating Restaurant at Sirhind, the minister said the construction of a new highway had affected its business. He said the Punjab Government was contemplating reviving the restaurant, which would be the centre of attraction for travellers.He said the state government had released Rs 103 crore for the Minar-e-Begumpura project at Khuralgarh and the work on the project had restarted which would be completed by September.Referring to the appointment of staff in polytechnics and ITIs, the Technical Education Minister said almost all vacancies had been filled in polytechnics and the department had already written to the government for filling the posts in the ITIs across the state.Earlier, the minister accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal and Parade Commander Gurpreet Singh Gill inspected the parade and took salute from the impressive march past comprising one each contingent of the Punjab Police, the Police Recruits Training Centre (PRTC), Jahan Khelan, the Punjab Police (Women) and the NCC.Channi also felicitated 57 doctors/health workers, police personnel and others for their remarkable services in different fields during the Covid-19 crisis.The family members of various freedom fighters were felicitated at the doorstep in view of the Covid-19 directions and protocols.Residents suffer due to VIP cultureWhile the state government had been boasting of shunning the VIP culture but on Republic Day it seemed the VVIP culture replaced it. Commoners and employees had to face difficulty due to the preparations made for the minister’s and VVIPs’ visit. The road, from where the minister had to reach the parade venue, was surrounded by security personnel. The roads connecting the Police Lines and the PWD Rest House were blocked by barricades. The internal road connecting the Civil Lines area and the Mall Road via Mahantan Da Bagh was blocked for long and no one was allowed to pass it as the minister was there. Then the other road from Street Food (besides Mall road to the PWD Rest House) was also blocked. People were forced to take long detours and even those residing in the area had to take diversions to reach home. While the minister was on his way to the Police Lines, the security personnel deployed on the road were seen forcing commuters to stop and park their vehicles on the roadsides. Even people with disabilities were made to park their vehicles behind the parade ground and walk all the way across the parade ground to reach the viewers’ stands. The minister’s vehicle was parked in the temporary ‘VVIP Parking’ lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/resolve-farmers-issues-on-priority-channi-urges-centre-204271
28-01-2021||---||DC unfurls Tricolour at Nawanshahr||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-unfurls-tricolour-at-nawanshahr-204272
28-01-2021||---||Pilgrim train departs from Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 27Jyotirling Yatra (NZTT05), a new pilgrim special tourist train, started from the city railway station on Wednesday.Providing a tour of six days, seven nights, the train has been launched by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) to serve those passengers, who want to undertake spiritual solace and those devotees who are desirous of visiting various holy places across the country. The train will conclude its journey on February 3.As a key boarding station, the train departed from Jalandhar around 7am on Wednesday. The boarding points of the train includes Jalandhar City, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Ambala Cantt, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Delhi Cantt, Rewari, Alwar and Jaipur. The de-boarding also includes the same stations.A railway official said after travelling 4,240 kilometre, the yatra would cover pilgrimage sites including Omkareshwar, Ujjain, Ahmedabad, Nageshwar, Ahemdabad, Dwarka and Somnath.Kick-starting its first voyage, the tour special train is AC as well as non-AC, fair for which has been kept Rs12,600 and Rs7,560 for each person, respectively. The package also includes meal plan for breakfast, lunch and dinner. The train has a siting capacity for over 720 passengers.The official also said the IRCTC paid Rs19,67,850 to the Railways to run the train.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pilgrim-train-departs-from-jalandhar-204273
28-01-2021||---||2 killed in road accidents||Jalandhar, January 27A 60-year-old woman was crushed to death and her 40-year-old relative had a narrow escape after a speeding truck hit their two-wheeler on the Transport Nagar road.The deceased has been identified as Paramjit Kaur, a resident of Nangal Salempur.She was heading towards her home with Jasvir Chand when a speeding truck hit them from the rear.Sub-Inspector Nirmal Singh said the woman died on the spot as truck ran over her. “Paramjit died on the spot. Jasvir lost control over his motorcycle when the truck collided with it. The truck driver escaped from the spot. We have seized the truck,” said Nirmal.The woman is survived by two sons and six daughters.In another incident, a 42-year-old man lost his life on Tuesday after a truck hit his motorcycle. While he died on the spot, his son received grievous injuries. The accident occurred around 8.30 pm near Dhani village on Jandiala-Phagwara road.The deceased has been identified as Harmesh Lal, a resident of Sarhali village. His son, Rahul, has been admitted to a hospital.Jandiala police station in-charge Gurvinder Singh said they had arrested the truck driver from the spot. The accused has been identified as Amar Singh, a resident of Bathinda.A case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC has been registered against the truck driver at Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-killed-in-road-accidents-204274
28-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur MC building inspector caught taking bribe||Hoshiarpur, January 27The Vigilance Bureau (VB) nabbed Municipal Corporation Hoshiarpur’s building inspector Gaurav Thakur red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 for approving the site plan of a shop. Along with him, the mediator, an architect has also been arrested.Giving this information on Wednesday evening, DSP Vigilance Niranjan Singh said Billa Dilawar, a resident of Mahilanwali on Una Road, had given a complaint to the VB.He said in Balvir Enclave in Bajwara he had purchased land for a shop. He had applied to the Municipal Corporation for approval of the site plan to build the shop. The complainant had alleged in his complaint that Gaurav Thakur, the building inspector of the Municipal Corporation Hoshiarpur, was repeatedly rejecting his file. He then re-applied online through architect Davinder Singh of local Milap Nagar, Prabhat Chowk. It was alleged that the architect told him that the building inspector Gaurav Thakur was allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 10,000 to pass his file and later the deal was settled for Rs 5,000.The complainant said the architect told him that Gaurav would not take the money directly from him but only through him (architect Davinder) because he had already done work for him and taken money through him. DSP Niranjan Singh said while taking action on the said complaint, a plan was made to nab the accused. While executing the plan, the VB team led by inspector Manmohan Kumar nabbed Gaurav and architect Davinder accepting bribe from the complainant.A case has been registered against them under Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-mc-building-inspector-caught-taking-bribe-204275
28-01-2021||---||Jalandhar logs 26 more Covid-19 cases||Jalandhar, January 27With 26 more cases, total number of Covid positive cases in the district on Wednesday reached 20,541. The number of deceased persons due to Covid in the district remained at 669 on Wednesday. The active cases in district are 176 and 19,696 people have been discharged, while as many as 88 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar. In Kapurthala district three persons tested positive for Covid on Wednesday.6 new cases in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported six new case Covid-19 cases in the district on Wednesday. With this, the total number of positive patients increased to 8,025. The auhorties reported no death today and the toll remained at 331.Out of six patients, two are from Hoshiarpur city and four patients are from other health blocks of the district.At present, the district has 73 active cases while the number of recovered patients stands at 7,621. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-logs-26-more-covid-19-cases-204276
28-01-2021||Jalandhar||Delhi Public School||Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School held a special online assembly to mark the 72nd Republic Day. Students virtually presented the importance of Constitution. Tricolour was unfurled and students joined online for the National Anthem. Rachna Monga, Principal, said everyone must believe in true efforts and look forward for better innings even during the testing times. She said with necessary measures the school was set to welcome students with an assurance for new learning phase.Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeRepublic Day was celebrated by the Army and Air NCC Wings of Lyallpur Khalsa College on the college campus. The event was presided over by the Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. He said the freedom that everyone was enjoying because of the sacrifices made by the martyrs and freedom fighters and it was the duty of every citizen to make efforts to work for the progress of the country. He urged students to recognise not just their rights but also their duties.KMV CollegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya hoisted the National Flag to mark the celebration of Republic Day. The flag hoisting ceremony was performed by Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi. On the occasion the faculty, NCC cadets and the hostel staff were present. The flag was hoisted to the chanting of ‘Vande Mataram’ and the ‘National Anthem’. In her address, Prof Dwivedi averred that this Republic Day celebration is dedicated to our brave soldiers and martyrs. Prof. Dwivedi exhorted everyone to remember that many valiant and precious lives had been lost during the freedom struggle. She also made everyone aware about Fundamental Rights granted by the Constitution and also maintained that along with their rights, the citizens should also remember their duties towards their beloved motherland. It was indeed a celebration dedicated to the freedom of our beloved motherland.HMV CollegeLieut Sonia Mahindru, Associate NCC Officer, of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, honoured by the Cabinet Minister Aruna Chaudhary on 72nd Republic Day celebrated at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium for her remarkable contribution in NCC during Covid-19 pandemic under the guidance of 2nd Pb Girls Bn Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated Lt. Sonia Mahindru for this achievement and lauded her for bringing laurels to the institution. Continuing with the empowering tradition at HMV Principal Sareen expressed hope that many NCC cadets would follow Lieut Sonia Mahindru’s footsteps. She also thanked the District Administration and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.DAV UniversityDAV University celebrated the Republic Day in the presence of Vice-Chancellor (Officiating), Dr Jasbir Rishi; Registrar (Officiating), Dr KN Kaul; Dean Academics (Officiating) Dr RK Seth, Deputy Director Sports, Dr Yeshbeer Singh; coordinators of various departments, faculty, staff members, students and their parents. The function commenced with the unfurling of the National Flag by Vice-Chancellor (officiating), DAV University, Dr Jasbir Rishi. It was followed by the National Anthem and parade by DAV University students. Registrar (officiating) Dr KN Kaul delivered the vote of thanks and expressed pride in the rich cultural past of the country. He motivated the students to serve the nation and perform their best. The programme concluded with the distribution of sweets to all and the patriotic song was also sung by the student. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delhi-public-school-204279
28-01-2021||Jalandhar||Girl students felicitated||CT Public School marked National Girl Child Day in which a few girls studying under the ‘Malala Scheme’in the school were felicitated. On this occasion, CT Group’s co-chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi motivated the girls along with their parents, especially mothers, to strengthen the spirit of girls and provide equal respect and opportunities to them. Further, she distributed blankets to these girls.CT Group Managing Director Manbir Singh, Principal Daljeet Rana and vice- principal Sukhdeep Kaur were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girl-students-felicitated-204280
28-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Simple living and high thinking||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 27Balraj Singh Khehra, a known personality from the city, Roadies winner (2016) and former Mr Punjab runner-up is going to take a big step in his life this year. He got engaged two days ago and will be getting married in coming months.His agenda for this year is clear: “to spread a message that there is no need to spend lots of money on the marriages.”Khehra will go for a simple marriage in the presence of family members. “My fiancee is a Defence officer. And we both have decided that we will not do what others in Punjab mostly do. They push the boat out on marriages…we are not going to do this,” he said.“It is a common thinking that girl’s father gives a lot in marriage. I don’t want to get indulged in any kind of lein-dein (give and take). I want to give a message to youth that this is how you should enter into a new relationship,” Khehra added.He revealed that there was an exchange of only Re 1 in their engagement and didn’t accept anything else. He said that those who cannot spend much also get intimidated by others and spend excess money just because of societal pressure which is wrong.Recently, Khehra has also been extending support to the farmers’ stir. He said that the movement has united everyone which is the biggest success.Know Khehra?While growing up in a small village, a dream of becoming an actor was nurturing in Khehra’s mind. To achieve them, he took part in Mr Punjab in 2014 and finished second in the competition. Thereafter, he set sail and gave auditions in the Punjabi film industry. Balraj had then developed a grouse that people from the Punjabi film industry would say that he was not a ‘known face’ so he could not get a chance to appear in the films. Later, he took it as a challenge and headed to accomplish his ultimate dream. Then Roadies happened and he won the show. Balraj is a trained fitness trainer and has a team called ‘fitness freaks’ that gives training to celebrities and businessmen. He has also played the role of Boota Singh in a show based on Battle of Saragarhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/simple-living-and-high-thinking-204281
28-01-2021||Jalandhar||National Voters’ Day celebrated||MGN College of EducationThe Electoral Literacy Club of MGN College of Education celebrated Voters’ Day through virtual mode. A student of the college Shaurya informed about the historical background of ‘Voters’ Day’. Roopinder Kaur with her speech elaborated the importance of voting and its impact on Nation’s growth. Shorya and Ramneet Kaur with their poems motivated the audience to use their right to vote. At the end of the event, audience took pledge to contribute positively in the democracy of the nation with their right to vote. Principal Neelu Jhanji said that voting is a significant root of India as future of the country lies in the leader that we choose. She also encouraged youth to cast their votes without fail to participate in the development of the country. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-voters-day-celebrated-204284
28-01-2021||Government Primary Smart School||Hailed for the good work||Left SAD, Muslim leaders join CongMuslim leaders of Panshta block announced their exit from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and joined hand with Congress. The leaders of Muslim community joined Congress in the presence of MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal. Those who left SAD include, Roshandin, Hussain Din, Surnam, Mohammad Bakshir, Mohammad Hussain, Surnam Ali, Liakat Ali, Dalvir Ali, Sharif Ali Hussain abd Naghi Shah. Block Congress Committee President Sanjeev Bagga, Rinku Walia, Raju Bhagatpura, Harbansla, Jang Bhadur and others were present on the occasion.(Contributed by Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hailed-for-the-good-work-204285
