29-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||NRIs remained misinformed due to suspension of internet, say farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 28Amid the suspension of the internet services on the Delhi-Haryana borders, farmers from the region, who had participated in the tractor march to the national capital, rued that they were not able to communicate with the Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) from the state about the actual situation.From donations to lending support to the agitating farmers from the beginning of the kisan andolan, NRIs have been playing a vital role in the movement. They have also been launching virtual campaigns to strengthen the farmers’ stir. However, post the tractor march, they are either ‘misinformed’ or are being provided half-baked information.Romi Singh (48), a farmer from Phagwara, said his friends and relatives have been involved in the protest for the past two months now. “While many have already returned, a large section of NRI diaspora is still supporting us through social media. We have lost contact with them in these two days. Farmers back home told us on voice calls that the NRIs were confused about the entire episode. Having received videos and photos of the incident through leading news channels, some NRIs have also condemned the events of the day. They still seem to be divided over the issue,” Romi said.Having roots in Phagwara, Charanjit Singh, who has been staying in Canada for the last several years, said he couldn’t get the live report of the tractor march. He expressed his sympathy with farmers, who suffered lathicharge and endured tear gas. To prevent any disturbance of peace and public order, the internet suspension was extended in the few district of Haryana late on Wednesday evening.The order to interrupt the internet services was issued in view of the potential threat to the law and order situation. Only voice calls were made available, said, Manjit Singh, a leader of BKU, Doaba.Upset, Manjit said the young generation who have moved abroad were supporting the protest and also launching agitation against the contentious farm laws in foreign land. Interestingly, a huge quantity of flags and badges, related to farm unions, have been exported abroad in the last 60 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-remained-misinformed-due-to-suspension-of-internet-say-farmers-204989
29-01-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Down but not out, say supporters||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 28It was depressing to see what conspired at the Red Fort on Republic Day, but everything was clear by the evening, when we got to know that some miscreants were behind this entire activity, say those who had gone to Singhu border to support farmers in the tractor parade.They said they would still be a part of the movement in the coming days and such mischievous acts by a few would not dampen their spirits.Kulwinder Singh, a teacher from Mundi Cholian Government School, had gone to Delhi on January 25 to support farmers. “Badi nirasha hoyi pehle din. Loki vi nirash si. (We were disappointed the first day. People, too, were disheartened). The energy with which we had gone there vanished completely when we heard about the incident of some people going towards the Red Fort and insulting the nation’s pride by installing another flag. But it was in the evening, when things were cleared and we were told that one group was responsible for the same,” he said.Singh said people were expecting some notorious people to dilute the strength of the farmers’ movement and the same happened exactly on January 26.“But when we came back on Wednesday, we were contented to know that the trust was back and people were still there,” he said.Jasvir Singh Sandhu, another government schoolteacher, said the spirit completely died down the moment the news of this incident started coming out. “Everyone was really upset. But we knew deep inside that those who wanted to see the movement die a slow death would definitely do something like this. Within hours, people knew that genuine farmer leaders won’t resort to such activities,” he said.Another teacher Harpinder Singh shared the same thoughts. “Asi jadi gaye, asi bade utsahit si, thodi der layi udas vi hoye. (When we went there, we were extremely excited). But eventually, everything got fine.”He expressed that the agents of the Centre were involved in this activity. They were the ones who took some gullible youngsters with them and carried out this illegal activity. “But those who understand that anything is possible in politics, will understand that farmers are a genuine lot,” he said."Badi nirasha hoyi pehle din. Loki vi nirash si. The energy with which we had gone vanished when we heard about the incident. But it was in the evening, when things cleared out and we were told that one group was responsible for the same."— Kulwinder Singh, teacher from Mundi Cholian Govt School"Everyone was really upset. But we knew deep inside that those who wanted to see the movement die a slow death will definitely do something like this. Within hours, people knew that genuine farmer leaders won't resort to such activities."— Jasvir Singh Sandhu, govt schoolteacher||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/down-but-not-out-say-supporters-204990
29-01-2021||Jalandhar||Railways, Roadways services hit||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/railways-roadways-services-hit-204991
29-01-2021||---||BJP sports cell condemns Red Fort incident||Hoshiarpur: The members of the BJP Sports Cell, Punjab, organised a protest demonstration against the Red Fort incident in Delhi on Tuesday by holding the Tricolour in their hands on Thursday. Raman Ghai, state convenor of the BJP Sports Cell, said the national flag of the country was a symbol of peace and dignity for every resident and its insult was like treason, which would not be tolerated at any cost. A case of sedition should be filed against those, who insulted the Tricolour and the accused should be put behind bars, he said.  Ghai said such anti-social people were a threat to the unity and integrity of the country. The government should deal with such elements strictly, so that no anti-social element can harm the peace and tranquility of the country. He said every farmer respects the national flag of India and in honour of the national flag of India, many freedom fighters of the country as well as Punjab have laid their lives and humiliation of the flag would not be tolerated at any cost.  Ghai wished early recovery for the policemen injured in the Red Fort incident. Pankaj Sharma, Gaurav Walia, Manoj Sharma, Raj Kumar Saini, and a large number of workers were also present. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-sports-cell-condemns-red-fort-incident-204992
29-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Vaccination drive picks up pace in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 28The Covid-19 situation seems to be improving in the district. Not only this, even the process of the Covid vaccination has picked up pace. There are 17 live centres in the district where the vaccination is under way and 2,500 health workers have been vaccinated in the first phase so far. No side-effect of the vaccine has been reported in the district till now.DC Apneet Riyait said this while addressing residents during the District Public Relations Office’s Facebook page. She said about 8,000 health workers of the district would be vaccinated in the first phase. The frontline workers will be vaccinated afterwards. She said if any doubt persists in anyone’s mind, they could contact the health experts.Sharing information about ‘all-under-one-roof-services’ at the Sewa Kendras, the DC said now, 35 services of the Transport Department were being provided under one roof in all 25 Sewa Kendras of the district. These services are available from 9 am to 5 pm from Monday to Saturday. She said the services available at Sanjh Kendras have also been started in Sewa Kendras.One dies, 7 test +veHoshiarpur: An 82-year-old man from the Civil Lines, Hoshiarpur, succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. As many as 7 new Covid positive patients have been traced in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases is 57, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,643. Out of the seven patients, four are from Hoshiarpur city and three are from other health blocks of the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-in-hoshiarpur-204993
29-01-2021||---||Finally, an award for taking care of forsaken wards||Jalandhar, January 28Running a home for abandoned girls in the city, Parkash Kaur is all set to become one of the recipients of the Padma Shri awards to be conferred by the government later this year. Her social work towards running ‘Unique Home’, a centre where she is taking care of 80 orphan, unwanted and unclaimed girls at Nakodar road here for the past 27 years, has finally been recognised.Parkash, who is the lifetime managing trustee of the Bhai Ghanaiya Charitable Trust running the centre, says she herself was dealt the wrong hand by her parents and knows the pain that each of the 80 girls were going through. She was brought up at Nari Niketan in the city. As the girls lovingly call her mother, she takes them for excursions to hill stations. Known to provide them best dresses, she takes them to top-end shopping malls and has enrolled the girls in the best of private schools and professional colleges for their studies. She even celebrates their birthdays together every year on April 24 and has married off 15 girls, all raised at her centre.Owing to the goodwill earned by her, ‘Unique Home’ has been getting good donations. Canadian minister Harjit S Sajjan and business tycoon Neeta Ambani have been some of the prominent figures to have visited. Parkash says, “The award makes me realise that I need to work even more hard towards my goal. My real award will be when no parent will shun his daughter and leave them to die on roads.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/finally-an-award-for-taking-care-of-forsaken-wards-204994
29-01-2021||---||All work, low pay: SSA staff awaits job regularisation||Jalandhar, January 28  Maadi hundi e theke vaali sharaab, te usto vi maadi sarkaar di theke te naukri. The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA)/ Mid-Day Meal Contractual Employees’ Union has released a sarcastic poster attacking the state government seeking regularisation. Union members announced in Jalandhar on Thursday that they would be holding a march on January 30 in Abohar and gherao the residence of PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar.  Flaying the state government, the staff members said the government was sending a Covid-19 positive patient person to a 14-day quarantine period, but it itself was in quarantine for the past three years because they were hardly working and not paying heed to their demands. Ashish Julaha, one of the active members of the union, said, teachers appointed under the SSA in 2018 were regularised by the government, but the non-teaching staff that was appointed much earlier was still working on a contractual basis, which was not right on the part of the government. They have been demanding regularisation for long. They said nearly 1,000 employees in Punjab had been working on contractual basis and were getting meagre salaries. The protesters said most of the employees were getting wages ranging between Rs 4,000 to Rs 15,000, which was not acceptable. “Is it even possible to run families with such a meagre income?” they asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-work-low-pay-ssa-staff-awaits-job-regularisation-204996
29-01-2021||---||Guru Nanak’s Bein(g)||On a mellow chilly wintry day the tree-laden banks of the Kali Bein, in the midst of the pandemic, are exceptionally calm and tranquil. Laughter from a lone bunch of tourists and an occasional whirl of a bike engine are the only sounds making inroads into silence and interrupting sweet crooning of the birds. The Bein flows gleefully – its characteristic dark waters canopied by the shadows of the sky-embracing trees swaying on the banks look like an abstract painting, limned by nature’s lily hands.The holy town of Sultanpur Lodhi could have lost it all almost 21 years ago. Thanks to the efforts undertaken by Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal who spearheaded the Kar Sewa movement that led to the cleaning up of the stream’s bed and himself waded shoulder-deep to uproot weeds, muck from the water hyacinth-ridden Bein. Eventually, water released from the Mukerian Hydel Project got the river running through the town. However, today there are some fresh threats such as modernisation, development and tourism on the horizon for the recently-revived Bein.The geographyOriginating from the natural springs at the Dhanoa village, the Kali Bein flows for 165 km ending at the confluence of the Beas and Sutlej rivers at the Harike Pattan. A historical well at its originating point has been neglected long due to a dispute over its ownership. Its deep springs and overflowing waters are now reduced to several feet of murky waters. However, the Bein has been kept alive by the Mukerian Hydel Channel. It is also the key source of water to the Kanjli Wetlands, a Ramsar site.Guru Nanak Dev’s first loveGuru Nanak Dev’s loved the rivulet for this is where he drank life’s nectar and attained enlightenment. It’s believed that he took a dip into the Kali Bein and emerged out three days later — enlightened. While the first Sikh Guru disappeared one morning near the beri at the site of the present-day Ber Sahib gurdwara, the spot where he stepped out, is now marked by the Sant Ghat gurdwara, built to commemorate the historic event. The mool mantar was also recited at the same site. This spot is now getting another addition – the Mool Mantar Sthan, a huge circular building which shall house a multimedia museum and a museum of Guru Nanak Dev.Doomsday nearing?The rampant colonisation of its previously untouched and pristine banks is stoking concerns. The kar sewa and subsequent Seechewal model of groundwater revival attracted a string of stalwarts such as former President APJ Abdul Kalam, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan and so on.On the 550th Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev, lakhs of devotees took a dip. The occasion also marked several new projects, bridges, plantation and beautification work in the town and on the banks. In 2000, when Sant Seechewal started the clean-up task, the banks were totally concrete-free only surrounded by fields. But now, it is spotted with bustling markets, several colonies and gurdwaras and a bunch of new upcoming buildings on both sides.While beautification works did their part — ornamented banks, steps, stonewalls, earthen pot-lined fixtures, lamps, a museum and a plethora of plants and benches — some unwanted fixtures have also sprouted. There is a bustling market on one side with restaurants venting chimneys right into Bein’s face and residential colonies obscuring the pathways.Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal says: “The Bein is pristine and there is a need to reduce the carbon footprint around it. Rampant development will lead to further pollution in future. We have been raising issues about the construction of new buildings, sites and places but it goes on unabated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-nanaks-being-204997
29-01-2021||Jalandhar||Calendar released on 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur||Prepared by High Court lawyer and nature photographer Harpreet Sandhu, the calendar and documentary are replete with high quality colourful pictures of the holy gurdwaras depicting the pious journey of the ninth Sikh Guru, from his birth till martyrdom.The Divisional Commissioner appreciated the unique thought and said this initiative would definitely help in spreading the preaching’s of Guru Teg Bahadur and the message of peace and universal brotherhood within humanity. She said the calendar dedicated to the commemoration of the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib will be of interest for the entire humanity. She requested citizens of Punjab to watch this documentary, which depicts the spiritual journey of the Guru. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/calendar-released-on-400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-teg-bahadur-205001
