30-01-2021||Jalandhar||Home is where the heart is||A state-of-the-art school, a library, a homoeopathic dispensary include the many facilities which dot a model village in Jalandhar. The village will shortly get its own ambulance.The slew of upgrades and choicest facilities are owed to NRIs who have steadily supported the village even as they moved abroad ages ago. Every year the students of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Virk, are awarded cash prizes of Rs2,100, Rs1,800 and Rs1,500 to toppers, Rs1,000 to first division holders and Rs1,500 for those excelling in sports.Thanks to the NRIs belonging to the village the vibrant dream of a smart school was achieved two years ago and has one of the prettiest school buildings in the district.One of the key donors is Gurmail Singh, a 52-year-old NRI, who resigned from his job as BSF Sub-Inspector and settled abroad after the death of his younger brother in the village. He’s settled in the US. At least three to four NRI families have been looking after the village. Sarabjit Singh, Gurdial Singh, Amarjit Singh and the village’s famous Mukaddam family are part of the caretakers.Principal Surinder Pal says, “We were donated a 30-marla building. Of the 10 rooms of the school at least five were donated by NRIs. At separate annual functions for sports and merit students scholarships (cash prizes) are announced to students. The general category students get uniforms from NRIs. Our school and village have been blessed by their contributions which have served as a huge encouragement for students. This has bettered results and students are touching new heights.”He feels that the village is fortunate. The NRIs are all regular patrons of education but don’t even appear for photos. “They want to help us quietly without being dragged into the limelight,” he adds.Gurmail being a former student at the school has been passionately associated with donating money for construction of brand new toilets and a kitchen at the primary school and also introducing plush upgrades aplenty at the senior secondary school. Much of the work has been dedicated to his deceased mother Mata Ram Pyari.A 30-marla plot, nine LEDs donated to the school all are NRI contributions. Also, the school has an education garden, beautiful classrooms, an art and craft room, a cultural corner among a host of other additions. The senior secondary school has 363 students currently. Rajesh Bhanot, a friend of Gurmail, who has been helping the school from here, said, “He has never forgotten his village. He was a BSF Sub-Inspector but had to quit due to a death in the family. His heart is in the village.”He shared the most recent act of the Good Samaritan. “Some days ago a youth died after falling into a chappar and he announced all kind of help for his family. He has also started a library and a homeopathic dispensary at the village. Now, we are about to start an ambulance which will provide free medical aid to the village. Amid the peak of pandemic, he contributed Rs6 lakh for rations to the village. His soul is rooted in the environs of Punjab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/home-is-where-the-heart-is-205315
30-01-2021||Jalandhar||Cong councillor, scribe hurt in brawl over Rs30 parking fee||A minor argument over Rs 30 being levied for parking a car at the District Administrative Complex on Friday turned ugly between Congress councillor Mandeep Jassal and the contractor with both groups using swords, rods and bricks to settle a score. Jassal and Ravi Gill, a scribe, who was recording the incident, also got badly injured in the clash. The incident took place around 1 pm on the main road in front of the District Administrative Complex and in presence of heavy police force.Jassal reportedly came alongwith 30-odd armed supporters while the contractor, too, had his men. As Jassal came out of the District Administrative Complex after submitting a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner on the parking issue, he reportedly entered into an argument with the contractor. Soon, both sides attacked each other.While Gill suffered injuries on his hand and head, Jassal had more grievous injuries on his head. Both of them were immediately rushed to a hospital. The two groups had been at loggerheads against one another for the last three days. On Wednesday, Jassal had a scuffle with the parking contractor, who allegedly asked him to pay Rs 30 for parking his car, which the former refused to pay.The Congress councillor had even approached the Sub-Divisonal Magistrate alleging that the parking contractor had been minting money by using additional space (not covered in the contract) around the District Administrative Complex.On Thursday, both groups had met the officials concerned over the matter and the contractor staged a dharna alleging that Jassal had been taking undue advantage of his position.Meanwhile, numerous mediapersons complained of their phones and cameras getting damaged during the brawl. DCP Gurmeet Singh, ADCP Jagjit Saroya and ACP Harsimrat Singh, were among those who reached the spot. Complaints from both the groups were being taken and an FIR was not lodged till evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-councillor-scribe-hurt-in-brawl-over-rs30-parking-fee-205317
30-01-2021||Jalandhar||Cutebot comes to rescue in fight against Covid-19||In its endeavour towards Atmanirbhar Bharat, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT), has developed a multi-purpose mobile robot – Cutebot— that can help in protecting health warriors from infections as well as aid the national security agencies in surveillance.In the health sector, doctors and medical staff can interact with patients of Covid-19 and other infectious diseases through audio-visual screen of the robot, while sitting in their own rooms as it is equipped with a camera and voice communication system. This can help in guiding patients regarding medicines and can also deliver refreshments in the isolation wards. For security personnel, it can help in surveillance and in some other required areas. An ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiativeThe robot has recently been inaugurated by Chairperson of Board of Governors of NIT Subhash Chandra Ralhan. Designed jointly by Dr Kuldeep Singh Nagla, Associate Professor and a specialist in Robotics and Automation, and Professor LK Awasthi, Director of the Institute, this robot can carry around 15-kg weight in the hospital environment besides doing some other jobs.Dr Nagla said the Cutebot could be controlled through both through internet and wire-based joy stick within a radius of 25-30 metres. It moves at a variable speed with a maximum of 22 metres per minute. It can easily manoeuvre between two hospital beds. After working continuously for a minimum of two hours, the robot can be recharged. It can also adopt independent UV light disinfectant on its platform.Besides, it can be further used as an electronic cart to carry garbage, hospital waste and other materials in the hospitals. It can also be kept in the hospital wards to monitor the activities around the patient. The same robot can be used at home to tend to elders or the disabled, in hotels and marriage ceremonies to serve food etc.The robot can easily be modified to control from several hundred kilometers through internet just by changing the software. This upgrade may prove to be suitable for security agencies while working in operational fields, said Dr Nagla.“Costing between Rs 2-2.5 lakh after mass production, the Cutebot is unique because of its low cost as compared to other such robots available in foreign markets,” said Director Awasthi. He said it can rotate its head, which is a screen, more than 360 degrees to communicate. He said its weight carrying capacity and volume to hold weight is very high.Elaborating more, he said, the institute had transferred the technology to a Gujarat-based company for its mass production and commercialisation. Following the Prime Minister’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat, the faculty and students of the institute have filed more than 50 Intellectual Property Rights in the form of patents, copyright and designs during the last couple of years. He said during the pandemic time as well, the institute had transferred five technologies to the industry. Some of the products invented by NIT Jalandhar such as air purifier, facemasks and ultraviolet cleaner are available in the market now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cutebot-comes-to-rescue-in-fight-against-covid-19-205319
30-01-2021||Jalandhar||2-day virtual Children Science Congress begins||The state-level Children Science Congress was organised on a virtual platform. The two-day event began today. A PAN-India programme, it is aimed at igniting the young minds about the practical applicability of science by engaging them in ‘Learning by Doing’ and relating classroom knowledge to find scientific solutions to address the real life challenges.The Punjab State Council for Science & Technology (PSCST) is the state nodal agency for organising this prestigious programme in Punjab. The council has been organising it every year for the past 28 years. This year, PSCST has been organising the 28th Children Science Congress (CSC) in collaboration with Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC), Kapurthala.As per information, more than 110 projects will be presented in the state-level CSC during two days and 16 projects from the state will make it to the national-level CSC. The results will be announced on Feb 1, 2021.The programme was inaugurated today by Charandeep Singh, Joint Secretary, Science, Technology and Environment, Punjab. He said the Children Science Congress was an effective medium for fostering the scientific temper among students of 10-17 years of age through experimentation and demonstration.Presiding over the event, Dr Jatinder Kaur Arora, Executive Director, Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, said the Children Science Congress was a National Flagship Programme developed around five key pillars of ‘Education for Sustainable Development’ viz. learning to know, learning to do, learning to live together, learning to transform one’s own self and learning to transform the society. She also shared the theme of this year’s CSC was ‘Science for Sustainable Living’. She further shared that through this platform, several child-scientists and science teachers have won laurels at national level and also got opportunities for international exposure. Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, PGSC, called upon the participating students to use this forum to come up with scientific projects which can help in solving the societal problems and also urged them to visit the Science City.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-day-virtual-children-science-congress-begins-205320
30-01-2021||Even as videos showcasing violence and news of breaking of barricades began doing the rounds early on the morning of Republic Day||The glorious side of tractor marches||At least 40,000 to 50,000 tractors paraded across the pre-set path at the Singhu alone. People climbed atop bridges, trucks, tractors, trolleys and trees to take in some of the action. The day witnessed thousands of tractors taking part in the march sheeted in Tri-colours in what has to be the biggest-ever show of farm diversity in the country’s history. It wasn’t until they came into an internet zone that they realised something had gone amiss in Delhi even as tractors marched peacefully in front of their eyes at Singhu and Tikri.Elderly men recalled protests during the British era saying they had never seen anything like this before in their lifetime. Women congregated by the roads cheering on the moving cavalcades. Meanwhile, huge clumps of police and paramilitary forces lined the borders to hold the march.Many considered the parade a wedding between Delhi and Punjab, of Indian national pride and tribute to freedom struggle martyrs, which were the reigning themes of decked up tractors. Elderly men dressed as grooms (with sehras tied on their heads as well as tractors), Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and Udham Singh’s photos enveloped the vehicles. Some even spent lakhs on tractors and were rueful of the fact that their hard work never made it to TV due to the pictures of violence ruling the discourse for the day.— Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-glorious-side-of-tractor-marches-205322
30-01-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||4 die, 8 fresh Covid  cases in Hoshiarpur||The health authorities reported eight new Covid-19 cases on Friday in the district. With this, the total number of positive patients in the district has increased to 8,040.Out of eight new positive patients, four were Hoshiarpur city and four from various other health blocks of the district.30 cases in JalandharThe health authorities reported four Covid-19 related deaths today. As a result, the death reached 336. The deceased include a 68-year-old resident of Arya Nagar, who died at the Medical College Amritsar, a 73- year-old man and a 77-year-old woman of Bodal village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, and a 70-year- old resident of Sabri village, who breathed his last at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 57 while the count of recovered patients reached 7,647.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-8-fresh-covid-cases-in-hoshiarpur-205323
30-01-2021||Jalandhar||‘Dealers selling spurious pesticides under radar’||Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh ordered field officials to keep a constant check on dealers who sell spurious products to the farmers.He said farmers buy pesticides, fertilisers and all kind of seeds from dealers, so, it was important to check if the products they were selling were original or not.The Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department had also busted a gang involved in supplying spurious pesticides to farmers last year. A pesticide was being sold to farmers in the name of Indian Crop Science, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh. The then Chief Agriculture Officer had said the farmers were being duped in the name of a cheap pesticide which was, in reality, a spurious one. The company was not even recognised by the Agriculture Directorate, Punjab, for operations in the state. After seizing the pesticides, its samples were sent to the Pesticides Testing Laboratory in Chandigarh where they samples had failed.Subsequently, cases under Sections 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 274 (Adulteration of drugs) and 120-B (Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the Indian Penal Code were registered against suppliers.The department has been reiterating a firm commitment of the state government to safeguard interests of the farmers. Officials said the department was making all-out efforts to ensure the sale of genuine pesticides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dealers-selling-spurious-pesticides-under-radar-205324
30-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Sonalika gives Rs5L for needy||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sonalika-gives-rs5l-for-needy-205325
30-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Now, opt for hassle-free knee surgery||“Arthritis deserves a special attention in the society. The 60 percent of people, out of 1.5 billion, have been suffering from this disease. To ease out the surgical procedure, a very simple and elegant new technique ‘True Motion Technique’ (TMT) for knee replacement has been devised which involves only 15-20 minutes of the surgical time,” said Dr Bhanu Pratap Singh Saluja, director of ortho and joints replacement at Ivy Hospital.He said the TMT gave a full range of motion within 48-hrs of surgery. After a knee replacement surgery, a patient can walk within six hours of surgery with stitch-less incision and no further follow-up required., he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-opt-for-hassle-free-knee-surgery-205326
30-01-2021||Jalandhar||CT Group opens low-cost clinic||CT Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (CTIPS) has introduced ‘CT Clinical Complex’ in association with Jerath Path Labs and Allergy Testing Centre. The complex was inaugurated by sarpanch and residents of local village in presence of CT Group Chairman Charanjit S Channi, managing director Manbir Singh, campus director Dr GS Kalra and staff members.The guests included Balijit Syan, vice-chairman of ETK Punjab, and sarpanches of adjoining villages Kulwant Singh Bajwa and Barinder Jakhu. The complex is situated in the campus itself which shall provide high quality and cost effective medical services to cater to the needs of all sections of society. The complex will provide diagnostic services and physiotherapy services. Principal CTIPS Dr SP Gautam said, “Our goal is to provide quality healthcare to the people of rural areas. We believe that every patient should get equal healthcare facilities and we strive to provide it to every patient. Our vision for the future is to heal patients and disease within and ensure hope.” Manbir Singh, managing director, CT Group, spoke motivational words to the gathering and said that clinical complex in campus will provide pathological and diagnostic testing facility at affordable costs to the locals residing in nearby villages who find it tough to travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-opens-low-cost-clinic-205328
30-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Monitor wheat crop regularly, says expert||Yellow rust attacks wheat crop in semi-hilly areas. Fog and cloudy weather are conducive for the propagation of the disease. He said with this attack, yellow spots of leaves appear in the form of long stripes. Informing this here today, Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Dr Vinay Kumar said the yellowing of wheat crop can also be due to lack of nutrients, but if one touches the crops affected by wheat plants, the yellow powdery dust could be seen falling off the plants. To prevent the onset of yellow rust in the field, 200 gms of Caviat 25 WG or 120 gms of Nativo 75 WG or 200 ml of Opera 18.3 SE or 200 ml of Propiconazole 25 EC should be applied to the plants by dissolving in 200 litres of water per acre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/monitor-wheat-crop-regularly-says-expert-205329
30-01-2021||Kanya Maha Vidyalaya released its KMV Newsline Special Edition||KMV Newsline released||‘See learning’ activityJalandhar: Eklavya School students are doing activities under the course ‘See learning’. Almost all the teachers have done this course. They teach the students as a part of curriculum. Various topics have been covered under the course like classroom agreement, empathy, practicing kindness, exploring happiness etc. This week the topic was ‘Compassion’. Compassion literally means ‘to suffer together’. The students were told that it refers to the feeling that arises when someone is confronted with another’s suffering and feels motivated to relieve that suffering. They were told that compassion is not the same as empathy, but the concepts are related. Different classes did activities which were eye-catching. Some classes did it on paper as mind maps and a few discussed in the class. The students were also told about the qualities of compassion which are patience and wisdom, kindness and perseverance.NCC Training CampNearly 30 NCC cadets of DAV University participated in the annual training camp organised by 21 Punjab Battalion NCC Kapurthala. Dr Gurmeet Singh, Chief Training Officer, stated that the cadets underwent training, including drilling, map reading and firing during the camp. They also participated in cultural activities. Col Hitesh Duggal, Commanding Officer, 21 PB BN NCC Kapurthala, said the NCC cadets could play a major role in serving the nation by joining the Armed forces. The officiating Vice-Chancellor, Dr Jasbir Rishi, Registrar (officiating) Dr KN Kaul, and Dean Academics (officiating) Dr R K Seth congratulated the cadets.Lala Lajpat Rai rememberedEklavya School celebrated the 155th birth anniversary of Lala Lajpat Rai on a virtual mode. To tell the importance of this day to the students, some activities were conducted in school. The students of pre-primary made collages with pictures of freedom fighters. Primary educators conducted essay writing competition from Classes I to V in which students participated with great zeal. Chairman JK Gupta explained that Lala Lajpat Rai’’s patriotism earned him the title of ‘Punjab Kesari’ and ‘Lion of Punjab’. He gave a speech and highlighted his contribution towards the freedom of the country. Seema Handa (director) asked the students to pay respect to the Indian freedom fighters.Manpreet first in cosmetologyThe students of PG diploma of cosmetology of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, got university positions. Manpreet Kataria got the first position with 618/650. Harnoor Kaur got the second position with 608/650 while Savneet Kaur got the fourth position with 581/650.Jaskeerat Kaur got the 9th position with 563/650. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, HoD Mukti Arora and Asstt Prof Bindu Kohli.Prof gets awardPayal Arora, Asst Prof in PG Department of Apeejay College of Fine Arts has been awarded for the Best Research Paper by the International Conference organised by Lyallpur Khalsa Technical Campus in association with University of Kwazulu- Natal, South Africa and IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar. She had presented her paper on the topic—Determinants of Board Size and Independence: Evidence from Top Indian Companies. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated her and appreciated her work. She also put forth that faculty members can set the examples for their students by consistently enhancing their work and adding more to their accomplishments.Competitions at KMVThe PG department of music of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised various online competitions under the categories of music, dance and musical instrument playing. Students showcased their talent by presenting beautiful song compositions and dance performances attributed to their beloved motherland. Students also paid tribute to their nation and sang glorious renditions in praise of their country. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that these types of competitions enhance the spirit of healthy competition in the students and also lauded the efforts of Dr Poonam Sharma, Head, PG Department of Music and other faculty members for this initiative. In singing competition: Pranavcheet Kaur, Ripudaman and Shreyasi won the first, second and third prizes, respectively. Consolation prizes went to Yashika and Navdeep. In music instrument playing: Hema won the first prize while Harpreet and Harshpreet shared the second position. In dance competition: Shreya stood first and Himanshi came second.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-newsline-released-205334
30-01-2021||Garhshankar||Travel agent held for Rs 7.9L fraud||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/travel-agent-held-for-rs-7-9l-fraud-205335
