31-01-2021||---||Portal for vendors launched at RCF||Kapurthala, January 30 The Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, has launched PARDARSY (PARtners Direct Access and Registration SYstem) portal for its vendors. With the introduction of this portal, physical visit of suppliers/vendors to the RCF can be totally eliminated. The portal https://pardarsy.railnet.gov.in has some special features, including issuing of electronic dispatch note, digital receipt order and generation of e-bill. The RCF has reportedly become the first and only unit of Indian Railways to start 100 per cent online service of this kind. Public Relations Officer Jitesh Kumar said, “Earlier, the suppliers had to submit many documents in paper form at the time of material delivery which was checked by RPF and stores involving hours but now it has been digitised and is done in a matter of seconds by QR code. The vendors can login into RCF computer system through Digital Signatures (DSC) to submit the lorry and dispatch details of the material which are verified at workshop gate by scanning the QR code provided on dispatch note which automatic files all the information in RCF computer system and an unloading sequence is generated for unloading the lorry for avoiding the unnecessary delay at the Receipt Branch. This has resulted in bringing 100 per cent transparency and saving of at least 1-2 hours per lorry.” He said, “After supplying the material through the dispatch note, the suppliers were earlier required to physically collect its receipt note and receipt order for getting payment which could take anywhere from three to 15 days depending on the location of the supplier besides forcing the suppliers/ suppliers’  representative to interact with several RCF officials. Now these 15 days have been brought down to less than 15 seconds and as soon as the receipt order is generated which is automatically sent through e-mail to the supplier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/portal-for-vendors-launched-at-rcf-205808
31-01-2021||---||SBI donates airport chairs to ESI Hospital||Jalandhar, January 30 The Regional Business Office of the State Bank of India provided 20 airport chairs to the ESI Hospital, Jalandhar, for the convenience of patients waiting for their turn to be attended.  Regional Manager of State Bank of India Pradeep Kumar said the State Bank of India stands with every section of society and fully understands its social responsibilities and stands with everyone on every occasion. It was an opportunity to fulfil social responsibilities, for which the bank is fully committed, he said.  The hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Sudha Sharma thanked SBI, saying the move would help in giving more convenience to patients.  Jitendra Mohan Kalia, chief manager, Pawan Bassi, deputy manager, and Sanjay Pandey of SBI Wealth and Rakesh Sharma were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sbi-donates-airport-chairs-to-esi-hospital-205809
31-01-2021||---||8 candidates file papers on first day||Jalandhar, January 30Eight candidates filed their papers on the first day of filing nominations for the municipal elections in the district.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said all eight nominations were received for the Phillaur municipal council, where elections were scheduled to be held on February 14. He said the elections in the 110 wards of six municipal councils and two nagar panchayats were going to be held as per the schedule issued by the State Election Commission.The DC said on the first day, a total of eight candidates filed their papers from Phillaur municipal council, whereas no nomination was registered in other seven councils/panchayats. He said eight municipal councils/ panchayats where elections are scheduled to be held include Adampur, Alawalpur, Kartarpur, Phillaur, Noormahal, Nakodar, Nagar Panchayat Lohian Khas and Mehatpur. He said the last date of filing nomination papers was February 3, adding that the scrutiny would take place by February 4 and candidates can withdraw their papers by February 5. The elections were scheduled to be held on February 14 and the result would be declared on February 17, as per the schedule, the DC said.He directed all returning officers to ensure the implementation of the model code of conduct in their respective constituencies, as no laxity in this task would be tolerated.Meanwhile, no nomination papers were filed for Kapurthala Municipal Corporation elections on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-candidates-file-papers-on-first-day-205810
31-01-2021||---||Farmers observe one-day hunger strike||Jalandhar, January 30Farmers, under the banner of Pendu Mazdoor Union and Kirti Kisan Union, on Saturday went on a day-long hunger strike on the call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Calling the attack on farmers at the Singhu border on Friday, a government-sponsored violence, farmers held the strike outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC).While condemning the attack, allegedly led by the ruling political party, farmers demanded immediate repeal of the three contentious farm laws. Over 100 farmers, including some students, observed the strike from 12 pm to 3.30 pm. Moreover, on the occassion of the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, farmers also observed Sadbhavna Diwas.Demands were made for the arrest of those responsible for the Delhi violence, including the enactment of a law to guarantee minimum support price and the cancellation of false notices issued against peasant leaders.Mangaljit Singh, a member of the Punjab Students’ Union, said the Union Government with the connivance of government agencies and the police, was turning the peaceful agitation of the farmers violent. “Owing to the suspension of internet at the Delhi-Hayana borders, rumours and false information is being spread across the country to malign the farmers’ protest,” he said.Rattan Singh, president of the Kirti Kisan Union, said, “Even as the conspiracies of the government successfully blemished our two-month long peaceful agitation, we will not give up until the laws are withdrawn. It upset us that our historic tractor march was stained with communal colour, but we will continue to agitate peacefully and expose the government. He criticised stone-pelting on farmers in the presence of police.Tarsem Peter, state president, Rural Workers’ Union Punjab; Kashmir Singh Ghughsor, Mangaljit Pandori, state leader of Punjab Students’ Union Jasvir Kaur and others were present in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-observe-one-day-hunger-strike-205813
31-01-2021||---||Bigwigs give Gandhi martyrdom day a miss||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bigwigs-give-gandhi-martyrdom-day-a-miss-205815
31-01-2021||---||Kirti Kisan Union starts ‘Pucca Morcha’ against mining mafia||Sultanpur Lodhi, January 30 To save the 20,000 acre fertile land and Dhusi Bandh along the Beas from the mining mafia, farmers have started a pucca morcha at the mining site near Baja village in Sultanpur Lodhi under the banner of Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab.  Farmers said mining was going on full swing for the past two months illegally under the patronage of Congress party leaders and the police administration, ignoring the fact that the Dhusi Bandh, the first line of defence line, is only 500 metre away from the site.  The mand areas of Beas have very fertile land, which was owned by the farmers of Mangupur, Hussainpur Dullowal, Sujokalia, Burewall, Baja, Patti Safdarpur, Talwandi Chaudriyan etc. The area had witnessed large scale floods in 1988 and 1995 as the first defence line was eroded by the heavy flow of water in the monsoon seasons.  Addressing farmers, Raghbir Singh, block president, Kirti Kisan Union, said farmers have reached Delhi to save their future, but here the ‘Junior Modis’ were looting the natural resources with political and administration backup.  He said around 15 days ago they had urged the police officials to stop this illegal activity, but they turned a blind eye. The angry farmers have also announced to block the main bridge on the Beas, which connects the Doaba and Majha belt, if the illegal mining was not stopped by removing heavy JCBs and other machinery. Rajinder Singh, Shamsher Singh, Mohan Singh, Resham Singh, Labh Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Sukhwinder Singh also addressed farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kirti-kisan-union-starts-pucca-morcha-against-mining-mafia-205816
31-01-2021||---||26 fresh cases reported in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 30 The health authorities reported 26 Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar district on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases reached 20,616.  The authorities reported one death and the toll of deceased persons increased to 672 in the district. At present, the district has 185 active cases. A total of 19,759 people were discharged while as many as 106 people were under home isolation in Jalandhar.  In Kapurthala, the authorities reported eight positive cases today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/26-fresh-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-205817
31-01-2021||---||Teenage cousins stand up for farmers, observe fast||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 30Teenage cousins Gursimranjit Kaur (18) and Harjashan Preet Singh (13) from Bhangal Kalan village of Nawanshahr on Saturday contributed their mite towards the ongoing farmers’ protest by observing a one-day hunger strike and standing the whole day at the local Phatti Basta Chowk holding placards and flags in their favour.Activist sends flute to PMParvinder S Kitna, an activist from Nawanshahr, has sent a letter and a flute to PM Narendra Modi urging him to at least give farmers a patient hearing once, as they were agitating on the borders of the national capital for the past nearly 68 days.A Plus Two commerce passout from Dr Assa Nand Arya School, Gursimranjit said, “While I was watching news on TV channels last evening, I heard that farmers would observe a one-day hunger strike today. Since I have not been able to go to Delhi borders to join the agitation, I chose this opportunity to join them in the protest from here. My cousin too said that he would come along with me and today we stood at the chowk from 11 am to 5 pm.” She said no one in her family was into farming.She said, “There were many more students and youngsters from surrounding areas who later joined us on seeing us standing there. We did not know them. We did not call them but they just came along and stood with us for a few minutes.”She said, “There were several persons who came to us and offered us meals, snacks and drinks but we refused to take it. At 5 pm, when our job was done, they offered us juice and we returned home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teenage-cousins-stand-up-for-farmers-observe-fast-205847
31-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||I have a dream...||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 30Having recently received a cash reward of Rs2 lakh from the Jalandhar MP for his achievements as a part of the winning squad of Blind Cricket World Cup in South Africa in 2014 and T20 and ODI series contested between India and England in 2015, Tajinder Pal Singh has high aspirations.“I want to start a cricket academy in Punjab for the disabled. I am in the process of putting in a request to the state government asking for allotment of some land for starting it. The visually impaired children here have a lot of scope to make it to the national team but there is no training facility for them. Through the academy, I will help churn out more players from among our special youth,” he said.A postgraduate in Hindi from Punjab Technical University, Tajinder is working as a Class-IV employee in PAP. “Though I do not like my job but I have to work to make both ends meet,” he said. Marriage for him is out of question as of now as he wants a better job first. “I got this job owing to disability quota but now I am capable for a government job through sports quota as well. I have put up my case with the Sports Department asking for their support to help me get a job.”He was born with a normal vision. However, a trip to his ancestral home at Simbli village and enduring a fall there called for an urgent treatment. And that was that. The treatment did more harm than good. He was in Class V then. “I took a treatment which did not suit me. I lost 95 per cent of my vision which could not be corrected owing to retina damage. I somehow continued with my childhood passion in cricket and it has worked and helped me reach at international stage,” Tajinder explained.The sightless cricketer, who hails from Guru Nanakpura here, has been grinding it out at grounds during his practice sessions even as the pandemic prevails. “I have been doing my running and yoga at the PAP grounds every morning. Since I cannot do it alone, I ask fellow joggers to accompany me so that I do not bump into anything.”Since there is no word on holding a tournament as of now, he has all the time in the world to get better at his trade. In the evening, he returns to the PAP or at Lyallpur Khalsa College grounds for another session. “My practice has to continue as I am still a part of the Punjab and national squad,” the 35-year-old added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-have-a-dream-205859
31-01-2021||Kalpana Bhaskar is an English teacher at Mayor World School. Quite active socially||‘Took all precautions, yet caught unawares’||"On December 30, 2020, I began feeling a bit uneasy and had severe pain in my knee joints. I also began feeling very cold and was almost shivering. I was alone at home, as my husband had gone to the Singhu border and my son, too, was in Delhi. The next day, I had 101°F fever. I spoke to my sister, who is a doctor and she said it could be Covid. I called my husband to ask whether I should go get tested and he advised me to wait for a day."The next day, I had 103°F fever and the knee pain persisted. I had been avoiding an analgesic, but I finally applied it and to my surprise, I could not catch its smell. That was when I felt I may have contracted the virus. To check again, I applied a perfume and I couldn't smell it too! I also observed that I wasn't able to taste food properly that day. There was no room for any doubt. Now, the next step was to go get tested, but how? I was not in a condition to drive myself and my husband and son had not returned yet! My husband's friend Rajesh Bali came as a big help. He called a private laboratory and the technician came to collect my sample from home. The report came after 15-16 hours on my cellphone and as expected, it came out positive."Managing everything else was the next concern. I had already informed my maid not to come till I tell her, two days ago. I even asked my husband and son, who were on their way back home, not to come and stay with me. I did not want them to contract the infection from me. In the meantime, I got some medicines home-delivered. Soon, I received a kit from the government as well that had everything, including a thermometer, oxymeter, steamer, cough syrup, medicines and even the schedule to take those pills. I used to get regular calls from the staff at CHC, Lamma Pind Chowk, asking about my condition and they used to guide me as well. I told my husband and son to get tested, which they did. While my husband came out negative, my son tested positive. So, he joined me at home."Two days later, a doctor told my husband that he could go home, but he should preferably stay in a separate room. As a precaution, I used to wipe off all surfaces, which my son and I had touched, with a disinfectant. Even my husband washed his hands frequently. My son, who is an engineering student, had to miss his third semester examination owing to Covid. His college authorities cooperated and they allowed him to appear for the test after he tested negative later. Even now, I feel a bit weak and exhausted after doing little work. My school staff, too, has been extremely supportive, as they have allowed me to take classes from home even though physical classes have started at school."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/took-all-precautions-yet-caught-unawares-205864
31-01-2021||Smart rooms||A smart move||It's still out thereNawanshahr Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdip Singh Kapur has cautioned the residents that Covid cases may have decreased now, but the virus is still there and people should not start taking things lightly. "The whole situation might seem in control but it is not actually. We must take precautions properly and shouldn't forget about routine that we developed amid the pandemic, washing hands, using sanitisers and wearing masks," he said.Vote for changeDeputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal while presiding over the district-level function of launching e-EPIC digital voters card at a Government Senior Secondary School, administered oath to the staff and students regarding judicious use of their right to vote. Addressing the students, the DC also made them aware about the importance of National Voters Day. "The educational institutions could play a vital role in educating society about the importance of exercising their franchise," she added. A telefilm was also showed to the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-smart-move-205865
31-01-2021||Jalandhar||Mahatma Gandhi remembered||Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya’s Gandhian Studies Centre along with the department of history paid glowing homage to the Father of the Nation Mahatama Gandhi on his 73rd death anniversary. Floral tributes were paid to the Mahatma amidst the chanting of his favorite bhajan ‘Vaishnav Jan to’. During the occasion, KMV also paid homage to all the soldiers who happily laid down their lives for the motherland. PG department of music also presented beautiful renditions dedicated to Mahatma Gandhi. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi paying tributes to the Mahatma called upon everyone to imbibe his qualities. She averred that Gandhiji is not dead but he is alive in each one of us. She further maintained that like Gandhiji everyone should learn to empathise with others and try to alleviate the sufferings of fellow brethren. She also appreciated the work done by the Gandhian Studies Centre in keeping alive and spreading the Gandhian philosophy among the youth. She lauded Dr Monica Sharma, the director of the centre, and Dr Gurjot Kaur, Head, department of history, for their efforts.Online Salad Making ActivityIvy World School organised ‘Salad making’ in the kindergarten wing. An online immunity booster activity was held for the young Ivyians to inculcate healthy food habits, to develop temptation to eat and make the young learners aware of the right choice of food which can give them high nutritive value. The participants’ creativity was revealed through the beautiful designs and patterns formed with different mouth-watering ingredients of salad. The students displayed different types of vegetable and fruit salads such as watermelon basket salad, combo salad, jumbo salad and many more ingenious salads using commonly available ingredients. The participants explained the specialty of their salads. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, congratulated and appreciated the support and cooperation given by the parents.LPU students win GO48 ChallengePhagwara: Blending art and technology in perfection, a team of seven creative students of the Multi-Media Discipline of Lovely Professional University have recently won ‘Overall First Prize’ for ‘GO48 International Design Challenge’. Currently in its 9th year, the format of this global challenge has competitions in graphics, animation, film making, gaming and more. These competitions are to be finished in 48 minutes or 48 hours, that is how it is titled also. Held annually, GO48 Challenge is an international competition that celebrates the creative skills of the global community of students, artists, designers, faculty, professionals and industry experts. The contest had five competitions, each comprising two challenges. In this version, LPU students have won six medals in separate challenges. LPU student Priyanka won a gold medal for LoGO48. In MotionX challenge, Arshpreet Kaur won a silver and Jenish K Panwala a bronze medal. Under GAMEIT competition, Jaspreet Kaur and team of Saptadeep Chaudhary and Rohit won silver medals. Similarly, under GO48 Live competition, for the ‘Live Photography’ challenge of film-making, LPU’s Khushi Sahu also won a silver medal. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the winners. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mahatma-gandhi-remembered-205866
