01-01-2022||---||9 Punjab farm unions to protest PM's visit||Bathinda, December 31Nine farmer unions have announced that they would hold protests and raise “Modi go back” banners across the state during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to Punjab on January 5.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has already said it would protest the PM’s visit. Now eight more unions — Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab; Azad Kisan Committee, Doaba; Jai Kisan Andolan; BKU (Sidhupur); Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Kotbudha; Lok Bhalai Welfare Society, BKU (Krantikari); and Dasuya Sugarcane Committee — have declared to do the same.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “The farmer unions have announced the protest against PM Modi’s visit as the Centre has failed to do anything to meet our pending demands.”Demands not met yetThe Centre has failed to fulfil our demands, including financial aid to the families of farmers who died during the Delhi stir. —Surjeet Phool, BKU (krantikari) ChiefFurther, farmers said after repeal of the farm laws, the government had promised to take back the criminal cases and compensate the deceased Delhi protesters. “No serious action has been taken on this and even no mention has been made of the committee working on the MSP. Also, no action has been taken even after the SIT report on the incident of killing of farmers in Lakhimpur,” they added.The farmer leaders have appealed to the other farmer, labourer, employee and youth organisations of Punjab to take active part in the protest.The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) is already holding indefinite protests against the state government at 15 places in the state, demandingdebt waiver and compensation for the cotton crop damaged due to pink bollworm attack in the state. BKU (Krantikari) Surjeet Singh Phool said we had requested all like-minded organisations to support our decision to compel the Centre to fulfil all our demands. This is the first visit of the PM after repeal of the farm laws. — TNSThe action planOn January 2, every village in the state will stage protest. On January 5, tehsil and district-level dharnas will be held from noon to 2 pm. Effigies of Modi government will be burnt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-farm-unions-to-protest-pms-visit-356750
01-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Poor facilities make life a struggle for residents of Rampura Phul||Potholed roads, poor sewerage system, lack of medical services and drug menace are some of the key issues being faced by residents of the Rampura Phul constituency. “In Rampura city, heaps of garbage can be seen strewn along roadsides. In Phul town, during the rainy season, roads gets waterlogged and muddy, making it difficult for both the vehicles and pedestrians to cross from here,” said Gurkirat Singh, a resident of Rampura Phul.“At Kotha Guru village, the pond has not been cleaned for decades. As a result villagers have to bear the foul smell daily. Moreover, stagnant water is also a breeding ground for many diseases,” said Gurpreet Singh, a villager.“Due to the construction work of an overbridge in Rampura city, traffic is diverted to the main Phul market area, resulting in traffic chaos. People park their vehicles on roads, worsening the situation,” said Sasi Kala, a local.Gurinder Singh, a resident of Bhagta Bhai Ka village said, “There is no effort whatsoever to improve the ailing medical infrastructure in government hospitals. Even for a minor medical emergency, they refer you to Bathinda. The hospitals here are ill-equipped and do not have sufficient staff.”Past trendThe constituency was once a stronghold of the CPI with its nominee Babu Singh winning in 1962, 1969, 1977 and 1980. In 1997, SAD’s Sikandar Singh Maluka defeated Harbansh Singh. Sitting MLA Gurpreet Kangar won twice in 2002 and 2007 by defeating SAD.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,65,673Male 87,487Female 78,181Third gender 5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-facilities-make-life-a-struggle-356758
01-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Rural belt in Talwandi Sabo under bollworm attack||Talwandi Sabo, famous for one of the five Takhts of Sikhism — Takht Sri Damdama Sahib — has many issues with which its residents of 15 wards have been grappling for long.This Assembly segment includes two towns — Talwandi Sabo and Rama Mandi — and 87 villages. Located along the border, tail-end villages like any other complain of water shortage, sewerage, no railway connectivity, besides lack of civic amenities.Apart from this, residents in the rural belt are quite upset as pink bollworm has attacked the cotton crop on vast swathes of fields for long, and there seems no solution in sight. Farmers had to launch a stir to get the government moving on the issue and announce compensation to those affected by the pest attack. It can again become a major issue in the forthcoming elections this time.The town has two universities — Guru Kashi University and Akal University — besides a regional campus of Punjabi University. “The town still lacks a railway station. The nearest railway station is situated at Maur Mandi, which is 19 km away. Locals face a tough time commuting from one place to another. It’s time the segment gets rail connectivity,” says Prof NK Gosian of Guru Kashi University.Past trendThe segment is represented by AAP’s Baljinder Kaur, who has been fielded again by the party. In 1985, Capt Amarinder Singh won from here on SAD ticket and became the Agriculture Minister. Since 1969, the Congress has won seven times, SAD four and AAP one.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,54,600Male 82,507Female 72,090Third gender 3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-belt-under-bollworm-attack-356759
01-01-2022||Bathinda||Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda,  shines at ARIAA-21||Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, has bagged the fourth rank in the “Beginner Band” category and overall 62nd position among government universities in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) for 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-varsity-shines-at-ariaa-21-356786
