07-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Bathinda Rural: Drain of woes in this rural seat||Farmers of the Bathinda Rural constituency (reserved) still await compensation for the massive cotton crop loss due to the pink bollworm attack in the last kharif season.Avtar Singh, a resident of Teona village, says, “In the name of action, the district administration had just conducted a girdawari to assess the crop loss. That was it. Affected farmers have not received a single rupee in relief. The sitting legislator did not care to visit villages hit by the pink bollworm attack.”Another problem ailing the segment is the poor condition of Losada drain, which has not been repaired for years. As a result, water overflows and fields get submerged during monsoon, damaging the crops.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Sangat village, points out that the Bathinda Rural constituency is no exception when it comes to the menace of drug abuse.“The problem of drugs is rampant in villages. Addicts, who are often victims, are caught and not the suppliers. Members of the civil society have often urged the police to curb the drug menace, but in vain,” he adds.On the health front, the segment fares no better. “The sub-divisional hospital lacks proper infrastructure. There are not enough doctors in the hospital to cater to around 300 patients who visit the OPD every day. Two-thirds of the posts are vacant,” says Hartej Singh, a resident of Ghudda village.Locals’ key demandsPast trendBoth SAD and Congress managed to win the constituency till the 1997 elections. In 2002, CPI candidate Gurjant Singh contested successfully. In the 2017 elections, AAP’s Rupinder Kaur Ruby had defeated Akali candidate Amit Rattan Kotfatta.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,55,964Male: 82,791Female: 73,172Third gender: 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-rural-drain-of-woes-in-this-rural-seat-358912
07-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Farm unions divided on PM Modi's 'security breach'||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 6Farm union leaders stand divided with regard to the alleged breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security on Wednesday.The BKU (Lakhowal) and Kul Hind Kisan Sabha have condemned the alleged blockade by farmers near Piareana village on Ferozepur-Moga road. However, the Punjab Kisan Union and BKU (Sidhupur) have supported the protesters.Also read: Protesting farmers had no clue of Modi's convoy travelling by road from Bathinda to Ferozepur: Samyukt Kisan MorchaBKU (Dakaunda) president Buta Singh said there was no collective call given by the SKM for a protest or bloackade of the road on which the PM’s cavalcade was passing through. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders, without justifying or speaking against the blockade or security breach, have said it was a “planned move” with political motives. Few farm union leaders have even termed it a “big loss” to the state as projects worth Rs 42,750 crores were to be inaugurated by the PM.Baldev Singh Sandoha, general secretary of BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) said: “Farmers protested against the PM’s visit which is their democratic right.”Blockade wrongBlocking the road on which the PM’s convoy was to pass through was wrong. — Harinder Singh Lakhowal, BKU (Lakhowal)Stir memory freshOur wounds are still fresh. The PM does not have moral authority to visit the state. — Ruldu Singh Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-divided-on-security-breach-358873
