10-01-2022||---||Ex-minister Sher Singh Gagowal’s grandson eyes Congress ticket from Maur||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 9Former minister Sher Singh Gagowal’s grandson Maninder Singh Sekhon recently held a show of strength by organising a rally in Maur Mandi. Sekhon’s supporters urged the Congress high command to give him a party ticket from here.While addressing the gathering, Sekhon said sarpanches and workers had increased the number of votes in Bathinda parliamentary constituency of Congress candidate Amrinder Singh Raja Warring during the 2019 General Elections by nearly 5,600 votes, but some leaders insulted them as well.This is the first time that the sarpanches affiliated to the Congress had to stage a dharna in their own government, said Sekhon.Sekhon said whether he gets the ticket or not, he would at the service of people in Maur Assembly segment.Gamdur Singh, a former sarpanch, said Gagowal family has been associated with the Congress from three generations and has always supported party activists.He said those who had left the Congress to join the Shiromani Akali Dal have been asking for the party ticket today.A few days ago, Gagowal’s daughter-in-law Gurpreet Kaur Gagowal had held a rally and sought a Congress ticket from Mansa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-ministers-kin-eyes-cong-ticket-from-maur-359816
10-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Maur: Wading through sewage mess||Maur, a suburban town in Bathinda district, reported a bomb blast outside a political rally few days before polling in 2017, killing seven persons.Past trendMaur segment was crafted in 2009. In 2012 polls, former SAD minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon won from here, while in 2017, people voted for AAP candidate Jagdev Kamalu, but later he joined Congress. In the 2019 LS polls, Congress got a lead of around 5,000 votes.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,66,417Male -  87,713Female - 78,700Third gender - 2Locals’ key demandsPeople in the region are still in shock when they talk about the incident. There is resentment against the state government over its handling of the case as nearly five years have gone by and there is no headway in the case. Maur is a new Assembly segment crafted in 2009 after delimitation and the area still lacks many basic amenities. Maur was upgraded to a subdivision in 2013, but the one-time hub of the cotton ginning and spinning industry has seen a rapid decline.Sewage disposal is a major issue in Maur town and residents are irked over sewage water stagnating on roads. A sewage treatment plant was constructed and its disposal was made at Lasara drain near Mandi Kalan, but the system failed due to leaking pipes. Staff shortage at the health department also hampers work. Even post-mortems are not conducted here, forcing people to go to the Talwandi Sabo Civil Hospital. The condition of ambulances is also bad. Leaders are seeking votes on development plank, but it seems providing basic amenities remained difficult for all ruling parties all these years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wading-through-sewage-mess-359821
10-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Bathinda: 'Off season' management can keep pest at bay, says Panel||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 9To counter pink bollworm infestation on cotton crop in the coming seasons, a high-level meeting of agricultural experts and agri-scientists from three states, which were affected with the pest attack this season, was held under the aegis of the Interstate Consultative and Monitoring Committee here.High-level meeting heldApart from other requisite measures, the experts primarily laid focus on “off season” management of pink bollworm. The meeting was organised to assess the status of pink bollworm on cotton and to review the plan of action for its management.In addition to committee members, officers from the Department of Agriculture, Punjab; scientists from Punjab Agricultural University, Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Rajasthan Agricultural University, Ganganagar, and ICAR-CICR, Sirsa, participated in the meeting. Chief Agriculture Officers from Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka, Muktsar, Faridkot, Barnala, Sangrur and Moga; Directors of Regional Station in Bathinda, Faridkot and Abohar; Associate Directors of KVKs in Muktsar also participated in the meeting.Dr Gurvinder Singh, Director of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Punjab, said the state department of agriculture and PAU needed to be more vigilant at pink bollworm-infested areas in Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar and Fazilka districts during the off season.“Regular surveillance and training camps for the pest management are a must. Strategies need to be chalked out to manage pink bollworm in an effective manner,” said Dr Gurvinder.The director said: “The decisions taken during the meeting include constituting district, block and village-level teams by the Chief Agriculture Officers of the respective districts and surveillance should be done twice a week. Timely availability of canal water for sowing of cotton, preparation of informatory literature on pink bollworm management, complete destruction of leftover cotton sticks in February-March, online meeting with ginning factories and oil extraction mills will be organised during the first fortnight of January, covering of seed cotton stocks lying in the ginning-cum-oil extraction mills with polythene sheets and fumigation of the same at regular interval, providing the list of the recommended Bt cotton hybrids at the earliest. The state government will be approached to exempt officers of the cotton belt from being put on election and other duties.”Dr Harinder Singh, Joint Director Agriculture, said teams were regularly organising training camps to create awareness among cotton growers for off season management of pink bollworm.Dr Pakhar Singh, Bathinda Chief Agriculture Officer, discussed the status of cotton arrival in Bathinda. He said pink bollworm attacks remained significantly higher in Bathinda and Talwandi Sabo blocks of the district. He also said district and block-level teams were constituted for organising training camps for off season management of the pest.Dr SK Verma, Sirsa CICR Regional Station head, said: “Pink bollworm infestation was more in Punjab and Haryana in comparison to Rajasthan. Timely action to contain the infestation is the key to keep it at bay.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/off-season-mgmt-can-keep-pest-at-bay-panel-359828
10-01-2022||Bathinda||Private ambulance operators fleece patients in Bathinda, Mansa||Citing non-payment of salaries for the past three months and non-fulfillment of their long-standing demand of regualrisation, members of the 108 Ambulance Employees’ Union went on an indefinite strike in Bathinda and Mansa.As a result, patients and their attendants have been left at the mercy of private ambulance operators. Amandeep Singh, chief, 108 Ambulance Employees’ Union, said, “Neither have we received salaries for the past three months nor we have got increment in the past 10 years. Either the government should run 108 Ambulance service or must select a responsible firm. The incumbent operator is harassing us.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pvt-ambulance-operators-fleece-patients-359830
10-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab poll 2022: Leaders rush to Dera Sacha Sauda to seek 'blessings'||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 9A day after the announcement of elections in Punjab, several BJP, Congress, AAP and SAD leaders were seen at a congregation of Dera Sacha Sauda followers at Salabatpura, Bathinda, on Sunday to seek “blessings”. Among them were Harjit Grewal and Surjit Jyani of the BJP; minister Vijay Inder Singla, former minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, former MLAs Harmander Jassi and Mangat Rai Bansal of the Congress; AAP’s Bathinda (Urban) candidate Jagroop Gill; and SAD candidate from Dirba Gulzar Singh.The leaders tried to downplay their visit, claiming there was nothing political about it. Significantly, dera’s political affairs committee chairman Ram Singh and state committee members were at the function too.The dera authorities are keeping their cards close to their chest, saying they would announce support to parties or candidates at the “appropriate” time.However, sources said the dera was unlikely to announce support for any party. Its strategy would be to back certain candidates on specific seats. Talking to The Tribune, dera spokesperson Harcharan Singh said, “It was a religious event. There was nothing political about it. Today’s congregation was in memory of dera’s second head Shah Satnam. However, the followers are angry over the implication of their head in sacrilege cases.”The dera can influence the election outcome in about 40 constituencies in Malwa. It has 84 branches in Punjab, 11 of these, including the biggest at Salabatpura, in Bathinda district. Therefore, leaders of Malwa have begun to reach out to the dera followers. A pink robe worn by Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh during a congregation at Salabatpura on May 13, 2007, had triggered a row. He was accused of ‘imitating’ Guru Gobind Singh. Influence in MalwaWooing supportCong: Minister Vijay Inder Singla, former minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, ex-MLAs Harmander Jassi and Mangat Rai BansalBJP: Harjit Singh Grewal, former state minister Surjit JyaniAAP: Jagroop Singh Gill, Bathinda (Urban) candidateSAD: Gulzar Singh, Dirba candidate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/punjab-poll-2022-leaders-rush-to-dera-to-seek-blessings-359772
