14-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||3 outsiders in Bathinda district, AAP leaders miffed||Bathinda, January 13The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) cadre here has been baffled over the party’s decision to field “turncoats” on three of the six Assembly segments in Bathinda district. They have been given ticket despite a stiff opposition against their nomination from several aspirants in the party.In Bathinda Rural, AAP has given ticket to Amit Rattan, who was expelled by the SAD over allegations of duping workers on the pretext of providing them business opportunities. Rattan, whose wife is an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, unsuccessfully contested on the SAD ticket in 2017 from Bathinda Rural. He was defeated by AAP’s Rupinder Ruby. Rattan said he had no FIR or complaint against him in politics as false allegations were raised against him due to political rivalry.Reconsider decisionThe party must reconsider its decision or I will contest as an Independent. —Baldev Singh, AAP ticket aspirantThe announcement of the party ticket to Amit Rattan has not gone down well with the AAP leaders. Baldev Singh, who was working for AAP in Bathinda Rural segment, is annoyed and upset with the party choice.Talking to The Tribune, Baldev Singh said he had been working hard for the party in the region and had contributed funds also. Further, he claimed talks were also held with senior party leaders for the ticket from Bathinda, but didn’t know an outsider would be fielded.In Bathinda Urban, six-time Congress MC councillor Jagroop Singh Gill has been fielded by the party. Gill was the chairman of the district planning board and had quit the post to contest the MC polls last year. He won the elections for the record seventh time and was a strong contender for the post of Bathinda Mayor, but he was overlooked, after which he joined AAP and has been given a ticket overlooking several AAP contenders, including Neel Garg, Amrit Aggarwal and Navdeep Singh Jeeda. Singer Balkar Sidhu, who joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 Assembly elections, has been given ticket from Rampura Phul. Sidhu joined AAP in May last year. Similarly, AAP has given tickets to around 30 turncoats in this election in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-outsiders-in-bathinda-district-leaders-miffed-360999
14-01-2022||---||Army aspirants block highway in Bathinda||Bathinda, January 13Scores of youngsters who had undergone the physical fitness test for recruitment in the Indian Army staged a protest and blocked the Bathinda national highway on Thursday. The agitators raised slogans against the Centre alleging that despite clearing the physical fitness test, further process was not being initiated.Mang Pal, an aspirant from Ludhiana, said, “I had participated in Army recruitment in 2020. Many aspirants had cleared the fitness test. We were told that written exam would be conducted soon. Now, citing Covid-19, the exam has been postponed.” He said, “Exams for recruitment in the Police Department and other sectors have been conducted. Thus, we decided to hold a protest here outside the Army cantonment in Bathinda.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-aspirants-block-highway-in-bathinda-361020
