19-01-2022||---||Farmers gherao DC’s office in Bathinda district||Bathinda, January 18Farmers under the banner of BKU Ekta Ugrahan staged a protest and gheraoed the office of the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner, demanding compensation for damaged cotton crop and cancellation of cases registered against farmers among other demands.The protesting farmers raised slogans against the state government and district administration citing non-fulfilment of their demands.Union general secretary Harjinder Baggi said: “We gheraoed the Bathinda DC’s office on Monday as he had been evasive on holding a meeting to discuss our problems or demands. After the protest, a meeting was held with the DC in which we brought forth the matter of compensation for the cotton crop damaged due to pink bollworm attack this season.”Baggi said: “The DC has assured us that there is no objection of the Election Commission but he will still take their permission and start the distribution of compensation to the affected farmers. We have also highlighted the matter of cancellation of cases registered against farmers, debt-waiver to small scale farmers, and compensation to families of farmers who died during the Delhi farm agitation, among other long-standing demands. The administration officials have assured us that they will take all requisite steps to fulfil our genuine demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-gherao-dcs-office-in-bathinda-district-362460
19-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farm distress, drugs major issues in rural belt||Bathinda, January 18Farm distress and drugs have become major political issues in rural areas during the 2022 Assembly elections.Promises not kept by CongressCongress had claimed to wipe out drugs within four weeks of coming to power in 2017, but drug menace still exists. — Rajinder Singh, A resident of thuthianwaliFarmers said political parties rake up the twin issues during elections, but have offered no solution so far.Residents claim that due to lack of employment opportunities and farming becoming less lucrative, more and more youths in the region have taken to narcotics.The Tribune visited Mansa and Bathinda districts, which were the worst- affected in terms of farm suicides, and damage to cotton due to the pink bollworm attack. Irate farmers said once the government gets formed, politicians never support them, thus they do not expect much from political parties.Wadhwa Singh, a resident of Bhainibagha village, said, “No government has given us anything to date. Nobody in our village got money under loan waiver scheme. Now, we are waiting for the compensation of cotton crop destroyed by pink bollworm.” He said, “Drugs are easily available in the entire area. Around six to seven youngsters of our village died after consuming drugs.”Mohinder Singh, a farm leader from Mansa, said, “Many farmers reeling under debt have failed to get any benefit of loan waiver scheme. Their land is still in the name of their forefathers in revenue records.”Rajinder Singh of Thuthianwali village said, “Farm crisis is the biggest poll issue here and failure of the Centre and the state government has led to this. Numerous farmers have faced huge losses this season due to pink bollworm attack and hailstorm.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farm-distress-drugs-major-issues-in-rural-belt-362462
