01-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Follow precautionary measures in spirit||The Covid-19 pandemic is not over yet and people are getting sloppy towards safety. Only a few people can be seen wearing masks and they seem to have forgotten that this is the need of the hour and the fight against the disease is still on. February has shown an upward trend in the active cases. On February 1, active cases were 342 while by the end of the month on February 27, the active cases were 553.People should not stop taking precautionary measures. It is strongly advisable to wear masks when you go out and keep adequate social distancing. If the rising number of Covid cases has again started showing its ugly head, it is due to the laxity in adopting precautionary measures by the people.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONRecently a businessman was found dead in a hotel room in the city. What safety measures should be taken by the hotel industry so that such incidents do not happen? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/follow-precautionary-measures-in-spirit-218775
01-03-2021||OPEN HOUSE Is it safe not to follow guidelines meant to check the spread of Covid-19?||Don’t let guard down, battle against Covid still on||The pandemic struck the world like a bolt from the blue. Repeated lockdowns, loss of jobs, restricted lifestyle, closure of educational institutions and adhering to difficult precautions, and many other abhorrent and unanticipated restrictions came in its wake. It has been more than a year since the people have been following the necessary precautions. Abatement of the pandemic cases and continued fatigue of precautions led the people to throw all norms to the winds. As a result, Covid-19 cases have begun to surge and fears of second and even mutated strains have begun to lurk around. In the present situation, wearing a mask and keeping social distancing cannot be dispensed with, till the majority of the population is vaccinated and develop antibodies against the disease. It is only after the development of herd immunity that we can relax the required precautions against the pandemic. Besides, we should spare no efforts to strengthen our immunity against the diseases by taking regular exercise, doing yoga, daily walks, and taking a healthy diet so that our bodies are immune not only against coronavirus but also against any other pathogens in the future. Our efforts can work wonders to cope with the situation. It may, therefore, be concluded that we should always be mentally prepared to take any type of pandemic by the forelock and learn to live with it boldly taking all types of necessary precautions.Vansh ChaniCarelessness has crept inAs Covid-19 cases are rising again it’s time to follow guidelines in spirit. People are getting careless. Many have stopped wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. No regulations can be seen monitoring. Therefore, it is important for every one of us to follow the guidelines. The district administration and the police should grow awareness and task out activities such as social distancing and santising hands and take new role as public health messengers. They should implement creative ways to teach the law-breakers so that they can never repeat the same and stay safe. People should be aware about the Covid symptoms and get a test done if they are feeling those symptoms. Local authority should provide testing of Covid-19 at reasonable rates so that people can avail it.Harleen KaurCan’t afford to be complacentNew cases of Covid-19 keep coming up in the city. In such case, ignoring the guidelines is same as showing red rag to a bull. Covid-19 is not something to be taken lightly. Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches. So, why to put the head in the mortar to be crushed by not following the guidelines. Social distancing and wearing masks in public arena are very crucial to follow. Literally, we will get rid of this curse as soon as we will be determined to follow the precautions.Gurpreet KaurStay at home, stay safeThere are many questions in people’s minds now a days. Covid-19 cases are still increasing in our country day by day. The given current spread of Covid-19 have been issued to stay at home and not to step out until any emergency. Social distancing is a must, reduce interaction with other people. We are not safe without a mask and social distancing. Use hand sanitiser. Follow a proper diet and stay at home and stay safe.Deepinder KaurPrevention better than cureNo, it is not at all safe to discard the guidelines. Mask should be worn at all times whenever you step out of the house. Masks are not just for our own safety but also those whose lives are connected with ours. But people wear masks merely to escape from the fines and the police. Wearing mask every time in crowds helps to prevent many contagious diseases. Any rise in the number of Covid cases from carelessness of citizens will bring lockdowns again and the general public will suffer. So, it is better to wear masks and keep a bit of distance because prevention is better than cure.Rashim MalhotraVaccination process slowNo, it’s not at all safe to ignore the guidelines of Covid-19. It is commonly seen that the general public is roaming here and there without mask. Cases are still reported in the city and unfortunately vaccination process is very slow in our country and a costly affair for many. Proper guidelines have to be followed even after vaccination. Schools and colleges must be careful in following these guidelines. Industrial sites and construction sites must be watched carefully. Like earlier, duties must be assigned by the government for strict vigilance. Culprits should be heavily fined for violating norms of Covid-19.Ritu PriyaTell others to follow normsIt is a very serious concern when we are reading reports of a surge of Covid cases again in Punjab. In the city, daily new cases are reported. The rise of cases of Covid-19 may be due to the laxity to follow the norms. When all establishments are opened, citizens begin ignoring norms. In some schools teachers are getting infections along with some students after opening up of schools. So, it is the duty of each citizen to follow these norms and must tell others to follow. Any factory, school, college or other concern be allowed only to open if they are having all infrastructure and other equipment which are necessary to follow the norms of Covid-19. We all must keep social distance, avoid to roam without any work in public places. Government must ban the unnecessary movements in the night hours. It must be mandatory for each citizen to wear a mask.Farzana KhanRising cases matter of grave concernAgain it is a matter of serious concern that the Punjab state is one of the states where the number of coronavirus cases are rising continuously once again. In the present circumstances, all citizens of Ludhiana city must follow the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. Singapore is the only country where still people are wearing masks and with this they have controlled the spread of this virus. We all must keep social distancing and must keep handkerchiefs or tissue papers while sneezing or coughing in the public. In all schools, colleges and other social places people must follow the norms till each and every citizen is vaccinated. Local governments must take necessary steps and make citizens aware to follow the norms of Covid-19. Those who are not following must be fined heavily. We all must cooperate with the local government to control the further spread of this virus once again.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiBoost immunityThe weather conditions are changing day by day. People may suffer from diseases such as common cold and stomach-related infections. Hence, due to weak immune system they will be more vulnerable to get infected by virus. People must follow the guidelines of Covid-19 as seriously as they did before. Masks and sanitisers should be used and social gatherings must be avoided or unless we will have to face a complete lockdown if situations are not handled now.Amarpreet KaurRaise awareness on social mediaThere is huge increase in Covid cases after the Unlock period, people have stopped following the guidelines that are to be followed, which is totally unsafe for them. People are being careless day by day. Even the well-educated people are not following the rules and norms, they are not understanding that these rules are made for their protection only. The government should take an immediate action on the issue. They can impose curfews and impose fine on people who are not following the rules. Also, people should be made aware through social media and other using other mediums that Covid-19 virus is not over, it’s still is very dangerous for everyone life, little carelessness can lead to their end. This can make a good impact and people may understand that following rules is still important and there life are in there own hand.Gurleen KaurPunish culpritsCovid-19 cases are increasing while life in social circles is being taken as almost normal with the opening of all kinds of businesses, markets, shops and cinema halls including schools for education of the children. However, there are reports about possibly further increase in the incidence of the disease. The increase in Covid-19 is essentially due to the fact that people have started taking it easy towards the pandemic and have stopped fearing it while not following the guidelines given by the authorities to keep a check on the spread of the disease. The low number of cases being reported at present may be due to the fact that testing was reduced and as a result, the number of new cases were not added. Also, new strains are appearing and are being reported from different countries including from the country and thus there is fear of further spread of the disease. To keep a control on the disease, the basic recommendations of frequent washing of hands with soap, social distancing at public gatherings and functions, going out of homes only if essential, and wearing a mask while going out must be followed by all. The culprits need to be checked and punished with a fine etc. Forcing the practice of lockdown by the authorities and thereby controlling the spread of the disease will adversely affect the businesses and economy of the country and can be postponed till the problem gets out of hands of the government.Gautam DevNo compromise with safety measuresSafety measures to check the spread of Covid-19 cases again are as important as they were in 2020. The cases are increasing at an alarming pace, not only in Ludhiana but Punjab and some other states too. People have become complacent and stopped wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining physical distance thinking that Covid-19 has vanished into the blue. Such people are not only jeopardising their own health but are also super spreaders of the disease. In Ludhiana, big parties and get together have become a routine affair lately. The attitude is really dangerous and may give rise to an ugly situation soon once again. The district administration must check the worsening situation on the war footing and the pandemic rules violators must be challaned by the police. Those who have been vaccinated must also take all precautionary measures seriously.Dr Sunil ChopraPeople hesitant to wear maskCases of Covid-19 have increased manifold making chances for a second wave of the pandemic. This has exposed our casual approach with regard to the safety guidelines. See any social, political or religious gathering, people are without masks and they do not follow the physical distancing at all. If some people are using masks at such gatherings, after watching others without masks, due to shame they too remove it. Forget about private offices, the Covid-19 guidelines are not even followed in the government offices. When the second wave seems to be on cards, we must not lower our guard. Time and again we are warned about it by the medical fraternity, but to no avail. There seems to be no harm in using masks and following physical distancing, but I do not know why people are hesitant to do so. It is high time that we all must follow the Covid-19 norms in spirit for our safety.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-let-guard-down-battle-against-covid-still-on-218784
01-03-2021||---||Director of private firm nabbed for duty evasion||Ludhiana, February 28One of the directors of a city-based pesticide firm was arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) for duty evasion. Modern Pesticides in August 2020 had sent a consignment to Dubai worth Rs 45 lakh.In November 2020, the consignment was sent back after it got rejected but the rejected consignment was worth Rs 3.5 crore.There was an evasion of Rs1 crore and after a raid on the factory premises located at Kohara and residence at Krishna Nagar, one of the two directors of the company was arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/director-of-private-firm-nabbed-for-duty-evasion-218781
01-03-2021||Anil Datt||Stadium Shockers, Sukhmani XI win titles||Ludhiana, February 28Stadium Shockers and Sukhmani XI emerged winners in the junior and senior sections, respectively, in the 4th Kundanite Premier League (KPL), organised by the Kundan Vidya Mandir Alumni Association (KVMAA), which concluded at the KVM, Civil Lines ground, here, today.In the junior section, defending champions, Stadium Shockers defeated Rising Stars XI convincingly by eight wickets to retain the title whereas in the senior section, Sukhmani XI quelled a strong challenge from Smashers before coming out victorious by six wickets.The final in the junior section turned out to be a one-sided affair. Batting first, Rising Stars XI scored 110 runs after losing six wickets in the allotted 12 overs. Their innings revolved around Atam Jain, Rohit Jain and skipper Tarun Baweja. Atam made 40 runs off 21 balls while Rohit contributed 20 runs and Tarun remained unbeaten on 20. For Stadium Shockers, Vinit Sehgal captured two wickets while Hartejasvi Kapoor and Bharat Malhotra claimed apiece each.Stadium Shockers began their reply on a dismal note, losing star batsman and former IPL player Karan Goel, who departed without opening his account. However, Arjun Puri and Himanshu Garg, not only steadied the innings but carried it nearer the target, overhauling it eventually.Arjun chipped in with 31 runs off 17 balls and Himanshu remained unconquered on 66 runs that came off in 31 balls with the help of 14 hits over the fence. Jatin Soni secured both wickets for the losing side.In the senior section, Smashers posted 125 runs for the loss of five wickets in which the main run getters were Nitin and Nishant, who scored 52 and 37 runs, respectively.Sukhmani XI made the required runs (128 for 4) on the last ball of the match to clinch the cliffhanger and also lifted the winners’ trophy.Former international cricketer and national selector Bhupinder Singh Sr. was the chief guest on the concluding day. He gave away prizes and congratulated the winners.Navita Puri, principal, KVM and Jagjeet Sood, vice-president, KVMAA, thanked the staff for their cooperation in organising the league successfully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stadium-shockers-sukhmani-xi-win-titles-218782
01-03-2021||---||BJP seeks House meeting on waste management in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 28BJP leaders have raised questions over the issue of solid waste management in the city again on Saturday.Ludhiana BJP president Pushpinder Singhal said party councillors would conduct an awareness campaign to highlight the “mismanagement” of the MC in handling waste in the city.Singhal, along with party leaders, including councillor Sunita Sharma and BJP local bodies cell Ludhiana convener Inder Aggarwal, conducted a meeting yesterday.Aggarwal said the MC had failed to float tenders to hire a new firm so far. The private firm, which had been asked to handle waste management at present without floating any tenders, was being paid lakhs of rupees daily but there was no check on how much waste was being lifted by it.Sunita Sharma and Inder Aggarwal said: “The MC can conduct the garbage-lifting task itself with adequate machinery and staff in the city. It was itself lifting garbage till 2011. Even the MC, Indore, which ranked No. 1 in the Swachh Survekshan is doing the task on its own.”They have demanded from the Mayor to hold a House meeting to resolve the issue at the earliest, otherwise the BJP will start an agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-seeks-house-meeting-on-waste-management-in-ludhiana-218783
01-03-2021||---||Man found murdered in Jugiana||Ludhiana, February 28A man aged around 35 was found murdered at Jugiana, near Sahnewal, this afternoon. He was said to have been strangled to death. His head also had serious injuries.Sahnewal Station House Officer Balvinder Singh said today some youths were playing cricket near the Thapar factory in Jugiana when they spotted a man lying in an unconscious state. They raised an alarm and informed local residents. Afterwards, the latter informed the police.The SHO said after strangling the victim with a piece of cloth, the killers also seemed to have hit his head with some cement block.A dog squad from Ludhiana also rushed to the spot to assist the police. The police registered a murder case against unknown persons.Sources said drug addicts used to gather at the point where the body was recovered and the police suspect that some addicts could have killed the victim. Meanwhile, the deceased was yet to be identified as the police had not recovered any mobile phone or identity card from the body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-in-jugiana-218777
01-03-2021||Ludhiana||2 nabbed with 2.17-kg heroin in Ludhiana||The STF wing of Ludhiana nabbed two persons and seized 2.17 kg of heroin from their possession.The accused have been identified as Kamaljit Singh (32) of Kabir Nagar and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda (42). Their accomplice Rajvir Singh Gill of Amar Nagar is yet to be arrested in the case.Inspector (STF) Harbans Singh in a statement issued said a police party was patrolling on the GT road near Basti Jodhewal where a tip-off was received that the accused were on the way to deliver a consignment of drugs. Accordingly, a naka was laid and a Tata 709 vehicle was stopped for checking and occupants of the vehicle were arrested near Sabzi Mandi, Jodhewal.During the search of the vehicle, heroin was found hidden near the engine battery.During questioning, Kamaljit said he make spare parts of motorcycles while Bhupinder stated that he owns Tata 709 vehicles. The accused were into the notorious trade of smuggling of heroin for the past three years.The inspector said the kingpin in the trade was Rajvir Singh and the two nabbed accused used to procure heroin from supplier for him. Today also, the duo had procured heroin from some supplier in a border area of Amritsar on behalf of Rajvir and they were on the way to deliver the same to the latter.Harbans said Rajvir had three smuggling cases registered against him in the past and in one of the cases, one kg of heroin was seized from him. In that case, he came out on bail from the Kapurthala jail around 45 days ago after which he again started smuggling of heroin. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-nabbed-with-2-17-kg-heroin-in-ludhiana-218778
01-03-2021||Ludhiana||5 notorious criminals held in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police claimed to have busted a notorious gang of criminals and arrested five of its members.The gang had attacked two persons brutally and damaged their car at Issa Nagri on February 8.The arrested persons were identified as Simranjit Singh Lotta of Islam Ganj, Rajvinder Singh Raja of Islam Ganj, Arjan Singh Garry of Azad Nagar, Karamjit Singh Karan of Islam Ganj and Prem Singh.The police recovered a motorcycle and sharp-edged weapons from the gang members.Two accused, Bhupinder and Heera, had been arrested by the police on February 16.ADCP Pragya Jain, ACP (Central) Waryam Singh and SHO police station 3 Jarnail Singh addressed a press conference in this regard.The police said on February 8, Pargat Singh and his friend Indermohan Singh of Islam Ganj were heading towards Issa Nagri in their Swift Car, when they were cornered by the gang members near the police division No. 2. Both were attacked badly by the gang and their car was also damaged.The police registered an attempt to murder case against all accused then. They were also captured on CCTV cameras. Key accused Lotta had a notorious past as he was facing three different criminal cases registered in the past, while accused Prem was also facing two criminal cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-notorious-criminals-held-in-ludhiana-218779
01-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Clubs, restaurants in Ludhiana flout police orders, go beyond 11.30 pm deadline||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 28Despite strict instructions of Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal that no clubs, restaurants or night bars can operate after 11.30 pm in the city, many entertainment places, located mostly in South City, are violating the instructions of the top cop.Political and bureaucratic connections of the owners of such restaurants and clubs etc are said to be the reason that these pay least attention to the instructions of the police.Due to no fixed rules or the lack of police checking, these restaurants allow entry to even minor boys and girls. Even youngsters consume liquor and smoke at these places.Many private farmhouses exist in South City which can also be hired for late-night parties.Last night at around 12.30 am, the Sarabha Nagar police conducted surprise checking at Club69 restaurant on Canal Road, New Asha Puri, South City, and found it open, with crowd dancing on the DJ’s beat.Joint CP City Deepak Pareek said residents had also complained about this restaurant as it holds parties till late night and they faced a big nuisance from its DJ.Accordingly, the police registered a case against the owner of the restaurant under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by the public servant) of the IPC.“We will not allow any such violation in future and all police stations have been told to conduct surprise checking and take immediate action as per the law against the owners of such restaurants,” added Pareek.Residents demand actionResidents said many restaurants in the city offer liquor and hookah to youngsters at exorbitant rates. Some also promise the visitors that the police would not conduct raid on their club. Parents need to keep a check on their wards who go to such clubs for late-night parties, said the residents.Youths sans masksA youngster, who was present at a party in South City, said even young boys and girls from various places had come to take part in the late-night party. Even after 11.30 pm, visitors were not told to leave the party. No one was wearing masks. Restaurant staff even reportedly assured protection from police action and even served liquor to all age groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/clubs-restaurants-in-ludhiana-flout-police-orders-go-beyond-11-30-pm-deadline-218780
01-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Need to segregate traffic flow at Ludhiana's Samrala Chowk||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 28Samrala Chowk, which is declared as a black spot, is one of the main intersections of the industrial hub. It connects the city with the national capital, state capital and inner pockets of the city. But the poor management of traffic, confusion regarding cuts leading to the inner parts of the city and haphazard parking of buses and auto-rickshaws make commuting risky at the intersection.As per a police survey, as many as 11 persons have lost their lives at the spot in three years (from 2016 to 2018) after they were hit by speeding vehicles. Most of the victims include pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders.There are several crossing points at Samrala Chowk due to which the movement of traffic gets affected. At some of the sections alongside the chowk, service lanes are not constructed in a proper manner. During the rainy season, rainwater gets accumulated in the lanes on both sides of the road as well as Chandigarh Road.“There is no bus lane to accommodate buses at the chowk. Auto-rickshaw in a large number can be seen waiting for passengers in the absence of an auto stand. There are no blinkers and rumble strips on all link roads connecting the chowk,” said local residents.People alleged that even there were no signboards at the chowk. Many a times, commuters enter the wrong lane which creates a traffic chaos.Dr Kamal Soi, member, National Road Safety Council, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, GoI, said: “There is a complete chaos and confusion at Samrala Chowk due to the poor traffic management. Though the design has some flaws, the main issue is the mixing of all kind of heterogeneous vehicular traffic. Auto-rickshaws, buses, trucks, two-wheelers, cars and cycle rickshaws create havoc at the point. There is no pedestrian pathway, risking the lives of pedestrians and cyclists.”“There is a dire need to segregate the traffic to remove bottlenecks and clear the confusion. Proper signage, rumble strips to control the speed, proper parking and management of buses and auto-rickshaws and enforcement of no entry of commercial/heavy trucks from 8 am to 8 pm,” he said.11 lost their lives in three yearsAs per a police survey, as many as 11 persons have lost their lives at the spot in three years (from 2016 to 2018) after they were hit by speeding vehicles. Most of the victims include pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/need-to-segregate-traffic-flow-at-ludhianas-samrala-chowk-218776
01-03-2021||---||Covid-19: No death; 63 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, February 28Sixtythree persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported in the district today. Among those who tested positive today included four students and three teachers.The total positive cases have now reached 27,116, while 1,029 persons have lost their lives so far.The students who tested positive today included two students of DPS School and two of BCM School Basant Avenue. The three teachers who tested positive belong to Government Senior Secondary School Maachiwara, BCM School Dugri and Civil Animal Bio Technology College.A healthcare worker, an AMN from Gill village, anundertrial and a policeman also tested positive.Today, 2,241 samples were sent for testing and the results of 1,915 are awaited. The active patients in the district today were 554, while 72 persons were home quarantined.From March 1, restrictions on gatherings would also be strictly enforced. District education officers have been asked to strictly adhere to the safety protocols and appoint nodal officers in the schools to ensure that all safety measures were followed and also share the same during the morning assembly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently.With the third phase of vaccination starting tomorrow, he said, “Vaccination is a powerful weapon against the pandemic and the available vaccine is safe and effective. We all should use it”.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-no-death-63-ve-in-ludhiana-district-218785
01-03-2021||---||Covid vaccination: Ludhiana district set for 2nd phase||Ludhiana, February 28Ludhiana district is all set to start the third phase of Covid vaccination from today (March 1).The vaccination will be done at seven places which include the DMCH, CMCH, Fortis Hospital, SPS Hospital, Raghunath Hospital, Deep Hospital and Oswal Hospital in the private sector.At government hospitals, the vaccination will be done at Civil Hospital, UPHC Jawaddi and Civil Surgeon Office Complex.Tomorrow, the vaccination will be done only in the private sector and will be inaugurated at the DMCH.The vaccination will be completely free of cost at government hospitals and centres, private establishments cannot charge more than Rs250 for each beneficiary (per dose) which includes Rs150 as the cost of vaccine and up to Rs100 service charges. Private hospitals cannot charge more than Rs100 per person (per dose) for services,” Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, said.After the vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers in the first phase, the second phase will cater to people above 60years and individuals above 45 years having co-morbidities.“We are trying to rope in more private hospitals for providing vaccination facility so that people do not have to travel long distances. The vaccine will be provided free of cost at government hospitals, while at private hospitals, a nominal cost will be charged,” said Dr Kakkar.He added that the registration would be done on the CoWIN portal where they could choose the date and site of their choice.There would be three sites for vaccination namely, open site, reserve site and mobile site. In the open site, the person could choose the date and place for vaccination by registering on the portal. In the reserve site, those who were left in the first phase would be catered to. In the mobile site, on-the-spot registration for vaccination will be done and jab will be given.Dr Kakkar said people above 60 years would be vaccinated and would have to show their identity proof at the vaccination site, while individuals above 45 years having co-morbidities would have to show the certification of co-morbidity. People with the presence of one of the 20 co-morbidities, including diabetes, heart attack with hospital admission, post-cardiac transplant, end-stage kidney disease, hypertension, HIV infection diabetes on treatment would be prioritised.Points to keep in mind||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-vaccination-ludhiana-district-set-for-2nd-phase-218786
