02-03-2021||---||Aim for better rank this year, MC staff told||Ludhiana, March 1 The field assessment for Swachh Survekshan-2021 has begun from Monday onwards. MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal conducted a meeting with officials in this regard at MC’s Zone A office, Ludhiana. Sabharwal said checking about door-to-door collection and cleanliness will be conducted during the survey. He gave instructions to the staff concerned to speed up the citizen feedback work. He also conducted discussion on cleanliness drive to be started as per instructions of the state government. He encouraged the staff to do their job with dedication so that the city can perform well at national-level during the Swachh Survekshan-2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aim-for-better-rank-this-year-mc-staff-told-219372
02-03-2021||---||Pay attention to livestock nutrition needs, say experts||Ludhiana, March 1 The Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) celebrated Livestock Nutrition Awareness Week from February 22-26. Dr Parkash Singh Brar, Director, Extension Education, revealed that major chunk of dairy farming in the state is still in the hands of small farmers. These farmers often lack awareness about nutritional requirements of their animals. However, lack of proper knowledge about compounding of balanced rations for different categories of animals, often, make the livestock rearing venture unviable.  Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, realised the need to make the farmers and other stakeholders aware of the importance of balanced nutrition. He informed that among all livestock operations, animal feeding costs around 70 per cent of the total expenses incurred on the farm.  The awareness week started with a one-day workshop on “Recent trends in livestock nutrition to optimise their productivity” organised at the campus. More than 120 stakeholders including dairy, poultry, pig farmers of the state, field officers from Milkfed, faculty members, and students attended this workshop. The next event was an exposure visit to feed manufacturing plant of Markfed in Kapurthala district. The visit was organised by Department of Animal Nutrition under the guidance of Dr Udeybir  Singh. A hands-on training was organized for farmers for manufacturing mineral mixture. During the chain of events, the Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Extension Education also organised a refresher training for field vets at Shiv Batalvi Auditorium, Batala.  Dr RK Sharma and Dr JS Hundal refreshed the knowledge of around 70 veterinary officers of Gurdaspur district about latest trends in animal nutrition. The last day of the week witnessed a training programme on balance nutrition for dairy farmers at Manupur village in Ludhiana. Dairy farmers of the area were sensitised about inclusion of mineral mixture, uromin licks and bypass fat in animal feeds. During the awareness week, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Mohali, Barnala and Tarn Taran organised awareness camps and training programmes to emphasise on the importance of balanced nutrition for livestock. The stakeholders were also sensitised about issues related to animal nutrition through TV/Radio Talks, newspaper articles etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pay-attention-to-livestock-nutrition-needs-say-experts-219373
02-03-2021||Ludhiana||Intoxicating pills seized from former councillor’s building||The police on Monday conducted a raid at building of former BJP councillor at Chawani Mohalla in Ludhiana and recovered a cache of intoxicanting pills and other items from there. The police had also made an attempt to conduct raid on Sunday night but they had faced resistance by some persons for not having a search warrant. After getting the search warrant today, the police conducted raid at the building of former BJP councillor Satish Nagar. During the raid, the police found intoxicant medicines. Drug inspectors were also present during the raid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/intoxicating-pills-seized-from-former-councillors-building-219374
02-03-2021||---||Annual function at Punjabi Bhawan||Ludhiana, March 1 The annual function of Suhi Saver Media was held here at Punjabi Bhawan today. The main topic of discussion today was presentation of mass movements in media. Supriya Sharma, executive editor, Scroll Media.in, and Manisha Pandey, executive editor, News Laundry, were the main guest speakers today.  Shiv Inder Singh, from Suhi Saver Media, said press is the fourth pillar of democracy and plays a vital role in any mass movement.  During the discussion the guest speakers talked about the role of media, changes taking place in the media and some media who are puppets in the hands of ruling party. They discussed how media influence any mass movement.   Today doing true and impartial journalism has become a challenge in itself and even the capital of our country is not safe for journalism. Unjustified cases are being registered against the reporters. The main work of a journalist today is record the truth and it is expected that in the coming times more restrictions will be imposed on the media but journalists need to carry on with their duty, said the guest speakers while expressing their views.  Center for Peace and Secular Studies was awarded with Suhi Saver Media Award 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/annual-function-at-punjabi-bhawan-219376
02-03-2021||---||Encroachments galore in over 35 city parks: RTI||Ludhiana, March 1 The Municipal Corporation has failed to get the encroachments removed from a number of parks in the city. An information obtained under RTI revealed that the encroachments are in over 35 parks of the city. The matter regarding encroachments in the parks was raised multiple times but no concrete action has been taken in this regard. Now, a city resident has also complained to the Chief Minister against the encroachments in the parks of city. According to the information, encroachments have come up in seven parks in Dr Ambedkar Chowk, Jalandhar Bypass circle. The encroachments have also come up in three parks of Focal Point circle, nine parks of Cheema Chowk circle, three parks of Basant Park circle, four parks of New Model Town circle and seven parks of Model Town Extension Park circle. The encroachments have also been found in some parks of Dugri Circle, Guru Nanak Pura circle and Out Park circle. The encroachments in shape of religious structures have come up in some parks. Besides, some persons run their booths or other business from the parks. The vehicles are also being parked in some parks.  A resident of Chandar Nagar, Keemti Rawal said, “I have obtained information under RTI about encroachments in a number of parks. I am surprised that these encroachments are not being removed. Even police have encroached upon a park as per information obtained under RTI. I have written to the Chief Minister to issue directions to the authorities concerned for early removal of encroachments. These parks should be developed and green cover must be increased.”  He also demanded that the slum dwellers who are living in some parks should be rehabilitated and government should provide them houses at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/encroachments-galore-in-over-35-city-parks-rti-219377
02-03-2021||Ludhiana||Govt teachers slam rationalisation policy||A state-level meeting of Government School Teachers Union was held here today. The teachers condemned state government’s rationalisation policy, which was suddenly announced by the government. They have decided to burn the effigy of the Education Minister in protest against the policy on March 3.  The teachers said under the garb of online transfer of school teachers, government had abolished many of their posts. They said on e-portal of the department, number of posts for various subjects was decreased by the government. Teachers said many educated youth would become jobless because of the decision.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-teachers-slam-rationalisation-policy-219378
02-03-2021||---||Bike-borne men open fire at workshop owner||Ludhiana, March 1 A workshop owner was fired upon by two bike-borne men in the Jamalpur area of Ludhiana today. Sources said four bullets were fired at him, out of which one went past close to his neck. The victim, identified as Gurwinder Singh (35), was rushed to hospital where his condition was said to be stable. When the accused opened fire, the victim was going towards a nearby market. After getting information about the incident, police officials reached the spot and started investigating the matter. The CCTV cameras were being scanned to identify the accused, who managed to escape from the spot. Gurwinder Singh of Jamalpur runs an automobile workshop. The victim’s wife suspected her husband’s younger brother behind the incident as her husband has a property dispute with him. The police said the matter was being probed. ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sran, ACP (Detective) Surinder Mohan and SHO Davinder Kumar reached the spot after the incident took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bike-borne-men-open-fire-at-workshop-owner-219379
02-03-2021||Ludhiana||Woman booked for abetting suicide||Eight months after a man committed suicide, the police have booked his wife on the charge of abetment to suicide. Himanshu (24) of Swati Nagar in Ludhiana had committed suicide in June 2020. Deceased’s mother Neena Bedi had filed a complaint with the police, blaming her daughter-in-law for the death of her son. Now, a case under Section 306 of the IPC has been registered against Himanshu’s wife at the Salem Tabri police station on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Aditi Khatra of Gurgaon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-booked-for-abetting-suicide-219381
02-03-2021||---||34 test +ve; 1 death in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 1Thirtyfour persons tested positive for Covid, while one lost his life to the virus in the district today.The total positive cases till date have gone to 27,180, while those who lost their life due to the virus are 1,030.Those who tested positive today included four students from DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, Gurmukh Public School, Maachiwara, Dayanand Medical College, SKS Nursing College, Sarabha. In addition, a staff member of the Police Department, a healthcare worker and a community health officer of Khasi Kalan tested positive.The person who lost his life today was a 50-year-old female who had been admitted to the CMCH and was a diabetic and anaemic.There are 564 active patients in the district at present. Till date, a total of 6,68,830 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 6,67,443 samples have been received. Out of these, 6,36,029 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,387 samples were pending. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 27,180, while 4,234 patients belong to other districts/states.Till date, 57,766 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 1,079. Today, 104 persons were sent for home quarantine.Whenever the district administration and the Health Department Ludhiana find out about positive or suspected Covid persons, their samples are immediately sent for testing. Similarly, 2,427 samples of the suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/34-test-ve-1-death-in-ludhiana-district-219382
02-03-2021||---||Petition filed against fixing of paver blocks around trees in city||Ludhiana, March 1 A city resident and president of the Council of Engineers has filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against fixing of solid pavers (inter-locking tiles) and concrete over roots around trees as well as in green belts along roadsides in the city. The petitioner, Kapil Arora, said he had made the authorities of state, PUDA, Local Government Department, Punjab Pollution Control Board, GLADA as well as the Municipal Corporation as respondents in the case. He has submitted a petition with the NGT, seeking directions for the removal of interlocking tiles as well as concrete around trees as well as from green belts along roadsides. He said: “It is a well-known fact that roots of trees absorb water, oxygen and other nutrients essential for their growth and development. Concrete over roots damages critical root structures and inhibits the trees’ ability to absorb water and oxygen. It may result in the death of trees. The development authorities should leave open space of one meter radius around trees.” “Despite two complaints, the authorities concerned have continued to fix interlocking tiles and concrete along roadsides leaving no space around the trees. Interlocking tiles can be seen fixed around the trees in almost the entire city, under the jurisdiction of the MCL, LIT and GLADA,” he added. He has also written a complaint to a PAU official against the fixing of interlocking tiles/concrete by the department in the one-meter radius of trees at various points on the premises of Punjab Agricultural University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/petition-filed-against-fixing-of-paver-blocks-around-trees-in-city-219383
02-03-2021||---||City gets anti-smog machines to check rising air pollution||Ludhiana, March 1 To reduce the rising air pollution level in the city, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has bought anti-smog machines. Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who is a local MLA, inspected the demonstration of the first two machines that reached the MC Zone D office, here. Ashu said for providing clean and fresh air to residents, such anti-smog and anti-dust machines would be deputed at several areas in the city. He said the machines were bought by the MC under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which would help in settling down suspended dust and pollution causing particles. The minister inspected the demonstration of two different machines, which included one mounted on an electric vehicle and the other on a Mahindra Bolero vehicle. He said these machines could be put to various uses such as washing dust off leaves of long trees, for sterilisation and for keeping a check on suspended dust and pollution-causing particles. Ashu said air pollution was one of the biggest problems for residents in the city. Hence, all stakeholders must play a proactive role for the successful implementation of the clean air mission for the industrial hub of the state, which would pave the way towards the improvement of quality of air and in the process, help residents to get rid of air pollution, causing adverse effect on their health and lives. The demonstration of machines was held to deliberate on issues related to control of air pollution in the city and to discuss various aspects of the NCAP and the Centre’s scheme for improvement of air quality of 42 million plus urban cities as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission. The minister informed the stakeholder departments that the city was one of the nine non-attainment cities in the state and air quality management plan and action required as per action plan has already been approved by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The action plan involves stakeholders such as Municipal Corporation, departments of Transport, Police, Forests, Industries and Commerce, PWD, PSCST and Agriculture and the district administration, who have been assigned their different responsibilities in the field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-gets-anti-smog-machines-to-check-rising-air-pollution-219384
02-03-2021||Manav Mander||Phase III: 1,601 get the dose||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 1The third phase of the Covid vaccination started in the district today, with a total of 353 senior citizens (aged above 60) and 126 persons aged between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities getting vaccinated in government and private hospitals in Ludhiana district.Tuesday venues for jabOn Tuesday, the Covid19 vaccination will be done at 28 sites/hospitals, which include Civil Hospital in Ludhiana, government hospitals in Jagraon, Khanna, Samrala, Raikot, Sudhar, Malaud, Macchiwara, Sidhwan Bet, Manupur, Hathur, Payal, Pakhowal, Koom Kalan, Sahnewal, Dehlon, UCHC’s at Subhash Nagar, Jawaddi, Shimlapuri, Civil Surgeon office complex, Vardhman MCH Centre, Dayanand Medical College & Hospital, Christian Medical College & Hospital, SPS Hospital, Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Deep Hospital and Shree Raghunath Hospital.Requisites for getting jabbedA total of 1,601 persons got vaccinated today. The phase began from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).DC Varinder Sharma said the vaccination would be free of cost at government hospitals and centres, and private establishments cannot charge more than Rs 250 for each beneficiary (per dose) which includes Rs 150 as the cost of vaccine and up to Rs 100 service charges.Today, a total of 83 healthcare workers received their first jab of the vaccine, followed by 884 who received their second jab. Similarly, 155 frontline workers received their first jab of the vaccine, making 1,601 persons the total count of the day.Senior citizens wait as server downAt the Civil Hospital, senior citizens and cops had to wait for around three hours to get themselves vaccinated. Those who came around 9 am had to wait to get their turn around noon. The vaccination started late and some technical error was said to be the reason behind the same. A senior citizen said, “Whenever we are asking them about the time of the vaccination, the staff keep on saying that the server is down.”Many police officials, who were also present at the Civil Hospital for vaccination on seeing the huge amount of time being taken for the process, were in a fix to stay there or go back for their duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/phase-iii-1-601-get-the-dose-219400
02-03-2021||Ludhiana||Vocational training on food preservation||Youngsters urged to take interest in farmingThe Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a village level exhibition at the village Bhundri, Sidhwan Bet. This exhibition was organised as a part of National Science Day celebration, which aimed at the display of agricultural innovations at the doorstep of its end users i.e farmers, farm women, rural youth and school children. The exhibition displayed models of integrated farming system, mushroom cultivation, rain water harvesting, and vegetable nutritional garden. There was also the showcase of various processed food products prepared by PAU from various fruits and vegetables. In his address, Dr Kuldeep Singh, Head, Department of Extension Education, urged the higher secondary school students to adopt scientific agriculture as their profession. He also stimulated the farmers and students to come forward in adopting the farm innovations, generated at PAU. Dr Lopamudra Mohapatra, Assistant Professor, Extension Education and the Coordinator, said that the purpose of the exhibition was to encourage students to take interest in farming and aspire to be an entrepreneurial farmer.5-day training course on post-harvest managementThe Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a five-day training course on the “Cultivation and Preservation of Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers” under the aegis of the Directorate of Extension Education. Dr TS Riar, Associate Director (Skill Development), said the experts provided in-depth knowledge regarding the cultivation, post-harvest management and marketing of fruits, vegetables and flowers. Dr Lavleesh Garg, Course Coordinator, highlighted the importance of the training course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vocational-training-on-food-preservation-219405
