04-03-2021||---||Workshop on data analytics||Ludhiana, March 3The Placement Cell of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, organised a workshop on data analytics. The guests were Ramanpuneet Singh, SME in Data Analytics at IBM and Aman Bakshi, member of data analytics team of IBM. The college authorities said the objective of the workshop was to make students aware about the meaning of data analytics and its role in making strategies to cope up with the competition of today’s era. More than 200 students from both technical and non- technical background participated. The Principal, Dr Mukti Gill, appreciated the efforts of Placement Head and IQAC Coordinator Dr Priyanka Khanna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/workshop-on-data-analytics-220177
04-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Probe may expose bigger nexus of drug smuggling||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 3The police are exploring all angles in the ongoing investigation into a drug haul case in which 1.29 intoxicating lakh tablets were recovered from the building of BJP leader Satish Nagar located in Chawni Mohalla. The investigation may expose a bigger network of drug smuggling from Ludhiana.Pragya Jain, ADCP, LudhianaAn investigation into the drug racket is on as per law and whosoever is guilty will face the law.After recovering the huge cache of tablets (pharmaceutical opioids) on Monday night raid, the police division 4 had registered a case under section 22C, 25-29-61-85 NDPS Act against the BJP leader Satish Nagar, his tenant Himmat, and two of his aides Anoop and Rajinder for running a network of drug smuggling. Anoop and Hemant were arrested by the police while the BJP leader was let off on the plea that his role is yet unclear in the case. Now, both the accused are on five-day police remand.People have blamed the police for succumbing to political pressure. However the police have refuted all such claims. Some people have also come in support of the BJP leader.ADCP Pragya Jain said an investigation into the drug racket is going on as per law and whosoever is guilty will face the law.Wife booked for violating tenant verification ordersThe police division 4 yesterday late evening registered a case under section 188 of the IPC against the Satish Nagar’s wife Anuradha Nagar of Chawni Mohalla under section 188 of the IPC. As per the police building was in the name of Satish’s wife and his wife should have done the verification of tenants which she didn’t do. Pertinently along with Satish, the police had registered a case of drug smuggling against his tenants as well.Notably, last year, the police had busted a major racket of illegal drugs and has recovered drugs worth Rs 4 crore and Rs 6 crores, respectively. The police had conducted a raid in a godown at Jaipur from where drugs were recovered. Drug supplier from Jaipur was also arrested. That was the biggest network of smugging busted by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/probe-may-expose-bigger-nexus-of-drug-smuggling-220175
04-03-2021||---||Daresi area residents miffed over garbage strewn on road||Ludhiana, March 3Hundreds of visitors are forced to suffer as the MC has failed to remove a big garbage dump near the cremation ground at the Daresi area of Ludhiana. Though it is one of the prominent cremation grounds of the city, authorities concerned and elected representatives are yet to take necessary steps to resolve the issue.The dump has been created on around 100 metres stretch along Buddha Nullah and near the cremation ground leaving the commuters to suffer a lot. The visitors to the cremation ground face a lot of inconvenience due to the big garbage dump that emanates massive stench.Residents said the garbage lifting is not done timely. Whenever garbage is lifted, vehicles are stationed on road, causing traffic jam.A visitor to the cremation ground said, “Huge traffic jams were witnessed when a two tippers and JCB machine were stationed for lifting of garbage on Tuesday. The dump creates a lot of inconvenience to the people who visit the cremation ground. It is hard to breathe due to foul smell emanating from the dump. MC Ludhiana and elected representatives should ensure removal of this dump near cremation ground. Moreover, when MC is running a campaign to make Buddha Nullah pollution-free, why this dump has not been removed till date?”Surinder Dawar, MLA, Ludhiana Central Constituency, said he will talk to the MC authorities for early removal of the dump located near the cremation ground. “There is no location to set up static compactor to resolve problem of this uncovered dump. I will take necessary steps to get the issue resolved soon,” he added.Notably, there are a number of similar dumps located on roads in the city, leaving the commuters to suffer a lot in routine. A garbage dump is also located on road portion near railway tracks at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. The residents have been demanding from the MC and Ludhiana Improvement Trust to remove this dump at the earliest.Arvind Sharma, a resident of SBS Nagar, said, “I have been writing to the authorities for removal of the dump for the past one decade but nothing has been done till date. Earlier, a structure for dump was constructed by spending lakhs of rupees but it had got damaged within a short period. The garbage is dumped openly on road due to which the commuters and nearby residents are suffering a lot. It should be removed at the earliest and shifted to a location away from residential area.”Notably, the MC has planned to set up waste compactors to deal with problem of uncovered garbage dumps at different locations. However, there is no space available to setup static compactors at some locations.Around five years ago, the MC had made a plan to buy new vehicles to transport garbage directly from houses to the main dump near Kakka village but nothing was done in this regard.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daresi-area-residents-miffed-over-garbage-strewn-on-road-220170
04-03-2021||---||Teachers resent rationalisation move, say decision step towards ‘privatisation’||Ludhiana, March 3Teachers under the banner of Sanjha Teachers Morcha held a protest at the Mini Secretariat here today against the wrong policies of the Education Department and state government. The protesting teachers burnt the effigy of the government for abolishing the posts of teachers in government schools.The teachers said under the rationalisation move, the posts of teachers were being abolished whereas there was dire need of teachers for various subjects in all the schools.Teachers are up in the arms against the state government for abolishing the posts of various subjects in schools under the garb of rationalisation. Irked over the apathetic attitude of the government, the teachers said it was a move towards ‘privatisation’ as the posts were abolished from primary, middle, high and senior secondary schools.A delegation of Democratic Teachers Front, SSA, RMSA and representatives from several other teachers unions held an agitation and protested outside the DEO office here yesterday.Hardev Singh Mullanpur, president, Democratic Teachers Front, said the state government had abolished thousands of posts from government schools, giving a jolt to the serving and aspiring teachers. He said that the smart school concept was a farce while the reality was that the government was keen to provide everything in the hands of private players.The teachers said there was dire need of teachers in government schools to teach various subjects as posts were lying vacant. But instead of recruiting more staff, posts were being abolished, which means that ultimately the poor and needy students would suffer. They demanded immediate revoke of this else intense agitation would be the outcome.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-resent-rationalisation-move-say-decision-step-towards-privatisation-220171
04-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Private schools prefer online classes for new session||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 3In the wake of the growing number of Covid cases reported from different schools in the city, most of the private schools have decided to conduct online classes in the new academic session. Earlier, the schools had decided to conduct offline classes for students who have been promoted to classes X and XII.Talking to The Tribune, Paramjit Kaur, Principal, BCM School, said that as far as the classes for new session are concerned, we will conduct online classes only. Once the situation becomes normal and Covid is controlled, we can switch-over to offline classes.Similarly, a leading school in Sarabha Nagar had earlier announced to start offline classes from March 1 onwards for students who have been promoted to XII. But since both teachers and students were reported Covid positive from many other schools, the classes will now be held from March 10 and that too online for the time being.At the same time, Harmit Kaur, Principal, Nankana Sahib Public School, said classes are being held offline and even the exams are taken offline. “We have not got any student or teacher Covid positive so far. We have decided to continue with offline mode of teaching. Even for new session, classes will be held offline as of now,” said Kaur.Meanwhile, expressing concern over growing number of Covid cases in schools, parents feel that online studies should continue till the vaccination phase is over. Even the parents of students studying in government schools have condemned the government for opening the schools due to which many students and teachers have tested positive. The parents said that no proper guidelines are followed in government schools, there is no availability of masks or sanitisers, under such circumstances, Covid graph is bound to increase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/private-schools-prefer-online-classes-for-new-session-220172
04-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||Animal lovers seek probe into mysterious death of puppies||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 3Dog lovers are worried after two stray puppies were found dead on or near the premises of Hockey Stadium of Department of Sports, PAU, Ludhiana. The cause of death of the puppies was yet the ascertained.When a dog lover visited to feed them at the hockey stadium, where the puppies used to live, one body of a puppy was found in swollen condition. The body of another puppy with front limbs cut was lying at a nearby site. A probe into the matter had been demanded by animal lovers.A dog lover, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that some more puppies were also missing from the stadium site adding that a number of dog lovers, including some students and employees, used to feed these puppies.Major Amarjit Singh, who works for the welfare of stray dogs in the city, said, “After seeing the picture of the dead puppy with front legs missing, it seems something bad had happened with him. The matter should be investigated and taken seriously to know the actual cause of death of the puppies.”Dr Sandeep Jain, president, People for Animals, Ludhiana, an NGO, has recommended for vetero-legal examination of dead puppies to know the actual cause behind their death. He said, “Without vetero-legal examination, we can’t say anything. It is a suspicious matter. The dog lovers can complain to the police for investigation.” Notably, a temporary shelter was also set up for these puppies to prevent themselves from cold by an employee.PAU Estate Officer Dr Ashok Kumar said matter is not in his notice and nobody has complained in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/animal-lovers-seek-probe-into-mysterious-death-of-puppies-220173
04-03-2021||---||Gold prices leave investors jittery||Ludhiana, March 3The price of gold had surged up to Rs 58,000 per 10 gram about 3-4 months back as it was “predicted” in the market that the prices will further see an upward trend up to Rs 65-70,000 per 10 gram. Huge investments were made by investors as gold was found to be an ideal investment because of its quick returns during the pandemic, when property saw a declining trend. Contrary to the speculations, the prices of yellow metal came down to Rs 47,100 per 10 gram (24 carats) today and presently, uncertainty prevails in the market whether to purchase or sell the gold.Anand Sekri, President, Ludhiana Jewellers AssociationThose who made huge investments cannot sell at present rate fearing loss. Moreover, they do not want to invest any further in gold. So, it is simply wait and watch situation for them.Anand Sekri, president, Ludhiana Jewellers Association, said the investors who had bought huge amounts of gold when it was at its peak are now worried as the prices have come down by Rs 10,000 per 10 gram.“Those who made huge investments cannot sell at present rates fearing loss. Moreover, they do not want to invest any further in gold. So, it is simply wait and watch situation for them, who have already purchased in bulk. But as far as new buyers are concerned, there is definitely increased demand as they feel that in times to come, the metal will again see an upward trend,” said Sikri.Navdeep (name changed), an entrepreneur, said she had bought 20 tolas of gold when the prices were at peak thinking that it would increase further. “But now the prices fell and we feel that it was a wrong decision taken by us. Though people are saying that the prices will come down further and then there will be an increase but then these are all speculations and no certainty”, she added.Balvinder Verma, another goldsmith in Mandi Ahmedgarh, said the history of gold tells that rates come down but after a certain period. “Nobody predicts how much time it will take but trends tell that price of gold fall and then go up again. But people continue to make investments in gold as it provides quick and good returns”, he added||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gold-prices-leave-investors-jittery-220174
04-03-2021||---||Unknown caller booked for making bomb hoax call 
to Sahnewal airport||Ludhiana, March 3An unknown caller called an assistant manager of the Sahnewal airport on February 18 and informed him that four bombs have been placed in flights scheduled for departure.Following the call, airport security staff carried out an intensive checking of planes scheduled for departure. However, nothing was recovered.The Focal Point police station registered a case against unknown person under Sections 505, 506, 505 and 182 of the IPC late on Tuesday evening and the cyber wing of city police launched a probe in the matter.Pawan Kumar, assistant manager, ATC, AAI Sahnewal, said on February 18, he was present at the airport when he received a call on his mobile number. The caller introduced him as Navdeep, alias Navi from Ludhiana, and informed that if he could save the airport then go ahead else everything will be blown away. The caller told him that “within 24 hours, four bombs would explode in the four scheduled flights and nobody could save passengers now.”Focal Point SHO Davinder Sharma said the alleged caller had called from some online app and number of Navdeep of Haibowal Kalan was shown on it. On the basis of the information, a person was traced but he was found innocent.Navdeep was in Haridwar when the accused made the call and it seemed that someone tried to implicate Navdeep in the case. Navdeep runs a provisional store in Haibowal. The police are also questioning Navdeep if he has any enmity with anyone.The SHO said the cyber cell was trying to trace the person who made the call to the airport officer and the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/unknown-caller-booked-for-making-bomb-hoax-call-to-sahnewal-airport-220176
04-03-2021||---||Covid-19: 75-year-old man succumbs, 72 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 3Covid has claimed the life of a 75-year-old man, a resident of Ram Nagar, Khanna, in Ludhiana district on Wednesday. Besides, 72 fresh cases of the virus have been confirmed in the district.Of the positive cases confirmed today, there are four students, which include one each from Government Senior Secondary School, Hambran; Mahant Laxman Das Senior Secondary School, Talwandi Kalan; and two from AS Model Senior Secondary School in Khanna. Three teachers, including one from Harvest School, Jassowal, and two teachers from Government Senior Secondary School, Hambran, are also among the positive cases.Besides, seven persons visited the OPD, 43 with influenza like illness visited the Flu Corner and four came in contact with positive patients. Two healthcare workers have also tested positive.The Health Department confirmed 86 cases, including 72 from Ludhiana district and 14 from other districts or states. At present, there are 663 active patients in the district.A total of 6,75,958 samples have been taken, of which 6,42,781 samples were found negative. The total number of confirmed cases related to Ludhiana till date is 27,367, while 4,267 cases belong to other districts/states.A total of 1,031 persons from Ludhiana and 510 from other districts or states have died due to the virus so far. As many as 3,904 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-75-year-old-man-succumbs-72-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-220163
04-03-2021||Nitin Jain||‘Pad woman’ renders yeoman service||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 3When people watch Bollywood movie ‘Padman’, starring Akshay Kumar, not many know the fact that the city has its own “padwoman” who has broken new ground with her unique initiatives, and given lakhs of women means to face their monthly natural cycle fearlessly, and lead a life of dignity.Aman Preet, an IRS officer from Ludhiana, has rendered exceptional services for the welfare of women not only in Punjab but at least 18 states across the country by extending her hand in making available sanitary napkin vending machines, besides providing napkins to at least 20 lakh needy young girls and women.Aman Preet had done a path-breaking work by taking up the unique initiative of providing sanitary napkins to rural and underprivileged girls and women.Sharing her thoughts with The Tribune here today, the senior civil servant reminisces that the idea behind manufacturing sanitary pads and installation of napkin vending machines was to provide affordable napkins to women, particularly those settled in rural areas where women still use traditional methods during their menstrual cycle every month.The aim was to raise the hygiene level of women and girls, especially in villages where, due to lack of awareness, financial problems and social stigma, little efforts had been made to provide sanitary napkins. Napkin vending machines, christened ‘Sakhi’, were installed in various schools as girls used to feel shy to purchase them from vendors. Besides, such machines were also put to use at women police stations, prisons, observatory and shelter homes, ashrams, fuel stations and other public places to provide napkins without any cost to needy women.Today, one such vending machine was inaugurated at Baddowal village, near here.“I started the initiative from Nthari village in Uttar Pradesh during the Covid-induced lockdown,” she said.She started providing them sanitary napkins as no NGO till then was distributing the essential commodity and due to lockdown, there was a huge scarcity of menstrual products.The initiative, called ‘Durga Shakti’, which was started to provide relief supplies of sanitary pads, soon became a pan-India initiative to create awareness about the topic and start the conversation so that people can break taboos and start switching over to healthy menstrual products.“The Covid pandemic had a huge impact on the menstruating population. Lockdown, movement restrictions and closures of health facilities, schools and colleges affected the access to sexual and reproductive health services along with availability of proper menstrual products. The economic fallout further impacted lives of those who menstruated,” the 2010-batch IRS officer said.Amid Covid when several social organisations, NGOs, and individuals stood up to help the needy and vulnerable sections of society with food, clothes, sanitisers, and face masks, Aman decided to reach out to women across the country to help them with their menstrual needs. “I tried to make people realise that pads are also essential as food and masks as “periods don’t stop in the pandemic,” she quipped.Her untiring efforts made men and women talk about importance of menstrual hygiene along with personal hygiene during the pandemic and she has reached over 20 lakh women in 18 states, including the remotest areas of the country, and 50 per cent of the beneficiaries were those who used the sanitary pads for the first time.“At many places, people refused to distribute sanitary pads, saying: “Yeh gandi chiz hum nahin baant sakte” and some people even refused to take ration if sanitary napkins were given along with it. Some women said they need to take permission from their husbands and in-laws to take the pads and some taking supplies for their daughters stated “didi yeh mehngi cheez hai, bachi use kar legi, mere liye kapda hi theek hai” while telling horrendous stories of how they were using discarded clothes of house to stop the menstrual blood to spill over,” she revealed.In Punjab and Hyderabad, the sanitary napkins were sent to many needy girls and women through anganwari workers.Several shelter homes, prisons, women police stations, ashrams, observatory homes, kusht ashrams, homes for specially-abled women and girls have also been supplied pads.In Punjab, menstrual products were distributed at all 14 prisons where women inmates were lodged during the lockdown. All 20 police stations in Arunachal Pradesh, Tihar and Meerut jails were also provided with such supplies.The campaign aims to raise awareness on menstrual hygiene management and promote the usage of sanitary napkins among women.A door-to-door survey was conducted to analyse the practices of women during periods and various stereotypes that were required prevailing in society.“Nowadays, people affectionately call me “didi”. I receive messages from across the country to cater to the supply of sanitary napkins for which I am on a mission mode to end “period poverty” and trying to make the accessibility of menstrual products to the underprivileged women in a dignified way,” she expressed, while adding: “Let’s normalise periods by starting a conversation about menstrual health as a healthy woman will definitely raise a healthy family.”Know the city ‘pad woman’A 2010-batch IRS officer posted as Joint Commissioner, Income Tax, New Delhi, Aman Preet was born and brought up in Ludhiana. Her late mother Paramjeet Kaur was a Ludhiana jail superintendent and father Rachhpal Singh retired as engineer-in-chief from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. Her seven-year-old daughter Prisha is also a philanthropist at heart. For her exemplary work during the Covid-induced lockdown, she was awarded by Union Civil Aviation, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri recently. She was also an integral part of the Covid response team constituted by Income Tax officers to help the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pad-woman-renders-yeoman-service-220164
04-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Truck driver robbed of Rs 9 lakh, killed on highway||Raikot, March 3Robbers snatched Rs 9 lakh in cash from a truck driver after killing him near Chaukimaan village on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur highway on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.The incident took place when the victim, Inderjit Singh of Landey Ke, was returning from Mandi Gobindgarh after delivering a consignment of metal scrap. The miscreants had targeted him as they knew that he was carrying the cash.Though the police are yet to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the murder, it is suspected that the accused had sprinkled chili powder in the eyes of the victim before attacking him with sharp weapons.Investigation by a joint team of the CIA wing, headed by DSP (D) Rajesh Sharma, and Jagraon Circle Police, led by DSP Jatinder Singh, revealed that a firm of Moga dealing in metal scrap had deployed Inderjit to transport a consignment in the company truck to Gobindgarh on Monday morning.He had informed the employers about the receipt of Rs 9 lakh from the scrap purchasers.He remained in touch with his family members and employers till he reached near Chaukimaan in the evening.Having lost connection with Inderjit, the firm owners started searching for him and the vehicle late in the night. Later on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, the truck was found stationed on a highway. The body of the victim was lying in the vehicle.The police said an FIR under Section 302 of the IPC had been registered on the statement of deceased’s son Pardeep Singh late last evening. The police claimed to have tightened the noose around the accused on the basis of information collected from various sources, including footage of CCTV cameras.“We have almost completed the investigation and the accused would soon be arrested. We cannot divulge details now, as it might hamper the progress of the case,” said the DSP (D).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/truck-driver-robbed-of-rs-9-lakh-killed-on-highway-220165
04-03-2021||Ludhiana||7 booked in property fraud cases in Ludhiana||The city police booked seven persons in two separate cases for commiting a fraud of over Rs 28.50 lakh.In the first incident, the Dugri police registered a property fraud case against six persons identified as Jatinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Amandeep Singh, Ajaib Singh, all residents of Kila Hakima village in Dhuri, Nardeep Singh and Gulshan Kumar of Jagdish Colony.Complainant in the case Sumit Sood of Fateh Singh Nagar told the police that the accused had struck a deal to sell their property located in Karnail Singh Nagar and in lieu, they took Rs 13 lakh from him.He said when the date of execution of the property deed came, the accused refused to transfer the property in his name.Investigating officer Inspector Surinder Singh said a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy was registered against the accused and further probe was on.In another case, the Police Division 2 registered a case against a man, Narinder Kumar, of Rarhi mohalla on the charges of committing a property fraud of Rs 15.50 lakh.The Complainant Jaswinder Singh of Rarhi mohalla told the police that he had bought a house at Rahri mohalla and made the entire payment to the accused. Later, when the execution of property deed was to be done, the accused refused for the same. Now, they also refused to return the money.Investigating officer Assistant sub-inspector of police Madan Lal said after registering a case against the accused, further probe had been launched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-booked-in-property-fraud-cases-in-ludhiana-220166
04-03-2021||---||National Highways Authority of India approves four entry, exit points on NH-44||Ludhiana, March 3Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said today that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had approved four entry and exit points within the Ludhiana municipal limits on the Delhi-Amritsar national highway (NH-44). He also thanked Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for taking up the issue with NHAI chairman Sukhbir Singh Sandhu in the interest of residents.The Mayor said the entry and exit points had been planned near Dhandari, near SPS Hospital, near Transport Nagar and near Green Land School near the Jalandhar Bypass. With these entry and exit points, a large number of city residents using the NH-44 for travel would be benefitted.Sandhu said they had been taking up the issue with NHAI officials from time to time.Councillor Mamta Ashu said the service road near SPS Hospital had also been constructed.The road was in a poor condition for the past several months and the matter was taken up with senior NHAI officials, after which it was constructed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/national-highways-authority-of-india-approves-four-entry-exit-points-on-nh-44-220168
04-03-2021||Ludhiana||Civic body chief holds meeting with councillors||MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal conducted a meeting with councillors of different wards that fall under the Ludhiana East constituency on Wednesday. The councillors raised issues related to their wards during the meeting. The Sabharwal has assured them for early redressal of the issues.He also conducted two meetings with officials of the operation and maintenance wing and the building branch and told officials to speed up the recovery of property tax, water supply and sewerage charges. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-chief-holds-meeting-with-councillors-220169
