06-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Following scuffle, Ludhiana man kills neighbour's 2 sons, then kills self||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 6Following a scuffle with a neighbour, a man killed the neighbour’s two sons and later committed suicide at Rajiv Gandhi Colony in Focal Point here on Saturday.The man used to stalk the mother of the boys owing to which their father had a scuffle with the accused which led to the killings.Additional DCP Rupinder Kaur Sra said as per initial investigation, Shalinder Kumar committed suicide after murdering the boys.The boys have been identified as Rajnish (8) and Manish (6), sons of Shiv Shankar Tiwari, originally from UP’s Bahraich.Both the accused and the victims' family lived in a migrants’ vehra. The incident took place around 11.30 am.According to information, Shailender had been stalking the woman for the past two to three days. On Friday, her husband had complained to the vehra owner. Following this, the accused threatened revenge.On Saturday, on finding the boys alone in the room the accused took them to his room. “The accused slit the throats of the boys and later hanged himself from the ceiling fan. Neighbours sounded the police,” the Additional DCP said.Accused Shalinder had been living with his uncle at the vehra for the past two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/following-scuffle-ludhiana-man-kills-neighbours-2-sons-then-kills-self-221465
06-03-2021||Rupinder Singh Brar||Remembering ‘Father of Sikh Encyclopedia’ — Prof Harbans Singh||Popular perceptions being what they are, scholarship is not something that comes easily to mind when one considers the Sikh community. Yet, the community has produced some notable historians who not only left behind rich literary legacies, but exemplified in their personal lives what it meant to be a scholar sage. For example, in the 17th century, it was Bhai Gurdas, in the 18th Bhai Mani Singh, in the 19th it was Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha and Bhai Vir Singh and in the 20th, several names come to mind. Prominent among them is Professor Harbans Singh, whose birth centenary falls on March 6.Born in the village of Kotha Guru in Bathinda district, Prof Harbans Singh rubbed shoulders with intellectual giants like Wilfred Cantwell Smith of Harvard, yet carried himself with such casual grace that he left a lasting impression on all whom he met. Said a Canadian scholar once, "To know such a person is to emerge a bigger, better person oneself.”An embodiment of Nanakian virtue, his best lessons were delivered not through seminars or books but through example. When SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, together with Parkash Singh Badal, honoured him with a cheque for Rs 25,000, not a small amount in those days, he refused to accept any money, insisting that it be used for promoting Sikh studies instead.A prodigious mind, his first major university appointment came as head of the department even before he was quite 23. His heart, however, lay in scholarship, not administration. In 1966, he produced his first major work in English, a definitive biography of Guru Gobind Singh. Not only was the book translated into most Indian languages, its Sanskrit translation won the coveted Sahitya Akademi award. Three years later, he produced a biography of Guru Nanak. It was another major achievement. The Times Literary Supplement, London, called the book, ‘Guru Nanak and the Origins of the Sikh Faith’, “the best short study of Guru Nanak’s life, and an outstanding example of modern Sikh scholarship”.More similar works followed. He travelled extensively, lecturing in Japan, Belgium, the Netherlands, England, Ireland, and the USA. Most men would rest comfortably upon such laurels, but not him. In 1972, he set out to produce an encyclopedia of Sikhism. It was an unbelievably ambitious goal, even for him. There were many sceptics. Wrote Khushwant Singh, “I do not know where he will find 4,000 contributors who have the discipline required to write factual, accurate and unbiased pieces in the exact number of words prescribed.”Undaunted, Harbans Singh created a team of writers and researchers around him. He painstakingly collected and reviewed every paper, artifact, and bit of data, then edited and reduced all information into concise entries. Months turned to years and years to decades as the work stretched into the late 1990s, and yet he toiled away doggedly. Impressed, the academic and the lay communities finally took notice. Guru Nanak Dev University awarded him an honorary doctorate. The SGPC bestowed upon him a special award. By now, even Khushwant Singh had become an admirer. “A start has been made at Patiala to produce the Encyclopedia of Sikhism,” he wrote. “Harbans Singh… its editor-in-chief, is the right man for the job. How many professors are there who turn down offers of Vice-Chancellorships? Harbans Singh refused one that was offered to him on a platter.”It was true, but by then the Professor had sacrificed much more than a prestigious post in his magnificent obsession. Despite suffering a paralytic stroke and losing his loving wife, he slogge d on relentlessly. He breathed his last on May 30, 1998, literally days after completing his monumental work. He was gone but his legacy was secure. Later that year, the Prime Minister himself would release four volumes.Recognitions continued posthumously. In 1999, he was awarded the ‘Order of the Khalsa’ by the community and later still Punjabi University created a full-fledged Department in his name. However, the highest homage came from another, more familiar source. In 2019, another historian, Prof Nikky Guninder Kaur Singh, his daughter, came out with a book on Guru Nanak — a fitting tribute to a worthy father.The writer is a practising physician in Yuba City, California||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/remembering-father-of-sikh-encyclopedia-%E2%80%94-prof-harbans-singh-221091
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||105 +ve; no death in Ludhiana||A total of 105 persons tested positive, while no death was reported due to Covid in the district today. The confirmed cases till date have now gone to 27,578, while 1,034 have lost their lives to the virus so far.Today’s positive cases also included four teachers and seven students and two healthcare workers.Three teachers who tested positive today belong to Jain School, Jamalpur, and one teacher belonged to Government High School, Kot Mangal Singh. In addition, one student from GSSS Multipurpose School, one from Sacred Heart BRS Nagar, three from SKS College Sarabha and two from GSSS Smart School Halwara were in the positive list.A staff nurse from the DMCH and one multi-purpose healthcare worker from the CHC Dehlon also tested positive. Today, there were 712 active cases, while 184 were quarantined today. The total number of samples collected so far are 6,84,099, while the reports of 1,873 are awaited.Jab informationFor the convenience of the public, Covid vaccination will be done on Sunday at the Dumra auditorium and the main reception area of the Hero DMC Heart institute.An official Prem Kumar Gupta said the Central Government had taken the initiative of conducting the vaccination drive on Sunday for those who can not avail the facility of getting themselves vaccinated against on normal weekdays.Instructions for public||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/105-ve-no-death-in-ludhiana-221297
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Load of active cases shows upswing||The load of active cases has once again increased in the district. On January 1, there were 329 active cases in the district, while today the cases went up to 712 which is the highest since December 15 last year (640).Tracing the increase, on January 1, 2021, the active cases were 329, while on February 1, these were 342 and on February 25, the active cases were 504. By the end of February, the active cases jumped to 554.March again saw a sudden spurt in the rise of cases and on March 1, there were 564 active cases, seeing an increase of 10 patients from the previous day. On March 2, 66 more active patients came out forward and the total went up to 630 and on March 5, the total active cases rose to 712 after adding 23 new active patients.It was in December 2020 that the numbers started increasing again and reached 898 on December 1. By December 31, the numbers again came down to 340.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said people had started becoming careless with the passage of time and the result was that the cases had starting increasing.Active cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/load-of-active-cases-shows-upswing-221298
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Dera head held for rape, murder||The police division No. 5 police cracked the murder case of a 21-year-old woman who had gone missing under mysterious circumstances a few days ago.Her body was found in an empty plot here last night. After recovering the body, the police managed to identify a religious dera head at Phullanwal Enclave and his involvement in the matter.The accused was identified as Sambodh Das, 35, a resident of LIG flats in Phase 3, Dugri.The woman was an employee in an automobile company and had lost her job in the lockdown. She was looking for a job and used to visit the dera head to seek his help in getting some job. ADCP Sameer Verma said on February 26, the woman had gone missing from Feroze Gandhi Market. Initially, the family members continued to locate the woman at their own level and later on February 28, they lodged a missing complaint about her. Accordingly, the police registered a case in this regard.The police said that on March 4, the woman’s father, suspecting the murder of his daughter, got registered a murder case.Suspecting the role of the dera owner, he was rounded up and during questioning, he confessed to having killed the woman.The accused revealed that on February 26, the woman had come to his dera alone and “they had developed physical relationship”. When the woman threatened to inform the police, he strangulated her to death.The accused said to dispose of the body, he took it on his motorcycle and dumped the same at an isolated place in Daad village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dera-head-held-for-rape-murder-221299
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Shop owner held for firing at man||A man identified as Parminder Singh of Parbhat Nagar was arrested the police for firing at a car-borne person at Ishmeet Chowk last night. The victim identified as Karan Thaper, of Green Field, suffered bullet injury in his arm and was hospitalised.The Model Town police arrested the accused who owns a chicken shop near Samrala Chowk.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sameer Verma and Assistant Commissioner of Police Jatinder Singh also addressed a press conference in this regard the matter.The complainant told the police that yesterday night when he had parked his car outside a dosa shop, two men in Dzire car rammed into his car from the front and started arguing with him. Later, when he was leaving from the spot in his car, the accused fired at him. The bullet hit his shoulder piercing the front glass.The entire incident was captured in the CCTV cameras. ACP Jatinder said the accused had fired from his licenced weapon .32 bore revolver and same was also seized by the police. The police also recovered the empty cartridge from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shop-owner-held-for-firing-at-man-221300
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Residents find rank 14 hard to digest||Despite major issues like air pollution, highly polluted Buddha Nullah, unsanitary conditions, traffic snarls, improper waste management, broken roads, fatal mishaps, lack of facilities at government hospitals and shortage of staff at government schools etc not having been resolved for a long time, Ludhiana city has been ranked 14th among the cities (under million plus population category) in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs’ ranking for the “Ease of Living Index 2020” in the country.After the announcement of rankings for the rankings, questions are being raised many. The ground reality of the city is that many issues have not been resolved here for decades. In the index, Ludhiana scored the 14th rank, with overall 57.36 score in million plus population cities of the country. In the pillar-wise performance, Ludhiana scored 56 for Quality of Life, 26.25 for Economic Ability and 55.25 for Sustainability. In the Citizen Perception Survey, Ludhiana scored 75.9 score out of 100. Notably, 49 urban local bodies had participated in the survey. Chandigarh has ranked 29.‘Far from good living conditions’Chairman of the Indian Institute of Architects, Punjab Chapter, Sanjay Goel, said, “I don’t agree with the ranking for the ‘Ease of Living Index’ as a lot of issues in the city are yet to be resolved. Ludhiana is still far away from comfort and good living conditions. Ludhiana is required to be developed as a smart city. We should work to make the city better. There is a need to pay focus on the ground reality. The feedback should be taken from the people by visiting door to door.”Goel said, “Ludhiana is an unplanned city, with issues like traffic snarls, air pollution, illegal constructions and many others common here. The feedback from the middle class and economically weaker sections should also be taken,” he said.Residents continue to sufferChoked sewers is a major problem in a number of city areas like Dhandari Khurd, Prem Nagar, EWS Colony, Ishwar Colony, Giaspura, Ludhiana east constituency wards and others. Due to overflowing sewage, water remains accumulated in many streets and outside the houses in these areas. Residents are suffering and living under the threat of diseases.Sukhwinder Singh of Dhandari Khurd said, “I don’t know when such survey was conducted here. The fact is that the people are forced to live under unsanitary conditions here in our area. In morning, sewers start overflowing badly near my house. We have staged multiple protests in the past, but to no avail.”Whenever it rains, water-logging is witnessed in many city areas and sewers start overflowing on Chandigarh Road, Panj Peer Road and other areas.Open garbage dumpsThe uncovered garbage is crying for attention for the past many years. The MC has failed to ensure waste processing properly. Big heaps of waste are being ignored at the MC’s main garbage dump near Kakka village. Inder Aggarwal, BJP leader and former councillor, said, “I don’t know when the citizen perception survey was done here. The drainage system and solid waste management are poor in the city. Water-logging is common whenever it rains heavily.”Congress leader Parminder Mehta said, “A lot of issues are yet to be resolved by the MC. Many roads are in a poor condition as patch work is not being done. If the feedback is good according to the survey, why the issues on ground level still exist? The authorities should highlight the truth so that the governments can take the required steps for improvement.”Road safety ignoredA number of persons have lost their lives in road mishaps as road safety is being ignored for a long time. Foot paths are available in only some areas of the city. Out of the 91 black spots identified in Ludhiana, the maximum 35 black spots were identified at a stretch from Sahnewal and Ladhowal on National Highway 44 as per report on “Accident Black Spot Identification & Rectification Program on Various Highways/Roads of Punjab” prepared under the Tandrust Punjab Mission. Besides, nothing has been done to improve the public transportation in the city. Earlier a city bus service was launched with much fanfare, but many of the buses are not being run at present.Govt schools & hospitalsLudhiana is major city of the state, but the successive governments have failed to make sure the availability of the required infrastructure at the Civil Hospital. Serious patients, who can’t afford expensive treatment at private hospitals in the city, are generally referred from the Civil Hospital to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, or Government Hospital, Patiala. A number of times, the patients have lost their lives on the way during shifting. MLA Balwinder Singh Bains said, “I don’t agree much with the survey. Nobody had even informed us about the survey when it was done. There is a dire need to improve living conditions here. The reforms should be brought in health and education sectors.”Labourers live under poor conditionsLudhiana is an industrial town where lakhs of labourers of other states like UP and Bihar are working in a large number, but many of them are forced to live in poor sanitary conditions at unauthorised vehras wherein average 50 persons use one toilet. Due to their low income, they can’t afford better accommodation for living. President of Textile Hosiery Kamgar Union Punjab, Rajwinder, said, “There are lakhs of labourers in the city. Nobody had approached them for the survey. There is no affordable housing scheme for labourers. The government health services are poor. Infrastructure at government schools needs to be improved. The authorities should come and see how labourers live under poor living conditions. Such survey is not correct. If the survey was done among labourers and economically weaker sections, they would have spoken the truth about the actual situation.”Other issues galoreLudhiana is one of the most polluted cities in the country. In several areas, the ash emanating from factories falls on houses, leaving the residents to suffer from respiratory problems. MLA Sanjay Talwar had raised the issue of air pollution multiple times before the PPCB and the MC in the past, but to no avail.The city has become a hub of illegal constructions, with many illegal constructions. Moreover, snatching and loot incidents are common.In ‘Citizen Perception Survey’, city scores 75.9In Citizen Perception Survey, feedback was sought on topics like affordable and quality education, affordable and quality healthcare, affordable housing, overall cleanliness, efficacy of garbage collection system, quality of drinking water supply, incidence of water-logging, safe commuting, adequacy of public transport, affordability of commuting, overall safety and security, efficiency of emergency services, women’s safety in public places, adequacy of recreational facilities, livelihood opportunities, sufficiency of income to maintain quality of life, access to financial services, quality of air, adequacy of green cover, quality of electricity supply, and affordable electricity.MC chief Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “We are working to resolve the issues. Development and improvement are continuous processes. We are working to improve air quality. The ‘Project for Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah’ is under way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-find-rank-14-hard-to-digest-221301
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||‘Coffee with DC’ launched to make youth self-reliant||In a first-of-its-kind initiative aimed at bringing the administration close to the people, especially the youth, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday launched, “Coffee with DC” interaction programme with the youngsters in Ludhiana.Under his maiden session, the DC visited the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE) to interact with the job seekers over coffee.“The main idea behind the initiative is to establish direct contact with the youth and help them out by motivating them to become self-sufficient,” Sharma said.The DBEE, where the DC launched his youth conversation programme, had been acting as a single roof solution for the job seekers and job givers in the district.Accompanied by the ADC Development Sandeep Kumar and the DBEE Deputy Director Meenakashi Sharma, the DC visited the office of the bureau at Partap Chowk and interacted with the youth present there over a cup of coffee.Describing the bureau as a catalyst for transforming the destiny of the youth in the district, Sharma said besides providing jobs, it has been helping in making the youth self-reliant by enabling them to open their own business.He said the DBEE was helping the youth to become active partners in socio-economic growth of the state as well.During the interaction, the DC talked about their qualifications, aims, interest areas and also sought suggestions to improve the functioning of the DBEE.He motivated the youth to leave no stone unturned for achieving their own dreams in their lives.He told the officials to ensure that every youth undergoing training under various skill development courses must visit the DBEE.The DC also instructed the officials to ensure the awareness of DBEE and its functioning among the students either through morning assembly or online classes at the educational institutions across the district. He asked DBEE functionaries to take effective use of social media through video messages so that maximum youth can take benefit of the DBEE.The DC termed the Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s ambitious, “Ghar-Ghar Rojgar” scheme a game changer, which aimed at eliminating unemployment from the state by opening up avenues of employment for the youth.He called upon the youth to focus on their goals besides empowering them with skill development training being impacted by the state government.Sharma also appealed to the industry leaders to come forward and join hands with the DBEE for getting the skilled workforce.He thanked the local chapter of the industrialists for assuring support to the district administration in the upcoming job fairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/coffee-with-dc-launched-to-make-youth-self-reliant-221302
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Cops again raid Chawni Mohalla||In a major drug racket in which police had earlier recovered 1.29 lakh intoxicating tablets from the building of BJP leader Satish Nagar, the city police on Friday conducted a major raid near the same place.The raid was reportedly conducted by the police after the two accused Hemant and Anoop gave some fresh lead to the police in their ongoing interrogation.Senior police officials maintained that the raid was conducted in drug racket and more information would be releaved once anything substantial comes out of the investigation.Sources said large number of cops accompanied by the senior police officials and heads of zone one police stations conducted the raid.Notably, the police had already hinted that this racket could be bigger and more players who are still out of the police net will be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-again-raid-chawni-mohalla-221303
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Blind murder case cracked, man held for killing partner||The police claimed to have solved the blind murder case of a 30-year-old woman. The Sahnewal police arrested the accused identified as Monu Ram of Dholewal Chowk.Joint CP (Rural) Sachin Gupta, ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, Sahnewal SHO Balwinder Singh addressed a press conference in this regard today.The JCP said on February 8, a body of a woman was found on an empty plot and an FIR was lodged against unknown persons. The deceased was later identified as Radha.During the investigation, the accused confessed to the crime. The accused said he had an affair with the deceased but he had developed relations with another migrant girl Sonia. “Radha come to know about my affair. She started fighting with me on the issue. Frustrated over her behaviour, I strangulated her to death at Kanganwal on the intervening night of February 6-7,” the accused confessed to the police.The accused had used a muffler to strangulate the girl. The police also recovered the muffler used in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/blind-murder-case-cracked-man-held-for-killing-partner-221304
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Women thieves target clothing showroom||Five women thieves 35 stole designer suits worth thousands from a garment showroom situated in Silver Arc Mall on Ferozepur Road. However, they were captured in the CCTV cameras.Complaint has been lodged at police division 5 and police is yet to register FIR.Jaspreet Kaur said she runs Mutiyar, a designer garment showroom, in the mall. On March 4, five women wearing mask entered the showroom to buy suits but took away 35 designer suits from the showroom.A showroom employee also made video of one of the thieves but she fled away in an auto-rickshaw.She said mall security guards were also told to help her in nabbing the thieves but they didn’t come for help.Kaur demanded that the police should register an FIR and thieves should also be traced so that her stolen goods could be recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-thieves-target-clothing-showroom-221305
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Engineers urge CM to protect power sector||As many as 150 engineers participated in a zonal-level meeting of the PSEB Engineers’ Association here today.The participants had gathered from Ludhiana, Khanna, Jagraon and Sahnewal. They criticised the PSPCL management and Punjab Government for “failing to protect the interest of citizens.”Speakers, including Ajay Pal Singh Atwal, general secretary of the association, said the PSPCL had submitted a plan to hire only 2,632 employees but there were more than 20,000 vacancies in the power sector. They said 1,227 posts from the Punjab cadre were lying vacant in the Bhakra Beas Management Board, which was not only a financial loss but loss of employment opportunities.JS Dhiman, president of the association, said the Punjab Government had decided to shut down the thermal plant at Bathinda and now, there were mulling closing down the thermal plant at Ropar, which was against the guidelines of Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. He warned that closing the Ropar thermal would be a technical and financial blunder.Members appealed to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene and protect the state power sector. They said if the PSPCL management failed to protect the interest of the power sector, the association would start a statewide agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/engineers-urge-cm-to-protect-power-sector-221306
06-03-2021||Ludhiana||Employees, pensioners slam govt’s apathy||Members of the Punjab & UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front staged a protest against the state government for ‘failing’ to fulfill their demands outside the DC Complex in Ludhiana. The protesting members observed a chain hunger strike on Day 3 of the protest. They alleged that the Congress had made many promises before 2017 assembly polls but nothing has been done to fulfill these promises. They alleged that the pending installment of dearness allowance are not being released and sixth pay commission report has not been implemented till date despite their repeated requests. They also blamed the Congress government for failing to regularize the jobs of many contractual employees in the state. “The state government has not fulfilled any promise that was made with employees and pensioners. Thus, we are forced to mark protest against the government. If our demands are not met, we will be forced to intensify agitation”, said Charan Singh Sarabha of the union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/employees-pensioners-slam-govts-apathy-221307
