07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Jilted lover ends his life after killing two children||A man killed two children and later, committed suicide at Rajiv Gandhi Colony in Focal Point here this morning.The accused and the children were living in a migrants’ vehra (a common place where mostly migrants stay).The accused used to stalk the mother of the children due to which her husband indulged in a scuffle with him which led to their killing and suicide by the former.Illegal vehras mushrooming in city, witnessing crimesThere are thousands of illegal vehras in the industrial hub where migrants are being given rooms for rent without knowing their criminal background. Despite the Police Commissioner have strictly asked vehra owners to get police verification of all tenants done but most of them are paying least regard to directions of the top cop. In this incident as well, the person who killed the children was also living along with his uncle without police verification in a vehra. The police are going to register a case against the vehra owner under Section 188 of IPC. Many crime incidents, including rape or sexual assaults, have been reported from such vehras.Rupinder Kaur Sra, Additional DCP 4, said as per initial investigation, Shalinder Kumar, a native of Bihar, committed suicide after murdering two children. The kids have been identified as Rajnish (8) and Manish (6), sons of Shiv Shankar Tiwari, a native of Behraich in UP and at present residing in the Rajiv Gandhi Colony.The incident occurred this morning at around 10.30 am.As per information, Shalinder had been stalking the mother of the deceased children for the past two-three days and he had also proposed her for friendship. Yesterday, he husband had complained to the vehra owner about the matter after which, the latter had asked the accused and his uncle to vacate the room. Following this, the accused turned furious and threatened him of revenge.Today, when the children’s mother went to the washroom to wash clothes, she left her children in the room. The accused finding the kids alone in the room, took them to his room.“The accused locked the room from inside and brutally slit the throats of the children. Later, he committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan. The woman after listening to the shrieks of her children raised an alarm following which people broke open the door and found the kids’ bodies in a pool of blood. Shalinder’s body was found hanging. Later, they informed the police,” Additional DCP Rupinder told The Tribune.The accused was staying with his uncle in the vehra for the past two years. The vehra owner had also not done police verification of the accused and the police are going to register a case against the owner under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jilted-lover-ends-his-life-after-killing-two-children-221773
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||12-yr-old raped by two in park||Two unknown persons kidnapped a 12-year-old girl and raped her at a park in Moti Nagar.The Moti Nagar police have registered a case against the two accused and started a probe in the matter.The complainant, the girl’s mother, told the police that she runs a tea stall and the victim was her eldest child among the three daughters.She said for the past few days, her daughter was under depression and when she was asked the reason behind the same, the girl said on March 3 when she was going home, her friend Bulbal met her and they both went to a nearby park in Moti Nagar for a walk.“When we entered the park, two youths came and threatened my friend to leave the park. When she left the spot, the duo dragged me to another nearby park and raped me, the victim said.Investigating officer ASI Rajesh Kumar said efforts were on to identify the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/12-yr-old-raped-by-two-in-park-221774
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Interstate sex racket busted, 10 girls among 14 nabbed||In an early morning operation, the Punjab Police on Saturday busted an interstate sex racket active in Ludhiana with the arrest of 14 persons, including 10 girls along with the lady kingpin already on bail in a similar case, who used to target needy girls out of jobs due to Covid-induced lockdown from the city and outside, forcing them into prostitution.Antecedents of girls found involved in the flesh trade have been traced back toas far as Nepal, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Chandigarh and Amritsar, said ADCP, Ludhiana, Rupinder Kaur Sran, who led the operation.“ We have also recovered restricted drugs Etizolam and Escitalopram Oxalate tablets which are only allowed on prescription and the accused are being interrogated to ascertain the source of their supply,” the ADCP said.Initial investigations have also revealed the names of similar operatives in other cities with whom the main accused and the girls were in touch to widen their net, Sran said, adding that all these angles were being probed and more arrests were likely.Twenty tablets of Etizolam and Escitalopram Oxalate tablets, besides five pieces of Spanisshe Fliege sex drops were seized. Seven mobile phones, 28 packets of condoms, besides Rs 3,630 and two liquor bottles have also been seized from the spot.The ADCP said a tip-off was received about flesh trade activity being run by the accused and her movements were kept under watch. The main accused has been identified as Manjit Kaur, alias Pammi aunty, a resident of street number 10, New Subhash Nagar. She was also arrested in a similar case lodged at the Jodhewal police station in 2018. Three men were also arrested from the house during the raid who had came to the spot as customers.She was on bail now and was running the illegal activity from her house only by luring young needy girls into prostitution. The modus operandi was to engage girls once into her net to target more needy girls out of work due to the Covid-induced lockdown and force them into prostitution.Of those arrested, one girl from Delhi was lured into the trade because she could not repay the loan she had taken from a relative to make ends meet during the pandemic while another girl was picked up by the main accused from a city gurdwara. These girls back home used to tell their family members that they were working in a factory or performing in marriage parties, Sran said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/interstate-sex-racket-busted-10-girls-among-14-nabbed-221775
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Achieve daily target of e-card generation, DC tells officials||Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has directed officials of various departments to ensure achievement of daily targets of e-card generation under Ayushman Bharat – Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (AB-SSBY) in the district.Presiding over a meeting, here today, the DC said the district administration was running an extensive enrolment drive through camps and sewa kendras under the ambitious programme of the state government so that all beneficiaries could be enrolled to take advantage of the scheme.He said besides the camps, the sewa kendras were also ordered to remain open on March 6 and 7 to enable left out persons to make their e-cards.He said the district administration had prepared a comprehensive strategy by involving elected representatives and all stakeholders for increasing enrolment under the scheme.He urged people to take benefit of the health scheme by enrolling themselves under the flagship programme of the government that provides a cover of up to Rs 5 lakh to beneficiaries.The DC stated that smart ration card holders, construction workers, SECC beneficiaries, small traders, yellow card holder/ accredited journalists, and J-farm holder farmers were eligible under the scheme and they must enrol themselves under the scheme by getting their e-cards.“Anyone can check eligibility and list of empanelled hospitals at the government portal https://sha. punjab.gov.in,” he added.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Sandeep Kumar, and Additional Deputy Commissioner (Khanna) Sakatar Singh Bal were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/achieve-daily-target-of-e-card-generation-dc-tells-officials-221777
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Cops round up suspects for questioning||The Ludhiana police today rounded up several persons suspected to be involved in the drug racket case. The police rounded up a courier boy who reportedly used to deliver consignment of drugs and the said courier person was reportedly aware that he was delivering drug cartons on the behalf of the drug supplier.The police also nabbed another person who used to transfer drug money on the behalf of the accused. Even one chemist was also said to be rounded up for questioning as he had reportedly bought banned drugs from the nabbed accused.Role of one girl was also cropping up to whom money was being transferred in routine and the police could also round her up for questioning. Cops are also checking the bank details and transactions of financial apps being used by the nabbed accused to know the persons involved in the racket.Additional DCP 1 Pragya Jain who is investigating the case told The Tribune that some persons were rounded up whose names cropped up during the questioning of the nabbed accused and their role was being checked.Notably, the police was yet to clear the role of BJP leader Satish Nagar in the drug racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-round-up-suspects-for-questioning-221778
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||146 fresh cases; two die in Ludhiana||As many as 146 persons tested positive for Covid while two lost their lives in the district.It was on October 5 last year that 160 cases were reported in the district and since then, today is the highest spike. The total positive cases from Ludhiana have gone to 27,724 while the death toll has reached 1,036.Those who tested positive today include seven healthcare workers, seven teachers and two students. The teachers who tested today include three from the GSSS, Rasheen, a teacher from the GSSS, Noorpur Bet Sidhwan Bet, two teachers from GPS School, Barewal, and one teacher from SCD College for Boys. One student from GSSS Multipurpose School and a student from Bal Bharti School, Dugri, have also tested positive.A total of 4,533 samples were collected today and reports of 2,966 are awaited.Today, the active cases rose to 807 and 160 were home quarantined. Today, 10 patients were on the ventilator support, of which eight belong to Ludhiana district and two were from other districts.Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, said it was the duty of people to follow safety measures. But as the time was passing, residents were becoming more careless and lenient in taking precautions. They should follow safety measures seriously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/146-fresh-cases-two-die-in-ludhiana-221779
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||MC recovers Rs1 cr as tax from bus stand||The MC has recovered Rs 1 crore as property tax amount from the city bus stand on Saturday. It had earlier sent a notice to the bus stand authorities to deposit Rs 9 crore property tax to the civic body. However, Rs 8 crore is yet to be recovered from them.Meanwhile, the MC has also served a notice on the zila parishad to deposit Rs 1.5 crore property tax. Besides, it is yet to recover property tax from the Deputy Commissioner’s office and Police Commissioner’s office.MC’s Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh said the general manager of bus stand gave a cheque of Rs 1 crore to the civic body, Ludhiana, and assured to deposit the pending tax at the earliest.MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has given instructions to officials to ensure recovery from those who had not deposited their property tax and water supply and sewer charges. He has also appealed to government departments and non-governmental institutes to deposit their property tax.He also urged to people to deposit property tax and water supply and sewer charges by March 31, otherwise penalty and interest would also be charged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-recovers-rs1-cr-as-tax-from-bus-stand-221780
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Over 50K vaccinated so far in Ludhiana||Over 50,000 persons have been vaccinated against Covid in the district so far. These included 21,056 healthcare workers (first dose) and 13,213 (second dose), 9,403 frontline workers (first dose) and 113 (second dose), 4,851 senior citizens (above 60 years) and 1,377 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities.Stating this here today, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said a total of 50,014 persons had been inoculated in various government and private hospitals in the district ever since the vaccination drive had started.The DC said the third phase of vaccination had started on March 1, in which senior citizens and those aged between 45 and 59 years (as on January 1) with comorbidities were getting themselves vaccinated.He said vaccination was completely free of cost at government hospitals and centres, while private establishments could not charge over Rs 250 for each beneficiary (per dose), which includes Rs 150 as cost of vaccine and up to Rs 100 service charges.Sharma said for the third phase of the drive, beneficiaries could go for advanceself-registration through www.cowin.gov.in portal or they could also go for on-site registration by walking-in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-50k-vaccinated-so-far-in-ludhiana-221781
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Potholed stretch near  RUB crying for attention||Commuters are a harried a lot as a stretch between railway underbridge and Keys Hotel on Lodhi Club Road lies in a shambles. Residents have been complaining about the stretch for the past few years but to no avail.Around six years ago, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) had constructed the stretch about 600 metres between the RUB and Keys Hotel. The GLADA had constructed the RUB while Lodhi Club Road stretch on BRS Nagar side was constructed by MC, Ludhiana. But, the broken stretch was not timely repaired.Gaganpreet Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “When we cross the RUB and move towards Pakhowal Road, a road stretch is in dilapidated condition. It seems potholes have not been filled for a long time. The chances of mishaps remain high on the broken stretch. I don’t know which is the authority concerned but this road should be repaired or recarpeted at the earliest so that the commuters don’t face any inconvenience.”Earlier, the departments, including the MC, Ludhiana Improvement Trust and the GLADA had been passing buck over the stretch. Boota Ram, Trust Engineer, LIT, said, “The stretch is not under the LIT. But, the LIT will recarpet the stretch with permission under section 69 A. We had earlier floated the tender for the road project but the bidding process had remained unsuccessful. The tender has been floated again and we hope that the road will be recarpeted soon once tendering process is completed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/potholed-stretch-near-rub-crying-for-attention-221782
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Thieves target 3 mobile shops||Thieves targeted three shops in Doraha last night and decamped with 7 mobile phones. SHO Doraha Nachatar Singh said thieves broke shutters of three mobile shops located in the Doraha market. A total of 7 mobile phones were stolen from one shop. The SHO said CCTV cameras of the area were being checked to get clue about the thieves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-target-3-mobile-shops-221783
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Follow recommendations, PAU experts advice farmers||PAU bags patent for novel electric soil disinfestatorThe Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has bagged the patent for a novel electric soil disinfestation process developed with an objective to get rid of soil-borne pathogens in an efficient, rapid and eco-friendly manner. The innovators behind the concept are a father-son duo, Dr Sandeep Jain, Assistant Professor, Department of Plant Pathology, along with his father OP Jain as co-inventor. Dr Narinder Singh, Head, Department of Plant Pathology, said this is the first patent granted to any technology generated in the Department of Plant Pathology since inception and overall 13th at the PAU. This has opened a new window to the non-chemical management of plant diseases, he added. Dr Jain highlighted that the soil borne plant diseases like damping-off, root rots, root knot, collar rot, etc. are serious problems in several crops particularly in vegetable based cropping systems. In protected structures like polyhouses or nethouses, such problems are even more stubborn and sometimes cause total failure of crops. Routine measures for control of such menaces like application of synthetic fungicides or fumigants prove costly, have limited efficacy and impose negative ecological impacts, he observed. In the newly designed approach, thermal death point of pathogensis attained quickly, safely and conveniently in an automatically controlled manner using electrical energy on-site. Moreover, unlike some other physical control methods, it is season-neutral, he said.Agricultural Information Centre set up Bihla villageThe Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has set up an Agricultural Information Centre in the Bihla village, block Pakhowal, district Ludhiana, with an objective of disseminating recommended agricultural information to the rural community. The centre has been established under the guidance of Directorate of Extension Education, PAU. The event was held in collaboration with the State Department of Agriculture. Various agricultural models along with the PAU literature were displayed in this centre to familiarise rural community with various researches of the PAU. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Head, Department of Extension Education, highlighted the importance of scientific agriculture and called upon the farmers to diversify their cropping pattern. Referring to the processing of agriculture produce, he advised the progressive farmers to establish processing centre in the society. Dr Lakhwinder Kaur, Extension Scientist, discussed the importance of information centre in strengthening research extension linkages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/follow-recommendations-pau-experts-advice-farmers-221784
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Pensioners’ mela held||The PAU Pensioners and Retirees Welfare Association and the PAU Employees Union (recognised) organised seventh pensioners and employees mela in the PAU today.Charan Singh Gurm, Chairman, Mela Committee, said this year this mela has been dedicated to ‘Kisan Andolan’.The mela has been organised under the leadership of DP Maur and JL Narang, president and general secretary, respectively, of the PAU Pensioners and Retirees Welfare Association.Baldev Singh Walia, president, PAU Employees Union (recognised), while addressing the audience said the mela was called to show togetherness among employees and pensioners. He said the mela had been started on the initiative of Roop Singh Rupa (now in the USA) who had been president of the PAU Employees’ Union for a long time.The house openly passed a resolution in support of the ‘Kisan Andolan’ and also demanded implementation of Pay Commission report and release of pending installments of dearness allowance from Punjab Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pensioners-mela-held-221785
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on internet banking||Event on dental hygieneDesh Bhagat Dental College and Hospital celebrated Cons-Endo day in the Department of Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics. The event was presided over by Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, Desh Bhagat University. The spokesperson of the university said the event was organised to spread awareness among the students of the university. He said a tooth that requires endodontic treatment is commonly a tooth that has lost a large volume of tooth tissue and is heavily restored.Seminar hall InauguratedThe inaugural ceremony of “RUSA Seminar Hall” of Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, commenced today. Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu marked the official opening of seminar hall. Principal Sukhwinder Kaur said the college is among the four model colleges of Punjab and the hall is constructed under the RUSA Scheme with 60:40 share of Centre and state government. Ashu announced two grants of five lakh each for library and meditation center. He also announced that open gym will be established in the college by the government.School NotesInt’l Women’s Day celebratedLudhiana: International Women’s Day was celebrated under guidance of Head Teacher Sukhdhir Sekhon at GPS Moti Nagar, Sector 39, Chandigarh Road. SP Rupinder Kaur Bhatti was the chief guest. Sukhdhir Sekhon said plantation has been done on the school premises with the help of Navchetna women front to celebrate the day. Many paintings were also shown to students related to women’s day. On the occasion, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti addressed school students and shared some words on importance of women in society as daughter, mother and every role she plays in her life efficiently and perfectly. Sukhdhir Sekhon and Women front member Vandana Sharma emphasised on creating awareness about women rights and women empowerment through various activities throughout the year. Members of the Navchetna women front, including Hardev Kaur, Vandana Sharma, Sonia Kumar, Anisha Modi and School staff members Rajni , Meenakshi, Ritika and Isha were present.Webinar on nep-2020Ludhiana: Green Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, Ludhiana organised a webinar for the parents on the topic National Education Policy-2020. The main objective of this webinar was to create awareness about the NEP-2020 amongst parents and students and motivating them for proactive plans for smooth implementation of policy. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-internet-banking-221786
07-03-2021||Ludhiana||Dr Chhina bags SVBP Award||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dr-chhina-bags-svbp-award-221787
