08-03-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Upgrade security system, install CCTV cameras||It is really unfortunate that suicides and murders have become common in hotel rooms. The hotel industry must gird up its loins to solve this problem. When any person checks in the hotel the authorities should contact his close acquaintance and inform them about his stay in the particular hotel as it has been observed that in most of the cases the parents or spouse are found unaware of the victim’s stay in the hotel. It must be made mandatory to keep the record of every visitor with his photograph. The hotel staff should be more vigilant so that accused can be caught in no time.Sangeeta JainDon’t allow entry to guests carrying weaponsThe hotel industry ought to upgrade their security department for the safeguard of customers. Hotels should install CCTV cameras on the entrance to keep a double check on the folks who are checking in. Submission of ID proof on the reception for the purpose of security should be made mandatory. Everyone should be checked properly with detectors and even luggage should be gone through a throw checking. Hotel should be strict about weapons and other harmful stuff which can lead to further tragic consequences. Security guards ought to be fit and strong to handle any situation very effectively.UrvashiKeep record of every visitorMurders in hotel rooms are increasing day by day. It is a big question mark on the prestige of the hotel. To get rid of the problem, the hotel industry should follow the slogan ‘suspect all, inspect all and respect all’. The hotel officials should check ID proof and keep record of anyone whether come to reserve room or come to meet the customer of their hotel. Each part of the hotel must be under the CCTV surveillance.Gurpreet KaurReport suspicious guestsThe hotel staff should be aware of the security. Persons with suspicious behaviour must be reported immediately. Proper personal information of the staff and hotel guests must be checked and verified. Room keys should be handed over to a person after checking the identity card. Do keep in your mind the names and at least faces of the staff working near you.Amarpreet KaurVerify details onlineHotel authorities must take care of some of the following suggestions to put a curb on incidents which is occurred recently in one of the hotels of Ludhiana city where one young boy has lost his life. Hotel authorities must take documents and verify the same online. Sick, ill and persons with severe problems may be accommodated after taking consent letter in which they may stay at their own risk and responsibilities. Proper verification must be carried out of a person other than main occupant. Proper information must be given to his/her family members who are not accompanying him. A register must be maintained where check in and check out time in the room be noted and some CCTVs be installed in each corridor and main entries. Any eatables and drinks must be banned to consume inside of the room of the hotel. If someone is interested to take then he must take it in the dining hall of the hotel.Farzana KhanRecord check-in, check-out timeAll safety measures must be taken by the hotel industry to ensure that the life of visitors coming for night stay is safe and is not subject to any risk. First of all, the details of the visitors must be well recorded in a register, including their home address and mobile number etc. to be used in case of any emergency. A security guard must be kept at the gate for full day and night to watch both the incoming and outgoing visitors. The person on duty must also visit outside of different rooms for proper maintenance of the hotel and also at night to ensure peaceful living of the visitors. Each room must be provided with inter-com telephone connection with the reception desk so as to get in touch with any room. The check-in and check-out timings of the hotel must be clearly exhibited at the reception desk for the information of the visitors. The hotel must make a permanent arrangement for contacting a medical doctor in case of any emergency for the visitor. The hotel industry must ensure that all these steps are taken by every hotel for the safety of the visitors and the defaulters must be punished by cancellation of the licence and imposition of a fine etc.Gautam DevGuests’ safety top prioritySafety is the top priority towards guest service. To protect the guest there should be key card lock in guest room. Security camera should be there in addition to trained security guard with 24-hour service. To add more safety the employees of the hotel should wear a photo ID card for quick identify. Exist and entrance of guest also be noted. Last but not the least the guest also took safety measures to protect himself and his belonging.Deepinder KaurBan alcohol drinking inside roomsFirst of all there must be restrictions on the entry of ill people. Each person must be checked by the hotel authorities for his health, if he is fit only then the person may be allowed. The record of the other fellow or family members along with the main guest must be verified. It must be mandatory for each occupant to mark their presence before going to bed. Alcohol and other intoxicants must be banned from outside of the hotel. Wine and whisky must not be allowed to drink inside of the room. Person is not allowed to take food items from outside, if he is carrying, it must be taken in writing that he shall be responsible of its own. If one person is leaving room in any emergency then consent must be taken by the hotel authority from the other occupant or the fellow of the person who is leaving the room. Proper record such as Aadhaar card and other documents must be kept by the hotel and hotel authority must inform their parents or relative that person with so and so name is staying in the hotel along with his friends or relatives.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiTrain hotel staffHotel industry should set the stringent norms for the visitors. They should continuously update their surveillance systems. Cameras must be installed on the hotel premises. No entry should be given to anyone without authentic identity proof. Hotel authorities must provide training to the staff in security measures. Guests or visitors must be guided properly in case of emergencies. Intelligence access must be used in the hotels. Only keyholders can get into the room.Ritu PriyaAdopt adequate safety measuresIn many cases even proper identity proofs are also not collected by the hotels, making it difficult for them to identify the person in case of any mishappening. The hotel staff should be vigilant regarding the behaviour of the guests and anyone with abnormal activities must be reported to the higher authorities. If the guest remains alone in the room, then it becomes all the more important to be watchful. In case the guest keeps himself in the room for long, then trials should be made to contact him without encroaching upon his privacy. The staff must be trained to deal with such type of cases. Moreover, in case of any suspicion the local police must be informed at the earliest as the person may be a threat to the other guests in the hotel as well. Sometimes such people may be involved in some terrorist activities also. So, the high alertness by the hotel staff can only control these type of incidents.Bir Devinder Singh BediRemain extra cautiousThe incidence of guest deaths in hotel rooms is slowly increasing in our country. They occur due to natural causes (heart attacks), suicides or homicides. There is no dearth of people who take excessive alcohol or consume highly dangerous drugs. In today’s rat race, some people suffer from acute depression and take their own lives while alone in a hotel room. Others can get killed by their near ones.The hoteliers must always remain extra cautious as far as their guests are concerned and if they are suspicious of someone must inform the nearby police station immediately. Those consuming alcohol or other intoxicants heavily must be monitored properly. A photocopy of the ID proof of each and every guest and visitor should be kept in his or her safe custody by the manager or the receptionist.Dr Sunil Chopra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/upgrade-security-system-install-cctv-cameras-222051
08-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Have proper system to verify guests’ identity||To prevent murders in hotel, there should be proper system of identity verification. People sometimes submit fake ID proof and whenever they commits any crime, it becomes difficult for the police to trace the criminals.Finger print scanners should be installed at every hotel which can easily identify the visitor to hotel in case someone makes attempts to submit fake ID.Many hotels also allow entry to minor boys and girls without taking their ID proof and such practice can also put lives of minors at risk. It should be ensured that the CCTVs are in working conditions. Besides, there should be proper credentials of the hotel staff.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe authorities are trying hard to curb the pollution levels but there is no check on diesel generator sets running in residential areas. Should these be allowed, especially when during summers, power cuts are imposed for 2-3 hours? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/have-proper-system-to-verify-guests-identity-222045
08-03-2021||Raikot||MP lays stone of shed at grain market||Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai laid the foundation stone of the new shed to be constructed at the cost of Rs 83 lakh at the local grain market on Sunday.The MP said that the farmers and commission agents were facing huge problems due to the unavailability of the shed during the procurement season of the crops as the grains used to get damaged due to inclement weather. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mp-lays-stone-of-shed-at-grain-market-222050
08-03-2021||---||PIO slapped with show-cause notice||Ludhiana, March 7Delay (beyond the stipulated time period) and the denial of information to an applicant under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has cost dear the SDM (West) Amrinder Singh Malhi, who is also the Public Information Officer (PIO) and the first appellate authority in the office of the SDM (West).Denial, delay in providing info under RTIThe CIC, in his orders, further directed the PIO and the SDM (West) to file the specific reply/supply the complete information to the appellant before the next date of hearing on March 25, 2021.Accepting the plea of the appellant, the Chief Information Commissioner of Punjab State Information Commission Suresh Arora has issued a show-cause notice to the PIO, asking him as to why a penalty under Section 20 (1) should not be not imposed on him.Passing the orders in the appeal case 2943 of 2020 (Sat Pal Sharma vs Amrinder Singh Malhi, PIO Office of SDM-West), the CIC observed, “Viewing the attitude in dealing with the RTI application of the appellant seriously, Shri Amrinder Singh Malhi, PCS, Sub Divisional Magistrate West, Ludhiana is issued a show-cause notice to explain in a self-attested affidavit as to why a penalty at the rate of Rs 250 per day of delay subject to a maximum of Rs 25,000 till the complete information is furnished, be not imposed under Section 20(1) of RTI Act, 2005 on him for causing wilful delay/denial of information to the RTI applicant.However, the respondent official was given an an opportunity under Section 20(1) proviso thereto, for a personal hearing before the imposition of such penalty on the next date of hearing. “He (the PIO) may take note that in case he does not file his written reply and does not avail himself of the opportunity of personal hearing on the next date, it will be presumed that he has nothing to say and the Commission will proceed ex-parte,” said the orders.The CIC, in his orders, further directed the PIO and the SDM (West) to file the specific reply/supply the complete information to the appellant before the next date of hearing on March 25, 2021.The second appeal was filed by Sat Pal Sharma and other residents comprising Adarsh Lane Welfare Society, New Tagore Nagar, Haibowal Kalan after failure of the SDM (West) to issue orders under Section 133 of the CrPC against public nuisance of a workshop for making sweets which used a boiler, a diesel furnace and stored diesel in an illegally constructed building in a residential area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pio-slapped-with-show-cause-notice-222049
08-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Covid norms thrown to the wind||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 7Though people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in this part of the region, increasing number of Covid cases has become a cause of concern again. In such a scenario, guidelines to be followed to prevent the spread of disease were thrown to the wind during a shobha yatra taken out ahead of Mahashivratri here today. Most of the persons who were taking part in the event were seen without masks and no social distancing was maintained.A visit to the area revealed that even at stalls from where eatables were distributed among devotees, no guidelines were followed. Food items were prepared on roadsides but nobody was seen wearing masks or gloves or maintaining any social distancing. Huge projectors were put on the route so that the devotees could get a glimpse of the yatra.“We respect every religion. In such a situation, we all need to be cautious. We are being callous and carefree, which can cost us dear. No police personnel were seen since the morning in the market while on a regular basis, they lay a naka at the chowk. Political leaders with vested interests are not paying attention towards the matter and law-enforcing agencies prefer to look the other way, rued a shopkeeper at Ghumar Mandi Chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-norms-thrown-to-the-wind-222047
08-03-2021||Manav Mander||Farm women & their new-found freedom||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 7The farmers’ protest has brought to light the role women can play in society at large. Normally, limited only to household work, their responsibilities changed overnight and they were forced to hold plough in their hands. Now, they are enjoying their new found responsibilities and freedom which according to them is going to stay. This year’s Women’s Day is going to be special for women belonging to the rural background with their changing role in society.Rajwinder Kaur, from Nangal village, never went to her fields before the protest started. Although, a graduate she was happy staying back at home and doing household chores. “With men at the protest site, we were left with no other option but to work in our fields in order to sustain the family. Going to the fields was a compulsion for which later turned into necessity and now it holds our future,” she said.The woman who never thought of going to the fields can’t think of a day without visiting her ‘karambhoomi’. Apart from that, they have been going to the protest site regularly.“Till now, there used to be a two-crop pattern but now we plan to have at least four crops. There might be five crops but not less than four. Even when the men are back home, it will not hold us from going to the fields,” added Rajwinder.The protest has also served as an eye-opener for some. Amritpal Kaur, a mother of two daughters and a son from Bahu Majra village, said the protest has proved to an eye-opener not only for her but for many other women like her. Even her husband was surprised when he came to know that she was managing all work single-handedly.“Now, I will make sure that both my daughters are financially independent before marrying them. It was tough for me to go to the fields as I have never done this work before. It was the men of the family and hired labour who were responsible for doing the work in the fields and sometimes the work was delayed as no labour was available. Now, we don’t need to wait for the labour but can do our work ourselves,” she said.Not only people from rural background but even those living in the cities have recognised the importance of this protest in context to role of women in society.Dr Narinder Sandhu, principal (retd) of Ramgarhia Girls College, said the protest would prove as an orientation or refresher course for the women of the farming community.“The protest has made the society realise their worth and view point will change once the protest is over. I think even women themselves will have a different opinion about themselves and they will realise many new aspects about themselves. Those families who were rigid and orthodox will also have a different belief after they saw women working hand-in-hand with men,” said Dr Sandhu.Ravinder Ranguwal, a Ludhiana-based media director and president of Punjab Cultural Society, said the revolution caused by farmers’ protest is here to stay.“The protest has added a progressive thought among the villagers. Few days back, I went to my village Ranguwal and the neighbouring Dhoorkot village and saw women were working in fields,” he said.Is this freedom going to stay?Dr Kamal Vatta, Professor, Head of Department of Economics and Sociology from Punjab Agricultural University, said there is no concrete view point on this till now.“Long-term situations do result in changes but it is too early to say anything at this point of time. Whenever the equilibrium is disturbed it either results in a permanent change or sometimes things come back to the pavilion. Only time will tell what will be the result of the socio-economic impact of the protest,” said Dr Vatta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farm-women-their-new-found-freedom-222048
08-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Mishap-prone Sahnewal Chowk in Ludhiana cries for attention||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 7Sahnewal Chowk, which was declared a black spot in the past, on the National Highway-44 needs urgent attention of the authorities.The spot is prone to road mishaps and no steps were taken to curb accidents at the point. Twentytwo persons lost their lives at the point in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018) by getting hit by speeding vehicles. Most of the victims were pedestrians, cyclists or two-wheeler riders riders. During the visit to the spot, it was observed that the main market of Sahnewal is located near the chowk and there is no traffic light junction at the point.The chowk gets traffic from all directions due to which the point is more prone to road mishaps.There are no speed breakers on the road. Even blinkers are also missing on link roads. The service lane alongside the road is not built in a proper way as there are several unauthorised cuts. Fences alongside the road are also damaged at several spots near the chowk. There are no zebra crossing markings and luminous signboards at the spot. Signboards displaying speed limits are also not available.The authorities are not able to keep a check on overspeeding at the point as only one speed radar is available with the Traffic Police, Ludhiana.Residents of the area alleged that shopkeepers and workshop owners had encroached upon the service lane as they park their vehicles and keep their items on the service lane outside their shops. The width of the historical gate, built in the name of Guru Gobind Singh, at the chowk is less for easy movement of traffic, leading to traffic jams. Heavy vehicles such as tractor-trailers get stuck while crossing the gate due to which a portion of the gate has also got damaged. Even there is no bus stop at the chowk due to which people stand at various points to board buses and sometimes get hit by speeding vehicles. Many times, buses halt on the road, creating hurdles for commuters.Dr Kamal Soi, member, National Road Safety Council, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India said: “This black spot is located on the service road which joins crossroads under the underpass on the Sahnewal gate. Heavy vehicular traffic comes from the Dehlon side and move towards the Chandigarh road and national highway towards Delhi and Ludhiana. Hence, the point is a dangerous one. There is a dire need to check overspeeding by installing rumble strips or speed breakers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mishap-prone-sahnewal-chowk-in-ludhiana-cries-for-attention-222046
08-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: 108 +ve, four teachers among infected in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 7A total of 108 persons from this district and 31 from other districts tested positive for Covid today, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 27,940.Meanwhile, the number of active cases has gone up to 839 (+108).Among those testing positive were four teachers of government schools (two from Koom Kalan and one each from Mullanpur and Sahnewal).One patient from Moga succumbed to the virus, but the number of deaths in the district remained at 1,036.Among those testing positive today 13 were in contact with infected persons, 30 from OPDs, 38 from flu corner (ILI), 16 (tracing in process), two health workers and one AMC.The total number of samples taken during the last 24 hours were 4,195 and the reports of 2,034 were awaited.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-108-ve-four-teachers-among-infected-in-ludhiana-district-222043
08-03-2021||---||Four arrested with heroin, poppy husk in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 7The city police nabbed four smugglers and recovered drugs from their possession in separate incidents.In the first case, the Meharban police nabbed two notorious smugglers and recovered 5 kg of poppy husk from their possession. The accused have been identified as Sanjiv Kumar of Subash Nagar and Vinod Kumar of Una, Himachal Pradesh.Investigating officer ASI Gursewak Singh said a police party was conducting routine patrolling on the Rahon road where a tip-off was received that the accused were on the way to deliver a huge consignment of drugs.Accordingly, a naka was laid at the T-point near Hawaas village where the duo were stopped for checking and during the search, poppy husk was recovered from them.The ASI said the police remand of the accused would be sought to interrogate the smugglers.In another incident, the anti-narcotics cell nabbed Kulwinder Singh of Karamsar Colony and recovered 16 gm of heroin from him.Cops said a police party was present on the gaushala road where on suspicion, a bike-borne person was stopped for checking and the drugs was seized from him.The Police Division 3 also nabbed a drug peddler, Bobby Singh, of Manohar Nagar and seized 5 gm of heroin from him.At the Khawaja Kothi chowk, a pedestrian was stopped for checking on suspicion. During the search of his belongings, heroin was recovered. The ASI said the accused was on the way to deliver drugs to his client.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered and further probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-arrested-with-heroin-poppy-husk-in-ludhiana-222044
08-03-2021||---||Get tenant verification done: Ludhiana Police||Ludhiana, March 7The Ludhiana police have warned the residents to get the police verification of their tenants and servants done by Monday, else the police will start registering cases against the owners.Though the police had been telling the people for verification for the past several months, the latter were not paying heed to their advice.The police now took a strict stand due to the recent incident at the Focal Point where a migrant had killed two children. The accused was living in the migrants’ vehra for the past two years, but the owner had not got done the police verification of the accused.Now, the police have also started making announcements in city areas to make the people aware about the directions. In announcement, cops have been clearly telling the residents to get verification by Monday else immediate FIRs will be registered.The city has thousands of vehras (common place where migrants live together) and most of the vehra owners have not got done the police verification of the migrants living there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/get-tenant-verification-done-ludhiana-police-222052
08-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||GLADA colonies: Poor enforcement of rules leads to encroachments, violations||Ludhiana, March 7With poor track record of enforcement and removal of encroachments in the colonies under its control, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), it seems, has given a long rope to violating and defaulting allottees.As a result, encroachments on roads, streets and parks as well as violation of standard design and building bylaws in many GLADA colonies have assumed alarming proportions and the officials have adopted a “devil may care” approach.Three recent incidents of encroachments and violation of building bylaws in Dugri Urban Estate, CRPF Colony and Dugri Bypass Road are proof of the sorry state of affairs with regard to enforcement and regulatory action on part of GLADA officials.Area residents say nearly five shops were being constructed without any building plan on 200 feet wide Dugri Bypass Road. Rather than taking any action for illegal construction against the violator, the GLADA officials said a show-cause notice had been issued to the owner of the property as per the rules and further action would be taken on the receipt of the reply to the notice.In another incident, a resident living adjacent to a park in CRPF Colony had encroached upon part of the park where a nurse/midwife was treating the patients on the cots put up in the park. Going a step further, another resident had taken possession of a 600 square yards park near LIG/MIG flats, while a portion of the road providing passage to the flats had also been encroached upon where a boundary wall had already been constructed and building material lied dumped for further construction of a room.Due to little or no enforcement, violation of building bylaws and alteration in standard design (not permissible under terms and conditions of allotment) in most areas of Dugri as well as in Sectors 32 and 39 was rampant. A resident of a flat in CRPF Colony in Dugri Rajpal Kaur alleged that the allottee of a flat located below her flat had demolished walls for addition/alteration in his flat.“As a result, walls in my flat have developed cracks, water pipe has started leaking and the whole structure of the flat is under risk of collapse at any time due to supports from under the walls having been removed,” said the aggrieved resident.When contacted, GLADA officials said the encroachment within the park had been cleared, notices had been issued to the owner of the property where shops were being constructed and field staff had been directed to inspect and submit a report on addition/alteration being made in a flat.‘Construction of shops sans building plan’Local residents say nearly five shops were being constructed without any building plan on 200 feet wide Dugri Bypass Road. Rather than taking any action for illegal construction against the violator, the GLADA officials said a show-cause notice had been issued to the owner of the property as per the rules and further action would be taken on the receipt of the reply to the notice. Sorry state of affairsThree recent incidents of encroachments and violation of building bylaws in Dugri Urban Estate, CRPF Colony and Dugri Bypass Road are proof of the sorry state of affairs with regard to enforcement and regulatory action on part of GLADA officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-colonies-poor-enforcement-of-rules-leads-to-encroachments-violations-222053
