09-03-2021||Nitin Jain||Rs 1,242-cr canal water project for Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 8The maximum city of Punjab has bagged a big deal in the Budget. Ludhiana has got the much-needed canal water supply project to quench the thirst of its residents.The Rs 1,242-crore canal-based water supply project for the industrial hub of the state was approved in the Punjab Budget for 2021-22 presented to the Vidhan Sabha by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal in Chandigarh on Monday.Not only this, the agriculture, animal husbandry, education, health, industry, infrastructure development, investment promotion, sports and youth services sectors in Ludhiana, known as the Manchester of India, have also got a big boost in the Budget estimates for the next fiscal.A canal-based water supply project, costing Rs 1,242-crore, excluding operation and maintenance for 10 years, will be undertaken by the state government, with the help of the World Bank. Under this ambitious project, surface-based potable water will be made available to the industrial hub of the state, which was currently groping with the problem of rapidly depleting groundwater level.“The negotiation of the project with the World Bank has been completed and the project is proposed for approval in the ensuing executive committee meeting of the World Bank scheduled for March 31,” stated the Finance Minister, adding that the construction of the project would start in 2021-22.Ludhiana was among the two cities that got the canal-based water supply project in the state. Amritsar has also got a similar project, costing Rs 686 crore.MORE BEDS IN HOSPITALSRs 55 crore was provisioned to provide additional beds at the existing MCH wings at district hospitals of Ludhiana, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda and Barnala with a target of completing at least 50 per cent by March, 2022.ANIMAL HUSBANDRYPunjab has become the first state in the country for the production of cell culture classical swine fever vaccine at Punjab Veterinary Vaccine Institute (PVVI) in Ludhiana after signing a material transfer agreement with the IVRI, lzatnagar, in Bareilly. Further, to protect livestock against contagious diseases, Ludhiana, PVVI, will be upgraded to good manufacturing practices (GMPs) as per the WHO norms at a cost of Rs 32 crore and an amount of Rs 20.22 crore has already been released for its upgradation during 2020-21.Rs 933 CR FOR EDUCATIONThe government has released grants to the tune of Rs 933 crore to different universities and colleges in the state, including Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, during 2020-21. A budgetary allocation of Rs 1,064 crore has been made for this purpose in 2021-22.INDUSTRIAL TRAININGA sum of Rs 8.27 crore was allocated for upgrading Government ITI in Ludhiana as Model ITI.WOMEN EMPOWERMENTLudhiana will get one of the seven hostels for working women proposed to come up next fiscal for providing safe accommodation to working women. A sum of Rs 50 crore has been allocated for this purpose.INDUSTRIAL & BIZ DEVUnder the Industrial and Business Development Policy-2017 aimed at creating an investor-friendly regulatory environment for the ease of doing business, Ludhiana has got one of the major investment proposals worth Rs 2,119-crore from Think Gas Ludhiana Private Limited.INVESTMENT PROMOTIONTo further facilitate the investor at the doorstep, facilitation offices for investors at district level – District Bureau of Industry and Investment Promotion (DBIIP) offices will come up in each district. Ludhiana will be among six districts to be covered in the first phase. These dedicated DBIIP offices will be headed by the Deputy Commissioners as the CEOs, while nodal officers from line departments will be appointed to receive, process and grant statutory clearances/approvals/NOCs as required by an industrial unit through the existing Invest Punjab Business First portal. DBIIP will facilitate new/ expansion unit investments and expedite speedy approval/ clearances required for grounding of the projects.HI-TECH CYCLE VALLEYA sum of Rs 22 crore was allocated for the creation of capital assets at the world-class state-of-the-art hi-tech cycle valley coming up over 383 acres at Dhanansu in Ludhiana with an outlay of Rs 500 crore.SPORTS & YOUTH SERVICESLudhiana was among seven districts where 56 sports infrastructure development were under progress and Rs 29 crore has been provisioned in 2021-22 for the completion of the existing projects, including block level multipurpose sports stadiums, besides the construction of new sports infrastructure.SMART CITIES MISSIONLudhiana was among the four cities selected under the Centre’s Smart Cities Mission, to be developed as smart cities. The focus of the mission is to improve infrastructure, IT connectivity, e-governance, resident participation, redress of environmental pollution, clean water and sanitation issues while ensuring the safety of the residents. In 2020-21, works amounting to Rs 1,237 crore have been started while a budgetary provision of Rs 1,600 crore has been made for this project during 2021-22.AMRUT SCHEMEUnder Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, the rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana was approved at a cost of Rs 650 crore.INFRA DEVELOPMENTLudhiana was among three cities, Mohali and Amritsar other two, which have got commercial complexes-cum-exhibition centres at a cost of Rs 125 crore, Rs 150 crore and Rs 250 crore, respectively.CRF SCHEMEUnder the Central Road Fund (CRF) scheme, a provision of Rs 250 crore has been earmarked for various works, benefiting 308-km of roads. A sum of Rs 100 crore has been allocated for land acquisition and the construction of ROBs/RUBs for a dedicated freight corridor rail line from Rajpura to Ludhiana.CITY TO GET 5 FISH FARMSIn order to increase the availability of quality fish seed in the state, five fish seed farms are being established in Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, Sangrur, Ferozepur and Fazilka. A high fish production technology of recirculatory aquaculture system has been introduced during 2019-20, which will expand to eight units in the state during 2021-22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-1-242-cr-canal-water-project-for-ludhiana-222681
09-03-2021||Ludhiana||Drug runner held||Karamjit Singh, a resident of Pavittar Nagar, Haibowal, was arrested by the police from near Khwaja Kothi Chowk on a tip-off that the accused was waiting for customers to sell the habit-forming tablets. The police seized 750 psychotropic tablets and 76 capsules from the accused who has been booked under Sections 21/61/85 of the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drug-runner-held-222682
09-03-2021||Manav Mander||Only a single function to remember city’s legendary poet Sahir Ludhianvi||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 8People around the world remembered Sahir Ludhianvi on his 100th birth anniversary today, but sadly his own city failed him as not a single programme was organised here today except at his alma mater, SCD College, where a musical concert was held in his memory.Another shocking fact is that there is not a single place/memorial dedicated to his memory in Ludhiana even though the renowned poet had embraced the name of the city as his identity.Interestingly, programmes are being organised abroad and also across the border to mark the birth centenary of the legendary poet.The University of the Frazer Valley, Canada, is celebrating the occasion online for three days (from March 7 to 9). Similarly, the Lahore Arts Council Lahore and the Karachi Arts Council, Karachi, has organised a two-day online event from March 7 to 8.Events in connection with the Sahir birth centenary were organised yesterday by the Ghalib Academy, Anjuman Taraqi Urdu Hind, Delhi University and a few other organisations in Delhi and various places in India. Many organisations have planned to celebrate the occasion in the coming days.“I was the keynote speaker in the programmes organised by the University of the Frazer Valley, Canada, and the Lahore Arts Council Lahore and the Karachi Arts Council, but sadly no programme was held in the memory of the poet in his own city,” said Dr Kewal Dheer, a writer and founder of Adeeb International.He said his organisation Adeeb International was planning to organise a programme but could not get the green light due to the Covid restrictions.“The saddest part is that there is not even a single site in Ludhiana dedicated to the great son of the soil. There was a plan to construct Sahir Cultural Centre and the foundation stone of the same was also laid, but sadly it was scrapped and later it was planned to construct residential flats-cum-shops,” said Dr Dheer, who was also the secretary of the Sahir Cultural Society which is now defunct.Dr Dheer said that Rs 65 lakh was released by the then Chief Minister Beant Singh in 1995 for the construction of the centre, but unfortunately he was assassinated the same year and the idea of the cultural centre was sacrificed. In 1998, the funds lying in the bank in the name of the Sahir Cultural Society were returned to the government as unutilised.Dr Dheer wishes for a memorial in the name of the great poet.Major Amarjit Singh Batth (retd), a writer author and columnist, said the poet took the city to international level, but the city has failed to remember him.“He might be living in the hearts of lakhs of his admirers, but we have nothing to show to the next generation. The cultural centre planned in his memory was also lost in oblivion,” he rues.Dr R Vatsayayan, an ayurvedacharya who has also studied at SCD Government College, said only his alma mater had acknowledged him and named an auditorium and a botanical garden after him, rest there is no memorial in his name.The road from Fountain Chowk to Rose Garden was named as “Sahir Ludhianvi Marg” and a foundation stone was also laid, but sadly after a week, the board was uprooted and even the foundation stone is nowhere to be seen.“The cultural centre named after him was also scrapped. He took the name of Ludhiana along with him wherever he went, but the city has failed to do justice to this great man. Whenever I tell anybody that I am from Ludhiana, people ask, “From Sahir Ludhianvi’s city”? But sadly, the city has forgotten its hero, said Dr Vatsyayan, who also has autograph of Sahir and is taking care of it for the past 50 years.Meanwhile, a musical concert was organised by SCD Government College in collaboration with the Voice of Asians to commemorate the 100th birth anniversary of its eminent alumnus Sahir Ludhianvi at Sahir Auditorium today, where the International Women’s Day was also commemorated.The guests paid floral tributes to Sahir and the concert began with his nazam “Mein pal do pal ka shayar hoon”.Principal, Dr Dharam Singh Sandhu talked about Sahir’s life at length and motivated the students to learn resilience and humility from him. He also read out the nazm that Sahir had dedicated to the college during the golden jubilee celebration “Ey nayee nasl tujho mera salaam”. It is noteworthy that Sahir took up the cause of women empowerment through his poetry which created a sea change in the perspective of society towards women. He also spoke about Indian women who have made the nation proud with their achievements.Lines penned by Sahir “Kal koi mujko yaad kare, kyun koi mujhko yaad kare, masroof zamana mere liye, kyun waqt apna barbaad kare” seem to reflect the kind of treatment that was in store for him in his city after his death.Hall likely in his memory||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/only-a-single-function-to-remember-citys-legendary-poet-sahir-ludhianvi-222683
09-03-2021||---||92 test +ve, 2 die of Covid||Ludhiana, March 8Ninetytwo persons tested positive for Covid and two patients lost their lives to Covid in the district today. Total positive cases from Ludhiana have reached 27,924 while 1,038 have lost their lives to the virus so far.Those who tested positive today included two healthcare workers, a policeman, one pre-operative case, four teachers and three students.Four teachers who tested positive today belong to GNA College, GTB Hospital and College, Sargodha School Fatehgarh and GSSS, Phillaur. The students belonged to GADVASU, Nursing College, Kular, and SKS College, Sarabha.Now, there are 776 active cases in the district while 192 people were home quarantined today. Till now, 6,95,768 samples have been collected and reports of 3,501 are awaited.Today, a 60-year-old woman and 70-year-old man lost their lives. They belonged to Samrala and Khud Mohalla, respectively. The woman was asthmatic.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/92-test-ve-2-die-of-covid-222684
09-03-2021||---||Smart city project: Plaint against inter-locking tiles||Ludhiana, March 8 The Council of Engineers, an NGO, has sent a complaint to the secretary of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs against Ludhiana Smart City Limited for allegedly causing damage to environment by fixing solid inter-locking tiles/granite/cement concrete within 1metre radius of the existing trees in Ludhiana. Kapil Arora of the council said that the roots of trees were being damaged as the tiles or concrete work was done around trees on Malhar Road and Sarabha Nagar market where projects under the Smart City Mission were under way. He demanded from the secretary that the directions should be issued to the state-level high powered steering committee (HPSC) chaired by the Chief Secretary of Punjab as well as Ludhiana Smart City Ltd to leave 1m space around trees coming under all Smart City projects.  Meanwhile, Superintending Engineer of the Municipal Corporation, Rahul Gagneja, who is looking after the Smart city mission projects, has denied the allegations. He said  all works had been done as per the norms. There is no violation, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smart-city-project-plaint-against-inter-locking-tiles-222685
09-03-2021||Ludhiana||Two killed in road mishaps||Two persons were killed due to alleged reckless driving on city roads on Saturday.A man was killed on the spot after being hit by a trawler, while the other person died after being taken to the Civil Hospital after he was hit by an unidentified speeding vehicle.Amarjit Singh (40), riding a motor cycle (PB-10DF-3654) with his friend Harpreet Singh on the pillion, was hit by a trawler while coming to the city from Phagwara near Hardy’s World on the GT road on Saturday night. While the pillion rider sustained minor injuries, a grievously injured Amarjit Singh died on the spot.The police registered a case against the driver of the trawler, identified as Ram Lubhaya of Pajaura village in Hoshiarpur district.In another fatal road accident, a migrant worker Naseeb Yadav (50) of Jiwan Nagar was hit by an unidentified speeding vehicle on the Dhandari bridge. The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital for treatment. Ashok Yadav, nephew of the victim and resident of Kot Mangal Singh in Shimlapuri, said when he reached the hospital, his uncle had passed away. The police booked the unidentified driver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-killed-in-road-mishaps-222686
09-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Nothing for industry in Punjab Budget, say Ludhiana bizmen||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 8Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal presented the last Budget of the present Capt Amarinder Singh Government in Chandigarh today. Though the size of the Budget was Rs 1,38,015 crore but it failed to please the local industry here as industrialists feel that there was nothing for the industry and it (industry) was on last on the priority list of the state government.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, FICO, shared his opinion about the Punjab Budget 2021-2022 and said just like the previous four Budgets, this was also a dummy Budget and had nothing for the industry. He said the industry had been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and was expecting some relief package from the government. However, it was disappointing.FICO terms it ‘Dummy’ BudgetHarjit Singh Sondh, co-chairman, FICO, said no special package for the bicycle industry had been introduced whereas the country was the second largest cycle manufacturers in the world after China. The sector needs special attention of the government to flourish so that it could upgrade itself to compete at the global level.Vipan Mittal, vice-chairman, FICO, welcomed the decision of the government to establish a women’s hostel in Ludhiana and other industrial towns of the state, but establishing a hostel won’t serve the cause, there was a need to set up hostels in every phase and sector of industrial areas and focal points.Rajeev Jain, general secretary, FICO, said it was a disappointing Budget as far as the industry was concerned. There was literally nothing for the industry to fetch out of the Budget.No new Industrial areas, devp of focal pointsPresident Upkar Singh Ahuja and Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, have also expressed disappointment on the Budget presented by the Finance Minister as it had totally ignored the Industry. Ahuja said it seems to be only a poll Budget meant to please farmers and all other sections, except the industry. Only Rs 150 crore had been earmarked as the Innovation Fund that also for early stage start- ups which is nominal. Pankaj said the industry had been crying for improvement in infrastructure but there was no provision for infrastructure.“We have been asking for new industrial areas and basic amenities in focal points, which were neglected by the state government.OTS policy an eyewashPankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, said the OTS policy for loan defaulters was badly required but the one announced by the Finance Minister was with many riders. It seems to be an eyewash.Full of fake statements: AITFBadish Jindal, president, AITF, said in the post Covid-budget, no relief had been announced by the government. The industry was expecting some major relief but nothing as such announced. The whole budget is “full of fake statements”. Even the government announced GSDP rate of 10.43 per cent from 2017-18 to 2019-20 has no relevance as compared to the economic condition of the state.The subsidy of Rs 1,928 crore was not sufficient to provide power to Industries at the rate of Rs 5 per unit, The government promised to supply power to the industries at the rate of Rs 5 per unit as per their manifesto but the industry is paying from Rs 7 per unit to Rs 18 per unit due to fixed charges on power. Most of the issues taken up in the Budget were previously announced policies which had no relevance with the Budget speech, he said.Sanjay Goel, Director, Ludhiana Smart City, said there was less allocation of Budget for Infrastructure and development in the state (rural and urban areas).Decisions hailedThe decisions in the Budget which were hailed by the industry include working women hostels in Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Mohali, Mansa, Barnala, Amritsar; two medical colleges in Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur; Rs 16,557 crore for rural, urban and other infrastructure; 25 new bus stands in the state and free travel for women in government buses across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nothing-for-industry-in-punjab-budget-say-ludhiana-bizmen-222688
09-03-2021||---||Talks, events mark Int’l Women’s Day at colleges||Ludhiana, March 8 International Women’s Day was celebrated at various colleges in the district on Monday. Students and staff members of the colleges participated in events to mark the day. Talk on healthy lifestyle The women’s cell and the NSS unit of the Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town, celebrated the day  on virtual mode today. Principal Maninder Kaur welcomed and congratulated the students on the occasion. Shikha Kalra, head, department of home science, delivered a talk on healthy lifestyle which covered  issues such as anaemia, nutritional diet, fitness and regular exercise, yoga and self-defence. Extension lecture On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the Malwa Central College of Education for Women organised an extension lecture on the topic ‘How to create Wealth in Stock Market’.   Sunil Kumar, an investment adviser from Ludhiana, was the resource person. Dr Naginder Kaur, principal of the college, appreciated the efforts of faculty members behind the success of the event. Lecture on women empowerment The Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Ludhiana, celebrated the day by organising a lecture on women empowerment’. A psychologist, Param Saini, conducted the session. Dr Param Saini emphasised on the importance of accepting ourselves and challenging ourselves on a daily basis. She said change comes from within and self-confidence was the key to bring change. Talk on health, nutrition The NSS unit of Ramgarhia Girls College celebrated Women’s Day in association with the Department of Higher Education and Languages, Panjab University, Chandigarh. Principal Rajeshwarpal Kaur was the chief guest. President of the Ramgarhia Educational Council Ranjodh Singh was also present. A lecture was organised on health and nutrition where Prof Ritu Sood, HoD, home science, gave tips regarding diet plans for women in 1940s and 1950s. Vibrant poerformances To honour womanhood, International Women’s Day was celebrated with fervour on the premises of the Government College for Girls, Ludhiana. The function began with shabad gayan. Various colourful and vibrant performances were organised to showcase talent of students. Principal Dr Sukhwinder Kaur was honoured with the title ‘Women of Substance’. Women, girls told about nutrition, fitness The Women Cell of GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, organised a lecture on ‘Nutrition, fitness and prevention of anaemia’ for girl students and female staff. Principal professor Jaswant Singh shared that the the International Women’s Day was celebrated to acknowledge achievements of women and promote gender equality. Head, department of biotechnology Prof Shikha Jain laid stress on the importance of a balanced diet in the life of a woman and dietary sources of nutrients. Extraordinary lives of women celebrated International Women’s Day was celebrated at the Partap College of Education, here. Dr Ramesh Inder Bal, financial secretary of the college, and women journalists were among dignitaries present. Stress was laid on works and activities of women who have worked extraordinarily in their fields. Balwinder Kaur, assistant professor, highlighted the history of celebrating the day. Declamation contest The Gulzar Group of Institutes celebrated International Women’s Day.  Dr Gursimran Kaur from Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, was the chief guest. A declamation contest was also organised on the campus  on various topics such as ‘Equality is our goal and access is our right’, Women’s activism that has shaped the world and Five innovations that have advanced women’s rights. Women honoured CT University marked International Women’s Day with the theme ‘Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world’. The event was a felicitation ceremony in which various women excelling in their domains of social workers, police force, doctors, medical officers, nurses, media personnel and other frontline female warriors were invited and honoured. The SHOs who were honoured include Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, Madhu Bala and Simranjeet Kaur. Role of women highlighted The AS College for Women, Khanna, also celebrated the day. Students prepared posters which highlighted the role of women in society and about giving them their right and respect. The event was held under the guidance of principal Dr Meenu Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/talks-events-mark-intl-womens-day-at-colleges-222689
09-03-2021||Ludhiana||100 women felicitated||The Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in association with HDFC Bank Limited today celebrated International Women’s Day at the auditorium on the college campus. Dr Hitant Vohra, professor and head from the department of anatomy, extended a warm welcome to dignitaries and female employees of the DMCH to make the event a grand success. Medical superintendent (HDHI) Bishav Mohan acknowledged the wholehearted cooperation of all female employees of the college, including doctors, nursing and paramedical staff, for working tirelessly during the pandemic. In all, around 100 women from different fields were felicitated during the function. Meanwhile, Dr Savita Dhawan from Dhawan Hospital, Rahon Road, was honoured by staff of BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant City, on International Women Day. To mark the occasion, a few staff members visited the hospital and honoured Dr Dhawan for her selfless service to society. The Department of Food and Nutrition in collaboration with local chapters of the Nutrition Society of India and the Indian Dietetic Association and the Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, PAU, celebrated the day at Gujjarwal village today. The event, which was based on the theme ‘Choose to challenge’, saw the participation of rural women, adolescent girls and anganwari workers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/100-women-felicitated-222690
09-03-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana men, women champions in softball||Ludhiana, March 8Ludhiana emerged champions in the men’s as well as women’s section in the 28th Senior Punjab State Softball Championship held at Guru Nanak Stadium here.In the final matches, host Ludhiana prevailed over Fazilka in both men and women sections to lay their hands on the winners’ trophies.In the women’s section, Ludhiana overpowered Fazilka (2-1) to secure the top position and in the men’s section, Ludhiana blanked Fazilka (3-0) to romp home triumphant.Earlier in the semi-finals (women), Ludhiana outperformed Moga (3-0) while Fazilka got the better of Amritsar (2-1) to set up the title clash.In the men’s category (semi-finals), Fazilka beat Moga and Ludhiana outplayed Jalandhar to secure berths in the final.In the men’s section, Moga and Jalandhar finished at third and fourth spots, respectively, whereas in the women’s section, the team of Amritsar warded off stiff resistance from Moga before wrapping up the issue (3-2) to secure the third position.Pran Nath Passi, honorary general secretary, Ludhiana District Softball Association, and other office-bearers of the association congratulated the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-men-women-champions-in-softball-222691
09-03-2021||Sports Correspondent---||U19: 76 probables selected for RCC||Ludhiana, March 8 AS many as 76 probables (U-19) have been selected by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) to register them with the regional coaching centre (RCC) at the GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road here. The LDCA, an affiliated body of the Punjab Cricket Association, conducted trials during which as many as 254 aspirants participated. The list of selected probables was issued by Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary, LDCA, on Monday. The probables include opening batsmen: Tikshan Tangri, Saksham Vij, Manas Shukla, Jaskaran Vir Singh, Harshjeet Singh, Raghav Vassan, Jai Prakash, Sahil Uppall, Mandeep Kumar, Ansh Soni, Ravkirat Singh, Samarth Mehra, Bharat Madhok, Hameer Singh and Gaurav Chaurasia. Middle-order batsmen: Bhavish Sethi, Ranvir Singh, Saksham Jhamb, Kanishk Sharma, Deepak Yadav, Sandeep Singh, Viraj Singh Bajwa, Sayam Gill, Samaksh Gosain, Tanish Sood, Karambir Singh, Rajveer Rathore and Sujal Bajaj.  The probables have been asked to report on the GRD Academy ground on March 10 at 3.30 pm. They will be imparted training/coaching for future competitions, said Kumaria.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/u19-76-probables-selected-for-rcc-222692
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||10 booked for assaulting man||Ludhiana, March 8 Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Ladian Kalan, near here, was brutally beaten up by four members of his in-laws’ family and six others in a street near his residence after the wife of the victim called her family members following a marital dispute between the couple. Gurpreet told the police that the members of his in-laws’ family and their accomplices assaulted him. When he raised an alarm, they fled while threatening him. The police have registered a case under Sections 323, 341, 506, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code against Tarsem Singh (father-in-law), Charanjit Kaur (mother-in-law), Mandeep (brother-in-law), Sukha (a relative) and six other unidentified persons. Further investigation was on in the matter. Three held for gambling The police have arrested three persons for allegedly gambling in a public park near Daba-cut. They were booked under Sections 13/3/67 of the Gambling Act. The police said Rs 700 was recovered from the spot. The accused persons have been identified as Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Giaspura, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Hargobind Nagar, and Om Parkash, a resident of Maha Singh Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-booked-for-assaulting-man-222693
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Minor girl goes missing||Ludhiana, March 8A 14-year-old minor  was reported missing from her house in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar since March 6. The mother of the girl, Lakshmi Devi, said in a complaint lodged with the police, that she had gone to work in the morning, leaving her daughter behind. She said when she came back home at around 8 pm, her daughter was missing. She suspected that her daughter might have been abducted by somebody and was being held captive against her will. The police have registered a case under Section 346 of the IPC and investigation was on.........Two held for liquor smugglingThe police  nabbed one Amit Kumar, a resident of Dr Ambedkar Nagar, while the accused person was going on his scooter from Brown Road towards Jagraon Bridge to allegedly deliver smuggled liquor to his customers.After being intercepted at a naka, 60 bottles of Dollar rum were recovered from his possession. The police  booked the accused under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act and the scooter being used for the unlawful act was also impounded.Elsewhere, the police held a bootlegger, identified as Sukhdev Singh,,a resident of Sekhewal village, during a raid conducted on the basis of reliable information about the accused involved in the distillation and sale of illicit liquor. The police seized 1 litre of illicit liquor and 15 litre lahan (raw liquor) from the accused. The police booked him under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act...........Police nab a drug runnerKaramjit Singh, a resident of Pavittar Nagar, Haibowal, was arrested by the police from near Khwaja Kothi Chowk on a tip-off that the accused was waiting for customers to sell the habit-forming tablets. The police seized 750 psychotropic tablets and 76 capsules from the accused who has been booked under Sections 21/61/85 of the NDPS Act..........Three held for gamblingThe police have arrested three persons for allegedly gambling in a public park near Daba-cut. They were booked under Sections 13/3/67 of the Gambling Act. The police said Rs 700 was recovered from the spot. The accused persons have been identified as Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Giaspura, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Hargobind Nagar, and Om Parkash, a resident of Maha Singh Nagar.........Five undertrials booked for having mobilesThe police have registered cases under Sections 52A(1) of the Prison Act against three undertrials, identified as Mukesh Kumar, Jatinder Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Naveen Kumar and Keshav. In a complaint to the police, Tarsem Lal, assistant superintendent of the Central Jail, said during a surprise check, the accused were found to be in possession of mobile phones which was against the provisions of the Jail Manual.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-girl-goes-missing-222694
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Man held for theft, snatching||Ludhiana, March 8A hosiery factory located in Salempur village was burgled while the police claimed to have nabbed a member of a gang of thieves and mobile snatchers who usually target migrants and their residential quarters.The police said a trap was laid on the basis of a tip-off regarding movement of two members of a gang of mobile snatchers and thieves. One of them, Mani Kumar, a resident of Sunet village, was arrested while travelling on a motorcycle from Malikpur village towards Salempur to sell a mobile phone and a gas cylinder.Two mobile phones, a gas cylinder and a datar (sword) were recovered from the accused, the police said, adding that a search had been launched for Bunty, a resident of Sunet and an accomplice of Mani Kumar. Both accused had been booked under Sections 379-B, 380 and 34 of the IPC, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-theft-snatching-222695
09-03-2021||---||Celebrating 100 years of legendary poet Sahir Ludhianvi||Chandigarh, March 8“Mein pal do pal ka shayar hoon pal do pal meri kahani hai," is one of the many songs forever etched in viewers’ hearts that came from Sahir Ludhianvi’s pen.On his birth centenary, it was not just his hometown Ludhiana that remembered its gem, but his fans spread across the world who took out time to revisit his nazms and ghazals and pay a befitting tribute.“Dastaan-e-Sahir” is one of the 108 books penned by octogenarian author Kewal Dheer. “I gave a keynote to a three-day online Sahir event on Sunday, addressed two more in Pakistan — one organised by Lahore Art Council and another by Karachi Art Council and what hearty discussions and performances to celebrate a hundred years of the legendary poet,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/celebrating-100-years-of-legendary-poet-sahir-ludhianvi-222455
