10-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Dhandari bridge area accident-prone||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 9The Dhandari bridge black spot on the National Highway 44 (NH-44) offers quite a risky ride to the commuters.The movement of the vehicular traffic on the bridge, coming from the Focal Point towards the NH-44 and vice versa, is a major threat to the commuters due to frequent mishaps. ‘An example of bad design’As per data, 19 people have lost their lives at this spot in three years (2016, 2017 and 2018) by getting hit by high-speed vehicles. Most of these victims include pedestrians, cyclists and scooter/motorcycle riders.During a survey of the place, it was found that some sections of the service lane alongside the bridge have not been built properly. No fences are installed at some portions of the road alongside the bridge, while where there are fences, these are lying damaged.There are factories/mills in the area located on both sides of this road and a score of labourers working in the factories/mills are also residing in these areas. As no appropriate foot-underpass/overpass is available near the bridge, these labourers prefer to cross the road through unauthorised cuts to save time and get hit by speeding vehicles.Even there are no blinker lights, speed limit boards and night vision signboards at this spot. With the drain alongside the service lane lying blocked with mud, rainwater gets accumulated on the road.It was observed that an unauthorised cut is there at the point where traffic from the Focal Point side takes NH-44 after crossing the Railway Over Bridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dhandari-bridge-area-accident-prone-223097
10-03-2021||---||3 deaths; 125 positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 9Three persons lost their lives, while 125 tested positive for Covid in the district today.The total positive cases in the district have now reached 28,049, while the death toll has reached 1,041. Those who tested positive today also included 12 teachers and 11students.A teacher from GSSS, Haas Kalan, five teachers from GHG Khalsa College, Sudhar, and six teachers from Joseph School Dugri were among the positives.One student from DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, one student from the Gulzar Group of Institute, five students from Sacred Heart School, Samrala, one student from Government Middle School, Gharana, one from GSSS Multipurpose School and two students from GSS School, Sanhewal, are positive.The three patients who lost their lives were all males in the age group of 55-66 and belong to Koom Kalan, Payal and Jagraon. They had been admitted to the CMCH, DMCH and Deep Hospital. All three patients had co-morbidity of diabetes and hypertension.The active cases in the district have now reached 869, and 244 people were home quarantined today. The number of patients on ventilator support today were 11, out of which eight belong to Ludhiana district and the remaining three to other districts.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands to not only save themselves but for other’s safety also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-deaths-125-positive-in-ludhiana-district-223098
10-03-2021||---||District administration to register FIRs for Covid violations||Ludhiana, March 9In view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the district, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal have issued warning that FIRs under the National Disaster Management Act would be registered against the persons who violate the coronavirus guidelines in the district.They said the number of cases was on the rise for the past few days and from now on, strict enforcement would be done in the district.Accompanied by senior district administration officials, the DC and Commissioner of Police today held a meeting with the representatives of private hospitals and religious heads at the Police Lines here. During the meeting, the officials said the Punjab Government had already enforced a limit of 200 for outdoor gatherings and 100 for indoor gatherings. They warned that in case of any violation regarding this, FIR under the National Disaster Management Act would not only be registered against the organiser but also against the owner of the property. They urged the residents to not break any rules with regard to Covid-19 in the larger interest of society.They also urged the residents to strictly follow all Covid-related protocols, else strict action would be taken against them. The officials said these strictmeasures had to be adopted to check the spread of the virus in the district. They also said that surprise checks of all hotels, marriage palaces, restaurants etc would be carried out on a regular basis.Varinder Kumar Sharma has directed the private hospitals to earmark 80 percent of their existing Covid-19 beds (which they had earmarked during the peak of the pandemic) for the treatment of Covid-19 positive patients. For example, if any hospital had earmarked 100 beds during the peak of this pandemic, they would have to immediately earmark 80 beds on their hospital premises.They also urged the religious heads to motivate their followers to avoid visiting the religious places and, instead, pray at their respective homes. They also discussed the possibility of imposing night curfew in the district and took suggestions of all participants at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-administration-to-register-firs-for-covid-violations-223099
10-03-2021||Ludhiana||Woman offered sedative-laced drink, raped||A man allegedly raped a 20-year-old woman near the Jalandhar bypass after serving her some drink laced with sedatives.The two accused had also started blackmailing the victim and had threatened her with dire consequences.The two accused booked in the case are Rohit Bawa of the Jalandhar bypass and Sonia Verma, alias, Jaini.The complainant said about six months ago, she had developed friendship with Sonia Verma. On March 3, her friend Sonia called her and asked her to get ready as she wanted to take her to some party being organised by her friend Rohit.“The accused Rohit, along with Sonia, picked me from my house in their Honda City car and took me to Rohit’s house. After dropping me at home, Rohit left for market and then at around 10 pm, he came back and offered me a cold drink. The moment I drank it, I felt a bit unconscious and it seemed the accused had served her the drink laced with sedatives. Then the accused took me to the room where he raped me,” added the victim.The victim said her friend Sonia had deliberately taken her to Rohit’s house and she was aware that Rohit had intentions to exploit her. Investigation officer SI Tammna Devi said a case of rape and criminal conspiracy had been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-offered-sedative-laced-drink-raped-223100
10-03-2021||---||Ludhiana students shine in JEE- Main||Ludhiana, March 9Thirteen students of the city achieved over 99 percentile in the engineering entrance exam JEE-Main, the result of which was announced last evening.The exams were conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) in February by adhering to all Covid norms.Kanav Singla from BCM Arya Model, Shastri Nagar, has scored 99.99 percentile. His father Dr Ravi Kant Singla is a physician and mother Dr Anju Singla is an anaesthesiologist. Kanav’s brother, Shrey Singla. who is doing CSE from the IIT, Mumbai, was also a city topper in the JEE advance examination in 2018.Kanav wants to pursue computer science engineering from the IIT, Mumbai. Sharing his success mantra, he said, “Hard work and following advice of teachers helped me a lot in cracking the exam. I took out time for physical activities to keep myself active.”Other city students scoring above 99 percentile include Keshav Gupta of Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar. He scored 99.89 percentile.Shivaye Jain, who has scored 99.8 percentile, is studying, Ishaan Bajaj from BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, has scored 99.78 percentile, Vanshika Dhingra has scored 99.75 percentile, Karanraj Mehta from GRD Academy has scored 99.72, Tony Jain from Partap Public School 99.7 percentile, Aksh Goyal 99.66 percentile, Sparsh Modi from DAV BRS Nagar has scored 99.63, Rishi Gandhi has scored 99.62 percentile.Other students include Loveleen Sachdeva with 99.60 percentile, Manas Gupta with 99.45 percentile, Aditya Sharma with 99.22 percentile and Sukrit Sharma of DAV BRS Nagar with 99.01 percentile. kanav to join IIT-MumbaiKanav Singla from BCM Arya Model, Shastri Nagar, has scored 99.99 percentile. His father Dr Ravi Kant Singla is a physician and mother Dr Anju Singla is an anaesthesiologist. Kanav’s brother, Shrey Singla. who is doing CSE from the IIT, Mumbai, was also a city topper in the JEE advance examination in 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-students-shine-in-jee-main-223101
10-03-2021||---||Drug probe unearths links in other states too||Ludhiana, March 9The investigation into the major drugs racket, in which the BJP leader Satish Nagar was booked along with three other persons Anoop, Hemant and Rajinder, has found that the roots of the racket are connected to other states as well.The suppliers of the banned drugs belong to other states and had supplied a huge quantity of drugs to the Ludhiana-based accused.The police had arrested Anoop and Hemant in the case, while Rajinder is at large. Cops had recovered 1.29 lakh intoxicating tablets from the building owned by BJP leader’s wife in Chawni Mohalla. BJP leader Nagar was not arrested by the police as his role was being verified.Sources said more than 12 persons were rounded up by the police who were directly or indirectly connected to the accused running the drugs racket here. The rounded up persons include chemist owners, courier boys and persons managing the transfer of drugs money etc.Meanwhile, police officials are mum about the latest developments in the case and are only saying that investigations are going on and the police will expose the entire network soon.Sources even said the police had yet not given a clean chit to the BJP leader and to inquire his connivance, if any, cops have been checking the call details of the nabbed persons and BJP leader Nagar to inquire how frequently he and others were talking.Sources said CP Rakesh Agrawal had also clearly told the officials inquiring the drugs racket to not let off any accused and take legal action as per the law. The top cop also told the officials to ensure more recovery of drugs in the case.Cops maintain silencePolice officials are mum about the latest developments in the case and are only saying that investigations are going on and the police will expose the entire network soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drug-probe-unearths-links-in-other-states-too-223102
10-03-2021||Ludhiana||Order to intensify removal of encroachments||MC chief Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has given instructions to his staff to intensify the drive for the removal of encroachments along Buddha Nullah here.He conducted a meeting with the committee members and officials concerned today to discuss the matter. The meeting was attended by councillors Dr Jai Parkash and Sunita Rani.During the meeting, councillor Dr Jai Parkash said they would give complete support to the MC for the removal of the encroachments, the Commissioner said.Sabharwal said plantation would be done after the removal of the encroachments along the nullah. He added that FIRs would be registered against those who oppose the drive. The chain link fencing under a project is being installed to ensure that no one disposes solid waste into the water channel. The commissioner has also given directions to SEParveen Singla to speed up the fencing work. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/order-to-intensify-removal-of-encroachments-223103
10-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ward No. 28 residents bear brunt of insanitary conditions||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 9The Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, has failed to resolve the problem of overflowing sewers at New Durga Colony and Jagdish Colony in Ward No. 28.The Swachh Survekshan-2021 is underway but nothing has been done to ensure cleanliness in these areas. The sewage is getting accumulated in streets and vacant plots in these areas due to apathy of the civic body authorities.Ram Chandar, a senior citizen, who loads and unloads articles on his cycle-cart to generate income, said he is forced to pass through accumulated sewage in streets of New Durga Colony in routine as the government authorities don’t take any action to provide a sigh of relief to the people. He was forced to lift his pant up to knees while passing through accumulated sewage in the street to avoid stains. “The people are falling ill here due to accumulated stinking water for past three years. Like me, there are many other ‘Rehri wale’ who pass through this stretch in routine as there is no other way. Nobody hears our voice,” he added.The residents told that dengue, typhoid, stomach-related infections and other health problems were common in these areas. Khem Chand, another resident of New Durga Colony, said, “A resident has lost life due to typhoid recently. Now, summers are arriving and mosquitoes will breed on stagnant water. The government should direct the authorities to pay attention towards our area and the sewer system should be made properly functional.”He further said, “Two-wheeler riders commonly slip in streets flooded with sewage. Many times, children too fall into stagnant water. None of our relatives would like to visit here. They advise to go back to village. ”The situation is similar in adjoining Jagdish Colony wherein a team of the health department in 2019 had found Culex mosquitoes’ larvae, which can spread Japanese encephalitis (an infection of the brain) and West Nile Virus, in stagnant sewer water.A resident of Jagdish Colony said, “After taking bath, I am out from home but I passed through the sewage water. Now, I will wash my legs and feet. The skin infection cases are common here. We are forced to suffer due to unlivable and extremely bad conditions for past 3-4 years but the government has failed to pay any attention. No government authority is hearing us. The officials should come here and walk with us through accumulated sewage once to realise the pain we bear.”Meanwhile, the residents of Dhandari Khurd village have been complaining about overflowing sewers in the streets. “Despite our repeated complaints, the problem is not being resolved”, the residents said.Ward Councillor Paramjeet Singh could not be contacted for a comment. MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh claimed, “A work for installation of new sewer line is underway at Jagdish Colony. Once the work will is completed, the problem of overflowing sewers in Jagdish Colony will get resolved.”He further claimed that the sewer lines of New Durga Colony will be cleaned with super suction machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ward-no-28-residents-bear-brunt-of-insanitary-conditions-223104
10-03-2021||---||Patwaris go on 2-day mass leave||Ludhiana, March 9Opposing the suspension of one of their colleagues, members of the Revenue Patwar Union went on mass leave for two days. They had also staged a protest here on Monday demanding cancellation of the suspension order.Sukhjitpal Singh Tharike, president of union, said they are demanding from the government and district administration to cancel the suspension order of Bikramjit Singh, president of Samrala unit of the union. “We demand that Bikramjit Singh should be reinstated at the earliest and appointed back at Samrala Circle. An officer of district administration who had used rough language against employees should tender a written apology.”He further said, “We also demand that a false FIR which was registered against patwari Gurmail Singh, of Payal Tehsil, should be quashed. Besides, we also sought that transfer order of patwari Parminder Singh must be cancelled.”The protesting employees said that if their demands are not met, they will be forced to intensify their agitation.Navdeep Singh Sidhu, general secretary of the union, said, “We are on mass leave for two days (March 9 and 10) to mark our protest. If our voice is not heard, protests will be marked in all tehsils on March 12. Then, we will stage a protest at district level on March 15. We have decided to boycott girdawari and other works till our demands are not met. The whole responsibility will be of the district administration Ludhiana for the same.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/patwaris-go-on-2-day-mass-leave-223105
10-03-2021||---||Value addition, food processing  to enhance farmers’ income||Ludhiana, March 9 A five-day training course on “Food Preservation” was jointly organised by the Department of Extension Education and the Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in the Toose village. The course was held under the guidance of Dr JS Mahal, Director Extension Education, PAU. In his remarks, Dr Kuldeep Singh, Head, Department of Extension Education, urged the participants to adopt food processing as an entrepreneur. He further explained the importance of food processing and value addition in enhancing the income of household. Dr Kamalpreet Kaur, Extension Scientist and Coordinator, stressed upon women empowerment and entrepreneurship, and discussed the role of women in the society. She called upon the women to come forward and adopt at least one venture for their livelihood and help their families economically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/value-addition-food-processing-to-enhance-farmers-income-223106
10-03-2021||Ludhiana||CMCH holds workshop on integrated teaching||A one-day workshop on Integrated Teaching Learning Practices was organised at Christian Medical College and Hospital. The workshop trained the faculty of medical colleges of Punjab and adjoining states on integration of subjects wise teaching into integrated blocks. In conventional curriculum subject wise teaching is being done, however in new competency based curriculum in various courses, such as MBBS, subjects like anatomy, pharmacology, pediatrics, medicine will teach students together in integrated blocks in all the years including first year. Therefore, a surgeon will also be teaching in first year when students are taught anatomy on cadavers.Dr William Bhatti, Director, CMC, inaugurated the programme along with Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian, Principal, CMC. Dr William informed that the CMC is conducting these onsite training programs so that all important skills in teaching are being imparted to faculty of various medical colleges. Dr Dinesh Badyal, Professor & Convener, Department of Medical Education, and organising secretary of the workshop intimated that the workshop will train doctors in integration as well as in self-directed learning skills and both are essential components of new undergraduate medical curriculum in India and many other countries and in many courses. He added that one of the best examples of integration is human body and training the budding doctors in integrated blocks improves their lifelong learning. The workshop included session on using role plays, hands on experience and real classroom experience. A pandemic module available on National Medical Commission website is being taught in integrated manner to all MBBS students of all professional years stating from first year. — TNSPandemic courseDr Dinesh Badyal, Professor & Convener, Department of Medical Education, said a pandemic module available on National Medical Commission website is being taught in integrated manner to all MBBS students of all professional years stating from first year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cmch-holds-workshop-on-integrated-teaching-223107
10-03-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Residents move NGT against encroachments in city parks||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, March 9 Three city residents have knocked on the doors of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against encroachments in a number of parks and green belts in the city. These residents have also opposed MC’s decision to setup a waste compactor at Bhai Chattar Singh Park. Kapil Dev Arora, a resident, said, “We filed petition with the NGT against illegal conversion of parks into residential plots as well as encroachment of parks and green belts by private persons as well as government authorities in Ludhiana. The matter of proposed installation of a portable municipal solid waste compactor at Bhai Chattar Singh Park has also been taken up with the NGT.” He said, “Despite the directions of Punjab and Haryana High Court, encroachments are not being removed. No garbage dump or static compactor should be setup in any park or green belt.” A resident, Kuldeep Singh Khaira, alleged that many green belts and parks in different localities coming under the jurisdiction of Municipal Corporation Ludhiana have been encroached upon illegally by private persons. He said, “I had made multiple complaints to the civic body but no action was taken for removal of encroachments.” “A number of parks and greenbelts in Cheema Chowk circle, Basant Park Circle, New Model Town Circle, Focal Point circle, Dr Ambedkar Chowk, Jalandhar Byepass, Atam Park Dugri Circle, Guru Nanak & Out Park Circle, BRS Nagar etc. coming under the jurisdiction of Municipal Corporation Ludhiana have been encroached upon. The green belt in front of a school at BRS Nagar has been illegally converted into private parking too. There are many green belts which have illegally been encroached by Industries in Focal Point areas”, he alleged. Notably, an information obtained under RTI had revealed that encroachments have come up in over 35 parks of the city. Besides, there are some other areas where the residents complained about alleged encroachments in parks or green belts. Another resident, Vikas Arora said, “We request to the NGT to issue directions to the authorities concerned to remove all the encroachments on green belts and parks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-move-ngt-against-encroachments-in-city-parks-223108
10-03-2021||Ludhiana||Meeting of Innovative Fish Farmers Association held||Training on mineral mixture for dairy animalsThe Department of Animal Nutrition, GADVASU, Ludhiana organised entrepreneurship training on preparation of mineral mixture for dairy animals. Dr Udeybir Singh, HOD, Animal Nutrition welcomed the farmers and discussed about the importance of minerals for dairy animals. Supplementation of mineral mixture improves feed digestibility, increases resistance to diseases and strengthens bones and teeth. Deficiency of minerals can adversely affect the production of the animals. Dr Jasmine Kaur, course coordinator, apprised the participants of various entrepreneurship opportunities through preparation of mineral mixture and gave demonstration on preparation of mineral mixture. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/meeting-of-innovative-fish-farmers-association-held-223109
