11-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||6 bottles of illicit liquor seized from village man||Sahnewal, March 10 The Sahnewal police have recovered six bottles of illicit liquor from a resident of Giaspura village who was selling the same illegally in the village. The police arrested the accused and seized the illicit liquor from the village where he had hidden the same. The accused have been identified as Parmeet Singh. A source told the police that the accused used to indulge in an illegal trade of selling illicit liquor  in the village. The police arrested him from the East Man chowk. A case under the Excise Act has been registered at the Sahnewal police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-from-village-man-223633
11-03-2021||Ludhiana||14-year-old girl violated, one nabbed||Two persons allegedly raped a 14-year-old girl near the Military Camp, Dholewal. The accused have been identified as Sunny of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar and Sahil. The complainant told the police that on March 8, she had gone to collect a practical file from Sunny and instead of handing over the file, the accused, along with one of his friends, took her to some isolated place near the camp where they committed the crime. The accused had also threatened her of dire consequences if she reveal anything to the police or her family. Investigating officer ASI Gurdev Lal of the Moti Nagar police station said a case of rape under Section 376, IPC, and under POCSO Act was registered against the accused. Sunny was arrested and a raid was being conducted to nab the other accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/14-year-old-girl-violated-one-nabbed-223635
11-03-2021||---||Nepalese servant decamps with Rs 6L from hosiery||Ludhiana, March 10A Nepalese servant decamped with Rs 6 lakh in cash from a hosiery at Sundar Nagar in Daresi.The accused injected an employee of the hosiery with some sedative and took the keys of the safe where the cash was kept before fleeing the spot with the money.The accused has been identified as Raju, alias Pinku, a resident of Nepal.The owner of the hosiery, Navratan Sharma, told the police that the accused was employed at his factory for the past seven years while another employee, Shawal Mal (66), was working as a cashier in the factory for the past around 10 years.He said both of them used to sleep in rooms behind the hosiery Daresi SHO Davinder Singh said yesterday night, the Nepalese servant injected Shawal with some sedative while he was asleep. When the latter fell unconscious, the accused took the keys of the safe from his pocket. He decamped with the cash kept in the safe.At around 7 am when other employees went to the room of Shawal, they found him lying unconscious after which they raised an alarm. When the owner arrived, he found the cash kept in the safe missing.The SHO said the factory owner had not done the police verification of the Nepalese servant. However, he had kept a copy of his Aadhaar card. The family of the accused also lives in the city and they assured that they would convince him to return the cash.SHO said alert was also sounded on the Nepal border to prevent the accused from fleeing the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nepalese-servant-decamps-with-rs-6l-from-hosiery-223636
11-03-2021||Ludhiana||Miscreants attack cops||Police personnel on duty at Moti Nagar were attacked by several persons on Wednesday. Later, the police fired in the air to disburse assailants. The Moti Nagar SHO, Parmod Kumar, said  ASI Subash Kumar and ASI Ashwani Kumar were patrolling near the police malkhana at Transport Nagar here. The duo noticed some youths sitting outside the malkhana and asked them to not to sit there. The youths instead of paying heed to their advice, started arguments and attacked the police personnel. Later, one of the cops fired in the air following which the assailants fled the spot. The SHO said a case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered against the unknown persons and efforts were on to identify them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/miscreants-attack-cops-223637
11-03-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Month on, no arrangements made for processing waste||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, March 10 Even after over a month after the A2Z group stopped its services in the city, the MC is yet to make arrangements for waste processing. At present, the processing of waste is not being done at the plant that was earlier set up at the MC’s main garbage dump near Kakka village. Even no steps have been taken on the ground level to deal with the old waste at the main garbage dump. Notably, A2Z Waste Management Limited, which was hired for waste management in 2011 for 25 years, had terminated its services on February 4 this year. However, the MC has not floated tenders to hire a new firm for waste management. Around 1,100 MT of solid waste is generated daily in 95 wards of Ludhiana. As the waste processing plant is not functional, more waste is getting collected at the MC’s main garbage dump. Earlier,  opposition parties had also raised questions over the status of solid waste management in the city. Leader of Opposition in the MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang said: “We had raised a demand before the Mayor that tenders must be floated to hire a new firm for solid waste management at the earliest. The civic body should make proper arrangements for lifting of garbage in the city. The waste processing must be ensured as per the norms. Moreover, it should take steps to deal with old waste collected at main dump.” Currently, a private firm, which was earlier hired by the A2Z group, has been given task for garbage lifting from secondary collection points in the city. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they were going to float tenders soon for hiring new firm/firms for solid waste management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/month-on-no-arrangements-made-for-processing-waste-223638
11-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Vacant plot at Dugri turns dumping site, people fume||Ludhiana, March 10Residents of Dugri Urban Estate, Phase II, have expressed their resentment over the continuing attempts by sanitation staff and building contractors to convert a vacant site in the colony (behind Sat Pal Mittal School) into a garbage dumping site, thereby exposing them to serious health and hygiene hazards.No end to residents’ woesn Functionaries of Sukhmani Welfare Society said the field staff of GLADA, which had developed the colony, present in the colony had been told several times to stop the MC vehicles from dumping garbage at the site but they wash their hands off on the plea that maintenance of the colony had been handed over to the MC and they had been deployed solely for building control.Sukhmani Welfare Society, a representative body of the area residents, has in a complaint to the Punjab Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban Development Department, Punjab, said a vacant site in the locality (owned by the GLADA) was slowly but surely being converted into a garbage dumping site.“Garbage and domestic waste is being regularly disposed of at the site by sanitation staff of the Municipal Corporation in the vacant plot and following the same pattern, now some building contractors have also started to dump malba and debris at this site which has already started showing signs of becoming a garbage dump,” said Swarnjit Singh and Manjit Singh Bawa, president and vice president of the society, respectively, in the complaint.The functionaries of the society said the field staff of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority, which had developed the colony, present in the colony had been told several times to stop the MC vehicles from dumping garbage at this site but they wash their hands off on the plea that maintenance of the colony had been handed over to the Municipal Corporationand they had been deployed solely for building control.The society said it was most unfortunate that on one side the MC was gearing up to improve the rank of the city in ‘Swachh Sarvekshan’ (cleanliness survey) while on the other neat and clean residential areas were being converted into garbage dumps.They made a fervent appeal to the top government officials to intervene and issue directions to both the MC and GLADA authorities to clear this site and preferably construct a boundary wall around the vacant site so that it was not used for dumping garbage or waste material.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vacant-plot-at-dugri-turns-dumping-site-people-fume-223639
11-03-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Construct more cow sheds: Residents to Ludhiana MC||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, March 10 Though the Municipal Corporation has constructed a cattle shed at Burj Pawat near Machhiwara for shifting of around 150 stray cattle from city, it is yet to make required arrangement for shifting of hundreds of more stray cattle roaming in different parts of the city.  Residents have been demanding from the civic body to shift the stray cattle to cattle sheds at the earliest to avoid chances of mishaps. Notably, fighting bulls are a common scene in the streets posing threat to commuters.  The MC collects crores of rupees as cow cess every year but stray cattle from different areas are yet to be shifted to the cattle sheds. Even, there is no check on people who abandon the stray cattle on the roads in the city. A large number of stray cattle are commonly seen near the uncovered garbage dumps on Hambran Road, Jalandhar Bypass, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Tajpur Road, Chandigarh Road and various other locations in the city. Former State Mass Media officer of Health Department, Satish Sachdeva said, “A number of persons have lost lives in accidents with stray cattle roaming on the roads. When the MC is collecting cow cess, it should ensure shifting of all stray cattle to the sheds and pay attention on their welfare. The MC should construct more sheds for the stray cattle at the earliest.” It is also required to mention that stray cattle generally receive injuries in the road mishaps but no required treatment is provided to them. Satinderpal Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “The MC should conduct a survey and set up more cattle sheds for the stray cattle as per requirement. It has been seen that the stray cattle are forced to eat waste at the garbage dumps. The MC should spend the collected cess for welfare of all the stray cattle and they should be shifted to cattle sheds or gaushalas.” Despite repeated attempts, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/construct-more-cow-sheds-residents-to-ludhiana-mc-223640
11-03-2021||---||Bank union protests against govt’s ‘privatisation’ move||Ludhiana, March 10 On the call given by United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) a massive rally was organised by the UFBU, Ludhiana, in front of State Bank of India, Civil Lines Fountain Chowk, Ludhiana. Various leaders of UFBU, Com. Naresh Gaur, Convenor, UFBU, Com. Pawan Thakur, president, Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation (PBEF), Ludhiana, and others attended the rally.  Addressing the demonstration Com. Gaur said we have given the call for two-day strike in all the banks on March 15-16 to protest the government’s announcement in the recent Budget to privatise two public sector banks.  He said the Budget presented by the Finance Minister is full of ‘rhetoric’ and far away from ground realities. It was expected that with the experience gained during the pandemic, there would be some sensible measures to take our economic forward. But the Budget is again another exercise beating the same track. The Economic Survey talks of poverty reduction as top priority rather than reducing disparity. But figures are coming out that while billionaires have swelled their assets, the poor people continue to grown under poverty. Economic Survey also talks of people spending less money on hospitalisation expenses. But everyone knows that this not the indication of improvement in health sector but the fact that people have no money to access the increasing privatised health care system. “Our country has the largest population of young people and hence creating jobs for them is the main issue. Already about 120 million people have lost their jobs. In this budget, there is no measure to create jobs except some meagre announcements. In the Budget also, the FM has mentioned about doubling the farmers’ income but the Budget does not spell how this is going to be achieved,” said Gaur.  The leaders said there is also the major announcement that two public sector banks and one general insurance company would be privatised. Banks and insurance companies deal with people’s money. Privatising banks means handing over people’s money to private players for vested interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bank-union-protests-against-govts-privatisation-move-223641
11-03-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Arhtiyas seek withdrawal of FCI’s regulation||Mandi Ahmedgarh/ Raikot, March 10Commission agents (arhtiyas) of the region announced to shun work till the government withdraws regulation to seek revenue record of farmers at the time of procurement of food grain by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and the Union Government withdraws the farm laws.The announcement was made during concluding session of dharnas of commission agents at various grain markets and purchase centers on the first day of indefinite strike announced in response to state level call made by the Punjab Aahtiya Association after the Punjab office of FCI sought land records of farmers from the Director of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affair Department recently.Commission agents led by Sudarshan Joshi, Pawan Sharma and Surinder Kuradchhappa alleged that the FCI had sought the revenue records of farmers with intent to make direct online MSP payment to producer’s bank account from the upcoming season. “The government is taking these steps to target us for supporting the farmer’s protest,” alleged Joshi maintaining that the Centre had earlier issued a letter to get details of bank accounts of farmers.The protestors lamented that the Punjab Government too was responsible for the situation as it had not given in writing to the Centre that as per the state APMC Act, farmers have a right to get the payment directly in their account or through cheques, which are provided by their commission agents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/arhtiyas-seek-withdrawal-of-fcis-regulation-223642
11-03-2021||---||Parents reluctant to attend PTMs||Ludhiana, March 10 Though the Education Department boasts to have conducted successful round of parent-teacher meetings (PTMs) in government schools, many teachers claim only a few parents are attending such meetings. The major reason behind not attending the PTMs is that parents of most of the students are daily wagers who can not afford to take leave from workplace to come to school. Parveen Kumar, general secretary, Punjab Government School Teachers Union, said as the department had ordered us to inform parents about the performance of their children in pre-board exams, we are trying to contact and talk to them. However, they are not visiting schools, he added. Another teacher from Kot Mangal Singh School near here said amid the Covid crisis, PTMs should have been avoided because many teachers and students are found to be positive. “We are exposing the parents to infection. The Health Department takes many days before revealing the test results and in the meantime the infection spreads. These things can be held later and department should realise this,” said the teacher.  Meanwhile, the higher ups of the Education Department have interacted with many parents and have expressed satisfaction over the way the parents have responded to these PTMs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-reluctant-to-attend-ptms-223643
11-03-2021||---||Teachers slam govt for cutting education Budget||Ludhiana, March 10 The Budget declared by the Finance Minister, Punjab, is “against education”, said government school teachers. The teachers said the government has allocated just 7 per cent of the total budget on education despite being the backbone of any developed state/country. Charan Singh Sarabha, patron, Government School Teachers Union, today said Budget worth Rs1.68 lakh crore was presented, of which just Rs11,861 crore are allocated for school education, which is too less to progress. The teachers have demanded that at least 30 per cent of the total budget should be allocated to education sector. The teachers said education sector will get a boost only if proper budget is allocated to this sector. They said suggestions of Kothari Commission and Khaira Committee should be implemented. There was scarcity of qualified staff in government schools due to which the students and studies are suffering in government schools, worried teachers said. The teachers said the government is hiring teachers on contractual basis and that too on meagre salaries. Teachers said students are not aware of schemes meant for their welfare; there was a dire need of infrastructure in schools, lack of cooperation from society for making schools smart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-slam-govt-for-cutting-education-budget-223644
11-03-2021||---||Three deaths, 122 test +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 10Covid-19 has claimed the lives of three more persons in Ludhiana district during the past 24 hours. As many as 122 patients, including 14 students and six teachers, have tested positive for the virus here today.The six teachers tested positive include three from Government Senior Secondary School, Mangli Neechi, one each from the GSSS (Boys) at Jagraon, GSSS, Ladhowal (Koomkalan), and PCTE, Baddowal, in Ludhiana district. Besides, 14 students, including three students from the GSSS Lehal (near Maloud), one from Bal Bharti School, Dugri, three from Sarbatkari Vidya Mandir, Jagraon, six from Chanan Devi School, Jalandhar Bypass, and a student from GADVASU.Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said four persons, including three from Ludhiana and one from Jalandhar districts died of the virus today. A 55-year-old man from Chhapar village, a 29-year-old woman from Mullanpur and a 68-year-old man from Khanna in Ludhiana district breathed their last.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, there were 975 active patients in the district.He said sincere efforts were being made to keep people safe from Covid-19. A total of 154 patients (122 new patients from Ludhiana district and 32 from other states or districts had tested positive in the past 24 hours.He said till date, a total of 7,04,175 samples have been taken, of which reports of 7,02,439 had been received. Of these, 6,69,832 samples were found negative while reports of 1,736 were pending.Sharma said now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 28,171 while 4,436 patients belong to other districts or states.He said unfortunately, four patients lost their lives today, which include three from Ludhiana and one from Jalandhar districts. Now, the total number of persons who lost their lives to the virus has reached 1,044 in Ludhiana. As many as 518 persons from other districts have died so far.He said till date, 59,322 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 2,113. Today, 150 persons were sent for home quarantine.A total of 4,369 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly. The Deputy Commissioner appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-deaths-122-test-ve-in-ludhiana-223628
11-03-2021||---||EPFO frontline workers get jab||Ludhiana, March 10 Officers and staff of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, Regional Office, Ludhiana, were today vaccinated against Covid-19 under the category of frontline workers. The first batch of 15 persons were vaccinated at the Civil Surgeon office. PF Commissioner Dheeraj Gupta led the first batch. Gupta said PF staff had worked tirelessly during the Covid -19 times and gave their services to persons registered under the EPFO, Ludhiana, by settling their online claims and other grievances within three days. These Covid claim advances and online claim settlement helped many of the members or migratory workers to fight with difficulties during the Covid-19. He said the Centre had declared the EPF and Pension Services under the Essential Services Category during the Covid-induced lockdown with the goal of helping employees in their difficult times. Officials of the EPFO, Ludhiana, worked all seven days to give timely services to its subscribers during the lockdown through social media such as Twitter and  WhatsApp. He said the regional office had settled around 1,50,000 claims, amounting Rs 430 crore, from April 1, 2020, to December 31, 2020, of which 1,23,940 were settled within three days of their receipt, which were about 82 per cent of total claims settled by this office, including 29,773 claims. Gupta thanked Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma for providing Covid vaccination to the EPFO frontline workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/epfo-frontline-workers-get-jab-223630
11-03-2021||---||Ludhiana-based activists oppose location of proposed industrial park during hearing||Ludhiana, March 10Opposing the location of the proposed modern industrial park near Mattewara in Ludhiana district, city- based activists and members of a public action committee (PAC) on Wednesday attended the hearing and submitted objections at the office of the Chief Town Planner (CTP), Punjab, in Mohali.They demanded that no industrial park should be set up near the Mattewara forest and the Sutlej.In view of the proposed modern industrial park, the CTP, Punjab, had earlier sought objections and suggestions for the proposed amendments in the Master Plan of LudhianaKuldeep Singh Khaira, a member of Public Action Committee, that was formed to save the Mattewara forest, said: “We have submitted a written reply in response to the notice of personal hearing today. It needs to be understood that we should go for industrialisation but not at the cost of the environment. We were surprised to know that PUDA has already sought expression of interests for allotment of plots for the industrial park. The government should first hear the objections instead of inviting interested persons for allotment of plots to set up the industries. The park should not be set up near the forest and the river.”Dr Amandeep Singh Bains of RBS Roots said: “Many civil society organisations and individual persons were opposing the government’s proposal to set up the industrial park. It will pose a threat to the forest, wildlife and the Sutlej.”An activist, Jaskirat Singh, said: “We had received a letter about the scheduled hearing on objections on March 10 at the office of the Chief Town Planner, Punjab, in Mohali. Before the hearing, we had checked the government website and found that the proposed modern industrial park is already being advertised and expression of interests have been sought for plots of sizes up to 50 acres. Such process has been started without the completion of the hearing process and redressal of objections. Moreover, the objections were sought without providing any detail of the project plan. It seems that the hearings were mere an eyewash.”‘Proposed park already being advertised’An activist, Jaskirat Singh, said: “We had received a letter about the scheduled hearing on objections on March 10 at the office of the Chief Town Planner, Punjab, in Mohali. Before the hearing, we had checked the government website and found that the proposed modern industrial park is already being advertised and expression of interests have been sought for plots of sizes up to 50 acres. Such process has been started without the completion of the hearing process and redressal of objections."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-based-activists-oppose-location-of-proposed-industrial-park-during-hearing-223631
11-03-2021||---||10-yr-old crushed to death by minor||Ludhiana, March 10 A 17-year-old youth driving a car crushed a 10-year-old boy to death while injured another boy at Rishi Nagar here on Wednesday. The PAU police started legal proceedings against the minor. The car was being driven at a huge speed that its safety airbags were also opened. Eyewitnesses said the youth was reportedly making a video on his mobile phone while driving the car due to which he failed to notice the boys on the road and hit them with the Maruti Baleno car. The deceased has been identified as Tanish, aka Tarun, a resident of Mandeep Nagar. The deceased’s friend, Prince, had suffered minor injuries. As per the police, the deceased took some money from his mother to buy candies from a nearby shop. As he was walking on the road, the rashly driven car hit him. The boy died on the spot due to serious head injuries. Passers-by who witnessed the accident caught hold of the youth and handed him over to the police. Family members of the deceased said he used to visit the nearby shop but today when he went there, they didn’t knew that the child would not return home. The police said after registering an FIR against the youth, the car would be impounded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-yr-old-crushed-to-death-by-minor-223632
