13-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports over 200 new cases, 5 deaths||Ludhiana’s coronavirus cases climbed steeply on Saturday, with district reporting 220 cases in the last 24 hours, district health officials said---numbers not seen in the district since last September.District officials also reported five deaths in the past 24 hours.  Ludhiana, which was one of the hardest hit in the first wave of COVID-19 last year, has been witnessing a worrying rise in cases over the past week. The worry developments of the past few days have led the district administration to step up its COVID-19 measures—including imposing a night curfew between 11 pm and 5 am.Saturday’s cases included 26 students, four teachers and two healthcare workers. The development have taken the district’s COVID-19 cases to 33,176—4,540 of who are people from outside the state. Death toll stands at 1,577, including 527 from other districts.The district’s active cases now stand at 1,033.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-over-200-new-cases-5-deaths-224715
13-03-2021||---||3 youths killed as car rams into truck in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 13Three youths were killed as their car rammed into a truck here on Saturday.The accident took place near Hardy’s World at Ladhowal.The three youths, one of them from Rishi Nagar here, were bound for Jalandhar. They died on the spot.Details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-youths-killed-as-car-rams-into-truck-in-ludhiana-224646
13-03-2021||Raikot||Man booked for  matricide||Suwidha Centre staff kills selfLudhiana: An employee of the Suwidha Centre situated in the Mini Secretariat died by suicide by hanging himself with a cable in the server room. The deceased has been identified as Rakesh Kumar, a native of Mandi, Himachal Pardesh. He was living in the Suwidha Centre along with two other employees. The deceased was employed by Pawan POP as a networking engineer in the Suwidha Centre. He used to sleep in the centre’s hall along with two other employees — Rishipal Chaudhary and Dheeraj. The police said the deceased, along with his two friends, had gone to attend a wedding yesterday. After returning from the function, the trio had a casual conversation, following which the deceased went to the server room. “When Rakesh entered the server room and locked it, we suspected something suspicious. We asked him to open the door but he respond. We called police later but by then, he had already hanged himself,” said the friends of the deceased. Police division no. 5 SHO Kuldeep Singh said no suicide note was recovered from the spot and the cause of the suicide is yet to be ascertained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-matricide-224617
13-03-2021||Ludhiana||Cyclist wins award||Discussion on rising fuel pricesA panel discussion on “Rejigging of expenditure due to rising petrol prices” was held at Kamla Lohtia SD College, Ludhiana, by the PG Department of Economics. The discussion involving the faculty members of the department dwelled upon the burning issue of ever increasing prices of petrol and diesel in the country. The panelists pondered over the issue that how the rising petrol prices via the increase in cost of transportation of goods and resultant increase in prices of essential commodities may put a dent on savings of the common man. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar Marwaha said to keep the economy of India moving ahead on the track of growth, a solution to the grave economic problem needs to be traced.Webinar on Guru Tegh Bahadur legacyThe Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle wing of GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, organided a webinar to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji on March 11, 2021. The theme of the webinar was “Hakikat Ate Manavta De Modhi – Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji”. Sardool Singh Sandhu, Director, Biodesign Innovation Centre, Rani Durgeshwari University, Jabalpur was the resource person on the occasion. Dr SS Thind, Secretary, College Governing Council and Dr Pargat Singh Garcha, Principal of the college, lauded the efforts of the faculty and students for the successful completion of the webinar.Law institute holds webinarThe University Institute of Laws, Panjab University Regional Centre, Ludhiana, organised a webinar on topic, ‘The Revolutionary Firebrands: An alternative Challenge to British Imperialism’ in furtherance of Government of India Initiative of Commemorating 75 years of Independence’ under guidance of Prof. Ravi Inder Singh, Director, PURC. The session started with introduction by Assistant Professor, Dr Harpreet Kaur Vohra. Dr Meera Nagpal was the keynote speaker. In her speech she explained how there were other dimensions to Freedom Struggle besides Gandhian mass movements. Dr Vaishali Thakur, assistant professor, PURC, congratulated all participants.Poster-making competition heldThe eco-club of the Malwa College of Education organised a poster-making contest on the topic “Save Environment –Save Earth”. The in-charge of the club Dr Jaya Batra said the aim of such activities is to promote environment awareness amongst the students. Nearly, 45 students participated in the contest. Mehak Singh won the first prize, Aksha Ansari stood second and Komal Bal got third prize. The consolation prizes were won by Muskaan Bhola), Himanshi and Komalpreet Kaur.Birth anniversary celebratedThe birth anniversary of Behan Devki Devi was celebrated by the Managing Committee of SS Jain Girls School Committee (Regd.) and staff members at Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women, Kidwai Nagar, Ludhiana. She was the founder Principal of Jain Girls Senior Secondary School, Ludhiana. On this occasion, Dr Sarita Bahl, Principal, Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women, Dr Vijay Luxmi, Principal, DD Jain College of Education, Mridul Abhilash, Principal, Atam Devki Niktan, exhorted the students to be independent and walk on morally higher path. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyclist-wins-award-224616
13-03-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana to host 2 matches||Ludhiana, March 12City will host two matches in the upcoming Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) Trident Cup Challenger Triangular Series to be organised from March 15-25.Three teams namely Punjab XI, Rest of Punjab Red XI and the Rest of Punjab Green XI have been formed which will battle it out during the inaugural edition of the series.The series will commence on March 15 with the match between Punjab XI and Rest of Punjab Red XI at Gandhi Ground, Amritsar.Two grounds in Ludhiana-GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road and the Hara School of Cricket stadium at Baddowal have been finalised as venues for matches. The first match will be played here on March 21 at GRD Global Education Institute between Rest of Punjab Red XI and Rest of Punjab Green XI while the second match is slated for March 22 at Hara School of Cricket Stadium between Punjab XI and Rest of Punjab Red XI.Besides Ludhiana, matches will be played at Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Mohali. The final will be played at the PCA Stadium, Mohali, on March 25 and if required on March 26.Meanwhile, the PCA has appointed a team of selectors (Love Ablish, Chandan Madan, Samir Mehra and Balbir Singh) who will watch players’ performance during this series and take into consideration while finalising Punjab team (seniors) for future competitions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-to-host-2-matches-224615
13-03-2021||Ludhiana||Man found murdered||A man was found dead under an electric railway shed here today. He had serious body injuries and the police suspected that he was murdered with sharp weapons.The Government Railway Police (GRP) registered a murder case against unknown persons and launched a probe into the matter.The GRP said he seemed to have been killed by some persons over old enmity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-224614
13-03-2021||ludhiana||Protest against SHO, road blocked||Nearly 10 persons laid siege to the Chandigarh road near Veer Palace against the Moti Nagar SHO, Parmod Kumar, here today.They alleged that the SHO had beaten one TR Mishra at the police station and despite giving complaint to the CP, no action was taken against him.Mishra said on March 8 he, along with his aides, had gone to the police station regarding some religious matter of a temple, but the SHO, instead of listening to their pleas, started beating him up at the behest of the opposite party.Mishra said if by Monday, the SHO was not suspended and a case was not registered against him, they would block the national highway. SHO Parmod Kumar said Mishra said that all allegations against him are baseless. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protest-against-sho-road-blocked-224613
13-03-2021||Raikot||Cops crack blind murder case||The Ludhiana (Rural) police have solved a blind murder case in which unknown robbers had snatched Rs 9 lakh in cash from a truck driver after killing him near Chaukimaan village on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Highway 11 days ago.The victim, identified as Inderjit Singh a resident of Landey Key village, was killed when he was returning from Mandi Gobindgarh after delivering a consignment of metal scrap on intervening night of March 1 and 2.The accused have been identified as Harpal Singh of Dakha, his wife Neha and Rachhpal Singh.Ludhiana (Rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Charanjit Singh Sohal said cops had arrested Rachhpal Singh and Neha, both of Dakha village, who had been named in the case registered for the murder of Inderjit Singh on the basis of information collected during the investigation conducted by a joint team of the CIA Wing headed by DSP (D) Rajesh Sharma.The police was yet to ascertain if more miscreants are involved in the gang that was involved in targeting employees or agents of traders who transact business through cash payments instead of receiving payments through bank accounts. Investigations revealed that a firm of Moga had deployed Inderjit Singh to transport a consignment in company’s truck to Gobindgarh on the fateful day. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-crack-blind-murder-case-224612
13-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Government teachers await Covid instructions from Education Department||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 12Teachers in government schools have expressed concern over the way Covid is being taken by both the Education and Health departments. They maintain that no instructions are sent by the Education Department about teachers and students who are found Covid positive. Secondly, the callous attitude of the Health Department is also a cause of concern as they keep the reports of negative and positive pending and during this time period, several others come in contact with both teachers and students.“The final exams of school students are starting from March 15 for various classes. Now for those, whose reports are pending with the Health Department, we don’t know whether those students and teachers should be allowed at examination centres or not. The Health Department fails to send the reports of many cases on time and during that phase, the teachers and students come in contact with many others and infection can be caught easily. While authorities ask all to take the increase in Covid cases seriously but departments were taking everything lightly,” said a senior teacher at a government school in city wishing not to be quoted.Sukhdarshan Singh, another teacher from a government school Kotmangal Singh, said many teachers’ reports which came negative from government testing agencies, were found to be positive when their tests were conducted by the private agencies during the same incubation period. “Many reports from our school too are pending and department has not issued any instructions in how the pending cases are to be taken? The exams are from March 15, they should be allowed or not. Covid should be taken seriously, everyone is taking it in casual manner “, he rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/government-teachers-await-covid-instructions-from-education-department-224611
13-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||Service road along Sidhwan Canal set to be reality soon||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 12The construction work of service lane along Sidhwan Canal from Pakhowal Road Bridge towards Jawaddi is expected to be completed soon, almost after a decade it began. The service lane is a part of the Southern Bypass project that was launched in 2009 during the tenure of SAD-BJP government in the state.The service road construction work was stalled in the past multiple times due to shortage of funds. Now, the work is underway at the site and the remaining work is expected to be completed this month, an official said.After construction of the railway overbridge of Southern Bypass project, the commuters are being forced to move wrong side for covering a distance of around 200 metres from Canal Bridge on Pakhowal Road towards Jawaddi as service lane was not constructed timely.Residents want the work should be completed at the earliest as commuters already face inconvenience due to another project (regarding ROB and RUBs) on Pakhowal Road, Ludhiana.Notably, the pillars were earlier erected in the canal portion for construction of the service road a long time ago and after that, work was stalled for few years. The work for construction of service lane was later resumed and the officials had then claimed that the work will be completed by May 2016. However, it is yet to be completed now.Ensure commuters' safetyThe vehicles generally move on high speed on Southern Bypass ROB. There is a need to ensure safety of commuters at the connecting point of the service lane with main stretch near the down ramp of ROB of Southern Bypass.Kapil Arora of Council of Engineers said, “All measures must be taken to ensure safety of the commuters on service lane and main stretch of Southern Bypass. The speed limit, reflectors and other warning signs be displayed on the ROB and service lane. Moreover, the speed breakers on service lane as per the law can be constructed to slow down the speed of vehicles.”PWD Executive Engineer Davinderpal Singh said the work was underway and remaining one slab will be placed in coming week. “The way would be opened soon once the construction work is completed. It is our primary duty to ensure safety of the commuters. The required measures would be taken in this regard before opening the stretch for traffic movement,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/service-road-along-sidhwan-canal-set-to-be-reality-soon-224609
13-03-2021||---||Bike-borne dies in  hit-and-run case||Ludhiana, March 12A bike-borne was killed in a hit-and-run case near Jagraon late on Thursday evening. The rider was hit from behind, killing him on the spot.The deceased has been identified as Surjit Singh Seeta of Galib Khurd village.Deceased’s father Parshotam Singh told the police that his son was returning home from Galib Runsingh village and when he reached near Galib Khurd village, he was hit from behind by a rashly-driven vehicle. After coming to know about the accident, he, along with the village sarpanch, reached the spot and found his son lying on the road.Investigation officer Sub-Inspector Kulwinder Singh said a case against an unknown person was registered and CCTV cameras of the area were being checked to identity the driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bike-borne-dies-in-hit-and-run-case-224606
13-03-2021||---||Blood donor to be feted in Sikkim||Ludhiana, March 12A city-based blood donor, Rakesh Bhatia of NGO Waheguru Blood Sewa, will be honoured by the Blood Army of Sikkim along with the All India Helpline. Bhatia will be felicitated on April 24 at Indian Himalayan Centre for Adventure and Eco Tourism, Chemchey, Namchi, Sikkim, for donating blood for a long time now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/blood-donor-to-be-feted-in-sikkim-224605
13-03-2021||---||5 booked for Rs 22-lakh fraud in separate cases||Ludhiana, March 12The city police today registered a case against five persons in separate cases for committing a fraud of Rs 22 lakh.In the first case, Police Division no 6 registered a travel fraud case against three persons identified as Navneet Singh of Kot Mangal, Rajan of Haryana and Vivek Pandey.Complainant Satnam Singh of Dhillon Nagar told the police that the three accused had duped him of Rs 14 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad.In another case, PAU police booked Vijay Kumar of Ram Nagar and Rajnish Kumar of Ludhiana for committing property fraud of Rs 8 lakh.The complainant, Sushma of Haibowal Khurd, told the police that the accused had sold her a flat on Hambran road for Rs 8 lakh, posing as its owner. A case of fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy has been registered against the five accused in separate cases and further probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-booked-for-rs-22-lakh-fraud-in-separate-cases-224603
13-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||MC demolition drive along Buddha Nullah||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 12The Municipal Corporation (MC) today demolished dozens of “encroachments” that were raised a long time ago in the shape of buildings, mostly “vehras” that comprise multiple rooms, along Buddha Nullah near the Upkar Nagar bridge.After the MC action, hundreds of people, including elderly, women and children, were forced to move to road with their belongings.Most of these persons were tenants and used to pay rent (ranging between Rs 1,400-2,000 per room) in the buildings. Many tenants, who claimed to have been living there for a long time, blamed the MC and the alleged encroachers, who used to collect room rent from them, for not giving them prior information about today’s drive.The MC started the drive in the morning when a number of dwellers, including migrant labourers and others belonging to economically weaker sections, had gone to their work place.Forty-year-old Shatrudhan, who and his wife are physically challenged, said, “We along with our three children were living in a rented room for a long time. We used to pay Rs 1,700 rent to a man who used to claim himself to be the building owner. When we went to work this morning, the MC team came to demolish the building wherein we were living. When we got information about this action, we rushed back to the room.”Shatrudhan, sitting in a tri-cycle and looking after his belongings kept on road, said, “Neither the MC nor the man, who used to collect room rent, had given prior information about the drive. We are poor people, but not encroachers as we used to pay rent. What should we appeal to the government now when we were forced to stay on road? It would be difficult for me to find a new rented accommodation immediately.”Another tenant, Sarojini said, “We could not afford a better accommodation. That’s why we used to live with our family in a low-rented room in one of the ‘vehras’ that was demolished today. A number of persons like us could not get their articles shifted out of buildings before the drive. When the red sign was marked, the MC had not informed us about today’ action. If we were given some time, we could have made arrangements to find out another accommodation instead of facing a lot of trouble today. Now, we are on road with our children.”‘Encroachers milked money for years’A number of alleged encroachers had been earning money by giving the rooms in “vehras” on rent for decades. A tenant Daya Shankar said, “I used to live in a rented room of a ‘vehra’ that comprised 54 rooms.Around 250-300 persons were living in these rooms on rent and there were just four toilets for tenants. Due to low rent, we used to live there. When red sign was marked on the ‘vehra’ wherein I was living, MC officials had asked that ‘vehra’ dwellers to vacate the land, but the man, who used to collect rent from us, had not informed us about any demolition drive.”Another tenant said, “The authorities should make announcement with speakers and also give proper notices at least one week before taking any such action.”‘Feeling cheated’Some persons claimed that they had purchased land along the nullah from some other persons in the past and they were now feeling cheated. Bansi Lal (65) claimed, “I had purchased a piece of land by spending Rs 2.5 lakh about 20 years ago. I have an agreement copy that was signed by the seller who later died. I had no idea that my building will be demolished. Even many of my articles got damaged during the demolition drive as the MC had not served any notice to me for vacating the land.”Another man, Charanjit Singh claimed that he had documents of a plot along Buddha Nullah. But, thr MC officials marked it as an encroachment.Violations ignored in pastQuestions were also being raised over the role of the MC as to why it did not take action when encroachments were being raised along Buddha Nullah in the past. Residents of a nearby area also demanded that the MC should construct a road on the vacated land along the Nullah to avoid chances of encroachments in future.Meanwhile, officials denied the allegations and claimed that the people were earlier asked to vacate the land. The MC’s assistant town planner, MS Bedi, said, “We had earlier marked red sign on encroachments and people were asked to vacate the land. We have demolished around 70-80 encroachments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-demolition-drive-along-buddha-nullah-224592
13-03-2021||Ludhiana||Violators won’t be spared: CP||The Commissionerate Police have warned of strict action against the violators as the district goes under night curfew from Friday night. The curfew will be in force from 11 pm to 5 am. “We will be very strict with the people found without mask, shopkeepers not following social distancing, people found roaming after 11 pm, and restaurants and marriage palaces not following norms,” asserted CP) Rakesh Agrawal. The DM had asked the CP and the SDMs to ensure strict implementation of the night curfew in the district.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/violators-wont-be-spared-cp-224582
13-03-2021||---||Woman dies; 133 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 12An old woman lost her life, while 133 persons tested positive for Covid in Ludhiana district today.The total number of positive cases has now reached 28,456, while the death toll has gone up to 1,047.SCHOOL EXAMSThose who tested positive today included five teachers and 21 students from different institutes. A traveller from Dubai also tested positive today.Today, the students who tested positive included one from CT University, Sidhwa Khurd, two from GPS Bains, one from Government School Akalgarh, six from GSSS Halwara, seven from Government High School Gagda, three from Chanan Devi School and one from Lucky Senior Secondary School.The teachers who tested positive included one from GSSS Ladhowal, one from Government Primary School village Jhammat Payal, one from PAU, one from GSSS Sidhwan Bet, one from Hargobind PSSS Sidhwan Khurd.An 81-year-old woman from Barewal, who was admitted to SPS Hospital, lost her life today. The total active cases in the district today were 905, while 202 were home quarantined. The patients on ventilator support were 12, out of which eight belong to Ludhiana district and four to other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-dies-133-ve-in-ludhiana-district-224581
