15-03-2021||---||No death; 197 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 14In yet another high this month, 197 persons tested positive, while no death was reported in the district today.Today, the positive cases from the district reached 28,833, while 1,050 people have lost their lives since March 2020. The active cases in the district today went to 1,077. On Sunday, 272 people were home quarantined.Those who tested positive today also included two healthcare workers, a pre-operative case, five teachers and 10 students. The teachers who tested today belonged to Government High School, Mullanpur, one teacher from Government School Bhaini Baringa, one from DAV Public School BRS Nagar, one from Dashmesh Public School Durga Nagar and one from GSSS Mangal Nichi.The students who tested positive today included two from Nightingale Nursing College, Narangwal, five from the GSSS Basti, Jodhewal, and three from GSS Multipurpose School.Today, 17 patients were on ventilator support, out of whom 13 belonged to Ludhiana district and four to other districts.Meanwhile, Rakesh Agrawal, Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, got the second dose of the Covid vaccine today. He appealed to people that the vaccine was fully safe and everyone must have it for their safety.“It is very important that people should be aware about the present situation. So, I request all city people to kindly follow the guidelines of Mission Fateh — wear mask properly, wash your hands frequently and maintain social distancing,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-197-ve-in-ludhiana-district-225432
15-03-2021||---||Speeding SUV kills man||Ludhiana, March 14A rashly driven Toyota Fortuner rammed into two persons at Dakha near here.The Dakha police have registered a culpable homicide case against the driver of the SUV.He has been identified as Harinder Singh, a resident of Manakwal village.Complainant Soyam Parkash of Sham Nagar told the police that on March 12 night, he, along with his brother Santosh Semwal and Ashish Singh, attended a wedding at a marriage palace on a national highway. After the function, when they were waiting for a car to return to their place, the speeding Toyota Fortuner and rammed into the two persons.Santosh died on the spot as he was crushed by the vehicle while Ashish had suffered serious injuries and was undergoing treatment at a hospital.Investigating officer ASI Paramjit Singh said the accused fled the spot after the accident and raids were being conducted to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/speeding-suv-kills-man-225433
15-03-2021||Ludhiana||Two held for sodomising 8-yr-old boy||The Daresi police have arrested two persons for allegedly sodomising an eight-year-old boy. The accused have been identified as Vivek and Nirbhay, both residents of Kirpal Nagar. The complainant, a resident of the same locality, told the police that on March 12, his son, along with the accused, was playing on the rooftop. Later, his wife heared shrieks of their son, when she reached the place, she was shocked to see that the two accused were sodomising him. The duo after seeing the woman escaped from the spot. The complainant said a complaint was lodged at the Daresi police station where a case of sodomy was registered against the accused under Section 377 of the IPC. The victim’s father said after the incident, his son was admitted to the Civil Hospital where he was undergoing treatment. Investigating officer ASI Balwinder Singh said both accused were arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-for-sodomising-8-yr-old-boy-225434
15-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Civic body turns blind eye to illegal security gates||Ludhiana, March 14Notwithstanding widespread outcry by aggrieved residents against installation of illegal gates on public streets in residential localities all across the city in the name of security, new gates are being put up with the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities turning a blind eye to these acts.In a complaint lodged with the MC officials, a city-based RTI activist Arvind Sharma has said that recently an iron gate had been installed at one end of a public street adjoining “tubewell wala park” near Main Market in Model Town area which was causing inconvenience to residents and other visitors.According to the complaint, the gate remained partially open during the day and was closed at night without the deployment of a security guard as per the standing orders of the MC authorities with regard to such gates. Similar gates had either already been put up or were in the process of being installed in several localities in Model Town and Model Town Extension localities with no action being taken against these violations.Sharma maintained that the installation of such gates on public streets and causing obstruction to the movement of people and vehicles was not only a blatant encroachment on government land and violation of provisions made in the Municipal Corporation Act but also a cognisable offence under the provisions of the IPC and a punishable offence.In the wake of the ongoing menace of such gates having been installed in most parts of the city, the MC had issued guidelines to the resident welfare societies or other common bodies in residential areas to ensure that if at all gates were put up on public streets, these ought to be kept open during daytime to provide unrestricted access to the members of the public and at night if the gates were to be closed, security guards should be deployed to allow entry or exit to the residents of visitors.The complainant had made a plea with the officials of the MC building branch to look into the matter so that the illegal gate was either removed or to ensure that it was kept open during the day and was manned by security guards at night if the gate was to remain closed.Civic body guidelinesThe MC had issued guidelines to resident welfare societies or other common bodies in residential areas to ensure that if at all gates were put up on public streets, these ought to be kept open during daytime to provide unrestricted access to the members of the public and at night if the gates were to be closed, security guards should be deployed to allow entry or exit to the residents of visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-turns-blind-eye-to-illegal-security-gates-225437
15-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Whistle Blowers Protection Act: Complaint filed||Ludhiana, March 14Gajjan Singh Jassal, a city-based social activist who has been crusading against the menace of illegal submersible pumps in the city despite a blanket ban on the same by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) and the Punjab and Haryana High Court, has now lodged a complaint against officials of the Municipal Corporation for violation of the Whistle Blowers Protection Act.In his complaint to the CGWB, Punjab Human Rights Commission, Department of Local Government, Punjab, with copies to the DGP, Punjab, as well as the Police Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner, Ludhiana, he stated that he had been regularly bringing instances of installaltion of illegal submersible pumps in various parts of the city to the notice of officials of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) branch of the MC since long and in many cases, action was taken by civic body staff and illegal bores for sinking submersible pumps were duly sealed.“However, certain employees and field staff of the O&M Branch disclosed my name and even contact details to violators who, in retaliation, had started giving life threats to me,” the complainant said, adding that the ‘Whistle Blowers Protection Act contained provisions for non-disclosure of the identity of the complainant and penal provisions had also been laid down in the Act to grant complete protection to whistle blowers.Jassal said he had lodged specific complaints naming field staff of the MC and disclosing his identity with regard to complaints against the illegal submersible pumps to senior MC officials and even the Local Government Department. However, he failed to get any response from them.“Since I am revealing wrongdoings in society and exposing illegal acts of people or any lapse on the part of MC officials, my identity ought to be protected as per provisions of the ‘Whistle Blowers Protection Act, which, unfortunately, is not happening in my case,” the complainant said.Seeking immediate intervention of senior government officials and the departments concerned, he has demanded that strict action as per law be taken against the MC or government employees for the blatant violation of the Act.No response despite many complaintsCity-based social activist Gajjan Singh Jassal said he had lodged specific complaints naming field staff of the MC and disclosing his identity with regard to complaints against the illegal submersible pumps to senior MC officials and even the Local Government Department. However, he failed to get any response from them.“Since I am revealing wrongdoings in society and exposing illegal acts of people or any lapse on the part of MC officials, my identity ought to be protected as per provisions of the ‘Whistle Blowers Protection Act, which, unfortunately, is not happening in my case,” the complainant said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/whistle-blowers-protection-act-complaint-filed-225438
15-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Environmentalists rue unabated  pollution of rivers, bat for change||Ludhiana, March 14Environment activists and residents of Gaunspur, Manniawal, Walipur and other villages near the confluence of Satluj and Buddha Darya got together to pray for better times for both these rivers today on a day which is celebrated as Sikh Environment Day and the International Day of Action for Rivers.Speaking on the occasion, Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, founder, Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Seva Society and coordinator Naroa Punjab Manch, said, “Water is a basic necessity of life. These are some of the villages that are worst hit by pollution in Buddha Darya. Successive governments have been ignoring the issue for a very long time and it is high time that people should speak up against the menace.”Jaskirat Singh, from Naroa Punjab Manch, said, “Pollution in the Satluj by Buddha Nullah is not only an environmental disaster but also a violation of human rights as our Constitution guarantees right to healthy and dignified life. Parampal Singh Sabhra, of Alliance of Sikh Organisations, said it was unfortunate that Punjab which gets its very name from its rivers is facing such an issue.Ravneet Singh of EcoSikh said that government must not shy away from their responsibility to build and operate STPs and CETPs required to fix the problem.Among others who participated in this prayer meeting wered Sukhwinder Singh Babbu (Naroa Punjab Manch), Kuldeep Singh Khaira, Rajinder Singh Brar, Gurpreet Singh Kotkapura, Jaspinder Singh Kotkapura, Sukhminder Singh Gaunspur, Pardeep Singh and Sahib Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/environmentalists-rue-unabated-pollution-of-rivers-bat-for-change-225439
15-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Need for steps to curb mishaps at Eastman Cast Chowk||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 14Use of wrong cuts by commuters and an inappropriate underpass beneath the highway, combined with wrong parking of commercial vehicles on the road at Eastman Cast Chowk have made it a deadly black spot.According to a survey conducted by the police regarding the number of accidents at the black spot, as many as 19 persons have lost their lives between 2016 and 2018.Most of these victims include pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders.The factors responsible for the road mishaps include wrong parking of commercial vehicles on both sides of the road, lack of a drain alongside the road for drainage of rainwater, and lack of blinker lights, speed breakers, zebra-crossing marks, signboards and traffic lights.There are many factories and mills located on both sides of the road. Labourers working in these units do not make appropriate use of the underpass and use the wrong cuts on the highway to cross the roads.There is an underpass beneath the overbridge near the chowk, which is regularly used by vehicles. Vehicles exiting the underpass often become victims of road mishaps as commuters using the highway have no awareness about the existence of the underpass.Dr Kamal Soi, member, National Road Safety Council, Ministry Of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India, said the road which connects Eastman chowk with the NH-44 via Dhandari had virtually become a death trap. Waterlogging, poor lighting and scattered debris have made the lives of commuters miserable. There is an urgent need to improve the road and warn commuters to exit the underpass at a maximum speed limit of 40 kmph to save lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/need-for-steps-to-curb-mishaps-at-eastman-cast-chowk-225440
15-03-2021||Sports Correspondent---||Harpal stars in Sutlej Cricket Academy’s win||Ludhiana, March 14 A fine century by Harpal (111 runs off 70 balls) helped Sutlej Cricket Academy beat Elevens Club by four wickets in an exhibition cricket match played at the Palm Garden Cricket Stadium here today. Batting first, Elevens Club posted a challenging total of 216 runs after losing six wickets in 40 overs. The main feature of their innings was a useful contribution with the bat by Gopi and Akshad. Gopi remained unbeaten on 91 runs which came off 70 balls with the help of six boundaries and five sixes while Akshad chipped in 48 runs, studded with seven hits over the ropes. For the winning side, Yuvraj Singh claimed two wickets and Vijay Kashyap took one wicket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/harpal-stars-in-sutlej-cricket-academys-win-225441
15-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana finish runners-up||Hosts Ludhiana finished as runner-up in the boys’ section in the 25th Junior Punjab Softball Championship held at the Guru Nanak Stadium here.As many as 13 teams — Amritsar, Fazilka, Mansa, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Sangrur, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Mohali, Moga and Muktsar, besides Ludhiana, — took part in the championship which was held on a knockout basis.Amritsar emerged champions while Ferozepur and Fazilka secured third and fourth positions, respectively.Pran Nath Passi, honorary general secretary, Ludhiana District Softball Association, and other members of the body, congratulated winners and their coaches. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-finish-runners-up-225442
15-03-2021||Should diesel gensets be allowed to run in residential areas in summers?||Switch to solar power, regulate use of gensets||The authorities concerned are trying their level best to make the surrounding pollution-free. But, it takes two to cooperate. Diesel generators are being widely being used which add to not only air pollution but also noise pollution. Diesel generators should not be allowed on regular basis. The electric load in the streets leads to power cuts, which further results in sparking. Rather than using diesel generator, it will be more efficient and effective to use inverters which in return will reduce sound and air pollution. Further, the electric load would also lessen. So, it is advisable to use diesel generator occasionally.Deepanshi PassiHealth ailments riseNoise pollution levels can be controlled only when there will be a proper division of residential and factory site areas. Heavy generators are being used in factory premises and in big shops situated within residential areas due to which people suffers a lot. It leads to sleep disturbances, hearing impairment, heart diseases etc.Miyush TrehanInstall solar-powered invertersDiesel generators are set in villages as power backup source during power cuts. Apart from contributing to air pollution, the noise emanating from these generators affect the nervous health. Solar power inverters, which are effective and beneficial during the summer, should be installed in villages. It may cost a more but would turn out to be an excellent investment. In this way, the villagers would get electricity and there will be check on the pollution too.Amarpreet KaurBe a responsible citizenAmong other types of pollution in the country, air pollution is considered to be the most dangerous problem even worse than the problem of tobacco. The biggest contributors of air pollution are vehicles, industrial emissions, thermal power plants, construction dust, waste burning and millions of poor households which are bound to use cheap and dirty fuels such as wood and cow dung for cooking. The other prominent source to generate air pollution are generators which are used in the summers in the time of power cuts. These generators must be banned and other sources of energy such as solar, thermal and wind may be put in use. There may be so many diseases which are due to air pollution such as infection, respiratory problems, chronic obstructive lung disease, heart attack, stroke, and diabetes and lung cancer. We should reduce the number of trips in our cars, eliminate wood fire and use of stoves. Above all, we all must cooperate with the local government to curb the problem of air pollution banning generators and by planting more and more trees in our surroundings.Farzana KhanCutrail power cutsEmissions from the diesel generator sets can be very harmful both to the body and environment. They can cause cancer, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases apart from causing a lot of air, water and soil pollution. Realising the gravity of the situation and keeping in view that the diesel is one of the largest contributors to the problem of environmental pollution, the government should ban their use even for few hours in a day in summers. To tackle the problem of power cuts in various cities, residents should go only for the electric or solar inverters. Neither they will cause any pollution nor prove to be very expensive. The authorities concerned should also not lag behind in curtailing the power cuts during hot and sultry days.Dr Sunil ChopraBan generators in residential areasAir pollution is one of the deadliest pollutions and our government is trying in every possible way to control it. Main duty to control the air pollution lies in our hands. Mainly in summers, when hot waves and air conditioning is in full swing, it is very hard to control the air pollution level. In summers, power cuts are normal due to high consumption of electricity. But, today's generation can't live without ACs. Use of generators is the main cause of air pollution in the months of April to September. The government should ban the use of generators during summers in residential areas. In industries, it is hard to ban. But in residential areas, generators should be completely banned. Culprits should be heavily fined. And we should try to live in our houses without ACs and tell the children about the harmful effects of using both the AC’s and generators.Ritu PriyaRegulate use of diesel generator setsIt is true that the diesel generator sets pollute the environment, especially during the summer season when long power cuts are imposed. The generators are not only the cause of environmental pollution, but also noise pollution. There must be a check on the usage of these gen sets. A blanket ban is not possible but its usage can be regulated by setting norms for noise level and emitting of smoke etc. At any cost these should not be allowed in the streets. A proper place on the roof top can be used to keep the generators. The people using these gen sets must get these serviced from time to time. The inverters can be used in case of low consumption.Bir Devinder Singh BediInstall soundless, smokeless generatorsAir pollution creates various health problems such as asthma, lung congestion and other respiratory ailments. One of the main sources of air pollution are generators which are used when there is a cut in the supply of electricity. On the one hand these generators cause air pollution and on the other they also create noise pollution. The local government should put a ban on the use of generators and these must be replaced with soundless and smokeless generators. It must be mandatory to use solar panels so that in the time of power cut these panels may be put in use. Each factory must follow the rules and regulations of the NGT board. Those factories which are producing smoke by using generators must be banned. That firm which is running on coal or other fuel such as wood may not be allowed to operate we may also use wind and gobar gas plants to generate power.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiPSPCL must ensure uninterrupted supplyTo curb the menace, the simple solution is that these generator sets for production of electricity should not allowed to operate during summer. In that case, all households in the city should be supplied with uninterrupted electricity by the PSPCL. If power supply is not maintained by the PSPCL, the public will suffer. Another alternative is that all households spend money individually on installation of solar power supply system and use electricity according to their own requirements. Solar power installation is not very expensive, though the poor will not be able to spare the needed resources for its installation and will suffer due to shortage of electricity supply. Install more solar supply systems in the state and ensure electricity supply to save people from air pollution.Gautam DevOPEN HOUSE COMMENTCheck violations, impose penalties on pollutersShivani BhakooThere is no proper check on noise and air pollution generated by the diesel-run generators. The problem of pollution rises during the summer season, when residents face the power cuts or get interrupted power supply due to excessive load.The Punjab Pollution Control Board should keep a check on the violations and heavy penalties should be levied on violators for causing pollution in residential areas.Besides, people should be encouraged to use power backups based on solar power energy.The authorities concerned may be trying hard to curb the pollution levels but there is absolutely no check on diesel generator sets running in residential areas, which cause health hazards to many.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONUnderage driving in city is rampant. Many precious lives are lost due to this. What should be expected from the authorities and parents so that lives can be saved? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/switch-to-solar-power-regulate-use-of-gensets-225443
15-03-2021||Sahnewal||Farmer feeder school set up at Pawa Khagat village||The Horticulture Department established a Farmer Feeder School and distributed seed kits to villagers under Atma Scheme at Pawa Khagat village on Saturday.Horticulture Officer Dr Jaspreet while establishing the farmer feeder school motivated the farmers as well as their counterparts to ensure their active participation in the school and convince others to become a part of the same.The officer emphasised on the importance of kitchen garden and the value of nutritive and pesticide-free vegetables and fruits in their lives. Elaborating upon the urgency to stay healthy as an individual and as a community the officer said, “Each house should have it’s own kitchen garden and thus reduce the risk of falling prey to diseases,” she added.Dr Jaspreet also informed the villagers about the subsidies being a provided by the horticulture department to the farmers to nurture their own kitchen gardens and farmer feeder schools. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmer-feeder-school-set-up-at-pawa-khagat-village-225444
15-03-2021||---||Vaccinate workers above 18: Industry urges govt||Ludhiana, March 14As Covid-19 cases are on the rise, the industry has expressed concern over the safety of its workforce in the city, the number of whom are in lakhs.The Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) has sent a representation in this regard to Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan.Upkar Singh, president, CICU, said the second wave of Covid had set the alarm bells ringing.“The trend is prominent in states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Punjab. Industrial workers, especially in the MSME sector, consist of large population of workers (over 131 million) who needs vaccination on a priority basis through the ESI hospital and other government hospitals. We cannot wait for their turn as people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 60 years of age with comorbidities are being vaccinated at present. By the time, the turn of workers and other staff will come, situation may turn worse. If the vaccination is given to factory works and their families it will help up to great extend to curb the spread of the virus,” he said.Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, said the Employees State Insurance Corporation was already having a network of hospitals and dispensaries for a fast mode of vaccination, adding that “ESI hospitals have ample funds and it can provide free and quick vaccination to workers registered with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccinate-workers-above-18-industry-urges-govt-225454
15-03-2021||Jalandhar||Shahkot DSP Varinderpal Singh succumbs to Covid-19 at 52||Shahkot Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Varinderpal Singh (52) died of Covid-19 on Sunday.While he was on a ventilator for the past one month, he succumbed to the virus on Sunday at 3.48 am at a private hospital in Ludhiana.The deceased took charge of Shahkot in July last year. Before that, he was posted at Barnala where he was promoted to the rank of DSP in 2019.Shahkot SHO Surinder Kumar said, "Singh tested Covid positive on February 8 after he developed a mild fever. Since then, he remained admitted to the hospital. Due to multiple organ failure, he was shifted to a ventilator. Doctors told the family that his lungs couldn't recover."His two gunmen also tested positive for the virus in February.Singh is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.He will be cremated today between 12-12.30 PM at Sarabha Nagar in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shahkot-dsp-varinderpal-singh-succumbs-to-covid-19-at-52-225078
