17-03-2021||Ludhiana||Governance award for Dr Charru Malhotra||School holds Webinar on nepLudhiana: A webinar on New Education Policy (NEP) was organised at Drishti Public School. The main objective of this webinar was to make the students and parents aware of the aspects of the new education policy. Principal Gauri Chhabra said as per the new education policy, children should choose the subjects according to their interest and one or the other skill according to their interest. TNS1 held, 2 booked for rape attemptLudhiana: The police have arrested one person while another accused had been booked for alleged rape/attempt to rape two minor girls in two separate incidents in the city on Monday. The police nabbed one person identified as Pappu Rai for attempt rape on a five-year-old girl. The accused has been charged under sections 376 and 511 of the IPC and section 8 of the POCSO Act. In another incident, the police have registered a case under sections 376 of the IPC and section 6 of the POCSO Act against one Rohit Singh, a resident of Neechi Mangli, in Focal Point on the complaint of Meenu, a resident of Pal Colony, Neechi Mangli. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/governance-award-for-dr-charru-malhotra-226408
17-03-2021||Manav Mander||Rural area residents reluctant to take Covid-19 vaccine shot||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 16Though the ongoing Covid vaccination drive managed to gather good response in the urban areas, people in rural areas are not so enthusiastic about the same.At the start of the week, the total number of people vaccinated in the district stood at 72,364 of which 26,516 belonged to urban areas, only 7,111 to rural areas while there were 38,737 people whose areas were undefined.The rural population is not so enthusiastic about getting themselves vaccinated for the disease and the Health Department needs to disseminate information and awareness about the vaccine.In addition to the rural population, those living in the outskirts of the city are also little hesitant in getting the jab.A dairy farmer, on the condition of anonymity, said he had heard about the vaccine but he did not know that it was available in Punjab as well.“I don’t know about and how will I get it. There is no health-related issue with me that I need to take the vaccine,” he said.Manjinder Singh, a farmer from a village near Maachiwara said that he has not got himself vaccinated yet. “I have heard that even after getting vaccinated, people are testing positive. We live in village where there is so much open space and less crowding so there is less fear of infection,” he said.Similarly, Kamla Devi, a 66-year-old woman from Dhandari Kalan, said she does not have time to collect the required papers and get herself vaccinated. “I have never tested positive so there is no need,” she said.Meanwhile, Arun Kumar (62), from Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar, Dugri (urban area), who tested positive on May 9, 2020 after few people at his workplace caught the infection said he was yet to be vaccinated.“I will be getting myself vaccinated in the coming days. I have no doubts and will be getting the jab very soon,” he said.What civil surgeon says“The figures in rural areas remain less as compared to urban areas and we have step up up the awareness activities in the rural areas and since now vaccination has also been started in Primary Health Centres and we are hopeful of a positive response from rural population,” said Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar.Many unaware||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rural-area-residents-reluctant-to-take-covid-19-vaccine-shot-226402
17-03-2021||---||Chowkidars protest govt’s ‘apathy’, seek revised DA||Ludhiana, March 16Chowkidars from different parts of the district staged a protest outside the DC’s office in Ludhiana today. Members of the Lal Jhanda Pendu Chowkidara Union blamed the state government for not providing dearness allowance of Rs2,500 per month as promised to them. The protestors claimed that they get mere Rs 1,250 allowance at present.They said they don’t get any salary except the little allowance but they are forced to do a lot of works related to different departments of the government in routine. Paramjit Singh Neelon, president of the union, said, “We belong to economically-weaker section but the state government has not increased our dearness allowance. Before 2017 assembly elections, Congress leaders had made a promise with us that Rs2,500 per month dearness allowance will be paid to chowkidars, if Congress forms government in the state. We earlier also used to make birth and death record in villages but the government later stopped us from doing the same.”“We had met Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar on March 5 regarding our demands. We were assured that the chowkidars will be given Rs 2,500 dearness allowance per month, uniform and cycle soon. But, no announcement was made during the Budget to increase our allowance”, he added. Devi Das Miani of the union said, “When any demarcation work is done by the Revenue Department, we are asked to visit site. In case the police have to visit anyone’s home or summon is to be given to any person, we are asked to go with them. We mark duties of villagers for night patrolling but there is no salary for us.”They also demanded free health insurance cover so that they and their families can get free treatment. They also demand old age pension of Rs 3,000 per month. They warned that if their demands are not met, they will hold rallies in all constituencies against the government before 2022 assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/chowkidars-protest-govts-apathy-seek-revised-da-226403
17-03-2021||---||Bank strike enters Day 2||Ludhiana, March 16 A massive rally on the second consecutive day was organised by United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) in front of State bank of India, Fountain Chowk, Ludhiana, to protest the  government’s decision to privatise two public sector banks.  While addressing the rally Com Mehta said in the garb of efficiency and mis-conceived policy to shrug of the responsibility, the government has embarked upon privatisation of public sector banks. He said “privatisation” neither brings efficiency nor the safety. Public sector banks are nation builders. It would be irrational and, rather, mischievous and an ulterior motive to place the huge network of bank branches, infrastructure and assets of public sector banks in the hands of private enterprises/business houses or corporates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bank-strike-enters-day-2-226404
17-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana players shine in karate competition||Ludhiana players proved their mettle as they reaped a rich haul of medals in the Punjab State Karate Competition held at PBN High School, Amritsar, on March 13 and 14. Players from Ludhiana secured 22 medals, including five gold medals, in different age groups. City players also bagged five silver medals and 12 bronze medals. Shihan Ashok Chohan, general secretary, Ludhiana District Karate Do Association, said Shubham Puri, Sana Rana, Sahajleen, Disha and Gursaheb won the gold medals. The silver medal winners, included Arica, Alyeska, Tanisha, Drishti and Gursimar Singh whereas Crystal, Dimaira Jain, Tanjot Singh, Arhan Malhotra, Partap Singh, Ishwar Singh, Gaurish, Sushil Kumar, Amarjeet, Rohit Mehra, Sana and Nabiya clinched bronze medals. All these medal winners from Ludhiana have qualified for the National Karate Championship. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-players-shine-in-karate-competition-226405
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Police bust gang of drug peddlers||Raikot, March 16 The Ludhiana (Rural) have busted a gang involved in drug trafficking. A total of 4-kg heroin, estimated to be worth Rs28 crore in international market and drug money worth Rs37 lakh, besides an Activa (without number plate), were recovered from three members of the gang. They were nabbed from a house situated on outskirts of Khadoor village in Ludhiana late evening on Monday. The arrested accused were identified as Balwinder Singh, his wife Neelam and sister Harpreet Kaur, all permanent residents of Gandhian Mohalla Mehtabgarh in Kapurthala, but presently living at a rented house situated on the outskirts of the village. Other members of the gang were identified as Arun Kumar, Raj Kumar and Anjli. Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said a team of cops supervised by SP (D) Balwider Singh and DSP (D) Rajesh Sharma had apprehended the accused from their house at Khadoor village late evening on Monday. “They were hiding at their house situated on outskirts of the village, following a scuffle with villagers earlier in the day,” said Sohal. Investigations revealed that the accused had already been facing a number of criminal cases registered at various police stations. The police was yet to arrest the owner of the house. Investigations further revealed that all suspects, except Neelam had already been booked under many criminal cases and Balwinder Singh was serving life term after being sentenced in a murder case. Harpreet Kaur was caught with 3.2 kg of heroin by the STF, Mohali, a few months ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-bust-gang-of-drug-peddlers-226406
17-03-2021||Ludhiana||Registration of pregnant women mandatory, orders civil surgeon||Civil Surgeon Sukhjeewan Kakkar today directed all field officials of the department to ensure mandatory registration of pregnant women within their jurisdiction.  He further ordered all healthcare workers and midwives not to perform delivery of expecting mothers at their homes in the district. The CS asked the officials to start an awareness drive to impart education about the various government schemes meant for pregnant women besides educating them of the importance of institutional delivery.  He said the pregnant women can visit the nearest healthcare centre and avail the requisite medical facilities. The Civil Surgeon also ordered the officials to apprise all midwives about the ban orders on home delivery as it poses grave threat to life of mother and child. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/registration-of-pregnant-women-mandatory-orders-civil-surgeon-226407
17-03-2021||---||6 deaths; 245 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 16Six patients lost their life, while 245 persons tested positive for Covid in the district today.The positive cases today included a total of 56 students, out of whom 49 belong to Government Senior Secondary School, Bhundri. In addition, five teachers tested positive.Big Surge in covid-19 cases in past 5 daysCases from schools at a glanceTill now, a total of 71 students and four teachers from the GSSS, Bhundri, have tested positive. A total of 312 students and 153 teachers, along with staff members, have tested positive from Ludhiana district since the reopening of the schools.Forty nine students from Government Senior Secondary School, Bhundari, one from GNE College, one from Aurbindo College, Jhande, one from GSSS Kohara, one from GSSS Sahibana and three from GTB Nursing College tested positive today.One teacher from Kindergarten Model Town, one from DAV University Jalandhar, one from PCTE Baddowal, one from GPS Cheeniwal and one from GSSS Sahibana tested positive today.In addition, one traveller from Dubai tested positive.Those who lost their lives today were aged between 50-60 and belonged to Kakowal Road, Sarih village, Gill village, Issa Nagri, Aman Nagar Jalandhar Byepass and Sarabha. Those who lost their lives were five males and one female.The total number of positive cases from Ludhiana has now reached 29,304 and the death toll has gone to 1,060.Meanwhile, in view of the increasing cases of Covid, the awareness teams of Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, today sanitised shop owners of densely populated markets of the city to make sure that all shopkeepers were following the Covid protocol to curb the virus spread in district.Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, said shopkeepers get in touch with hundereds of people on a daily basis and have close contact with people who roam in market, also they exchange goods and money which exposes them to virus more than anybody else. He said it was also seen that people were not paying heed to directions given by the Health Department, which was a matter of concern.He laid stress on putting of masks, washing hands and maintaining adequate social distance for the benefit of all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-deaths-245-ve-in-ludhiana-226394
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Four killed in hit-and-run accidents; three booked||Sahnewal, March 16 Four persons were reportedly killed in three accidents which took place at Sahnewal, Koom Kalan and near the Janta Nagar cut, respectively. While two of them died on the spot, others succumbed to their injuries during treatment at hospitals. Cases in incidents have been registered against unidentified persons but no arrest has been made so far. Rampal Singh (33) and Ritesh Singh (21) were reportedly killed when they were walking towards Eastman Cast Chowk from Kanganwal. An unidentified driver of a crane recklessly smashed them with its left tyre near Asian Bypass Private Limited. Rampal breathed his last on the spot while Ritesh succumbed to his injuries at Arora Neuro Hospital in Ludhiana. A case has been registered at the Sahnewal police station against the crane driver who managed to flee the spot. Investigating officer (IO) Kulwinder Singh said the probe was on in the matter. “Our primary duty is to get the post-mortem examination conducted and hand over the body of the victim to relatives. The kin of the deceased are too poor to pay hospital charges while hospital staff insisted to pay the charges before releasing the body. I have to entreat upon the hospital to release the body with reduced charges,” he said. “Hospitals should be considerate enough to come to the aid of those who are in need so that the ones already in pain are not harassed any further,” the IO said. In another incident, which took place on the link road of Rayian and Koom Kalan, an unidentified driver of a tipper (bearing registration number PB 10 HC 5840) hit Jaspal Singh and Surinderpal Singh of Malewal  village, who were riding a motorcycle, when they were returning to their home from a factory. Later, Surinderpal was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries. The tipper driver, however, managed to escape. A case has been registered at the Koom Kalan police station on the statement of Jaspal. In another hit-and-run case, a speeding truck killed a motorcycle-borne youth, Prabal (24), near the Janta Nagar cut when the victim was going from Arora Palace to Gill Chowk on Monday. The father of the deceased, Neeraj Batra, told the police that his son died on the spot while the truck driver fled the spot. The truck driver has been identified as Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Harkrishan Nagar, Shimplapuri. He has been booked under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-killed-in-hit-and-run-accidents-three-booked-226395
17-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||3 months on, Ludhiana MC yet to start operations at hotmix plant||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 16Even though contractors have been allowed to carry out road carpeting work in different areas, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is yet to resume operations at its hotmix plant wherein material is prepared for carrying out patchwork to repair the potholes. The plant was closed more than three months ago due to winter season.Commuters in the city are forced to face inconvenience as potholes on a number of roads in various wards of the city are yet to be repaired. Residents have been demanding that the MC should ensure the repair of the roads at the earliest.New works related to road carpeting/construction are generally allotted to private contractors, while the patch work on potholed roads is done by the MC itself. Private contractors have already started road carpeting work in some parts of the city.Was hurt on potholed road: Vyopar Mandal gen secyPotholes are commonly seen in a number of areas of the city. Sunil Mehra, general secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Vyopar Mandal, said, “I got injury on my foot as it turned when I was walking on a potholed stretch. Despite our repeated demands, the potholes are not being repaired by the civic body. We are going to stage protests if such roads are not repaired at the earliest.”Gurpal Singh Grewal, a resident of Model Town, said, “A number of potholes have not been repaired in Model Town and other areas. The patch work should be done on time and properly so that the commuters don’t face any inconvenience. When the contractors have been allowed to start road carpeting works, why the civic body is delaying patch work to repair potholes?”Councillor from ward number 2, Gurmail Singh Jajji, said “The potholes have appeared on several roads/internal streets in the ward due to which commuters are suffering. The hotmix plant should be made operational at the earliest so that the patch work was carried out soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-months-on-ludhiana-mc-yet-to-start-operations-at-hotmix-plant-226396
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Snatchers have a free run in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 16Miscreants snatched a gold chain and a pair of gold earrings and took away a motorcycle from residents on a single day yesterday in three incidents reported from the city.Gurmel Kaur (70), a resident of Golden Vihar Colony, lost her gold earrings to two motorcyclists while she was feeding a cow outside her house in a street. The police have registered a case against the unidentified persons under Section 379-B, IPC.In another incident, Surjit Kaur (43), a resident of Amarpura Mohalla was targeted by two motorcycle-borne youths near Harcharan Nagar while she was going on foot from CMC Chowk after alighting from a three-wheeler on Monday evening. The miscreants fled the spot after snatching the gold chain (weighing around 15 gm) of the victim. The police have booked the unidentified accused under Section 379-B of the IPC.In the third incident, Jagdev Singh (31), a resident of Makkar Colony, Sahnewal, lost his motorcycle (bearing registration No. PB 91H 0455) to two motorcycle-borne persons while returning home after paying obeisance at a local gurdwara. In a complaint lodged with the police, mother of the victim Reena Walia said the accused forced her son to to give his motorcycle at sword point. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-Band 34 of the IPC.Factory burgledThieves broke into an auto spare parts factory in Focal Point on the intervening night of March 13 and 14 and took away 15 slabs of zinc weighing around 25 kg. The factory owner, Rajat Kumar, a resident of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, told the police that the entered the store room of the factory after breaking a part of the roof. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/snatchers-have-a-free-run-in-ludhiana-226397
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Shots fired at sarpanch’s house over enmity||Ludhiana, March 16 Five persons and their accomplices were booked by the city police under Sections 307/452/427/380/148/149/506 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act for attack on the house of Balkaran Singh, sarpanch of Jainpur village, on Humbran Road here last night. The assailants were reportedly nursing some grudge against the sarpanch and there had been clashes between the two groups earlier as well, the police said. In a report lodged with the police, Balkaran Singh said at around 10.15 pm last night, the accused, carrying firearms and sharp-edged weapons, attacked his house. “One of the accused fired nearly 25 shots with the intent of killing me, while the others ransacked the house and also damaged my Scorpio SUV parked in the courtyard. The sarpanch alleged that the assailants stole Rs 2 lakh and bank cheque books lying in the vehicle before escaping from the place. Senior cops reached the spot on getting information about the incident and searched the site that yielded 20 shells and one live cartridge of a revolver. Among the persons booked in this case were Gurinder Singh, a resident of Bhatha Dhua village, Inderjit Singh, Harsh Sodhi, Manpreet Singh, Mani and their unidentified accomplices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shots-fired-at-sarpanchs-house-over-enmity-226398
17-03-2021||---||Civic body to issue challans to violators||Ludhiana, March 16The Municipal Corporation will issue challans to those residents who are not segregating waste.Zonal Municipal Commissioner Swati Tiwana on Tuesday directed chief sanitary inspectors (CSIs) to ensure door-to-door collection of garbage and proper segregation of waste at source.In a meeting held at the Zone B office of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, Tiwana asked them to issue challans to residents who were not cooperating and mixing the waste.She said the Local Bodies Department had notified the Solid Waste Management and Sanitation Bylaws, 2020, and people must support the civic body in ensuring segregation of the waste at source to keep the city clean and green.The Zonal Municipal Commissioner said the dry and wet waste must be kept separate in different dustbins which would help the MC in the management of the waste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-to-issue-challans-to-violators-226399
17-03-2021||Ludhiana||5 properties sealed for not paying tax||The MC on Tuesday sealed five properties as the owners concerned had not deposited property tax to the civic body. MC zonal commissioner Tejinderpal Singh Panchhi said one property was sealed at Guru Har Rai Nagar and four shops at Kali Sarak due to the non-payment of the property tax to the MC. He appealed to people to pay their property tax on time to avoid the sealing action. The MC is also conducting a recovery drive for the collection of the pending property tax. It had also served notices on some government departments to deposit property tax. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-properties-sealed-for-not-paying-tax-226400
17-03-2021||Ludhiana||Four arrested with habit-forming drugs||The city police  on Monday nabbed five persons from different places in the city and seized a large quantity of habit-forming tablets, ganja (cannabis) and poppy plants from the accused. The police arrested Amit Kumar of Visakha Colony, Dhandari Kalan. His search led to the recovery of 4-kg cannabis (ganja). A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. The police nabbed one Kamaljit Singh, a resident of Shivpuri, and Suresh Kumar, a resident of Jain Colony on Rahon Road, from Shankar Colony in two separate cases. According to the police, the search of accused Kamaljit yielded 525 tablets of Alprazolam, 200 tablets of Diazepam and 100 tablets of Tramadol while the other accused Suresh was carrying 40 tablets of Tramadol on his person. Both the accused have been booked under sections 22, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act. Meanwhile, the police apprehended Gurpreet Singh of Rurka Kalan village, who had planted poppy plants in his fields located adjacent to Main GT Road. With the seizure of 132 plants of poppy from his fields, the accused was booked under the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-arrested-with-habit-forming-drugs-226401
