19-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana police bust drug racket, arrest 15||Police here on Friday claimed to have busted an inter-state drug racket with the arrest of 15 people. According to police, over 67 lakh intoxicating tablets, injections and syrups were seized from the 15 accused.Police said the seized intoxicants were worth several crores. Police have also recovered Rs 5.44 lakh in cash from the accused.While most arrested hail from Ludhiana, three of them belong to Uttar Pradesh, including two from Meerut, said police. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-police-bust-drug-racket-arrest-15-227627
19-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana breaches 300-mark; reports 346 cases, 8 COVID-19 deaths||Ludhiana reported 348 cases and eight COVID-19 deaths on Friday, taking the district's total infections to 34,874. These include six students and teachers, three healthcare workers, one cop, and 56 patients from out of the district. Among the casualties, one each was reported from Jalandhar and Nawanshahr.The death toll stands at 1,612, and active cases, including 14 critical patients on ventilator support, touched 1,791. However, 27,350 patients have already recovered from the virus in the district.Despite the district being under night curfew since March 12, it has been reporting 300 fresh cases since the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-breaches-300-mark-reports-346-cases-8-covid-19-deaths-227575
19-03-2021||---||4 deaths; 237 positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 18Four persons lost their lives, while 237 tested positive for Covid in the district today. Those who tested positive included two healthcare workers, a school staff member, nine teachers and five students.The nine teachers who tested positive included one from Joseph School, Dugri, one from GNE College, two from Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar, one from primary school Chajjawal, one from the GSSS Bharat Nagar, one from the GSSS, Dalla, one from the PAU and one from Aswal Model School, Dugri. One school staff member from the GSSS, Ladhowal, also tested positive.The students who tested positive today included one from SK Dental College, Sarabha, one from Sacred Heart BRS Nagar, one from All Saint College Jaspal Bangar, one from Multipurpose School and one from DPS Public School.Those who lost their lives today were three males and a female and belonged to Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Ghas Mandi, Model Town and Haibowal Kalan.The active cases today rose to 1,549, while 320 people were home quarantined today.Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar, said that the Government of India had launched two Covid-19 vaccines in the country ie Covishield and Covaxin.Civil surgeon, Ludhiana, said, “In Punjab, Covishield vaccine is available for people at public and private hospitals. Vaccination is being carried out in government health facilities on all seven days of the week and it is completely free of cost at these institutions. For private hospitals, the government has fixed a maximum fee of Rs 250 for each dose of the vaccine.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-deaths-237-positive-in-ludhiana-district-227394
19-03-2021||Nitin Jain||Turning hotspot, Ludhiana district third in state in ongoing vaccination campaign||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 18Ludhiana district, which was once again emerging the Covid capital of the state with the rapid rise in the daily new cases and deaths since Saturday, has ranked third in the state in the ongoing Covid vaccination drive with the coverage of 1,364 per lakh population so far, official figures have stated.The compilation of vaccination figures, which are available with The Tribune, showed that Mohali topped the state with the highest 1,949 per lakh population coverage, while Amritsar stood second with 1,450 per lakh coverage. However, the state vaccination average was recorded at 1,002 per lakh population.The districts with over 1,000 per lakh coverage included Pathankot 1,111, Jalandhar 1,052, Ferozepur 1,027, and Faridkot 1,015.Those below 1,000-mark included Patiala 995, Hoshiarpur 975, Gurdaspur 892, Bathinda 885, Fazilka 874, Tarn Taran 837, Nawanshahr 798, Kapurthala 736, Fatehgarh Sahib 720, Ropar 627, Moga 606, Barnala 510, Sangrur 483, Muktsar 460, and Mansa remained the poorest with the least 453 per lakh population coverage.When it comes to the first dose coverage of healthcare workers (HCWs), Ludhiana shared fourth rank with Jalandhar in the state, with 57 per cent achievement. Gurdaspur topped the state with maximum 68 per cent coverage of the HCWs, Hoshiarpur stood second with 63 per cent, and Faridkot ranked third with 59 per cent coverage. The state average was recorded at 47 per cent.The districts with over 50 per cent coverage included Moga 55, Tarn Taran 51 and Amritsar 50.Those below 50 per cent coverage included Pathankot 47, Nawanshahr 45, Mohali 43, Ropar 41, Bathinda 39, Patiala 37, Fatehgarh Sahib 36, Kapurthala 35, Muktsar 35, Mansa and Barnala 29 each, Ferozepur and Fazilka 27 each, and Sangrur remained the laggard with the minimum of 25 per cent HCWs given the first jab so far.In vaccinating frontline workers (FLWs) with first dose, Ferozepur topped the state with maximum 67 per cent coverage, Tarn Taran second with 63, and Fazilka and Gurdaspur shared the third slot with 57 per cent coverage each. The state average on this front remained 49 per cent.While Ludhiana remained poor with only 41 per cent coverage of FLWs with first dose, Jalandhar recorded 55 per cent, Mohali 54, Muktsar 52, Amritsar 51, Pathankot 47, Nawanshahr 46, Mansa, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib 45 each, Moga and Kapurthala 42 per cent each.Those even behind Ludhiana included Sangrur 39 per cent, Patiala 38, Faridkot 36, Ropar 33, and Barnala remained worst performer with minimum 29 per cent coverage of FLWs with first vaccine jab.750 without mask fined Rs 7.5 lakh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/turning-hotspot-ludhiana-district-third-in-state-in-ongoing-vaccination-campaign-227395
19-03-2021||---||Tenders for road works worth Rs 175 cr floated, says Mayor||Ludhiana, March 18When a number of dilapidated roads and internal streets in the city are crying for attention, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu announced that tenders of road construction/carpeting works worth Rs 175 crore had been floated.While addressing the media, Sandhu shared the information during an event that was organised to mark the completion of four years of the Congress government, led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, in the state at the Circuit House, here, on Thursday.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MLA from Ludhiana Central Surinder Dawar, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, councillor Mamta Ashu and other Congress leaders released a booklet ‘Nawan Naroa Punjab’ based on achievements of the state government during the past four years. Notably, Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra was supposed to attend the event today but he did not come.The Congress leaders claimed that projects worth multi-crores had already been launched and many more were under process. They said all development projects, including Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah worth Rs 650 crore, carpeting of new roads at the cost of Rs 200 crore in Ludhiana, laying of sewerage lines, development of ROBs, new leisure valleys, construction of highways, new smart schools, colleges and new parks would transform Ludhiana into a world class city.Notably, many buses of the Ludhiana City Bus Service are not plying on roads and a number of these are lying defunct. On being asked as to why the bus service has not been improved, the Mayor claimed that mini-buses in the city were running in a proper manner. He said big buses could not move in narrow lanes of the city. Big defunct buses would be sold and e-rickshaws would be purchased.He said this year, 200 e-rickshaws would be purchased by the Municipal Corporation, which would help in tackling the problem of rising air pollution, besides generating employment for the youth.The leaders claimed that due to the concerted efforts of the state government, Punjab would soon emerge as number one state in the country. The state government had been making strenuous efforts in this direction to ensure holistic development of Ludhiana.Earlier, the Congress leaders and officials attended the virtual media interaction of the Chief Minister during a function held at the Bachat Bhawan here.Claims of civic bodyThe MC, Ludhiana, authorities claimed to have constructed 720 km length of roads in the city at the cost of around Rs 223.35 crore during the past four years of the Congress government. According to the MC, these road works include construction of bituminous roads, RMC roads and installation of interlocking tiles. They claimed that the road works at the cost of Rs 219.68 crore were underway. As per the O&M branch of the MC, Rs 28.20 crore has been spent on laying of 101 km length of sewer lines during this period. According to the O&M branch, 149 new tube wells at the cost of Rs 24.86 crore were installed for water supply during the past four years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tenders-for-road-works-worth-rs-175-cr-floated-says-mayor-227396
19-03-2021||---||Ward number 41 councillor dead||Ludhiana, March 18 Leader of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and councillor from ward number 41 Charanjit Kaur Pannu passed away here today. Party chief MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains gave this information to the media. MLAs Simarjeet Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh Bains and other leaders of the LIP expressed their condolences to the family of the councillor. Her husband Sikandar Singh Pannu is also a leader of the LIP. She will be cremated once her son comes back from abroad. Jaswinder Singh Khalsa, leader of the LIP, said Charanjit Kaur, who was aged nearly 50, had gone to Gurdwara Sahib this morning, where she suffered heart attack and passed away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ward-number-41-councillor-dead-227398
19-03-2021||---||Check mask violations in public buses in city: Residents to police||Ludhiana, March 18As Covid cases are on the rise in the district, the Ludhiana police have given strict warning to people who are not wearing masks.“As part of awareness to contain the spread of Covid, we will be doing maximum challans of those who are found without wearing mask. Kindly wear mask when going out,” this message has been shared by the Ludhiana police on its official Facebook page and on Twitter handle.Reacting to the message of the police, some people appreciated the move but many criticised the police for issuing challans for not wearing mask.“Mask is mandatory for car and motorcycle-borne persons only but not mandatory for people travelling in buses and auto-rickshaws. The police also prefer to challan bike and car-borne persons but hardly pay heed to violations by the public transport,” one of the comments on the police post reads.“The police should lay a parmanent naka at the bus stand and important intersections in the city to check the violation of the Covid norms in public transport. The police should understand that the fear of Covid spread is more in public vehicles where people from different walks of life travel together while there is one per cent risk in cars where usually members of a family commute,” said another resident.Some said police hardly issue challan to people holding political rallies and other events where they blatantly violate the Covid safety norms. Why these norms were only mandatory for the common man.People said instead of issuing challans for not wearing masks, the police should distribute masks among such violators at nakas. They can also charge the price of mask from the violators.The police were issuing challans in a large number as they want to generate revenue for the government and in the Covid-induced lockdown, crores of rupees had been collected by the police in this regard, alleged another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/check-mask-violations-in-public-buses-in-city-residents-to-police-227399
19-03-2021||Ludhiana March 18---||Gang of vehicle thieves busted, two arrested||The Police Division 6 busted a gang of vehicle thieves and arrested two of its members. The police also recovered five vehicles from them. The accused have been identified as Krishna Soni of Basti Jodhewal and Vikas Kataria of Moti Bagh Colony. Police Division 6 SHO inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said a tip-off was received that the duo were running a gang of vehicle thieves and they were on the way to sell a stolen Honda Activa scooter at a scooter market. Accordingly, a naka was laid at a strategic point where they were arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-two-arrested-227400
19-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Over 40L intoxicating tablets recovered from Meerut||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 18In a major drug haul case in which BJP leader from city Satish Nagar was booked by the police along with three others, namely Anoop, Hemant, Rajinder, the police reportedly recovered more than 40 lakh tablets. These intoxicating tablets were recovered from a godown in Meerut.A DSP-rank officer along with some SHOs, was camping in Meerut after getting a tip off about the godown. The police, along with the drug inspectors from Punjab, had been counting the recovered drugs since yesterday. The counting of drugs lasted for several hours.Additional DCP 1 Pragya Jain said in the ongoing probe into the recovery of 1.29 lakh intoxicating tablets, the police managed to break the nexus of smuggling and made a huge recovery. When asked about the recovery, she only said this could be one of the biggest recoveries by the Ludhiana police ever and the police would soon officially declare the entire recovery.However, confirmed police sources maintained that more than 40 lakh intoxicating tablets have been recovered by the police and some main suppliers had been arrested in the case.Sources said the person who owned the godown was reportedly from Dubai and cops were also likely to nominate him in the case.Police still mum on role of BJP leader Satish NagarThe BJP leader Satish Nagar was booked in the case after 1.29 lakh intoxicating tablets were recovered from the building owned by Nagar’s wife at Chawni mohalla. After the recovery of drugs, Nagar was taken to police station, but he was later released reportedly under political pressure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-40l-intoxicating-tablets-recovered-from-meerut-227401
19-03-2021||Manav Mander||Use less antibiotics for treatment: Docs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 18Lesser use of antibiotics and blood thinners, giving steroids at the right time and no use of zinc supplements is what the doctors will now be focussing while treating Covid patients.While diagnosing the patients, there is no need for getting LDL and ferritin tests done and blood test for only hemogram, CRP and blood sugar levels will be enough.The new treatment and diagnostic methods were discussed by the Covid-19 state-level task force. Clinical guidance for management of Covid-19 as a single reference point for all healthcare providers of Punjab was also issued.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and member of Covid-19 task force formed by state government, said after treating patients for a year, certain observations were made by the doctors from across the state, according to which changes have been made in terms of diagnostic and treatment of Covid patients.“The main point that came forward was less use of antibiotics for treating Covid patients. For home isolation patients, antibiotics will be required only for secondary infection and for moderate patients also, antibiotics will be given only if required. Zinc supplements have been taken off as there was no potential benefit derived from them while giving Vitamin C will be continued as it is an anti-oxidant and can fight oxidative damage,” said Dr Bishav Mohan.He further clarified that steroids were not magic bullets. “Steroids prove useful only if given at the right time. There is no use of giving steroids at late stage. There should be limited use of blood thinners and should be given as and when required as they tend to increase bleeding in some patients due to fatty liver,” said Dr Mohan.Discussing about the diagnosis, he said that there was no need for getting LDL and ferritin only hemogram and CRP and blood sugar level would suffice. In addition to this, lesser use of CT scan should be done and only PCR Test should be done to determine Covid.Lie on stomach for more oxygen flowAsking the patients to lie on their stomachs called prone positioning helps increase the amount of oxygen that’s getting to their lungs. “It is a simple thing but we have seen remarkable improvement after making the patients to lie on their stomach as it helps in increasing the oxygen saturation level,” said Dr Bishav Mohan.Warning symptoms for HOME isolation patients||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/use-less-antibiotics-for-treatment-docs-227402
19-03-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||Ahmedgarh Sadar police bust notorious drug gang||Mandi Ahmedgarh, March 18 The Ahmedgarh Sadar police today claimed to have busted a notorious gang of miscreants involved in drugs and narcotics peddling. At least two members of the gang, yet to be interrogated for drug peddling, were reported to be involved in murder of gangster Abdul Rashid alias Ghudu. Heroin worth Rs 7 crore was recovered from the possession of three peddlers nabbed during a naka at Rohira T-point on Wednesday. The seized consignment was being brought from Srinagar to be supplied in Malerkotla. A car was also seized. The arrested accused were identified as Mohammad Aslam and Haras Mohammad of Katcha Kote, Malerkotla, and Rajwinder Singh of Ehankheri village. Sangrur SP (D) Gurpreet Singh Sikand informed that a joint team of the Ahmedgarh Sadar police and Malerkotla Counter-intelligence participated in the bust. The Sangrur police had received a tip-off about the movement of the accused, following which nakas were laid on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road. Preliminary investigations revealed that the operation was being geared by kingpin of the gang who was involved in the murder of a Malerkotla gangster Guddu. “Though we have received ample evidence about the involvement of assailants of Ghuddu in running the busted gang, something concrete can be determined only after interrogation,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ahmedgarh-sadar-police-bust-notorious-drug-gang-227403
19-03-2021||---||LIC employees sit on strike, demand delisting of company in stock markets||Ludhiana, March 18 The employees and officers of LIC today observed one-day nationwide strike to protest against the decision of the government to list LIC in the stock markets through an IPO and increase the FDI limits in the sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent. The strike was called by the All India Insurance Employees’ Association (AIIEA), the Federation of LIC Class-1 Officers’ Association, and the National Federation of Insurance Field Workers of India (NFIFWI). The LIC IPO would severely impact the economy and vulnerable sections of the Indian people, the employees said. The AIIEA has been mobilising public opinion against the decisions of the government and has urged the government to reconsider these decisions in national interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lic-employees-sit-on-strike-demand-delisting-of-company-in-stock-markets-227404
19-03-2021||Sports Correspondent---||Nehal, Deepin anchor Rest of Punjab XI Red to win||Ludhiana, March 18 Promising cricketers from Ludhiana — Nehal Wadhera and Deepin Chitkara — anchored Rest of Punjab XI Red to 4-wicket win over the Rest of Punjab XI Green in the ongoing Trident PCA Cup Triangular Series. The series was played at HDCA Ground, Hoshiarpur, today. Nehal Wadhera — who had represented the Indian U-19 squad in an international tournament played by South Africa, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and India in 2019 — played a useful innings of 67 runs while Deepin gave an all-round performance (3 for 37 in 10 overs and 20 runs off 18 balls) and stitched a win for their team. Rest of Punjab XI Green batted first and was bowled out for 205 runs in 47.3 overs. Naman Dhir (35), Talwinder Brar (30), Harjot Dhawan (40) and Daman (30) mainly contributed to the innings. For Rest of Punjab XI Red, besides Deepin Chitkara, Jassinder and Abhishek Bajaj got three wickets each. Jassinder secured three for 23 and Abhishek captured three for 55. Rest of Punjab XI Red made the required runs in the 45th over with four wickets in hand. Their innings revolved around Nehal Wadhera, who made 697 runs. He hit six boundaries, including two sixes. Meanwhile, Kashish Pasneja scored 28 runs off 38 balls, Kunwar Pathak scored 30 runs off 60 balls, Deepin Chitkara scored 20 runs off 18 balls and Salil Arora scored 19 runs off 25 balls. Nehal Wadhera was declared the Man of the Match. After three matches, Punjab XI is leading the points table with four points, followed by the Rest of Punjab XI Red with 2 points while the Rest of Punjab XI Green is yet to open its account.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nehal-deepin-anchor-rest-of-punjab-xi-red-to-win-227406
19-03-2021||---||PSPCL chief engineer assures to resolve issue||Ludhiana, March 18A meeting between Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials was conducted to resolve the issue of releasing of power connections to two common effluent treatment plants (CETPs).The PPCB officials said the CETP of 40 MLD capacity for Focal Point dyeing cluster had been completed and the construction of the 50 MLD CETP project at Focal Point was near completion. But, the issue regarding release of the electric connections to these CETPs was pending since long.A meeting was organised by the PPCB with Chief Engineer, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, Ludhiana. Sandeep Bahl, senior environmental engineer from the PPCB, briefed details of these projects to Bhupinder Khosla, Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Ludhiana.Bahl said these projects, which were funded by the Centre and the state government, were prestigious and flagship projects of the government for the rejuvenation of the Buddha Nullah.Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Ludhiana, deliberated upon electric details with the L&T which was the agency responsible for operation and maintenance of the 40 MLD CETP. He said the entire electric load of 1,500 kW could not be released in one go as various technical hitches are involved in the project, including the laying of high-tension electricity wires from the electricity grid to the CETP.He further said the project costing Rs 3.78 crore was in a tendering stage and every possible effort should be made for streamlining the process.The PSPCL Chief Engineer said 500 kW of electric load would be released to the Focal point CETP within the next one week. He had also assured that the rest of the electric load would be released to the CETP within the next two months after the plant was stabilised. He also agreed to release the electric load to the 50 MLD CETP for the Tajpur Road dyeing cluster in the earliest possible time frame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-chief-engineer-assures-to-resolve-issue-227407
19-03-2021||Anil Datt---||SAI tells authorities to evaluate, monitor Khelo India athletes||Ludhiana, March 18 With the aim to identify and nurture sports talent at the grass-root level, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) has asked the authorities concerned to monitor and evaluate the potential players to help Khelo India athletes achieve optimum success at national and international levels. The evaluation is being done under the Khelo India Talent Identification and Development (KITD) programme initiated by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India. In a circular issued by Harish Babu P, senior development officer (Teams and KITD) at SAI, Delhi, it was suggested to encourage talented sportspersons of all sport disciplines, asking them to talk to the KITDdivision and inform about them their recent performances at all competitions, periodically. “This will help us evaluate your potential twice a year, once every six months. Your performance is evaluated by a dedicated group of experts who are a part of the Talent Identification and Development Committee (TIDC),” read the circular. Players have been directed to provide their performance details duly certified by the concerned coach to the KITD division on the email address talentdevelopment.kitd.sai@gmail.com as early as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sai-tells-authorities-to-evaluate-monitor-khelo-india-athletes-227408
19-03-2021||---||Woman killed by paramour||Ludhiana, March 18 A 40-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her paramour and her body was found at Kot Sekhon village near Khanna city. Initially, the police were considering it a blind murder but later when the deceased’s husband lodged a written complaint against her paramour at the Sadar police station, Khanna, the police registered a murder case. The accused has been identified as Sukhwinder Singh Sukhi of Kot Sekhon village. The complainant, Jaspal Singh, said on March 13, his wife left home, saying that she was going to pay obeisance at a gurdwara, but she did not reach home. The deceased’s husband said he, along with one of his relatives, kept on searching for her but to no avail. On March 17, his friend Amritpal found the body of a woman lying on the outskirts of the village after which he asked him to reach the spot to identify the body. “When I reached the spot, I was shocked to see my wife’s body. Her head and other body parts had serious injuries and it seemed that she was brutally murdered by someone,” her husband said. The complainant said later, he came to know that she had an extramarital affair with Sukhwinder of the same village and on the day his wife went missing, the accused had also visited their house. He suspected that Sukhwinder, along with his companions, had killed her. Investigating officer Sadar SHO Hemant Kumar said a case of murder was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab him. The police said the exact cause behind the crime could be known only after the arrest of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-killed-by-paramour-227409
19-03-2021||Ludhiana||Railways to run two Holi special trains||The Northern Railway has announced to run special trains to cope with the rush of passengers during Holi. Two special trains would operate between New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra and Varanasi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra. In addition, a special weekly train would also start operating between Tirupati and Jammu Tawi from April 6. The 02445 New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra train would operate daily from March 20 to 30, leaving New Delhi at 8.50 pm and arrive at Mata Vaishno Devi Katra at 8.05 am next day. On return journey, the train 02426 would leave Mata Vaishno Devi at 7.55 pm from March 21 to 31 and reach New Delhi at 6.55 am the next day. The train would have stoppages at Panipat, Ambala Cantt, Ludhiana, Jalandhar Cantt, Pathankot, Kathua, Jammu Tawi, Ram Nagar and Udhampur station. A special weekly train 04607/08 would operate on the Varanasi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Varanasi section from March 22 to 29 from Varanasi and from March 21 to 28 from Mata Vaishno Devi Katra. The 04607 would leave Varanasi at 6.35 am on every Tuesday and reach Shri Mata Vaishno Devi at 9.20 am the next day. On return journey, the train 04608 would leave Mata Vaishno Devi Katra on every Sunday at 6.45 pm and arrive at Varanasi at 10.15 pm the next day. The train would have commercial halts at Udhampur, Jammu Tawi, Pathankot Cantt, Jalandhar Cantt, Ludhiana, Ambala Cantt, Yamuna Nagar, Saharnpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Lucknow and Sultanpur. New train from Jammu Tawi to Tirupati A new weekly Humsafar Superfast Express Special train (02277/78) is being introduced between Tirupati and Jammu Tawi for the benefit of pilgrims intending to visit holy shrines of Mata Vaishno Devi and Tirumala Tirupati Devsthanam from April 6. The train (02277) would make its maiden run from April 6 (every Tuesday), leaving Tirupati at 9.10 pm and reach Jammu Tawi at 6.10 pm the third day. On return journey, the train (02278) would leave Jammu Tawi on April 9 (every Friday) at 7.20 am and reach Tirupati at 6.25 am the third day. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/railways-to-run-two-holi-special-trains-227410
19-03-2021||---||Int’l Women’s week held at CMC||Ludhiana, March 18 The department of obstetrics and gynaecology, Christian Medical College and Hospital, organised a virtual CME to mark International Women’s Week. The theme for the CME was ‘Cervical cancer screening and prevention to mark the WHO Global Strategy for elimination of cervical cancer by 2030’. Speakers and faculty from Delhi and Punjab were the resource persons for the CME. The CME was attended by over 100 participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/intl-womens-week-held-at-cmc-227411
19-03-2021||Our Correspondent||PO arrested by Doraha police||Doraha, March 18The Doraha police claimed to have arrested a proclaimed offender (PO) from the bus stop here yesterday. He was accused of killing a resident of Sherpur Khurd due to rash driving in the year 2012.Kulwant Singh Billu of Talwandi Rai, Ludhiana, who was driving a truck, had allegedly crushed one Kamaljeet Singh of Sherpur Khurd to death in the month of February in the year 2012 after which a case had been registered against him under Sections 279, 283, 304-A and 427 of the IPC. He was being tried in court where he managed to escape and was later declared a PO.Hawaldar Harnek Singh of Doraha on a tip-off nabbed Kulwant Singh Billu as he was trying to board a bus from the bus stand of Doraha for Ludhiana yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/po-arrested-by-doraha-police-227412
19-03-2021||....Violation of guidelines.....||Six landlords booked for violations||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 18The police registered five cases against landlords for allegedly violating guidelines regarding the registration of tenants.The first case was registered by the Ladhowal police station against Sohan Singh of Hambran. The accused had built rooms at Gobind Nagar, Hambran, which he had given on rent, but didn't register the tenants with the police.The PAU police registered a case against Vikram Baweja of Rishi Nagar and Narinder Kumar of Rishi Nagar as both had given their house on rent, but without registering the tenants with the police.The Sarabha Nagar police registered a case against Ajay Sharma of Ranjit Nagar. Cops said he had built a “vehra” (a common place where migrants live), and kept several tenants there without following the police guidelines.The police division No. 8 also registered a case against Naresh Kumar of Prem Nagar on the charges of same violations.The Tibba police registered a case against Uma Shankar of Amarjit Colony on similar charges.All these persons were arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/six-landlords-booked-for-violations-227414
19-03-2021||Ludhiana||DAV kids shine in KVPY aptitude test||Nursery wing holds ‘meet-n-greet’Ludhiana: The kindergarten wing of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School School, Shastri Nagar, was abuzz with joy and excitement as the new nursery students visited the school for a ‘Meet-n-Greet’ session. A havan was also organised to seek the blessings of the Almighty. A virtual orientation programme was also organised to familiarise students with the aims and objectives of the school. Principal Dr Paramjit Kaur wished the new students good luck for their future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dav-kids-shine-in-kvpy-aptitude-test-227417
