20-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports 373 new COVID cases, eight deaths||Ludhiana’s recorded an alarming 373 new coronavirus cases and eight deaths in the last 24 hours, district officials said.The district has been selling an uptick of cases since the beginning of this month, prompting the district administration to impose night curfew indefinitely from March 12. The district’s numbers, which have been in triple digits for most of March, shot past 300 on Friday.Eleven students, three teachers, a healthcare worker were among Saturday’s new cases. Forty-four new cases were from outside the district.Of the deaths, two were from Jalandhar, and one each from Amritsar, Sangrur, Fazilka, and Kapurthala.This takes the district’s infection numbers past 35,000—a number that includes patients from other districts of Punjab. Death toll stands at 1,620.The district has over 1,900 active cases. Fifteen people are critical and on ventilator support.Where Ludhiana standsCasesTotal: 35,247Patients from Ludhiana: 30,395Patients from outside: 4,852DeathsToll: 1,620Patients from outside: 545Patients from Ludhiana: 1,075Active cases: 1,918||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-373-new-covid-cases-eight-deaths-228073
20-03-2021||---||292 +ve, 4 succumb to Covid-19 in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 19Today, 292 people tested positive for Covid while four lost their life to the virus. Those who contracted virus include one cop, three healthcare workers, six teachers and six students. Now, the total positive cases are 30,066 while death toll is 1,073 in the district.Teachers, who tested positive today, include one each from Saint Soldier School, Jalandhar byepass, GMS, New Subhash Nagar, GSSS Gill,Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar, Harvest School, Jassowal, and BCM College, Samrala Chowk.The positive students’ include two pupils from GSS Multipurpose School, and one each from DD Jain College, Kidwai Nagar, Khalsa College for Girls, PAU and CFC School, Haibowal Kalan.Those, who lost their lives to Covid, include three females and one male in the age group of 32 to 72 years. The deceased belong to National Colony, Ajloud village (Samrala), Khanna, and Detwal.Now, the active cases in the district have reached 1,643 while 365 people were quarantined today.Meanwhile, continuing with the awareness drive, a team of the Health Department today visited shopping malls in the city to sensitise customers and the sales staff about Covid norms in order to prevent the situation go out of control.The Ludhiana Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar, said, “If precautions are not taken, the situation can go out of control.We should not wait for such time to come. So, all should follow norms religiously. The second wave can also be handled easily if we wear mask, follow social distancing and wash our hands regularly.“Only public can end this pandemic. The government can only help, but here the main contribution will be of the people,” he added.The block extension educator, Jagjeevan Sharma, said, “During today’s visit to malls, we found people taking Covid norms lightly. Though, there is thermal screening at entry points, the moment people enter malls they removed their face masks, which should not be done.”“Salespersons, store managers and customers in malls have been asked to follow the Covid norms. They also have been made aware about the ongoing vaccination drive,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/292-ve-4-succumb-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana-227852
20-03-2021||---||First street vending zone to be set up on Hambran Road||Ludhiana, March 19The Municipal Corporation’s Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) approved around 100 more proposals today.It was the third meeting of the F&CC this week.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said more than 300 proposals, mostly related to development works, were approved at these meetings.The panel has given approval for the construction of compost pits at the parks in Zones A, B and C. The first vending zone for street vendors is going to be set up on Hambran Road near the dairy complex at an estimated cost of Rs1.3 crore. The panel gave its approval for the same.The Govind Gaudham demanded from the MC to increase the daily fee which they charged to look after the stray cows. At present, the MC pays Rs30 per cattle per day to the Govind Gaudham. However, the final decision in this regard would be taken at the upcoming house meeting of the civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/first-street-vending-zone-to-be-set-up-on-hambran-road-227853
20-03-2021||Nitin Jain||Police crack the whip on underage drivers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 19With young children below the qualifying age of 16 years posing major risk to their as well as others’ lives while driving on city roads, the traffic wing of the Commissionerate Police have launched a special drive to crack the whip on underage drivers in Ludhiana district.At least 685 violators, mostly young students, were challaned in the weeklong first phase of the crusade. Over two lakh children studying in 1,068 schools across the district were sensitised through a special information, education and communication (IEC) campaign undertaken through power point presentations (PPTs) and study material circulated online to them, their parents, and teachers.“We have spread special enforcement teams, comprising 70 officials, across Ludhiana to educate youngsters and their parents about the law related to underage driving and enforce the same,” the Commissioner of Police (CP), Rakesh Agrawal, told The Tribune, here on Friday.The DCP (Traffic), Saumya Mishra, who led the campaign, said in view of the increasing accidents and loss of lives due to underage driving in the past few months, this special drive was undertaken to check and counsel illegal drivers on roads.Official data for 2020 was analysed keeping parameters of age and location as primary focus and places for enforcement were decided for effective checking, the DCP (Traffic) added.Of the total 91 black spots identified in Ludhiana, five were in front of schools, and some near educational institutions, including coaching centres, the DCP (Traffic) said.“Keeping this in mind, we rotated our enforcement teams and also took feedback from social media, besides seeking suggestions from the public,” the DCP (Traffic) added.The first leg of the drive, which got underway on March 12 and continued till March 18, discouraged youngsters from underage driving by deputing traffic cops around school areas during afternoons and malls/market areas in the evening hours, the DCP (Traffic) said.All 1,068 schools in Ludhiana were emailed PPTs and an advisory was circulated through online modes to students, parents, and teachers the DCP (Traffic) added.Pamphlets related to specific laws were distributed among schools for further sharing them with their students, parents, and teachers, the DCP (Traffic) added. It was done to make parents realise that it was their responsibility to stop underage children from driving, the DCP (Traffic) said.Once underage drivers were stopped on the road, the official present on the spot counselled them for five minutes with the help of education material/pamphlets to make them aware of the dangers involved in underage driving, the DCP (Traffic) added.The weeklong drive brought to fore strange excuses given and pleas made before the enforcement officials. “My child had left just now”. “I was unwell, so he took the vehicle to bring medicines”. “It’s his first time, please excuse him”. “She doesn’t listen to me”. These were few of the many excuses given by parents when cops called them after catching their children on the wrong side of the law.“In fact we even called parents on-the-spot and tried explaining them the dangers involved, but they have been giving excuses,” the DCP (Traffic) shared, while adding that parents were found more responsible for letting their underage children take to driving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-crack-the-whip-on-underage-drivers-227854
20-03-2021||---||Parking contractor among two held with 16 stolen luxury vehicles||Ludhiana, March 19A parking contractor was the among two arrested by the police for running a gang of vehicles lifters. The police have recovered 16 luxury vehicles from him.The arrested suspects have been identified as Amanpreet Singh of Dugri and the parking site contractor, identified as Micky Sahni, a resident of Sector 32-A, Chandigarh.The Commissioner of Police (CP), Rakesh Agrawal, DCP SPS Dhindsa and ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti addressed a press conference regarding the arrest of vehicle thieves here today.Recently, the police started a campaign to nab an inter-state gang involved in vehicle thefts, the CP said. During this drive, the police nabbed a parking contractor and one of his aides, the CP added. The gang used to steal luxury vehicles, which they parked in their parking lot, the CP said. After finding clients, the gang delivered stolen vehicles to them from the parking lot, the CP added.“Usually, the police do not check parking lots. After this racket surfaced, the police started checking parking lots and recovered luxury vehicles, which were stolen by the gang. The gang could also have sold many stolen vehicles after preparing fake documents. Further probe will be conducted to bust the entire racket,” the CP said.The police will not allow any parking lot if it is running illegally or without valid permission from the Municipal Corporation, the CP added.“The police have also started a survey to check such parking lots, which are being used for illegal purposes,” the CP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parking-contractor-among-two-held-with-16-stolen-luxury-vehicles-227855
20-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Confusion among teachers, kids as exams rescheduled||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 19Owing to a surge in coronavirus cases, the state government today announced the closure of schools and colleges till March 31.This has led to a sigh a relief among teachers, parents and students in government schools as there was a huge jump in the cases reported from school.The closure has also led to confusion among school authorities over the final examinations of non-board classes as lakhs of students were in the middle of their final exams.Teachers said rescheduled dates had not been announced yet and there was confusion whether schools would open after March 31.On Thursday, the local Education Department issued a letter to schools that in case any question-paper got leaked for the non-board classes, school principals or heads would be held responsible. The letter has not gone down well with teachers, heads and principals of many schools, who felt that the department must not put undue pressure on them as they also had to adhere to several other duties in Covid times.“The closure of schools has brought respite. We were feeling over-burdened as extra precautions were being taken during examinations and we were worried about the safety of students and teachers. But on the other hand, such letters have put additional burden on the school staff,” said a teacher of a government school at Haibowal Kalan.One of the school heads of a government middle school here said the department was shrugging off from its responsibility by simply issuing such orders in the times of the pandemic.At the same time, many teachers also feel that students would not be able to focus as they would have to take the exams again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/confusion-among-teachers-kids-as-exams-rescheduled-227857
20-03-2021||---||Safai Mazdoor Assn protests, demands regularisation of jobs||Ludhiana, March 19 The members of the Punjab Safai Mazdoor Federation staged a protest today outside the Mayor’s camp office, demanding regularisation of jobs of contractual employees. The protesters said many contractual employees, including safai karamcharis, sweepers and others, have been working in various government department for a long time now and it was high time that their jobs be regularised. Arun Bhatti of the union said: “I am not working with the MC but as a community leader, I participated in the protest to show my support.” The protestors said the contractual sanitation workers had been working on low salaries for a long time. “It is difficult for these employees to run their families with a low income. The government should regularise the jobs of all sanitation workers. If jobs are not regularised, we will intensify our agitation,” the protestors said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/safai-mazdoor-assn-protests-demands-regularisation-of-jobs-227858
20-03-2021||---||Ludhiana police award winners of road safety awareness month||Ludhiana, March 19The Ludhiana police today honoured student winners in various competitions organised under the Road Safety Awareness Month on the theme ‘Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha’.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, DCP Traffic Saumya Mishra, Joint CP Deepak Pareek, ACP Traffic Gurdev Singh gave away the prizes at a ceremony organised at Police DAV Public School.The ceremony was organised in association with Gulzar Group of Institutes. The competition, organised from January18-February 17, gave students an opportunity to create awareness through posters and paintings among the masses for safe driving.Police DAV Public School authorities said it was a proud moment for the school that of the 27 winning entries, as many as 26 were bagged by the students of the school.CP Agrawal applauded the efforts of students and said traffic awareness was of the utmost importance for everyone. He also made students aware with the ‘Underage Driving Campaign’ initiated by the Ludhiana traffic police with the aim to discourage them to drive before the legal age of 18.He also felicitated Police DAV Public School principal Dr Anu Verma and Gulzar Group of Institutes managing director Harkirat Singh with certificates of appreciation for spreading traffic awareness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-police-award-winners-of-road-safety-awareness-month-227859
20-03-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Ahmedgarh police arrest kingpin, accomplice of snatchers’ gang||The Ahmedgarh police today claimed to have solved three cases of snatching and theft by arresting the kingpin of a gang of snatchers and his woman accomplice. A motorcycle, golden earrings and cash was recovered from the arrested accused. The arrested accused have been identified as Harjinder Singh Dalla of Tunga village and his accomplice, Seema Rani of Chheentawala village in Sangrur district. Ahmedgarh DSP Rajan Sharma said a police team, led by SHO Amargarh Sukhdeep Singh, arrested the accused on the basis of the information received from victims from whom cash and valuables had been snatched on different occasions. The police is yet to identify other accomplices of the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ahmedgarh-police-arrest-kingpin-accomplice-of-snatchers-gang-227860
20-03-2021||---||Govt school building in Bhundari village completed||Ludhiana, March 19Taking forward its initiative to upgrade the infrastructure of government schools in Ludhiana, CII completed the construction of a government senior secondary school in Bhundari village.The school has been constructed with the support and cooperation from one of its member companies, Ralson (India) Ltd, under its CII CSR programme.Besides the construction of a school in Bhundari village, toilet block for students with latest infrastructure has also been constructed in Government Senior Secondary School in Ayali Khurd village.The school in Bhundari village was inaugurated in the presence of Ludhiana ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar and CII Ludhiana Zonal Council.Sandeep Kumar said: “Ensuring good education at the grass-root level is one of the areas that need development. Industry can play a meaningful role in making it possible through such initiatives. It can ensure that children of underprivileged sections are provided quality education in a conducive environment, which will help them become responsible citizens and contribute in nation building.”Sanjeev Pahwa, former chairman, CII Punjab State Council, and managing director at Ralson (India) Limited, shared his experience on how it was made possible to transform the school building and infrastructure. He said investment in education infrastructure, especially at the school level, is equivalent to investing in creating leaders for tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-school-building-in-bhundari-village-completed-227861
20-03-2021||Anil Datt||Abhijeet’s century leads Punjab XI to third win||Ludhiana, March 19An unbeaten century by opener Abhijeet Garg, his second in three matches, powered Punjab XI script a comprehensive victory by 7 wickets against the Rest of Punjab XI Green in the ongoing Trident PCA Cup Triangular Series played at the HDCA ground, Hoshiarpur on Friday.This was Punjab XI’s third consecutive win. They had defeated Rest of Punjab XI Red by six wickets and then thrashed the Rest of Punjab XI Green by 153 runs. With this victory, Punjab XI have assured themselves a berth in the best of three finals. Punjab XI skipper, Vinay Chaudhary won the toss and invited the opponents to bat first.After a cautious start, Rest of Punjab XI Red managed to score a respectable total of 202 runs after losing six wickets. The main architects of their innings were Naman Dhir (56 runs off 84 balls), Harjot Dhawan (57 runs off 69 runs) and Prashant Ahlawat (34 runs off 38 balls).For Punjab XI, Gaurav Chaudhary was the most successful bowler, who chipped in with three wickets for 16 runs while Gurnoor Brar, Abhinav Sharma and Akul Pandove captured apiece each.Punjab XI consumed only 33.2 overs to overhaul rivals’ score after losing just three wickets. The highlight of their innings was an unbeaten century by Abhijeet Garg, who remained unconquered on 129 which came off 111 balls with the help of 14 fours and 4 sixes.This was second ton by Abhijeet in three matches. In the opening match of this series, played on March 15 at Amritsar, he scored 112 runs against the Rest of Punjab XI Red and helped his team wrap up the issue comfortably by six wickets.Other notable contributors were Aarush (21 runs off 17 balls), Ramandeep (18 runs off 28 balls) and Gaurav Chaudhary (27 runs off 37 balls).Aditya, Taranpreet Brar and Harjot Dhawan claimed one wicket each for the losing side. For his outstanding batting display, Abhijeet Garg was adjudged Man of the Match.The next match is slated for March 21 between Rest of Punjab XI Red will take on the Rest of Punjab XI Green.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/abhijeets-century-leads-punjab-xi-to-third-win-227862
20-03-2021||Ludhiana||Man held with illegal weapon||Thieves target showroomLudhiana: Thieves targeted mobile showroom Anmol Marketing at Bahadur ke road in Bharti Colony Chowk and decamped with mobile phones worth over Rs2 lakh. The miscreants were captured on CCTV cameras and the police started probe to identify them.Rakesh Garg, owner of the showroom, said he had locked the showroom last night and this morning he came to know that the locks of the main door were lying broken. He reached the spot and found the entire showroom ransacked. As per the CCTV cameras, four thieves can be seen breaking open the main shutter and then entering the showroom. Cops have initiated a probe and registered a case against unknown persons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-with-illegal-weapon-227866
20-03-2021||Ludhiana||UBS holds webinar on start-ups||Webinar on national edu policyKhanna: The IQAC cell of Gobindgarh Public College, Alour (Khanna), organised a webinar on National Education Policy 2020. Dr Krishan Kant, Principal, Aggarwal PG College Ballabgarh, Haryana; and Dr RS Jhanji, Principal, AS College, Khanna, were the resource persons. College principal Dr Neena Seth Pajni expressed the concerns and apprehensions associated with the new policy but said she was optimistic that NEP 2020 would improve the education system. ocfield workshop on concreteLudhiana: GNDEC School of Architecture, in collaboration with a private firm, conducted a one-day hands-on workshop on concrete at their plant in Focal Point. Students worked on different proportions of materials to prepare on various grades of concrete. Prof Akanksha Sharma, head of the school, laid stress on the significance of material knowledge for the students. TNSEvent management exam resultsLudhiana: Students of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women brought laurels to the college by performing well in Advanced Diploma Course in Event Management examination. Karishma Mehta and Sangeeta Kumari scored 92 per cent each. Sapna secured 91.50 per cent followed by Pooja Mehta and Kashika Bhatia, who obtained 91 per cent each. Chairman of the college Sukhdev Raj Jain, managing committee and staff members congratulated the students. TNSVarsity organises online eventLudhiana: University organised e-Dhanak 2021, a mega online event, in which students from 47 schools of the region participated. The event was inaugurated by Chancellor Charanjit S Channi, managing director Manbir Singh, vice-chairman Harpreet Singh and Vice Chancellor Dr Harsh Sadawarti. As many as 16 events — Sur Sartaj, folk dance, painting, cartooning, poster making, rangoli, elocution, quiz, clay modelling — were held during the event. TNSDBU marks Women’s DayLudhiana: A program dedicated to Women’s Day was organised at Desh Bhagat University. The programme also marked the silver jubilee celebrations of Desh Bhagat Ayurvedic College and Hospital. The program was presided over by Chancellor Dr Zora Singh. Students and staff of the university were made aware of the importance of physical and mental health in modern times. TNSOnline poem recitation contestLudhiana: Students of Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College brought laurels to the college by performing excellently in an online poem recitation and elocution competition organised by Dev Samaj College of Education for Women, Ferozepur. Rishabh Gambhir of MCom II bagged first position in elocution and Kartik Sharma of MCom II won the consolation prize in poem recitation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ubs-holds-webinar-on-start-ups-227871
20-03-2021||Ludhiana||15 held with intoxicants worth Rs 54 crore||In one of the biggest crackdowns on drug networking cartels, the Ludhiana Police Commissionerate busted an inter-state gang of drug syndicates supplying illegal psychotropic drugs with the arrest of 15 persons and seizure of 66,99,719 intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrups worth Rs 54 crore in the market.Reward sought for police officialsCP Rakesh Agrawal said for this huge recovery, he was writing to the DGP for awarding DGP Disc to the cops involved in the operation, namely Joint CP Deepak Pareek, ADCP Pragya Jain, ACP Waryam Singh and others.The police also recovered drug money of Rs 5.44 lakh. A godown located at Partapur, Meerut (UP), was also busted by the Ludhiana Police Commissionerate team. In a meticulously planned operation executed over 18 days under the leadership of Rakesh Agrawal, CP, Ludhiana and guidance of Deepak Pareek, Joint CP, a team conducted raids and busted the illegal pharma manufacture-diversion-supply nexus with the registration of six FIRs and arrest of 15 persons, four of whom were nabbed from Meerut.Agrawal said on March 1, the police arrested Anup Kumar Sharma with the recovery of 1,29,200 intoxicating tablets. This further led to arrest of Kuldeep Kumar, alias Bijli, with 850 intoxicants, Babul, alias Boby Chor, with 760 intoxicants, Kamaljeet Singh with 825 intoxicants, Karamjeet, alias Prince, with 790 intoxicants, Kulwinder Kumar, alias Babbu, with 780 intoxicants. Subsequently, five more FIRs were filed.A number of money transfer agents and suppliers were also arrested for actively facilitating the illegal psychotropic drug trade. Bank accounts used for money transactions/payments for drug consignments have been frozen.“These pharmaceutical opioids cannot be sold without a valid medical prescription from a registered medical practitioner. Active drug users commonly use these as a substitute for opiods (opium and heroin) due to low cost and over the counter availability. Inappropriately high doses of these intoxicants can produce respiratory depression and circulatory failure leading to drug overdose death. Use of injections include risks of blood borne viral infections like hepatitis and AIDS if injection equipment is shared or used in a non-sterile manner,” Agrawal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/15-held-with-intoxicants-worth-rs-54-crore-227762
