22-03-2021|| What role authorities and parents can play in curbing underage driving?||Take action against violators, parents to curb trend||Underage driving puts the lives of commuters at risk along the life of the driver. The authorities concerned should check the Aadhaar cards (e-Aadhaar cards) of the drivers. Learner's licence should made be at the age of 15. Parents must not be influenced with the attitude of their children. They succumb to their demands without knowing the consequences. e-challans should be sent to the homes. Those without helmets should be penalised. These little efforts will lead to a great change in road safety.Deepanshi PassiParents must keep checkMany lives are at risk when minors go out for a joyride on the vehicles of their parents. We all are aware of the incident recently happened in the city which was the horrible consequence of rampant underage driving. Only parents can contribute the most to the growing problem. Only they can make their children know the risks of underage driving. Parents must remember 'a stitch in time saves nine'. Children are reflection of their parents. If parents drive with caution and obey the road safety laws, their children will also have more respect for traffic laws. Traffic officials should also punish the parents strictly whose underage ward is caught driving their vehicle.Gurpreet KaurDon't give vehicles to kidsParents should first of all not handover their vehicles to their children. School going students don't need to learn driving. Authorities should make sure that the school transport should be safe and cheap enough that all parents go for it. Schools should ban the entry of vehicles other than bicycles. Cameras inside and outside the school must be installed to check the law breakers. Local traffic police should not spare the underage drivers and take action against them.Amarpreet KaurCops must act strictly against defaultersUnderage driving is like shooting yourself in the foot. In the city, we see a number of children driving various vehicles which sometimes lead to fatal road crashes. A sincere concern of parents is mandatory for the safety of their children. They must not allow their children to drive before 18. Along with parents' contribution, the authorities concerned must make stringent rules as present laws are not too tough to stand against this problem. They should timely check the licences of minors and penalise them in the best possible way so that they never repeat this illegal action in future. Kamaldeep KaurTeach them about law in schoolsTo save precious lives from the dangers of underage driving, first of all, the youth themselves realise that what they are doing is illegal. They must be taught about this in the schools. Secondly, the parents should ensure that the children who do not possess driving licence should in no case be allowed to take out any. They must be very strict on this matter. The third method, of great and real importance is in the hands of the local police. The police must act strict, set up 'nakas' on the roads and challan the defaulters who drive motorised two-wheelers scooter or four-wheeler vehicles without having licence to drive, confiscate the vehicle, and punish such drivers vary heavily with fine, including imprisonment. When all these three modes of operation work together, driving of vehicles by the youth without having a proper driving licence can be checked and thereby many lives on the roads due to accidents will be saved.Gautam DevMake cycling mandatory for minorsUnderage driving is the reason behind many accidents. However, as the offender is a minor, no strict punishment is given to them. Underage persons are taking advantage of these regulations of the law. Children must be taught about the disadvantages of underage driving. Parents and teachers are equally responsible for the attitude and behaviour of the kids. At the school level, seminars and workshops must be organised to teach the students about the ill-effects of underage driving. Cycling must be made mandatory for children up to the age of 18 years in schools. It will also help to keep the children in fit and healthy condition. Moreover, the consumption of petrol and diesel will also go down as well as the level of air pollution. The police must take strict action against the parents whose child has been found in underage driving. For the safety of children while cycling, traffic must be controlled by the police effectively.Ritu PriyaParents to blameA spurt in underage driving has been observed since past few years. Most of the times, it is the fault of the parents who gives the keys to children. In schools, we have observed that the school authorities allow students to come by two-wheelers but they are not allowed to come by four-wheelers to ensure the safety of the students itself. Even rules have been made and challans are taken by the policeman but people take this very frequently, hence some strict actions must be taken by the authorities such as vehicles must be confiscated. Parents should be stricter and should visualise their children timely. They should tell their children about traffic rules. Driving without a licence is a petty crime so children should not disobey these safety rules.Simarjot KaurIssue advisoriesIt is the responsibility of parents not to allow their children to drive before the age of 18 years. Teachers and elders must tell children that how it becomes fatal for them and others. Some short documentaries must be shown to kids so that they may be aware the ill-effects of underage driving. The Transport Department should challan such violators along with their parents and must impose heavy fine. Parents who are allowing underage children should not be allowed to drive for three years. It is the prime duty of parents to educate children not to drive before the qualifying age for driving. The traffic police must release advisories to parents and elders to cooperate in the mission so that the precious lives of their kids and othersmay be saved.Farzana KhanSpare the rod & spoil the childThough illegal underage driving is going on rampantly in different cities across the country. In Ludhiana, such cases are very high as defaulters have full support of their parents and cops are not allowed to punish them. This menace is responsible for many accidents and casualties. Young ones not only drive recklessly and often do triple riding and must be punished accordingly. Schools should also not allow the students who don't have a valid licence to park their scooters and bikes in the campus. We must not forget that 'Spare the rod and spoil the child' and in this issue authorities will have to be strict not only with the defaulters, but with parents too.Dr Sunil ChopraStrict punishment neededIt is shocking that many people lose their precious life due to reckless driving by underage drivers, who generally don't have a valid licence. Parents of these misguided children get pleasure when they see them driving but what they forget is that it's dangerous. By doing this their own and others life can be in danger. The government should make the laws for the stringent punishment both for parents and children.JBS NandaDon’t encourage themThere is a popular saying, Charity begins at home. So, children should be guided and advised by their parents only that underage driving is not only going to endanger their lives, but also of others. On the other hand irony is that Indian parents encourage their children to drive at a tender age. The school authorities can also play a vital role in curbing this problem. Seminars regarding road safety, poster making competitions, debates on the issue should be held regularly in schools so as to inculcate the sense of safe driving among teenagers. But, it is the parents only who can make a difference by being strict with their children regarding underage driving. They should not take pride to see their young children driving. So, the joint efforts by the parents and the school authorities can play a pivotal role in curbing this practice.Bir Devinder Singh BediIt’s a collective responsibilityIt is the collective responsibility of parents, teachers, local government and the police to curb the menace of underage driving. Parents should keep a strong vigil on their wards too. Teachers should give lectures and educate students about the serious consequences of underage driving. The police must take harsh steps such as impounding their vehicles and impose heavy fine on them. Each and every citizen should take this responsibility that they will stop children driving under age. We all should come forward to educate minors and teach them the bad effects of driving before age and should keep surveillance upon them. Each parent should cooperate to curb this problem as it is the joint responsibility of each member of our society.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiUse tech to nab offendersReckless driving, use of mobile phone for calling or texting, eating while driving, playing radio, driving sans helmets and seatbelts, jumping red traffic lights, overspeeding etc. are some of the major reasons of road accidents. Seatbelts should be compulsory and children of any age should not be seated in the front seat and violators should be punished by punitive measures. Speed monitoring cameras, radars and speed limiting governors in vehicles are useful devices in enforcing the speed limits. Drinking and driving should be strictly prohibiting by measures such as suspension of driving licence on the spot for six months or so. People should be sensitised and made more aware about road safety, as only measures by government are not sufficient only, if public is not aware about road safety.Dr Jasdeep KaurSpeed thrills, but killsToday, underage driving is a major concern. Many students often use mobile phones while driving. This can lead to fatal accidents. Heavy penalties must be imposed by the government against parents of underage drivers. If minors use two-wheelers to commute to school, it is the responsibility of the parents to bear the punishment, in case of any mishap. School managements should not allow a minor to come school on his/her personal vehicle. Parents and school management should join their hands with the police to curb the underage driving. A vehicle in the hands of an untrained person is a weapon, capable of inflicting serious harm.Tripti Jain||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/take-action-against-violators-parents-to-curb-trend-228832
22-03-2021||Anil Datt||Rest of Punjab XI Red enter finals||Ludhiana, March 21Thanks to unbeaten century by opener Mandeep Bawa (122*), Rest of Punjab XI Red today beat Rest of Punjab XI Green by three wickets in the penultimate league match in the ongoing PCA Trident Cup Triangular Series.The match was played at GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road.Batting first, Rest of Punjab XI Green scored 246 runs after losing six wickets. The highlight of their innings was a solid start by Naman Dhir and Venus Garg. The pair posted 66 runs for the opening wicket.Rest of Punjab XI Red began its innings on a positive note with openers Mandeep Bawa and Sahil Chander posting 71 runs on the board. Mandeep went on to hold one end till the end of the match. He faced 129 balls, hit 10 boundaries, two sixes and remained unbeaten on 122 runs to steer his team to a win.The last league match will be played between Punjab XI and Rest of Punjab XI Red at Hara School of Cricket ground, Baddowal, tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rest-of-punjab-xi-red-enter-finals-228792
22-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Teachers forced to attend schools sans students||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 21Teachers today protested against the state Education Department’s decision of making it mandatory for teachers to attend schools.The teachers asked the department what was the point of teachers attending the school when the government had announced the closure of educational institutes and holidays for students till March 31.Burn effigy of govt, Edu Dept Secy in protestTeachers burnt the effigies of the state government and Education Department Secretary for being ‘callous’ towards their demands. The teachers alleged that the officials in the department were working to the tunes of private players and due to privatisation, quality of education was being compromised.“Examining the present situation when Covid cases are on the rise, teachers feel that they should also not be asked to attend schools, especially when there are no students,” said a teacher.A teacher of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar Chowk, said most teachers thought that holidays were announced for both students and teachers but then many teachers received calls that holidays had been announced only for students and teachers were asked to report to school.“On reaching the school, we found that our attendance was marked for only half a day by school authorities. The government should have been clear in their instructions. It was unfair of the school authorities to mark us present for half day when instructions were not clear. More importantly, when there are no students, there is no point of teachers attending the school but since the government has not announced holidays for teachers, we will have to come to the school,” the teacher added.Meanwhile, the Democratic Teachers’ Front held a protest today against the government’s “anti-teacher” policies.Teachers burnt the effigies of the state government and Education Department Secretary for being ‘callous’ towards their demands. The teachers alleged that the officials in the department were working to the tunes of private players and due to privatisation, quality of education was being compromised.The teachers said earlier, the government had made changes under the “rationalising” move, which were completely anti-teachers and now, teachers were being asked to report to duties in government schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-forced-to-attend-schools-sans-students-228793
22-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Will raise matter before CM, says Cong MLA||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 21It has been 20 days since the city police booked BJP leader Satish Nagar in the drug haul case but the police are still tight-lipped about the role of the leader in the case.Three more people — Anup Sharma, Hemant and Rajinder — have been booked in the case.The police have arrested 15 more persons, including from Meerut, with the recovery of 66.99 lakh more intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrups worth Rs 54 crores.The police are neither giving a clean chit to the leader nor are holding him guilty.Rakesh Pandey, Congress MLA from north constituency, said a separate probe should be conducted on the fact that at whose behest BJP leader Satish Nagar was taken to the police station and at whose behest he was released.The MLA appreciated the bust by the police but asked the officials that why they were not able to clear the role of Satish Nagar.“I will take up the matter with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and will urge him to take strict action against all political leaders, be them from any party, involved in the drug racket,” Pandey said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/will-raise-matter-before-cm-says-cong-mla-228794
22-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||GLADA colony: House converted into hospital||Ludhiana, March 21Known for closing its eyes to blatant violations of building norms and illegal change of land use in most of its colonies, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has again been caught on the wrong foot for its failure to take any action against the allottee of a residential house at Urban Estate, Phase I, in Jamalpur, from where a full-fledged hospital is being run by the owner.In a complaint to GLADA chief administrator and other officials concerned, a resident of Basant Avenue, Dugri, Sukhbir Singh Sekhon, has asserted that as per information provided by the GLADA authorities under the Right to Information Act, the said house/plot was allotted for residential purpose but for the past many years a hospital was being run from its premises.“Commercial use of a house or plot allotted for residential purpose cannot be used for any other (including commercial/institutional) purpose as per terms and conditions of the allotment/sale letter. Violation of these terms and conditions render the allotted property for cancellation of the allotment as per rules and regulations governing allotment by PUDA/GLADA,” said the complainant.Citing information provided under the RTI Act by GLADA Public Information Officer-cum-ATP Gagandeep Singh through an affidavit dated March 4, 2021, Sekhon said it was stated by GLADA that the owner of the property (plot no 567) in Urban Estate, Phase I, Jamalpur, was neither issued any NOC for commercial use nor any notice by the authorities. The owner had not obtained any approval for the commercial use of the house.The complainant said as per his knowledge, the hospital had a domestic electricity connection and also, the user charges (water and sewerage) were also being paid by the consumer on domestic rates, thereby causing a loss of revenue to the government.Alleging that field staff and officials concerned were well aware of the violations and might be conniving with the house owner, Sekhon urged senior officials to hold a probe into the matter and take action as per law against the violator for the commercial use of the residential property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-colony-house-converted-into-hospital-228798
22-03-2021||---||8 deaths, 330 positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 21Today, 330 persons tested positive for Covid while eight lost their lives to the virus in the district. The total number of positive cases from the district have now reached 30,725 while 1,083 persons have lost their lives so far since March 2020.Those who tested positive today include a policeman, four health workers, two pre-operative cases, three teachers, an employee of a school and 10 students.The three teachers who tested positive today belong to GGN Khalsa College, Civil Lines, GSSS, Dhadahoor and GSSS, Libra. The students who tested positive today include a student from GNE College, one student from Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar, four students from GSSS, Chak Kalan, and four students from GSSS Multipurpose School. An employee of the GHS, Hissowal, has also tested positive.The majority of those who lost their lives today belong to rural areas. Of the eight deceased persons, seven belong to rural areas that included Bhamaddi, Shahpur Payal village, Sahjimajra village, Bhutta village, Jawaddi and two from Samrala. A patient was from BRS Nagar. Except for one patient, all others were hypertensive and diabetic.“Now the Covid wave is more active in villages and people in rural areas need to be careful. The problem is that rural people visit hospitals late and when they come, they are in a serious condition due to which they lose their lives. Anybody who is experiencing even mild symptoms of the virus should consult a doctor,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state government.Today, the total active patients were 1,946 while 333 persons were home quarantined. As many as 17 patients were on ventilator support of which six belong to Ludhiana district while the remaining are from other districts.So far, 7,46,081 samples have been collected and 3,923 were taken today and reports of 536 are awaited.Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar said only public could end the pandemic. The government could only help but the main contribution has to be made by the public. “The second wave can also be handled easily if we keep our mask on and follow social distancing and wash our hands regularly,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-deaths-330-positive-in-ludhiana-228786
22-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj---||Violations despite surge in Covid cases||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, March 21 Despite police claims that markets and public places are being strictly monitored in their jurisdiction to curb the spread of Covid-19, people can be seen flouting norms blatantly, especially during daytime.   Markets witness a huge rush of commuters during the daytime, with social-distancing norms nowhere in place. Even during the curfew hours, some ice-cream parlours and eateries attend to customers in the presence of police personnel patrolling the area.   The Covid-19 norms are being violated at various places in the city, with people in markets in Haibowal, Gill Road area, Jalandhar bypass, Basti Jodhewal, Samrala chowk not adhering to social distancing norm and roaming without face masks.   A similar situation was observed in markets in the old city area — Clock Tower, Railway Road, Chaura Bazaar, Gurh Mandi, Kesar Ganj Mandi, Saban Baazaar, Pindi street and Daresi.   Even at bus stops, many people were seen without face masks and not maintaining social distancing.     Several ice-cream parlours and liquor vends in the city have been completely ignoring curfew hours and are attending customers after 9 pm. A famous ice- cream shop at Fountain Chowk is among the violators.  Police vehicles often cross Fountain Chowk but no action has been taken against the violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/violations-despite-surge-in-covid-cases-228787
22-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ex-sarpanch’s arrest sought in rape case||Allegations of rape were levelled against a former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sarpanch of Gill village here, Baljit Singh, alias Shamsher Singh. Sitting sarpanch of the Congress Mika Gill while addressing mediapersons at the Circuit House here said today that an FIR was registered against Baljit  at the Dehlon police station but the police have failed to nab the accused despite repeated requests. Mika alleged that former sarpanch Baljit had illicit relations with a widow schoolteacher, whom he had taken to various places such as Dharamsala, McLeodganj and other places for committing rape. He alleged that the man was having an illicit relationship with the teacher for four years and he had also made an obscene video of the victim. He continued to physically exploit and blackmail her using the video. The accused  had promised the victim that he would marry her but he refused later. The sarpanch said the accused had raped the woman at a hotel in Chandigarh after giving her a sedative-laced drink. He had also made a video of the act. After four years of exploitation, the victim gave a complaint to the Ludhiana Police Commissioner, following which an FIR was lodged on March 12. Mika said if the police fail to arrest the accused,  they would move the HC against the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ex-sarpanchs-arrest-sought-in-rape-case-228788
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Rs 6.84-crore recarpeting project opened||Ludhiana, March 21 Punjab Minister for Food, Supplies and Consumer Affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu today inaugurated the Rs 6.84 crore road recarpeting project on Hambran Road and two blocks in the Maharaishi Valmiki Nagar colony of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) here. He was accompanied by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramanium, councillor of Ward No. 73 Seema Kapoor and PPCC Secretary Sunil Datt. Speaking on the occasion, the minister claimed that the government, along with Congress-led civic body in the industrial capital of the state, was committed to provide all basic amenities, good urban infrastructure and other facilities to residents. He also spoke about various major undergoing development projects under the Smart City Mission while asserting that once the projects were completed, the city would become a better place to live in. The Mayor said the stretch of Hambran Road from Dandi Swami Gaushala (near dairy complex) to Haibowal Chowk would be reconstructed at a cost of around Rs 4 crore and interlocking tiles would be laid all along on the pavement at an expenditure of Rs 2.27 crore. The roads/streets in F block and Z block of Maharishi Valmiki Nagar would be recarpeted at an estimated cost of Rs 39 lakh and Rs 18 lakh, respectively, said LIT chairman Raman Balasubramanium. Sunil Kapoor, Sandeep Salwan, Aruna Puri, Pinki Kad, Satish Thamman and Rajiv Kapila wer among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-6-84-crore-recarpeting-project-opened-228789
22-03-2021||---||Shopkeeper booked in sexual harassment case||Ludhiana, March 21 The Jagraon police registered a case against a man on the charges of sexually harassing a woman today. The accused has been identified as Surinderpal Singh of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Jagraon. He runs Kaler Auto Scooter Bazaar and deals in sale and purchase of used vehicles. The complainant, a resident of Kamalpura village, told the police that she had purchased a scooter from the accused. “The shop owner did not tell me that the loan amount was still unpaid on the scooter,” the complainant said. “I asked him to return my money. He called me to a place in Jagraon  and tried to sexually exploit me,” the complainant added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shopkeeper-booked-in-sexual-harassment-case-228790
22-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Property tax: Wrong assessment, ‘conniving’ employees main factors behind poor recovery||Ludhiana, March 21The Municipal Corporation top brass has lost no time in patting themselves on their backs for recovery of Rs 1 crore as part of arrears towards property tax from the company operating the general bus stand here recently.Of the total unpaid amount of around Rs 9 crore, the MC was able to recover only Rs 1 crore. The MC authorities have conveniently chosen not to fix the responsibility of staff and officials entrusted with the task of assessment and recovery of taxes.As per the data made available by the MC against the targeted collection of Rs 130 crore from property tax, the total collection till now is around Rs 85 crore (a shortfall of around 35 per cent).On one hand, the civic administration continues to cry over lack of resources and funds for the execution of development works in the city and on the other, poor track record of recovery of taxes and user charges as well as the mess created by field staff (inspectors) in wrong assessment of property tax has been making a big dent in tax receipts of the MC.“Rather than praising self over the collection of a fraction of the total arrears from the bus stand company, the MC authorities ought to introspect and take a realistic stand to haul up staff and officials for their failure to recover due tax on time and let the arrears mount,” says Gurdeep Singh Gosha, Youth Akali Dal president.Sources in the MC disclosed that a recent inspection by the MC authorities into the assessment of property tax had led to startling revelations and big lapses on the part of field staff as the assessing officials had shown undue favour to tax payers by way of under-valuation of rental income and less area of commercial and industrial properties, overlooking actual rental income of property owners from their tenants. This has caused huge revenue losses to the MC.To make matters worse, the assessed property tax was also not being recovered in an effective manner and a long rope was being given to defaulters, asserted sources, adding that the practice of drastically reducing tax liability by fudging the data and official records was another factor leading to poor recovery of tax.Moreover, the MC field staff was not putting in efforts to recover property tax from government offices who had huge arrears, as there were no chances of making any ‘easy’ money for themselves, said the sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/property-tax-wrong-assessment-conniving-employees-main-factors-behind-poor-recovery-228791
22-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||2nd Covid-19 peak likely to be more severe: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21The second Covid peak is yet to come and is expected to be higher than the first one. By the end of this week, almost 3,000 cases a day can be expected.The state witnessed first Covid peak was on September 17 last year, when 2,896 cases were reported. The highest single day deaths (106) were reported on September 2. Today, 2,669 cases were reported, though the fatality rate slightly came down to less than three.44 more die in Punjab as nation sees highest single-day Covid cases since NovemberA study by Ludhiana-based Christian Medical College, based on mathematical calculations, has predicted that the state could see the peak again later this week and through the first week of April. This will be followed by a flattening of the curve, but when the decline in daily cases will start cannot be predicted immediately, says Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla tests positive, no Deputy Speaker to preside over HouseThis is why it is important to gear up all healthcare infrastructure immediately and ensure that all protocols are followed strictly by the people, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan tells The Tribune. Managing the state’s strategy to deal with the second wave of the pandemic, Mahajan says that the government’s focus is on saving lives as well as livelihoods.Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat tests positive for coronavirusAsked about the possibility of imposing another lockdown, the Chief Secretary says that there is no situation, as of now, of bringing the economic activities to a halt.“Hopefully, with the cooperation of the people, wherein they follow all norms, we will come out of the dire situation,” she says. “Of the 1,500 beds in level-3 facilities, 22 per cent are occupied and of the 8,000 level-2 facilities, 15 per cent are occupied,” she says. ‘3,000 cases by weekend’What CMC saysA study by Ludhiana-based Christian Medical College has predicted that the state could see the peak again later this week and through the first week of April||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2nd-covid-19-peak-likely-to-be-more-severe-study-228640
