23-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana breaches 400-mark; reports 412 cases and 11 deaths||Ludhiana reported 412 cases and 11 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the district's death total to 1,648. The deaths include 559 from out of the station. Ludhiana's total number of coronavirus cases stands at 36,426, including 4,996 from other districts. The fresh cases included nine teachers, three students, two healthcare workers, two international travellers, and 48 out-of-district patients. The fresh casualties include two from Jalandhar, one each from Ferozepur, Nawanshahr, Sangrur, Barnala, and Fatehgarh Sahib.The active cases touched 2,305, including 139 from other districts. The condition of 14 patients was reported to be critical and was put on ventilator support. The district—which was under night curfew since March 12—has been witnessing a surge in daily fresh cases and deaths since March 13 with the figure crossing the 400-mark on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-breaches-400-mark-reports-412-cases-and-11-deaths-229397
23-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Mohali man made co-accused in FIR||Ludhiana, March 22The city police have nominated a Mohali resident, Vipin Kumar, as a co-accused in the FIR involving theft of luxury cars by an interstate gang busted with the arrest of parking contractor Micky Sahni and his accomplice Amanpreet Singh, both Ludhiana residents, here on March 18.The police had recovered 16 stolen luxury cars from the parking lots operated in the city by Sahni. These vehicles were reportedly stolen from various parts of Punjab and Delhi.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said during preliminary investigation, it was learnt accused Amanpreet Singh, alias Aman, had purchased some stolen vehicles from Vipin Kumar, alias Bhalu, a resident of Sector 79, Mohali. These cars were further sold to unsuspecting customers on the basis of forged and fabricated documents.“Accordingly, the name of Vipin Kumar has been added to the FIR lodged at the Sarabha Nagar police station under Sections 379, 411, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and teams have been formed to arrest the accused and conduct further investigation,” said the CP.The police said two more stolen cars were recovered on the basis of information provided by Amanpreet during police interrogation.Of the 18 cars recovered so far, four were found to have been stolen from Delhi. “We are in touch with the police stations where car theft cases had been registered,” Agrawal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mohali-man-made-co-accused-in-fir-229017
23-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Teachers express concern over pupils’ academic future||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 22The final board examinations of Class VIII, which were scheduled to commence from today, stand postponed till further instructions of the Education Department.Urge govt to take necessary stepsIn view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the state government has already announced to close schools and colleges till March 31.While the move to shut educational institutes may protect students from catching infection in schools, teachers have expressed concern over the future of students. They feel that classes are must for the students as majority of them belong to meagre families. In the absence of classes, parents have started sending their wards to work.A teacher at Government School for Boys near Bharat Nagar Chowk, on the condition of anonymity, said they are worried for the future of the students.“Last year, classes were online and many families had started sending their wards to work and earn after the lockdown period. We urged parents to send their wards for examinations. Now, again schools are shut and there are no further directions on remaining exams. Though board exams are planned for April, there is a dire need to keep the students busy during this period. They may not be willing to take exams and start earning livelihood. It was a testing time during Covid as many lost jobs etc. The government should make efforts to ensure that the students take exams for their better future,” said the teacher.The teachers said efforts are made to convince both the parents and students not to leave studies.“Many of the parents change their minds because their wards start earning. In that situation, the studies take a back-seat,” rued another teacher.Meanwhile, teachers have been asked to sit till 3:20 pm in schools and start checking the papers of students who had taken examinations of non-board classes. In addition, they are asked to solve the problems of students in case they are facing any problem, prior to the board exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-express-concern-over-pupils-academic-future-229235
23-03-2021||) went in vain as the Rest of Punjab XI Red lost by five wickets against Punjab XI in a rain hit||Abhinav steers Punjab XI to 5-wicket victory||However, the outcome of this tie did not make any difference as both these teams have already assured themselves berths in the best of three finals, scheduled to be held at the PCA Stadium, Mohali on March 24, 25 and 26.The start was delayed by over three hours as the outfield was not conducive for play due to early morning rain and was reduced to a 28-overs each side.Batting first, Rest of Punjab XI Red made 182 runs for the loss of three wickets in which the main contributors were Vishawanath Partap Singh and Gitansh Khera. Singh made 87 runs off 86 balls with the help of three sixes and seven boundaries while Khera remained unbeaten on 62.For Punjab XI, Ramandeep Singh, Akul Pandove and Vinay Chaudhary shared the bowling honours, grabbing one wicket each.Before, Punjab XI began its reply, it started raining again, forcing the players return to the pavilion and when the play resumed, the target was revised (165 runs to get in 24 overs).Punjab XI achieved the target after losing five wickets with two overs to spare. Abhinav Sharma was the top scorer who made 56 runs. Prabhjot Singh made 42 runs and Ramandeep Singh carried his bat after contributing 37 runs while Abhijeet Garg and Jashanpreet Singh scored 13 and 12 runs, respectively.For the losing side, Abhishek Bajaj claimed two wickets whereas Ekjot Singh Thind, Prerit Dutta and Deeping Chitkara captured one wicket each.Abhinav Sharma of Punjab XI was named the man of the match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/abhinav-steers-punjab-xi-to-5-wicket-victory-229236
23-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||2 booked for thrashing TV reporter||Ludhiana, March 22 The police have booked unidentified persons under sections 188, 341, 323, 427 of the IPC for allegedly beating up one Mohammed Rasheed, a resident of Green Enclave on Chuharpur Road, on Saturday night. The victim, claiming to be a reporter of a TV news channel. In his complaint to the police, Rasheed said when he was covering shops opened after hours stipulated in the night curfew, some persons, who were having liquor at an eatery, attacked him and his associate Vinay Pal. He said the assailants tore down their masks, snatched the microphone and also damaged windscreen of his car.  Sub-inspector assaulted The police have booked two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons under Sections 332, 333 and 353 of the IPC for assaulting Sub-Inspector Sodhi Lal. The cop, in his statement, said while he was issuing a challan to the bike-borne persons, they pushed him and fled from the spot. The police official sustained injury on his arm and was under treatment in the ESI Hospital. Covid norms’ violation Meanwhile, the city police arrested a man for violating Covid-related prohibitory orders. Tejinder Singh, a resident of Dr Gujjarmal Road, was arrested and charged under Section 188 of the IPC for serving food to customers after during the curfew.  Another person, identified as Sarfaraz, a resident of Bajra Colony, was arrested for failure to get police verification done of his tenants as per orders issued by the Police Commissioner.  A case under section 188 of the IPC was registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-booked-for-thrashing-tv-reporter-229237
23-03-2021||---||Office-bearers of Punjab CII elected||Ludhiana, March 22 During the first meeting of the newly elected state council, new office-bearers of the CII, Punjab, were elected today. Bhavdeep Sardana and Amit Thapar have been elected as the chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of the CII, Punjab chapter, for 2021-22. Bhavdeep Sardana is the senior VP and CEO at Sukhjit Starch and Chemicals Limited. He is responsible for successfully implementing repeated expansions at various units. He is actively engaged with the state governments and Centre on policies affecting agro-processing industry and ease of doing business reforms. He is also a member of the Punjab State Planning Board. Sardana will head the CII, Punjab, which comprises Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh and Mohali. Amit Thapar (47) is president of Ganga Acrowools Limited. He has completed his BE Industrial  & Production. He joined his maternal family business in 1999 and takes care of export marketing, new product and brand development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/office-bearers-of-punjab-cii-elected-229239
23-03-2021||---||‘Poultry farming holds bright future’||Ludhiana, March 22 The Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Extension Education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, organised a two-week basic training programme on poultry farming.  Dr Rajesh Kasrija and Dr Kulwinder Singh coordinated the training. They informed that the number of trainees were limited to 13 considering the Covid situation. The trainees were provided with basic knowledge on different aspects of poultry farming such as breeds and breeding techniques, feeding management of different categories of birds, day-to-day care and seasonal management, shed design and structures, weather management, light requirement, vaccination protocols, diseases and their prevention, value addition of egg and meat, economics of poultry farming business etc. Besides theoretical lectures, practical training on handling of birds, measuring vital parameters, signs of health was also provided to the trainees. Dr PS Brar, Director Extension Education, said the purpose of the training was to provide fundamental knowledge and support to the budding farmers for setting up their enterprise efficiently. He further added that the poultry meat and egg are a vital part of human diet and there is great scope and demand in market for value added products from poultry. Dr R K Sharma, prof-cum-head, said the department is regularly organising training programmes for dairy farming, goat farming and pig farming also. Interested farmers can contact at the Farmer Information Centre of the university for getting admission forms. The form can also be downloaded from the university website www.gadvasu.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/poultry-farming-holds-bright-future-229240
23-03-2021||Manav Mander||With rising cases, ‘coronaphobia’ emerges as new mental disorder||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 22Pandemic brought many new terms and words in our lives and ‘coronaphobia’ is one of them.With the graph of Covid cases rising once again panic has started gripping the mind of people even if they have a slightest bout of cough, cold or fever. People start considering them as a sign of Covid and become restless. ‘Coronaphobia’ is a new disorder.Symptoms include Palpitation, dizzinessAccording to Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, Professor of Psychiatry in Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, ‘coronaphobia’ has emerged as a new term for Covid-triggered anxiety in form of excessive worrying, constant over-thinking about getting infected, re-infected, whether or not getting vaccinated, etc. It leads to palpitation, tremors, difficulty in breathing, dizziness, change in appetite and sleep and a sense of fear to attend public gatherings and events.Dr Chaudhary strictly suggests that in such cases, self-medication should be completely avoided and one should not hesitate in getting vaccinated against covid, as already many frontline healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses, have been vaccinated.“The triggers involve situations where people generally get fear of getting Covid infection if they move outside their residential premises, meeting people and constantly reading the updates or news pertaining to Covid. For such people, there is considerable fear of using public transportation, touching any surface, being at open places (markets) and at enclosed places. It is felt that due to this obsessed thinking about Covid spread, people all the time indulge in such activities which never allow them to stay at peace with themselves,” said Dr Pankaj Kumar, Associate Professor of Psychiatry in DMCH.How to kill anxiety?Dr Pankaj Kumar suggests some remedial measures to get rid of this Covid-related anxiety:n Reassure yourself that nothing remains permanent. It is time to be aware of precautions required to restrict the spread of Covid pandemic and fight this virtual ‘coronaphobia’ with positive mindset and healthy outlook.n Instead of always hooking on to news pertaining to Covid, try spending time focusing on positive information, stories or activities that take your mind off your fears.Reduce over-thinking about your body and focus your mind on other things which brings happiness.nAdopt step-by-step approach to make you feel safe and slowly building up your confidence.n Channelise your anxiety into action by looking after your mental health, sleeping well, exercising, doing fun or relaxing indoor activities and staying socially connected by way of digital means.n In case of persistent symptoms, get help from qualified professionals and not search it on Net or Google.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/with-rising-cases-coronaphobia-emerges-as-new-mental-disorder-229241
23-03-2021||Ludhiana||Seminar on water conservation||The MC, Ludhiana, conducted a seminar on World Water Day at MC’s Zone D office on Monday. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh were among those who attended the seminar. Rajinder Singh said a discussion was conducted on how to save water as the groundwater was depleting in Ludhiana. He said 24x7 canal-based water supply in the city was also discussed during the event. MC officials said the canal-based water supply project would be launched soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seminar-on-water-conservation-229242
23-03-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU holds expert lecture series||The College of Animal Biotechnology (CoABT), GADVASU, has organised a series of expert lectures and training programmes to prepare students for national/international competitions under the ICAR scheme on “Strengthening and Development of Higher Education in India”. Dr YS Malik, Dean of the College, in his inaugural talk emphasised on the importance of artificial intelligence in day-to-day life, especially in animal health management. Professor NK Rakha, IIT-Ropar, deliberated talks about the artificial intelligence in animal health, carrier opportunities in biological sciences, and ABCD of happiness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-holds-expert-lecture-series-229243
23-03-2021||---||2 dead, 341 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 22As many as 341 persons tested positive for Covid, while two lost their lives to the virus in the district today. The total number of positive cases from the district has now reached 31,066, while 1,085 have lost their lives to the virus since the first case.Liquor vends open during curfewDespite night curfew in the district, liquor vends continue to remain open till late hours. The night curfew starts from 9 pm but majority of the liquor vends continue to serve the customers through back door. Liquor vends in BRS Nagar, Civil Lines, South City, Pakhowal Road and Railway Station were seen serving customers through closed doors till late night hours.Those who tested positive today include two healthcare workers, two international travellers from the UK and Dubai, five teachers, 13 students and seven staff members from educational institutes.Teachers who tested positive today are from GSSS, Jakhar, Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar, DAV Public School, Pakhowal Road, TCY Institute, BRS Nagar, and GPS, Khudani Kalan.Students who tested positive today are from PCTE College, Baddowal, GSSS, Chak Kalan (2), GMT International School, Inder Nagar, GSS Multipurpose School, GSSS, Rakba (4), GSSS, Gosla (4).Seven staff members of educational institutes also tested positive today — six from Government College for Girls and one from GSSS, Gosla.Two patients who lost their life today were both males — 55-year-old and 65-year-old, residents of Anand Enclave and Aman Nagar, respectively.There are 2,019 active patients in the district at present. Till date, 7,50,021 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 7,49,656 samples have been received, of which 7,13,642 samples were found negative, while report of 365 samples is pending. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 27,962, while 4,948 patients are from other districts/states.Till date, 62,612 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present the number of such persons is 3,775. Today, 180 persons were home quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-dead-341-test-positive-in-ludhiana-229245
23-03-2021||---||Taxi unions block NH-44 for over 2 hrs, commuters suffer||Ludhiana, March 22Commuters were a harried lot as members of various taxi unions blocked the National Highway-44 near Sherpur Chowk here for over two hours to mark their protest against the Centre and the state government.Bus passengers strandedA number of commuters who were forced to suffer today had to cover a long distance. Even some of them had to reach the Delhi airport to take their flights. Many passengers in buses on the Delhi-Amritsar route remained stranded.Following the call given by the All-India Sangharsh Committee, members of the All Punjab Taxi Trade Union, Azad Taxi Union, Punjab, and others gathered on the highway to stage the protest. They were opposing increase in permit charges by the Central Government and proposal of increase in tax on vehicle registration certificate by the state government. Meanwhile, a massive traffic jam was witnessed on the highway due to the protest.A number of commuters who were forced to suffer today had to cover a long distance. Even some of them had to reach the Delhi airport to take their flights. Many passengers in buses on the Delhi-Amritsar route remained stranded.When the protesters reached the highway, they sat on a protest. The police had reached the site but the matter could not be resolved timely. The protesters had blocked the traffic around 12:45 pm and they ended the protest around 3 pm. However, traffic jams were witnessed for more time even after they ended the protest.The protesters were demanding from the Central Government to stop the alleged harassment of taxi drivers. They wanted from the government to fix the tax slab to Rs 2,000 per seat. The protesters said: “The permit charges have been increased massively. In the name of national permit, the taxi drivers and owners are being forced to suffer. The highly increased permit charges must be revoked.”They also demanded from the state government to repeal the Punjab Motor Vehicles Taxation Amendment Bill, 2021. Sharanjit Kalsi of the Azad Taxi Union said: “We want from both central and state governments to meet our demands at the earliest. Our issues must be resolved.”They said the traffic police and the RTO should not harass the taxi drivers and owners in the name of challans. They also demanded from the Central Government to form one policy for all taxi drivers and owners in the country. They demanded pension and insurance schemes for the drivers. They have written to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (GoI), demanding early solution to problems being faced by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/taxi-unions-block-nh-44-for-over-2-hrs-commuters-suffer-229246
23-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||Scrap old layer before recarpeting roads: Residents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 22With the laying of new bituminous concrete layers repeatedly in past decades, the road level has risen above the plinth level of surrounding buildings in a number of areas of the city. Thus, major problems such as waterlogging during rain in such houses is common in the city.Raising questions over the working of the MC and other departments concerned, some activists demanded from the Centre and the state government to order the authorities concerned to recarpet the roads after removing the old layer.A number of residents have also been forced to get their houses repaired by spending money from their own pockets due to the risen road level after repeated recarpeting without removing the old layer. However, the voice of residents is being ignored.Now, a member of the Ludhiana West Grievances Redressal Committee, Satish Thaman, has sent a complaint to the Chief Minister and Local Bodies Minister, Punjab, in this regard. Meanwhile, the Council of Engineers has sent a complaint to the Secretary, Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, against recarpeting of roads without scrapping the old layer.Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers said: “The MC has again started the laying of virgin bituminous concrete without scrapping the old layer which is required to be removed and reused up to 50-mm depth. By this, they are not only wasting the public money but also overexploiting natural resources.”Arora said: “The MC and other departments must follow the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. As per the guidelines, the MC should ensure implementation of hot in place recycling technology for periodic renewal (PR) i.e. using recycling technology over the conventional surface renewal (laying new bituminous concrete). The Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, should save natural resources as well as public money by following the guidelines.”Satish Thaman said: “I have sent the complaint to the Chief Minister and the Local Bodies Minister and demanded that all roads should be recarpeted only after removing the old layer of road. The entrance to a number of old houses has become below the road level. Moreover, residents generally complain about uneven sewerage manholes as the old layer of roads are generally not removed when the reconstruction or recarpeting work is done in the city. Such uneven manholes also cause accidents. The government should take the matter seriously and direct the authorities concerned to remove the old layer of roads before recarpeting.”Notably, the MC has floated tenders for road works worth Rs 175 crore while the road carpeting works are also being done by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust and other departments in their respective areas. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said: “We are going to remove the old layer on Hambran Road before recarpeting. The work on the road will be done on an experimental basis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scrap-old-layer-before-recarpeting-roads-residents-229247
23-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC to present Rs 1,064-cr Budget today||The Municipal Corporation (MC) will present its annual Budget for 2021-22 during the General House meeting to be held at Nehru Rose Garden here on Tuesday. It is learnt that the MC can present an estimated Budget of around Rs 1,064 crore during the meeting. According to information, the MC has planned to spend around 55 per cent Budget amount on development works during 2021-22 financial year. On Monday, BJP councillors conducted a meeting to discuss the Budget. They announced that they would raise questions over various issues, including advertisement tax and solid waste management, during the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-to-present-rs-1-064-cr-budget-today-229249
23-03-2021||Nitin Jain||Work begins on 24x7 canal water supply project for Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 22Finally, the work has begun on the 24x7 canal-based water supply project for the Maximum City of Punjab.While the district administration has identified the chunks of land, the World Bank has agreed to contribute Rs 820-crore in the total scheme outlay of Rs 1,170-crore to quench the thirst of the state’s industrial hub.Chief secy reviews progress of schemeChief Secretary Vini Mahajan reviewed the progress of the scheme at a special meeting through videoconference with the district officials here recently, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, who was monitoring the project, told The Tribune here on Monday.The Chief Secretary has directed the district administration to execute the work on the scheme on a priority basis so that the residents can start getting the adequate supply of potable water on a 24x7 basis at the earliest.The ADC (Projects), Dr Neeru Katyal Gupta, who was heading the supervisory team of the project, disclosed that July 31, 2024, was fixed as the target date for completion of the scheme.“The report on the chunks of land shortlisted for the project by the site selection committee has been sent to the Local Government Department for finalisation,” she said.Sharing details, Dr Gupta said while the World Bank would contribute Rs 820.4 crore, which accounted for over 70 per cent of the total project cost, the state government would bear the remaining almost 30 per cent expenditure of Rs 349.6 crore.Ludhiana was among four major cities in the state which had got the 24x7 pan city canal-based surface water supply schemes in the state Budget for the next fiscal 2021-22. Amritsar, with an outlay of Rs 686-crore, Jalandhar Rs 485-crore, and Patiala with Rs 308-crore were among other municipal towns that had been benefitted with a similar project.Project reportAccording to the project report, the much-needed canal-based water supply scheme cost will exclude operation and maintenance for 10 years and will be undertaken by the state government with the help of the World Bank.Under this ambitious project, surface-based potable water will be made available to the residents of Ludhiana, which is currently facing the problem of rapidly depleting groundwater level.“The negotiation of the project with the World Bank has been completed and the project is proposed for approval in the ensuing Executive Committee meeting of the World Bank scheduled for March 31,” Finance Minister, Manpreet Singh Badal had disclosed while presenting the Budget proposals to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha in Chandigarh on March 8. He had added that the construction of the project would start in 2021-22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-begins-on-24x7-canal-water-supply-project-for-ludhiana-229250
23-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||4,938 bottles of illicit liquor seized, four arrested||Ludhiana, March 22 The Dehlon police seized a consignment of 400 cases of liquor (4,800 bottles) from in a truck. The police said a patrol party, headed by ASI Bhisham Dev, received a tip-off that two notorious liquor smugglers were transporting a big consignment of liquor in a truck, which was going towards Khanpur village along the canal. The truck (PB-13S-6371) was intercepted at a naka and driver Jatinder Singh, resident of Purana Bazar, Sahanewal, was arrested, while his accomplice Inderdeep Singh gave the police a slip. Search of the truck led to recovery of 50 cases of country liquor (Saunfi) and 350 cases of First Choice whisky. The police have registered a case under Sections 61/78(2)/1/14 of the Excise Act against the duo. Meanwhile, a team of the anti-smuggling cell of the police, led by Sub-Inspector Yash Pal Sharma, on a tip-off conducted a raid on Abdullapur Basti and nabbed Gurpreet Singh, alias Nannu, resident of the same colony, and his accomplice Jaspreet Singh, alias Sahil, resident of Dashmesh Nagar, Gill Road, with 10 cases (120 bottles) of 999 Power Star Fine whisky. Both have been booked under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act. In another raid, the police apprehended Joginder Singh, resident of Preet Nagar, who was selling smuggled liquor at his egg cart near the Sanjay Gandhi Park cut on Tajpur Road here. The search of the cart led to seizure of 18 bottles of country liquor (Rasbhari) and Joginder has been booked under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-938-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-four-arrested-229252
23-03-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP leader’s guard dies in accidental firing||Ludhiana, March 22Joginder Singh (47), a senior constable of the India Reserve Battalion deployed as a security guard of BJP leader Anil Sareen, died at the residence of the BJP leader in Tagore Nagar after his service rifle went off accidentally during cleaning of the weapon.‘Joginder had almost become a family member’BJP leader Anil Sareen said Joginder had been serving as his security guard for the last few months and he had almost become a member of the family.Senior police officials, who rushed to the spot on getting the information, made a detailed inquiry from members of the family and others present at the house before saying that the loaded rifle had gone off while the deceased constable was cleaning it early in the morning.The bullet hit Joginder Singh under the chin and he died before medical assistance could be called in. The police said a case under Section 174 of the CrPC was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-leaders-guard-dies-in-accidental-firing-229253
23-03-2021||Ludhiana||Lectures on life of Bhagat Singh||interactive session with AlumniDifferent initiatives and plans were discussed by alumni of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, during the technical education quality improvement programme (TEQIP) sponsored interaction. Prominent alumni from various fields expressed their views and offered several services to the students. “The purpose of the interaction was to enhance recruitment efforts, support students’ training programmes and research projects to students for higher studies”, said Dr Harwinder Singh, project in-charge. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lectures-on-life-of-bhagat-singh-229265
