26-03-2021||Ludhiana||3 snatchers arrested||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-snatchers-arrested-230688
26-03-2021||Ludhiana||Inter-college essay-writing contest||Bajaj College holds vocational campLudhiana: Bajaj College organised a seven-day free vocational training classes for students of rural areas. Principal Shikha Dhall said the course provided students with practical learning and opportunities, and hands-on experience to prepare kids for a career after high school. Dhall asserted that students enrolled in vocational program often cater to the needs of active and kinaesthetic learners, and vocational classes could engage students with freedom. TNSKCW holds webinar on govt jobsLudhiana: The postgraduate department of commerce of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, organised a webinar on ‘Insights of government jobs in different sectors’ in collaboration with SSB Institute. “The objective of the webinar was to make students aware about the government jobs available in the banking and insurance sector,” said Principal Dr Mukti Gill. Meanwhile, the placement cell of the college, in collaboration with GNIMT, Ludhiana, had also organised an online skill-development programme on communication skills. TNSStudent brings laurels to Jain CollegeLudhiana: A student of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women brought laurels to the college by performing well in the BVoc Course Hospital Administration and Management Semester-IV examination. Manpreet Kaur scored 90.80 pc in the exam. TNSCMC celebrates Founder’s DayLudhiana: Christian Medical College celebrated the birth anniversary of its founder, Dame Edith Mary Brown, on Wednesday. A chapel service was held in the institution. The sermon was given by director of the college Dr William Bhatti. Since the gathering was limited, principals of all five colleges came on the behalf of students, faculty and staff of the institution. Alumni awards were also given by principal Dr Jeyaraj Pandian. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/inter-college-essay-writing-contest-230691
26-03-2021||---||7 dead, 340 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 25Today 340 persons tested positive for Covid while seven deaths due to the virus were reported in the district today. Those tested positive today include seven students and four teachers. The total number of positive cases has now reached 32,081 while 1,098 have lost their lives so far.Students who tested positive today are six from JNV Campus, Dhanasu, and one from Bal Bharti School, Dugri. One staff member from JNV Campus, Dhanasu, has also tested positive. Teachers who tested positive today are one from Government Girls School, Gill village, one from GNC, Doraha, and two from BCM School, Shastri Nagar.Four men and three women lost their lives today. They were from Sewak Nagar, Model Town, Khanna, Raikot, Amar Nagar, Gujarwal village and Samrala.Till date, a total of 7,66,008 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 7,65,656 samples have been received. As many as 7,28,485 samples were found negative, while reports of 352 samples are pending.Till now 64,037 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present the number of such persons is 4,392. Today 575 persons were sent for home quarantine.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has again exhorted the citizens of the district to take the Covid vaccine as it is very much safe and effective. He said the vaccine reduces the severity of the infectious disease so the people must accept it wholeheartedly to win the war against the invisible enemy.Mass media teams of the Health Department are running their awareness drive in full force. Today, the teams went to various sewa kendras of Ludhiana to make people aware of Covid-19. There is always a huge rush of people at these kendras where people come to avail themselves of various government services. It was seen that people were not following covid guidelines.Jagjeevan Sharma, Block Extension Educator, said people were guided to make proper queue and stand at a distance of 6 feet from each other.It was also made sure that no person be allowed to enter sewa kendra without wearing mask and people should sanitise their hands before entering the sewa kendra. Staff was advised to do work with proper care and by following the guidelines of Mission FatehLudhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the teams motivated people for vaccination also.Now, every citizen in Punjab above the age of 45 can get himself/herself vaccinated at government and private hospitals. In all government hospitals it is free of cost, whereas at private hospitals they have to pay Rs 250 per dose.In case of any emergency they can contact any nearest health institute or can dial 104 for any kind of medical help or for any queries regarding health. World War-II veteran receives vaccineCity resident Kartar Singh Sidhu, who is a World War-II veteran, on Thursday got his Covid vaccine administered. “We do not know his exact age but he is above 100 years. I and my wife both are senior citizens and had already got the vaccination done. We were little apprehensive due to the old age of my farther but putting aside all doubts today we got his vaccination done,” said Harjit Singh Sidhu, Kartar Singh Sidhu’s son. He said his father was well after receiving the jab.LIT Chairman +veThe LIT Chairman, Raman Balasubramaniam, tested positive for Covid on Thursday after which the LIT office was shut and those who had come in contact with him were asked to quarantine themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-dead-340-test-positive-in-ludhiana-230672
26-03-2021||---||Trade unions hold rally to seek support for ‘Bharat bandh’||Ludhiana, March 25The joint action committee (JAC) of trade unions INTUC, AITUC and CITU on Thursday held a rally soliciting support of the locals for making the ‘Bharat bandh’ successful in Ludhiana on Friday.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a coalition of farmers’ unions, supported by 10 Central trade unions, has given a call for a nationwide strike on March 26.Holding a rally at the Bharat Nagar chowk here, trade union leaders Swaran Singh, Ramesh Rattan, JP Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Vijay Kumar, Ram Lal, MS Bhatia, Gurjeet Singh, Baldev Moudgil, SK Tiwari, Vinod Kumar, Manpreet Singh, Arjun Prasad, Prakash Singh, Feroz, Mahipal, Giassudin Sama, Kamaljit Singh, Soni Devi, and Ajay appealed to the people to make ‘Bharat bandh’ a success. The bandh will be observed for the entire day tomorrow, from 6 am till 6 pm.Addressing the rally, the trade union leaders said a large number of protesting farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country have been staging a dharna at Delhi borders at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, demanding repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue for the past four months but the Centre is still unmoved.Appealing to the residents to make tomorrow’s strike call a success, the leaders said the bandh was observed to coincide with a day when the farmers’ protest would reach the fourth month.They made it clear that the bandh would remain peaceful and effective from morning till evening.The trade unions, in association with the farmers’ unions, have assigned their office-bearers and cadres present here to coordinate and ensure that the bandh remains successful.Commuters to sufferThe union leaders said all commercial establishments would remain closed and no road and rail traffic would be allowed to ply during the strike being observed from 6 am to 6 pm.On March 28, during ‘Holika Dahan’, the unions have given a call to burn the copies of the contentious farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trade-unions-hold-rally-to-seek-support-for-bharat-bandh-230673
26-03-2021||---||222 health & wellness centres, two police stations inaugurated||Ludhiana, March 25To augment the primary healthcare services and infrastructure amid the resurgence of Covid second wave, newly-upgraded 222 health and wellness centres and new buildings of two police stations at Sidhwan Bet and Malaudh in the district were inaugurated on Thursday.Participating in the state-level virtual inauguration ceremony of health and wellness centres and other development projects by the CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and Ludhiana Central MLA Surinder Dawar said Ludhiana has 222 sub-health centres and all have been upgraded to health and wellness centres.As many as 14 such centres were under construction and would be opened shortly. These centres would also offer vaccination to all eligible persons which will further ramp up the immunisation and maximise the coverage ensuring shield against the virus.The DC said these centres were being operated by the Community Health Officers and were offering treatment for various non-communicable diseases, including cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and others.He said to run these centres, the nursing officers (staff nurses) have been trained by the Health Department under a specially-designed bridge programme, adding they have undergone six-month training of Community Health Officers from Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU).Sharma revealed that during the course, theoretical and practical training has been imparted to the Community Health Officers.He said these centres were proving instrumental in fighting the Covid pandemic effectively by ensuring early reporting of the suspected cases at the first stage.He said the spread of virus can be curbed with early testing, tracing, and treatment of suspected cases having influenza-like symptoms and would help break the transmission chain of the virus at the earliest.The DC claimed that it was the first-of-its-kind initiative in the country by the government and the centres would ensure health services to each resident at their doorsteps in urban and rural areas of the district.He said the new buildings of police stations at Sidhwan Bet and Malaud would also facilitate the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/222-health-wellness-centres-two-police-stations-inaugurated-230674
26-03-2021||---||Residents upset after manholes covered with bitumen; blame contractor, MC||Ludhiana, March 25 Raising questions over the road carpeting work done in the area, residents of Urban Vihar near Dugri Phase-II has blamed the contractor and civic body staff for putting bitumen on the sewer manholes. Instead of raising the level of these manholes, the bitumen has been laid on the sewer manholes for levelling the road. Now, a number of manholes are not visible. The residents said it would be difficult for the MC to get the sewer line cleaned as the manholes were no more visible on the stretch. They demanded from the MC to raise the level of manholes. A resident, Sumitra Pathak, said, “We had complained to the MC staff present on the site and told them to correct the level of manholes instead of putting bitumen but to no avail. A number of manholes have been covered with bitumen layer. How the sewer line will be cleaned if it gets choked?” Another resident said, “It has also been seen in the past that the bitumen is generally laid on the manholes and the level of such manholes is not corrected later in right manner. When any sewerage line gets choked, bitumen layer is removed from manholes, which gives open invitation to mishaps.” An official of the O&M cell said, “Instead of covering the manholes with bitumen, the level of manholes should be raised in the right manner.” The MC’s B&R branch SDO, Balwinder Singh, said, “The bitumen was laid on the manholes on a temporary basis. The level of manholes can’t be raised at the same time when road is carpeted. We will later raise the level of manholes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-upset-after-manholes-covered-with-bitumen-blame-contractor-mc-230675
26-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana MC yet to display info on ad devices online||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 25Even three years after the government issued a notification for the Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertisement Policy 2018, the MC is yet to ensure implementation of the policy in a right manner.The civic body has not displayed information about all advertisement devices (unipoles, bus queue shelters, gantries, LED, Mupi and others) permitted, their types and location in the city on its web portal and notice board.After raising objections over the low-income recovered from advertisement agency and reduction of advertisement budget from Rs23 crore to Rs15 crore for coming financial year, some councillors and leaders have also sought from the MC to bring transparency in the installation of advertisement devices and vacated advertisement sites in the city.According to the advertisement policy, the MC is supposed to display information regarding advertisement devices with type, size and location on its web portal and on the public notice board.To bring transparency, the information regarding name & contact number of the nodal officer with area under his/her jurisdiction, the total number of different type of advertisement devices permitted their type, size, name and their location, contact number of the advertising device license holder and validity of permission granted by the ULB concerned are to be displayed on the web portal and notice board as per the policy.Harvinder Singh Kaler, Councillor, Ward No. 36, Lok Insaaf Party, raised questions over the vacated advertisement sites during the house meeting on Wednesday.“No information regarding the number of advertisement devices and their location is being provided by the MC. When we raised question over low income from advertisements, we were informed that the private firm has vacated 46 per cent sites. We want information regarding the vacated and also those sites where the private firm has installed advertisement devices. All the information should be made public on the MC’s website.”Inder Aggarwal, convener, BJP Ludhiana’s Local Body Cell, said, “There is no transparency. All information regarding the installed advertisement devices should be displayed on the MC’s website.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-yet-to-display-info-on-ad-devices-online-230676
26-03-2021||Ludhiana||Two Gujarat traders booked for fraud||The Focal Point police registered cases of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against two Gujarat-based businessmen for committing a fraud of Rs1 crore with a city-based bizman. The accused have been identified as Rajinder Kumar Agrawal and Sanjay Kejriwal, both residents of Surat, Gujarat. The complainant, Rahul Gupta, of MK Agrawal Hosiery Focal Point, said the accused informed him about their polyester yarn manufacturing mills in Surat. They asked him to book order for the yarn and assured to supply the item. The complainant said there were quality-related differences in the yarn sample and the actual commodity supplied. “When we told the accused about the poor quality yarn they initially didn’t agree but later they promised that they will take back the entire stock and will also bear expenses borne by us for making knitted fabric,” Gupta said. The complainant said now the accused refused to take back the stock of poor quality. Despite sending repeated reminders they didn’t come to the terms. Investigating Officer ASI Dharam Pal said after registering a case further probe has been started in the case. The accused are also yet to be arrested in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-gujarat-traders-booked-for-fraud-230677
26-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Neighbours clash, man opens fire||Doraha, March 25 A resident of Rupalon village, on the Doraha-Jaipura road, allegedly opened fire with his revolver after a minor scuffle with his neighbour this evening. No casualty has, however, been reported. Investigating officer ASI Satpal said Amritpal Singh and Bhalinder Singh, who were neighbours, residing on the Doraha-Jaipura road, had a scuffle on the issue of displaying a board in front of the shop of the former.  Complainant Amritpal Singh alleged that Bhalinder Singh took out his revolver and opened fire. None was injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/neighbours-clash-man-opens-fire-230678
26-03-2021||Manav Mander||Now, detecting heavy metals in food, water becomes easy||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 25Matter of food security has become a global issue since heavy metal pollution has been known to cause serious health hazards. Heavy metal contamination in soil and water has been a matter of concern for some time now and its detection a is an important step toward food security.Now, detection of heavy metals in food and water has been made easy in the state with the setting up of Quality Control Laboratory at Punjab Horticultural Postharvest Technology Centre (PHPTC), Punjab Agricultural University.This laboratory is equipped with inductive coupled plasma mass spectrophotometer (ICP-MS), microwave digestion system (MDS) and ultra-water purification system. Testing is open for government institutions, departments, farmers and private institutions and industries as well.Four heavy metals, namely lead, arsenic, cadmium and mercury, are of particular concern in the food. Ingestion of such metals from food and water is a major route of exposure for the general population.“In order to protect human health, it is necessary to control the levels of these toxic metals in foodstuffs by detecting them at the right stage,” said Dr BVC Mahajan, director of the centre.“Funded by the Punjab Mandi Board, the laboratory provides testing services to farmers, entrepreneurs, government and private institutions. The rates for government institutes, departments, farmers and students is subsidised. With increasing human awareness for food safety and stringent norms of regulatory bodies for food testing, there is a need of authenticated laboratories for providing such services. This laboratory carries out tests for heavy metals in water and variety of food products for compliance with the requirements laid down by the FSSAI under the Food Safety and Standards Act,” Dr Mahajan added.Other testing services such as estimation of quality attributes in fresh and processed food products, portability of water including biochemical and microbiological parameters are also available. Besides, training programme for farmers and entrepreneurs are also organised on post-harvest management, food safety, value addition and quality assurance of horticultural produce.Dr Ritu Tandon, chemist and in charge of the laboratory, said increased industrialisation and urbanisation in Punjab had led to groundwater pollution with heavy metal contaminants such as lead, cadmium, chromium, mercury, arsenic and selenium.“These heavy metals beyond certain limits may affect human health. ICP-MS is a highly sensitive and accurate instrument for analysing all heavy metals and other nutritional elements in food,” she added.The detailed list of test parameters and their charges can be accessed on website of the PHPTC (www.phptc.org).Lab and testing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-detecting-heavy-metals-in-food-water-becomes-easy-230679
26-03-2021||Anil Datt||Rest of Punjab XI Red beat Punjab XI by 28 runs, square up series||Ludhiana, March 25Rest of Punjab XI Red today scored an upset victory over favourites, Punjab XI, in the second final of the best of three finals to square up the series (1-1) in the PCA Trident Cup Triangular Series. The match was played at PCA Stadium, Mohali.On Wednesday, Punjab XI had won the first final by six wickets to take the lead. However, they squandered away the lead today, going down fighting by 28 runs.Rest of Punjab XI Red batted first and scored 258 runs in 48.1 overs.The main scorers were Salil Arora and Ikjot Singh, who made 77 and 55 runs, respectively. Other notable contributors were Vishwa Pratap Singh (31), Kuwar Pathak (21) and Deepin Chitkara (14).For Punjab XI, skipper Vinay Chaudhary and Raman Malinga claimed three wickets each after giving away 38 and 32 runs, respectively, while Abhinav Sharma captured two wickets for 31 runs.Chasing the target, Punjab XI was off to a shaky start, losing three wickets with only 21 runs on the board. Abhijeet Garg, was unable to open his account today. Jasanpreet, too, left the pitch on duck.Punjab XI were struggling (90 for 5) after 20.5 overs. Then, Ramandeep Singh steadied the innings. He, along with Abhinav Sharma, shared a useful partnership of 122 runs for the sixth wicket before the latter’s departure on individual score of 66 runs.Ramandeep was out after competing his century (100) and Punjab XI innings culminated at 230 runs in 47.1 overs.For his fine all-round performance, Ikjot Singh was adjudged the Man of the Match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rest-of-punjab-xi-red-beat-punjab-xi-by-28-runs-square-up-series-230681
26-03-2021||Sports Correspondent||Punjab claim victory in women’s category, men’s team finish third||Ludhiana, March 25Punjab today emerged champions in the 42nd Senior National Softball Championship held at Bharatpur, Rajasthan.As many as 19 teams participated in the women’s category.In the league phase, Punjab blanked Hindustan Astronautics Limited by 10-0 and thrashed Indian Oil Corporation 11-0 to storm into the super league. Punjab has wrapped up all three matches by defeatimg Chhattisgarh 7-2, Haryana 10-0 Kerala 8-2 and Maharashtra 2-0 in the super league, and qualified for the final to clash with Maharashtra.In the final, Punjab prevailed over Maharashtra by 6-3 to lift the winners’ trophy. Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh secured the second and third position, respectively.A total of 22 teams competed in the men’s category, in which Punjab shared third position with Madhya Pradesh while Chhattisgarh emerged champions and Maharashtra finished on the second spot.PN Passi, general secretary, Punjab Softball Association, congratulated the players and their coaches Nirmaljit Kaur, Jaspreet Singh, Indervir Singh and Rakesh Kumar on their achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-claim-victory-in-womens-category-mens-team-finish-third-230682
26-03-2021||---||Protest against govt’s decision to shut down schools||Ludhiana, March 25 Schoolbus drivers and class IV employees of Jatindera Greenfield School, Gurusar Sudhar, and teachers of Guru Nanak Public School, Mullanpur, today protested the government’s decision to shut down schools till March 31, outside their respective schools. During the protest, the schoolbus drivers were wearing black masks and black badges. The employees appealed to the Chief Minister and Education Minister to accept their demands so that they could continue to support their families. Class IV employees of Jatindera Greenfield School also submitted a memorandum to the Raikot SDM regarding the same. Teachers of Guru Nanak Public School said they were already struggling to teach students during the pandemic and the decision to shut down schools would further affect students’ studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protest-against-govts-decision-to-shut-down-schools-230683
26-03-2021||---||Team formed to survey Buddha Nullah area||Ludhiana, March 25A team has been formed to conduct a survey of the Buddha Nullah area and identify the obstructions that are to be removed for the installation of sewer pipeline on the banks of the nullah.The work is to be carried out under Rs 650-crore Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project. The team will conduct the survey of 14-km stretch of Buddha Nullah under the MC’s jurisdiction.A meeting of the monitoring committee for the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project was held today. The chairman of the committee, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, gave instructions to the team to conduct the survey. The representatives of industry are also part of the committee.According to the information, the MC’s sewer lines will be connected with a pipeline through which waste will be flown to sewerage treatment plants. The commissioner said the team went to conduct survey in the field today and they would submit a report in this regard soon. He said the encroachments and other obstructions would be removed before the installation of the pipeline.A sewerage treatment plant of 225 MLD is being set up at Jamalpur. The MC claimed to have removed more than 200 encroachments along the Buddha Nullah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/team-formed-to-survey-buddha-nullah-area-230684
26-03-2021||---||Agri varsity inks memorandum for commercialisation of biogas plant||Ludhiana, March 25 Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) today inked a pack with Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Chhapa village of Barnala district, for commercialisation of the PAU fixed-dome type family-size biogas plant. PAU director of research Dr NS Bains and Jaswinder Singh signed the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA), as per which the University offers non-exclusive rights to the firm for making paddy straw-based biogas plant within India. Department of Renewable Energy Engineering head Dr Rajan Aggarwal said animal waste (cattle dung, poultry droppings) could be digested anaerobically for the production of biogas as a fuel for cooking, and excellent quality of manure could be produced for improving soil health and crop productivity. Giving details, Dr Sooch explained: “The construction of this type of plant is easy and it is an all-brick masonry structure. This design is suitable for all regions of the country. The cost of this plant is 60-70 per cent less as compared to the cost of conventional model biogas plant (floating drum biogas plants), and maintenance requirement of this plant is also less than the floating drum biogas plants. The digested material so produced from such anaerobic digestion is food quality manure ready for use in fields. The life of this plant is around 25 years.” So far, PAU has signed a total of 262 MoAs and commercialised 62 technologies through the Technology Marketing and IPR cell of the university under the Directorate of Research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/agri-varsity-inks-memorandum-for-commercialisation-of-biogas-plant-230685
26-03-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU holds webinar on strengthening higher education||The Centre for One Health of GADVASU under the ICAR scheme organised a national webinar series for the strengthening higher education in the veterinary sector. Centre for One Health director Dr Jasbir Singh Bedi inaugurated the function with opening remarks on various public health issues, including emerging zoonoses and antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Students from undergraduate and postgraduate veterinary colleges and universities participated in the webinar. The webinars were addressed by the faculties of four veterinary universities and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-holds-webinar-on-strengthening-higher-education-230686
26-03-2021||---||Technical panel okays renovation of hockey stadium, ESI Hospital||Ludhiana, March 25 A meeting of the technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) was held at the MC’s Zone D office under the chairmanship of MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of the LSCL. The projects under the Smart City Mission were reviewed during the meeting.  A project for the repair and refurbishment of Hockey Ground at PAU has been approved during the meeting. MC chief Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “A special focus was laid on the waste management wherein RFP (request for proposal) was approved for supply, installation, testing and commissioning of portable compactors and loaders. Technical bids were approved for construction and demolition (C&D) waste management plant.” The committee has given nod for detailed project report for refurbishment of the ESI Hospital to Kochar Market Road under Smart City Mission. Besides, detailed project report for refurbishment of Leisure Valley near Zone D office was discussed and approved. Chairman of Indian Institute of Architects Punjab Chapter, Sanjay Goel, MC Superintending Engineer, Rahul Gagneja among other officials were present during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/technical-panel-okays-renovation-of-hockey-stadium-esi-hospital-230687
