29-03-2021||Ludhiana March 29||Drunk man strangulates wife to death in Haibowal||A drunk man allegedly strangulated his 22-year-old wife to death at Civil City, Haibowal during Holi celebrations on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Laxmi.After killing his wife, the accused took along his son and fled.As per police, the duo had solemnized love marriage two years back and they had a one-year-old son. The accused was working in a factory as daily wager.He was alcoholic and he allegedly used to beat his wife daily. Earlier, when he had badly thrashed his wife under the influence of liquor, area people had then achieved compromise between them but a few days after compromise accused didn’t budge and continued to torture his wife.Today after celebrating Holi, the accused consumed excess liquor and started beating his wife. When wife protested his move, he strangulated her with force and heThe house where the couple was living as tenant belongs to a police man.The Jagatpuri police have registered a case against the accused and is conducting raids to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drunk-man-strangulates-wife-to-death-in-haibowal-232131
29-03-2021||Ludhiana||19 more die, 387 fresh COVID-19 cases in Ludhiana||The daily casualties touched a new high on Monday as the district reported 19 more deaths and 387 fresh Covid cases during the past 24 hours.The casualties included eight from other districts while the new infections included four teachers, three healthcare workers, a student, and 44 out-of-district patients.With this, the total caseload in the district breached the 39,000-mark and reached 39,073, which included 5,320 out-of-district patients. The death toll surpassed the 1,700-mark to settle at 1,712, including 583 from other districts. The tally of active cases also crossed the 3,000-mark to reach 3,044, including 155 out-of-district patients.Under night curfew since March 12, the district has been witnessing a sudden surge in daily fresh cases and deaths since March 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-more-die-387-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ludhiana-232117
29-03-2021||OPEN HOUSE Do you think night curfew can help curtail further spread of virus?||Curfew not panacea, focus must be on precautions||Though the night curfew has been imposed the district, we observe that there is no strictness. The authorities concerned need to be more strict as people are moving out of their houses even during the curfew hours. Residents need to understand that the night curfew would help to curb to spread of infection and they should stay at home. Certain more restrictions such as complete restriction on public places, heavy penalty on persons without mask, banning social gatherings/ parties, odd-even system must be imposed.Simarjot KaurImpose curfew in daytimeNight curfew may not help in controlling further spread of Covid in the city, as many people do not venture out unnecessarily at night. The prime causes of Covid spread during the day hours are negligence of people, disobeying government instructions, not wearing mask while going out and not maintaining social distancing in public places/social gatherings. It is therefore imperative that to control the spread of the virus, curfew may be imposed for a few hours during the daytime instead of the night when the number of people moving around in the city are far more. This step may help in breaking the chain of infection. Further, people must be reminded repeatedly to follow the government instructions of going out only if it’s essential, wear mask and keep 2 metre distance in public places. The police must be fine the violators.Gautam DevDon’t ignore govt guidelines at any costThe night curfew imposed by the government is a necessary step to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In the daytime, everyone is free to move anywhere. People should follow the guidelines of the government such as wearing mask and following social distancing. More and more people should prefer vaccinating themselves as soon as possible.Amarpreet KaurExpand vaccination baseAs the city is grappling with the second wave of Covid-19, the number of cases are rising with each passing day. In view of the situation, the district administration has imposed the night curfew to decrease the spread of Covid-19. The night curfew is useful in deterring those people who used to step out of their homes for outing and dinner late at midnight. The authority concerned should check and direct private hospitals and implement them instructions of Covid-19 rather than making hefty bills. Print media can be useful in printing guidelines of Covid and make the public aware. Also, the vaccination should also be safely and smoothly provided to the citizens for a good and healthy lifestyle.Harleen KaurOpt for stringent measuresThe night curfew is helpful to limit youngsters’ unnecessary visits to pubs, clubs, street food, night rides, etc. It’s economically not advisable to impose curfew for many days but witnessing a surge weekend it can help to limit the transmission and imposing curfew from 6pm-9am would prove more useful. School being close and tuition centres being open hardly makes sense. Curfew on Holi is very essential and all such festive where gathering is obvious. There is a need to ensure availability of sanitiser outside or inside every shop. No entry in buses and shops should be allowed without a mask.Vincy TrehanSelf-discipline holds keyThere is a saying “Self-discipline is the best discipline”, which is true for the present situation. It’s worrisome that Covid cases are rising in the region, but every time we cannot expect just the administration to react. As responsible citizens we must be self-disciplined and follow the protocols of the pandemic. The ones who are careless must be dealt with severely by the administration. There are two ways to keep the pandemic at bay- one wearing a mask in the public places and second maintaining physical distancing. In addition to this, those who are comfortable, they must get themselves vaccinated. No doubt the strictness by the administration is the need of the hour, but it cannot do anything without the public support. So, we all must help the government in its fight against the disease. Remember, together we can make a difference.Bir Devinder Singh BediPublic restraint, discipline necessaryNight curfews after 9 pm in big cities make sense in order to discourage people, particularly youngsters, from going around town on their vehicles and socialising unnecessarily. In cities sucha as Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore, night rides with friends/family have become a social norm and that includes stopping for street food or drinks. Such unnecessary and very public gatherings, however small, should be discouraged, with curfews if required. Indians, particularly young urbanites, don’t always respect the rules and sometimes use silly excuses to circumvent them. During a crisis like Covid-19, public restraint and discipline is necessary. According to me, imposing night curfew or weekend curfew is not the step that can help in controlling transmission of this deadly disease. Curfews are not a solution because no one knows if the person who is going for a night walk or buying grocery on weekends is not a transmitter of the virus.Akshar Kumar SinglaBetter to impose curfew in peak hoursPunjab was appreciated by everyone for curbing the first wave of Covid-19 in the country. Now, the state has taken a lead in imposing the night curfew. This is just to create awareness in the public as night curfew is not sufficient. Punjab has already suffered heavily due to this disease. Some middle way need to be found so that our economy does not suffer. It is better to impose curfew in the peak hours in bazaars from 5 pm to 10 pm in the evenings and all cinemas and malls should be closed for the time being.JBS NandaFocus on effective containment strategyMeasures such as night curfews, weekend lockdowns have very limited impact on containing or suppressing the transmission. The district administration should focus on strict and effective containment strategies. For every positive case, at least 20 to 30 close contacts, including family contacts, social contacts’ workplace contacts, and other casual contacts, need to be promptly traced and tracked. People must follow government guidelines on Covid.Renu BhushanOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONOn the appeal of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the administration observed one hour of silence from 11 am to 12 noon on Saturday to pay tributes to those who lost their lives due to Covid. During the silence hour, movement of inter-city and intra-district vehicular traffic was also stalled, leaving commuters in the lurch. This exercise is scheduled to be observed every Saturday. Do you think such practice, causing hardship to the general public, is of any use or not?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/curfew-not-panacea-focus-must-be-on-precautions-231847
29-03-2021||Ludhiana||BJP leaders burn Congress govt effigy||The BJP leaders today burnt an effigy of the Congress government to protest against the attack on BJP leader at Malout, recently. Under the leadership of president Pushpinder Singal, the protesters lambasted the state government for attacking the leader under the garb of farmer agitation.The leaders said seeing the programmes of BJP and the overwhelming response of the people, the ruling government had become insecure and had resorted to such acts. The leaders said BJP will continue to expose the ruling party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-leaders-burn-congress-govt-effigy-231832
29-03-2021||Ludhiana||Vardhman staff in Ludhiana get jab||A week-long vaccination drive was initiated by Vardhman Group for its employees here today.The group became the first in the city to start the vaccination for its employees and members of their families.The drive was inaugurated by DC Varinder Sharma, at Vardhman Spinning and General Mills. Sharma said only through mass vaccination, the chain of Covid could be broken. Dr Sandeep Ahuja, Senior Medical Officer, Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman, also promoted the vaccination drive and addressed the concerns of people.The group has been actively participating in controlling the spread of the virus by donating masks, providing financial support etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vardhman-staff-in-ludhiana-get-jab-231834
29-03-2021||---||Youth killed by drug addict in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 28A youth was killed by an alleged drug addict at Samrala on Saturday night.The deceased has been identified as Jasvir Singh Joga (25). The police identified the accused as Kuldeep Singh Deepa.Jasvir Singh and his brother-in-law Ajay were going to home on a motorcycle and when they reached near the Cold Store of Dhilwan, they were stopped by a drug addict, who asked them to hand over cash and other valuables.When Jasvir Singh protested the move, the drug addict attacked him with a sharp weapon killing him on the spot.The drug addict took out cash and mobile phone from the pockets of the deceased and fled.Ajay informed his family and the police. The Station House Officer, Samrala, Kuljinder Singh, said the accused was identified and efforts were on to arrest him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-killed-by-drug-addict-in-ludhiana-231836
29-03-2021||Our Correspondent||People flout social distancing norm during Holi festivities||Mandi Ahmedgarh, March 28Activists of various religious outfits celebrated floral Holi by organising a ‘shobha yatra’ on Sunday.Some of the organisers were seen taking proactive measures to prevent the spread of virus. However, others preferred playing Holi without bothering for Covid norms.Enthusiasts celebrated the festival using flower petals on the occasion.Jindi Arora, convener of the event, said activists of various religious organisations organised the shobha yatra under the banner of Shree Radhey Radhey Parbhat Pheri Mandal on Sunday morning. The yatra commenced from Durga Mandir, Ahata Bali Ram, and concluded at Shree Ram Mandir after visiting all religious places.The organisers distributed sweets among enthusiasts and showered floral petal during the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/people-flout-social-distancing-norm-during-holi-festivities-231840
29-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Illegal construction under high tension cables goes unchecked in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 28Even though frequent accidents of electrocution or the victims suffering severe burn injuries from high tension (HT) electric cables have assumed an alarming proportion, yet the departments concerned — Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and the Municipal Corporation (MC) or for that matter other government, semi-government or autonomous bodies — were showing little or no concern to this huge threat looming large on the residents of illegally constructed buildings under HT cables all across the city.A recent mishap at Makkar Colony in Dhandari Kalan where a 14-year-old boy fell victim to HT cables and sustained severe burn injuries has once again brought to the fore the problem which required to be addressed on top priority, both by the PSPCL and MC, which ought to curb illegal construction under HT cables and cable towers.Another incident which went on to show utter indifference and apathy of the MC towards lives of the city residents came to light in Kitchlu Nagar where a public convenience (toilet) block has been constructed right under the HT cables as a part of projects under the ‘Smart City’ mission by the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL). The LSCL is also headed by MC Commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal so the MC, at least in this case, cannot escape the direct responsibility for exposing public to fatal accidents from electric cables.While the PSPCL officials asserted that any type of construction under 66 KV, 132 KV and 220 KV HT cables was illegal in terms of provisions of the Electricity Act, the onus for removal/demolition of such illegal buildings lied with the MC or the government agency with building control, the MC officials brushed aside the matter saying they did not have the list of such illegal constructions or buildings.Laying the blame once again on the MC, a senior PSPCL official claimed that a list of many illegal structures and buildings constructed under HT cables was provided to all four zones of the MC way back in October 2019 which was followed up by publication of a notice in newspapers for removal of such constructions without much response from any side.When asked to comment, an MC official said instructions had been issued to staff and officials of the building branch not to allow any such construction under HT cables and also prepare a list of all existing structures/buildings which had come up under HT cables in violation of building bylaws and provisions of Electricity Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illegal-construction-under-high-tension-cables-goes-unchecked-in-ludhiana-231841
29-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||District Education Department serves notice on schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 28The District Education Department has sent notices to over 10 private schools here and asked them to sort out their issues with parents. The schools have to revert to the notices by March 30.The notices were served on schools recently by the District Education Officer. Talking to The Tribune, DEO Harjit Singh said they were receiving complaints from parents on several issues such as fee and online studies.“The schools will submit replies and we will try to sort out the issues. As far as fee is concerned, both parents and school managements will have to adhere to court’s directions. We are here to streamline things for all,” said the DEO.The complaints against the schools were filed on the e-portal of Education Department.One of the school principals said as far as complaints regarding the fee were concerned, the apex court had already given the verdict. “Parents should stop the pressure tactics as none will go against the court’s directions. Other issues can be sorted out and we are in the process of sending replies,” said the principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-education-department-serves-notice-on-schools-231838
29-03-2021||---||6-year-old in India Book of Records||Ludhiana, March 28Devadyuman Krishan Kapila, a student of Kundan Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Ludhiana, made the city proud by making it to the prestigious India Book of Records at the tender age of 6 years.The kid won the accolade for reciting the capitals of all countries of the world in record time of 2 min and 19 seconds. It includes all 195 countries of the world recognised by the United Nations. India Book Of Records is affiliated to Asia Book Of Records & follows Asia Protocol of Records for recognition of records and achievements. Devadyuman has just passed UKG examination.His’s father Dr Manmohan Kapila is a doctor and mother Rashmi Sharma is Add. District & Sessions Judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-year-old-in-india-book-of-records-231839
29-03-2021||---||Khanna man commits suicide, eight booked||Ludhiana, March 28A man has allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison at his residence in Krishna Nagar, Khanna. On the basis of suicide note, a case of abetment to suicide was registered against eight persons.The accused have been identified as Amrik Singh, Dhyan Singh, Surjit Singh, Achhar Singh, Soni, wife of Surjit, Raj Kaur, wife of Achhar, Raj Kumar, Sashi Bala, wife of Raj Kumar. First four accused are brothers.The deceased has been identified as Dhagel Singh.Complainant Gagandeep Singh told the police that on March 26, his father Dhagel Singh after having dinner went to sleep in his house, which is situated near their (Gagandeep) house in the same locality. On March 27 morning, their neighbour Kartar Chand came to their house and informed that his father was lying dead in his house.“I went to check and found my father lying dead. He seemed to have consumed poison. He also left behind a suicide note in which he mentioned that he took the extreme step because of thecontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khanna-man-commits-suicide-eight-booked-231845
29-03-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Sidhwan Canal bridge a Holi gift’||Ludhiana, March 28Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today dedicated the new the Sidhwan Canal bridge connecting BRS Nagar with Sarabha Nagar to people as a Holi gift. The bridge will be thrown open to public tomorrow.Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Cabinet MinisterThe bridge was a long pending demand of the area residents as with the increase in the vehicular traffic, city population had been facing problems of traffic congestion on the stretch. The construction of the bridge (near the MC Zone D office) was carried out at Rs 1.40 crore Addressing the media, the minister said the construction of the bridge had started in December 2020 and was completed in a time-bound manner. He congratulated the officers of the Irrigation Department and Ludhiana Smart City Ltd for completing the project in a record time despite various odds. He said the construction of the bridge (near the MC Zone D office) was carried out for Rs1.40 crore. It was funded by the Ludhiana Smart City Ltd and executed by the Punjab Irrigation Department.“This was a long pending demand of the area residents as with the increase in vehicular traffic, city population was facing problems of traffic congestion on this stretch,” he added.The minister said the bridge had been widened from 4 metre to 9 metres and it would benefit the area residents and other commuters to a large extent. “The rail underbridge and rail overbridge projects on Pakhowal Road (from Sidhwan Canal bridge till Hero Bakery Chowk) will also be completed in time,” said Ashu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sidhwan-canal-bridge-a-holi-gift-231842
29-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Thieves pose as excise officials, rob truck at Samrala Chowk||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 28Robbers posing as officials from the Excise and GST Department robbed a truck laden with iron rods at Samrala Chowk early this morning.A Khanna resident, Abrish Kumar, told the police that he had been trading in iron and on Saturday night he loaded iron rods worth Rs11 lakh in a truck hired from Pappu Transport in Khanna.The Iron stock was to be delivered to a place at Bahadur Ke road.The truck reached Samrala Chowk at around 3.30 am where some persons sitting in a Bolero jeep signalled it to stop for checking. They introduced themselves as officials from the Excise and GST Department and asked the truck driver to show all papers. When the truck driver showed them papers, they told him that they were incomplete, revealed Abrish.“They told the driver that he had to go to the ETO office to complete the paper formalities. They made the driver to sit in their Bolero jeep and went to Moga. After two hours they came back to Samrala Chowk, but truck was not there. Before the driver could ask anything about truck, they fled,” alleged Abrish.Sources said the Police Division 3 recovered the truck from the Kapurthala area and efforts were on to nab the robbers. However, the police is mum on the recovery of the truck.Vehicle recoveredSources said the Police Division 3 recovered the truck from the Kapurthala area and efforts were on to nab the robbers. However, the police is mum on the recovery of the truck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-pose-as-excise-officials-rob-truck-at-samrala-chowk-231843
29-03-2021||Lovleen Bains||Thieves break into bank at Jugiana||Sahnewal, March 28Two burglars broke into the Jugiana branch of UCO Bank in the wee hours today.The thieves broke a window and entered the bank. They even broke an almirah. The incident came to light on Sunday morning when a nearby cycle shop owner informed the bank authorities about the window of the bank being broken.Ajay Nishad, Branch headI called up Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh of the Sahnewal police station. He reached the branch immediately and opened the gate. As we entered the bank, an almirah was found open and documents were scattered. No monetary loss has been found.After getting the information about the theft attempt, branch head Ajay Nishad and other bank employees rushed to the spot.The CCTV camera footage revealed that the theft attempt was made around 1am. Two miscreants, with covered faces, broke the window and managed to get inside the bank.Branch head Ajay Nishad said, “After reaching the bank, I called up Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh of the Sahnewal police station. He reached the branch immediately and opened the gate. As we entered the bank, one Godrej almirah was found open and documents were scattered. No monetary loss has been found.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-break-into-bank-at-jugiana-231844
29-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Abandoned City Centre project site spells misery for Ludhiana residents||Ludhiana, March 28Touted to be developed as a world-class business and trade centre and a landmark for the area, now abandoned City Centre site in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar – a colony developed and maintained by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on the Pakhowal road here — has become highly accident-prone and a permanent source of nuisance for the residents.Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh NagarCorrugated iron sheets put up by the LIT around the project site have either been stolen, broken down or corroded. The deep excavation for two levels of basement at the site has led to several road accidents.Several aggrieved residents of the colony, Arvind Sharma, former councillor Pran Nath Bhatia, Amarjit Singh and Balraj Chopra among them, have lodged a complaint (on March 25) with the Secretary, Local Government Department, Punjab, seeking directions to the LIT authorities to provide proper fencing of iron sheets or boundary wall around the site to avoid frequent road accidents at the site and throwing of garbage at the project site which further added to the misery of residents.In their complaint, the residents said, “Corrugated iron sheets put up by the LIT around the project site have either been stolen, broken down or corroded. The deep excavation for two levels of basement at the site has led to several road accidents. At least twice cars and other four vehicles have skidded down into it during rainy season.”Further, most of the streetlights around the site were non-functional and the abandoned project site had been converted into a garbage dump. Not only this, rainwater from sewer pipes and road gullies was getting drained into the project site, which posed a big health hazard to residents with the potential outbreak of diseases, they said.The residents lamented that the project had been abandoned and the LIT authorities were persistently neglecting even the bare minimum upkeep and maintenance of the ‘jinxed’ project.The complaint asserted that even if the matter was under litigation, (though award of the arbitrator has been announced), being the promoter of the project and also duty bound to welfare of the people, it was the duty of the LIT authorities to carry out the bare minimum maintenance of the site, at least to such an extent that it should not pose a threat to the safety and health of the residents and other visitors to the colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/abandoned-city-centre-project-site-spells-misery-for-ludhiana-residents-231837
29-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: Spike continues with 437 new cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, March 28With 437 fresh cases reported in a day, the district continues to witness a spike in Covid cases. As many as 10 new Covid deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the district has gone up to 2,853.According to officials of the Health Department, a total of 486 persons tested positive — 473 from Ludhiana and 49 from other districts/states. Of the 12 deaths reported during the past 24 hours, 10 belonged to Ludhiana district while one each was from Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur.Among the confirmed cases detected today, 47 were contacts of positive patients, 100 were from OPDs, 190 from the flu corner, 89 were still being traced, one each from the police, antenatal care and healthcare workers, two from the SARI (sever acute respiratory infection) category and five teachers.The health officials said till date, a total of 7,80,020 samples had been collected of which reports for 564 persons were awaited. As many as 7,40,770 had tested negative and 29,439 patients had recovered from Covid.Of the active 2,426 cases till yesterday, 2,071 were under home quarantine, 38 were in government healthcare institutions while 317 were admitted to private hospitals, the officials added.Of fresh casesAmong the confirmed cases, 47 were contacts of positive patients, 100 were from OPDs, 190 from the flu corner, 89 were still being traced, one each from the police, antenatal care and healthcare workers, two from the SARI (sever acute respiratory infection) category and five were teachers.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-spike-continues-with-437-new-cases-in-ludhiana-district-231833
29-03-2021||Ludhiana||Special vaccination drive from April 1||Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said a special vaccination drive would be started in the district from April 1.He said under the drive, the district administration would organise special camps in different areas of the city for vaccination against Covid-19, while vaccination would continue as before in more than 80 private and 71 government hospitals.He stated this while chairing a meeting attended by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, District Immunisation Officer Dr Kiran Gill, members of trade and industrial bodies along with representatives of several NGOs.Ashu said the vaccine-at-doorstep drive to inoculate a large population in a short period would help break the transmission chain of virus as special camps would be organised in all areas of the city and elsewhere in the district. He said more and more people were coming forward with requests for vaccination camps in their areas and eight such camps were organised in different parts of the city today.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said under the vaccine-at-doorsteps initiative, people would no longer need to go and stand in queues at the vaccination centres as now health teams would visit different areas, industrial units, residential societies/localities, villages as well as private commercial establishments to vaccinate the people against Covid-19.Sharma said people ought to accept their social responsibility towards the nation and get vaccinated at the earliest to save the precious lives from the pandemic.The minister visited the ongoing camps at Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, Sarabha Nagar, KDM School on Gaushala Road and Haibowal where he interacted with the residents. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/special-vaccination-drive-from-april-1-231846
