31-03-2021||---||Ex-husband attacks, rapes 41-yr-old woman||Ludhiana, March 30 A 41-year-old woman was allegedly raped by her former husband at Ranjit Nagar. The woman was also attacked with an iron rod before rape. The accused has been identified as Ranjit Singh Rinku, resident of Baba Bala, Amritsar. The woman told the police that she had solemnised marriage with Ranjit in 2000 and later gave birth to two boys. After a few years of marriage, their relationship turned sour and they started fighting over personal issues. Then in 2013, they decided to part ways and in the presence of prominent persons of panchayat, it was decided that the children would stay with their father, while the property would remain with her. In 2016, they got divorced officially through court. After divorce, Ranjit came to meet her twice and indulged in arguments, the victim alleged. The woman revealed that on March 28, Ranjit came to her house and attacked her with rod. After injuring her, he raped her. She was rushed to the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ex-husband-attacks-rapes-41-yr-old-woman-232547
31-03-2021||---||Drunk man strangles wife to death||Ludhiana, March 30 A drunk man allegedly strangled his wife to death at Civil City, Haibowal, during Holi celebrations on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Laxmi (22). The accused has been identified as Harish Chandar, native of Uttar Pradesh. After killing his wife, Harish fled taking away his one-year-old son. As per the police, the duo had solemnised love marriage two years back and they had one-year-old son. Harish was working in a factory as a daily wager. He was an alcoholic and used to beat his wife daily. Earlier, when he had badly thrashed his wife under the influence of liquor, area people had then achieved a compromise between them but Harish continued to torture his wife. On Monday, after celebrating Holi, Harish consumed liquor in excess and started beating his wife. When the wife protested, he strangled her. The house where couple was living as tenants belongs to a policeman. The Jagatpuri police have registered a case against the Harish and conducting raids to nab him. Iqbal Singh, Jagatpuri police post in-charge, said efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drunk-man-strangles-wife-to-death-232548
31-03-2021||Ludhiana||15-yr-old raped, man arrested||A man was arrested for raping a 15-year-old girl after barging into a house at Ashok Nagar, Salem Tabri. The accused has been identified as Dilraj Singh, resident of Guru Har Rai Nagar. The victim’s mother complained to the police that on the intervening night of March 28 and 29, all family members were sleeping when she heard some noise from the kitchen. “I then immediately went to check and was shocked to see that Dilraj was attempting to rape my daughter. After seeing me, he fled,” she alleged. The woman said later her daughter revealed that Dilraj had raped her many times in the recent past. A case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act was registered against Dilraj. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/15-yr-old-raped-man-arrested-232549
31-03-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana MC collects Rs93-cr property tax||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 30Against the budget target of Rs 130 crore for the property tax during 2020-21 financial year amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the MC has recovered nearly Rs 93 crore till date while one day is still left.The civic body is yet to collect the tax from a number of defaulters, including some government offices.As March 31 is the last date for depositing the property tax (for 2020-21) with only 10 per cent penalty, a number of people visited Suvidha Kendras of the Ludhiana MC today. Also, heavy rush was witnessed at MC’s Zone C wherein visitors were standing in long queues to deposit the tax.A penalty at the rate of 20 per cent on the property tax amount due along with interest at the rate of 18 per cent would be charged from April 1, as per the information.The MC had earlier sent hundreds of notices to the defaulters, including a number of government departments, to pay the property tax to avoid action. However, the MC is yet to meet the target that was fixed for the financial year 2020-21.The Superintendent, Zone C, MC, Vivek Verma, said the MC had collected nearly Rs 93 crore tax till Tuesday evening. He said the civic body had recovered around Rs 84 crore tax during the last financial year 2019-20.He said a large number of people reached the Zone C office to deposit their property tax today. He said 20 per cent penalty and 18 per cent interest would be charged on tax amount due from April 1. It was expected that more people would visit the offices to deposit the property tax on Wednesday.An official of the Municipal Corporation (MC) said the Police Department, Zila Parishad, Bus Stand and some other departments were yet to deposit the tax. He said the Police Department was yet to pay around Rs 50 lakh tax.The Municipal Corporation had earlier sent a notice to the bus stand authorities to deposit Rs 9-crore property tax to the civic body. However, the Municipal Corporation could recover only Rs 1 crore from the bus stand. A notice was also served on the Zila Parishad to deposit Rs 1.5-crore property tax. Besides, a number of property owners have not deposited their tax till date. After March 31, a fresh list of defaulters will be prepared.The residents can also deposit the property tax for 2020-21 through the MC’s official website mcludhiana.gov.in.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had earlier expressed hope that the civic body would collect Rs 100 crore by the end of the financial year. Sandhu said the MC would take necessary action against those who failed to deposit the tax.The Municipal Corporation had sealed several buildings in the past as the owners failed to deposit the property tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-collects-rs93-cr-property-tax-232550
31-03-2021||---||Virus claims 18 lives in two days||Ludhiana, March 30Covid-19 has claimed life of 18 more persons in the district during the past 48 hours. Also, 672 cases of virus have been reported from the district during the past two days.The Health Department on Tuesday confirmed 370 cases — 329 from Ludhiana and 41 from other districts or states. The department also confirmed today that 10 persons — seven from Ludhiana, one each from Moga, Hoshiarpur and Haryana died of the virus.On Monday, the department had confirmed death of 19 persons — 11 from Ludhiana and eight from other districts or states. Also, 387 cases — 343 from Ludhiana district and 44 from other districts — were confirmed yesterday.Out of 329 cases confirmed today, 133 persons with influenza-like illness had visited Flu Corner, 84 visited OPD and 27 came in contact of positive patients. Three positive patients are suffering from severe acute respiratory infection.Nine teachers — two from GADVASU, three from GSS School, Daduhar, three from GSS School in Khanna and one teacher from GSS School, Dholewal — tested positive for the virus. A staff member of BCM School, Shastri Nagar, tested positive. Meanwhile, two healthcare workers and two policemen have tested positive for the virus.Those who died during the past 24 hours were 65-year-old woman from Bhagour village, 54-year-old man from Khanna, 62-year-old man from Dugri, 61-year-old man from Jagraon, 64-year-old man from Model Gram, 70-year-old woman from Shimlapuri and 72-year-old woman from Ludhiana.On Tuesday, 22 patients — 12 from Ludhiana and 10 from other districts or states — were on ventilator support.At present, there are 2,848 active cases. A total of 7,86,753 samples have been taken, out of which 7,46,798 samples were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana district is 34,082 and 5,361 patients belong to other districts/states. In Ludhiana, 30,098 patients (88.31%) have recovered till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/virus-claims-18-lives-in-two-days-232551
31-03-2021||---||3 trees axed for  widening road||Ludhiana, March 30After three trees were axed near Canal Bridge at Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar in Ludhiana, the Council of Engineers, an NGO, has sent a complaint to the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Forest and Wildlife Preservation.The NGO has alleged that the trees were around 35-40 years’ old and have been axed ‘unnecessarily’ in the name of development by the Ludhiana MC.In the complaint, Kapil Arora, who is leading the NGO, has alleged that the MC has not taken any permission from the National Green Tribunal and assessment from the Forest Department before axing these trees. He demanded that action be taken against those responsible for causing damage to environment by cutting trees at BRS Nagar, Ludhiana.Arora demanded that directions must be issued to the authorities concerned to compensate the environment by planting saplings for each felled tree. “If no action is taken, we will move the NGT”, he said.“In 2016, while acting on two petitions alleging indiscriminate felling of trees in Punjab for widening roads and those standing along the canal banks, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered that not a single tree would be axed in the state without its permission,” said Arora.Meanwhile, an official of the MC said the trees were axed for a road-widening project so that the commuters didn’t face any inconvenience. The MC’s Executive Engineer (B&R) could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-trees-axed-for-widening-road-232552
31-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Revellers throw caution to wind||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 30Holi revellers openly threw caution to the wind as they celebrated the festival without following the Covid-19 norms. They all celebrated the festival as if there is no fear of coronavirus.Youngsters on motorcycles and in cars were seen driving rashly on city roads challenging the guidelines issued by the police.The police had laid nakas and Police Control Room (PCR) motorcycles were patrolling the city to check the violations still most city roads witnessed rowdiness.Most of the youngsters were seen without masks. Some people also held Holi parties at their homes and farmhouses where a large number of people gathered for celebrations.A huge rush of customers was seen at shops selling colours and other Holi-related things.At some religious places, residents gathered in large numbers and management of the religious places failed to ensure the implementation of Covid norms.494 challaned for Covid, traffic violations||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/revellers-throw-caution-to-wind-232553
31-03-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Schools to declare results of non-board classes today||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 30The Education Department has asked the government schools in the state to declare the results of all non-board classes by March 31. Besides, the new session 2021-22 will begin immediately from April 1.The department had issued relevant instructions in this regard recently. As per that, the results of non-board classes which have been held before the recent Covid spike, will be taken and in that practical numbers and CCE will be counted while declaring the results. Students who failed in the pre-board exams will be evaluated on the basis of their performance in the PAS exams.One of the senior teachers of a Government Senior Secondary School said the basic aim was to pass all students. “I do not think that any student would fail as the entire session was held online. However, it was difficult for students, parents and even teachers to get themselves accustomed with online classes initially. The students had to suffer from many issues such as unavailability of smartphones, poor network connections etc. But somehow we all managed and students will be promoted to the next class”, said the teacher.Raising concern over the future of students, Sukhdarshan Singh, president, Nakal Virodhi Teachers Front, said the government must not delay the exam schedule for the board classes also. “These should be conducted at the earliest. Many students have already left the studies to earn a livelihood. In case they are to be motivated, their exams and further guidance on career is very important for making them self-reliant. If we will conduct the exams in April/May, results will be declared later and 3-4 months will be wasted. The exams should sooner be conducted offline or online,” he said.Managements seek opening of private schoolsMeanwhile, management of private schools have demanded from the government to open the schools as soon as possible. They feel that after about 8-9 months, the schools were coming back on the tracks but with a sudden spike in Covid cases, these were shut till March 31. But now further closure should not be announced, feel the school managements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schools-to-declare-results-of-non-board-classes-today-232554
31-03-2021||---||Beneficiaries suffer for want of CGHS-empanelled hospitals||Ludhiana, March 30 Beneficiaries of the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) are facing hardships due to the absence of empanelled hospitals in the district.  Retired employees of the Central Government claimed that since no hospital from Ludhiana is empanelled under the CGHS, one has to travel all the way to Jalandhar for getting the requisite treatment or consultation.  Talking to The Tribune, PK Kalia, a retired income tax officer, said under the CGHS, no hospital from Ludhiana is empanelled. “We are at the fag end of our life and we should be comfortable. In case we fall sick, to get medical aid, we need to rush to Jalandhar. If one is serious, immediate treatment is required but here we are asked to go to Jalandhar and then we are referred to here, if required. The entire process takes too much time and one remains under tremendous stress,” he said.  The retirees said Ludhiana having a population of over 40 lakhs has not got hospitals empanelled under the CGHS.  Many retirees from the Central Government departments are from Ludhiana, who need good treatment services in Ludhiana hospitals and government should do something to provide relief to the old age persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/beneficiaries-suffer-for-want-of-cghs-empanelled-hospitals-232555
31-03-2021||ludhiana||DC directs Health Dept to hold 200 immunisation camps||In a move to further augment efforts to contain the contagion under the ‘Vaccination on Doorstep’ drive, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Tuesday directed the Health Department to organise 200 immunisation camps from April 1.After inaugurating a vaccination camp organised at Avon Cycles by Onkar Singh Pahwa today, the Deputy Commissioner said from April 1, all the citizens above the age of 45, irrespective of co-morbidities, would be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination. At present, only citizens above 60 and those over 45 with co-morbidities are allowed to get the vaccination besides health and frontline workers.He asked Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar and District Immunisation Officer Dr Kiran Gill to convene meetings with private hospitals, IMA and other health officers in industrial houses and train them for the inoculation and other formalities required for the Covid camp.He asked them to send him a complete schedule of 200 camps through elaborated planning with all stakeholders, targeting as many eligibles as we can vaccinate quickly through camps.Sharma said as the ‘Vaccination on Doorsteps’ drive has received thumbs up from the residents, it would be accelerated to cover the maximum entitled by organising 200 camps from April 1.He asserted that we need to make this drive a public movement against the pandemic by ensuring aggressive participation of the beneficiaries in the camps to get the shot.The DC emphasised that those entitled must accept and come forward to receive the vaccine, presuming its duty towards the country and should not believe in rumours.He further said that vaccination is being carried out in government health facilities on all 7 days of the week and it is completely free of cost at these institutions. For private hospitals government has fixed a maximum fee of Rs 250 for each dose of vaccine. — TNS ‘Convene meetings with private hospitals’Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma asked Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar and District Immunisation Officer Dr Kiran Gill to convene meetings with private hospitals, IMA and other health officers in industrial houses and train them for the inoculation and other formalities required for the Covid camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dc-directs-health-dept-to-hold-200-immunisation-camps-232556
31-03-2021||Anil Datt---||Jalandhar beat Ludhiana by 73 runs||Ludhiana, March 30 Ludhiana lost to Jalandhar by 73 runs in a match in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament for the Trident PCA Cup. The match was played at the GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road on Monday. Opting to bat first, after winning the toss, Jalandhar made 246 runs for the loss of eight wickets in 50 overs. Skipper Aditya Joshi scored 144 runs with the help of 11 boundaries and 5 sixes. Manvir Singh contributed with 62 runs. For Ludhiana, Captain, Shabad Tangri clinched five wickets in six overs after conceding 49 runs. Imrozpreet Singh, Soham Baggan and Anmoljit Singh took one wicket each. Chasing the target, Ludhiana could muster 73 runs after losing nine wickets. Jaiveer Singh chipped in with 50 runs, Soham Baggan scored 19, Himanshu Prajapati made 17 while Imrozpreet Singh remained unbeaten on 11 runs. For the visitors, Arjun Rajput was the most successful bowler who scalped three victims after giving away 16 runs. Ankush grabbed two wickets for 36 runs while Aditya Joshi, Vardaan and Pranay captured one wicket each. Aditya Joshi was named Man of the Match. Objection raised against fielding overage players The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) lodged a complaint against Jalandhar District Cricket Association (JDCA) for fielding two overaged players in the match. In a written complaint from Ludhiana through coach and former Punjab Ranji player, Raj Kumar Puri and the team captain, Shabad Tangri, hosts alleged that Manvir Singh and Aditya Joshi were above the age bar. The complaint was submitted to the match referee, Sarabjit Singh Rozy to forward it to the Punjab Cricket Association that will take note of it to ensure a fair play in the ongoing competition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jalandhar-beat-ludhiana-by-73-runs-232557
31-03-2021||---||Register pets  today or pay 10 times fine||Ludhiana, March 30 The Municipal Corporation authorities have appealed to the people to get their pets registered by March 31 without any penalty. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu requested pet owners to come forward for registration of their pets.  Senior Veterinary Officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said March 31 is the last date for the registration for pet dogs and cats without penalty. “From April 1, 10 times fine will be charged as late fee for pet registration. Three items are required for registration including a photo of pet, photo of owner and Aadhaar Card. The annual registration fee is Rs 400. The pet owners can deposit fee online or at Suvidha Centres of the MC Ludhiana.” He said the Municipal Corporation is considering various welfare schemes on this sector including free vaccinations/ rabies free zones etc. Dr Harbans Dhalla said over 1,600 pets have been registered in city till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/register-pets-today-or-pay-10-times-fine-232558
31-03-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot||Activists vow to make vaccine drive a success||Activists of various units of Rotary Club falling under RID 3090 have announced to work together with the administration in curbing the spread of the pandemic. An announcement was made during the concluding session of the seminar on “Fighting With Second Phase of Corona Pandemic through preventive measures and vaccination”. Tarsem Garg presided over the function and District Governor Vijay Arora was the chief guest. Speakers, including DGE Parveen Garg, DGND Ghanshyam Kansal, PDG Amjad Ali, AG Dr Ravinder Sharma, SP Sofat , Dr Naved Aslam and Dr Rajinder Mittal highlighted the challenges associated with implementation of Covid guidelines. Venu Gopal, convener of the project, said office-bearers of different units had vowed to follow guidelines of the Rotary International regarding constitution of a Task Force of Rotarians which would coordinate with authorities in the health and civil administration to facilitate the vaccination drive.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/activists-vow-to-make-vaccine-drive-a-success-232559
31-03-2021||Ludhiana||Covid norms violated at function||Covid norms were allegedly flouted during a function at DEO elementary office organised to honour teachers for their dedicated efforts. In the event, a gathering of 25-30 members was witnessed. Ironically, no one was seen wearing mask and no social distance was maintained.  A teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said schools are shut for students till April 10 as number of Covid cases are rising but teachers themselves are setting a bad example for students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-norms-violated-at-function-232560
31-03-2021||---||12-year-old boy drowns in Sidhwan Canal||Ludhiana, March 30 A 12-year-old boy drowned in Sidhwan Canal near Dugri while taking a bath on Tuesday afternoon. The boy was identified as Rohit, a resident of Choti Jawaddi. He had gone to take bath in the canal along with his friends.  After the police came to know about the incident, divers were called there to search the body but body was not recovered. Shoes of the boy was found at the bank of the canal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/12-year-old-boy-drowns-in-sidhwan-canal-232561
