01-03-2021||Opinion||Rights first: India's migrant workers||The invisibility of India’s migrant constituency starts to dissipate when their numbers become apparent. This happened when thousands of migrant workers, pushed to desperation by the loss of jobs owing to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown last year, were forced to make arduous journeys on foot back to their home states. Suddenly a suffering people erupted on the national radar although their labour has, for decades, propelled the nation’s growth. Nearly 80 per cent of migrant workers in the informal sector lost their jobs and many casualties were reported during their march home. Yet the government, in another telling show of indifference, informed Parliament recently that it is ‘still collecting’ data on the number of deaths of migrant workers. Addressing the plight of such a mobile, diffused but significant section of the population requires an understanding of complex, intersecting issues. The Niti Aayog’s draft policy on migrant workers is thus a welcome initiative. It highlights some of the most pressing problems plaguing migrant labour: loopholes in existing legislations designed to protect the constituency from exploitation; the absence of a rights-based approach towards empowerment; lack of development in home states and access to dignified, well-paid jobs that lead them to migrate in the first place, and so on. Hearteningly, the draft makes valuable suggestions to address the problem. For instance, given the weaknesses inherent to the Inter State Migrant Workers Act, 1979, the draft calls for a comprehensive law that would safeguard the rights of all migrant workers and form the legal basis for building a social security system. This is crucial on several counts, not least of which is that internal migrants are not registered as voters in their places of work, thereby pushing them to the margins of welfare initiatives that invariably prioritize local population over migrants. But enumeration and social security would not be enough. Affirmative action must take place at the policy level to treat migrants as equal citizens with secure access to basic entitlements such as food, education, healthcare and labour rights. But such a recognition is unlikely to come to pass unless the State acknowledges that the welfare of the nation is inextricably linked to that of the migrant worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
01-03-2021||Opinion||Dry future: ‘Perseverance’, the Mars rover||Sir — Only time and ‘Perseverance’ — the Mars rover — can answer if there is life on Mars. It is hard to imagine the effect on the human imagination if we learn that life has not only existed on our planet, but also elsewhere. But what can be said without any doubt is that if life did exist, it met the same arid end that human beings soon will if they continue to disregard the warnings of scientists regarding climate change. Increasing heat, a thinning atmosphere, rapidly evaporating water can turn Earth into the same dry wasteland that is the red planet at present. Arindam Chatterjee,Calcutta Dreaded word Sir — Ramachandra Guha should be lauded for the bold article, “Colossal figure” (Feb 27). The introductory paragraphs were not only enlightening for us but they also offered interesting and alarming parallels a hundred years apart. I would have to differ with Guha only on one point — how can “Modiabad” see the light of day, given the supreme allergy of the saffron ecosystem towards the Persian suffix, abad? After all, who can forget that Allahabad has already been consigned to the dustbin of history and Faizabad has been sanitized of its Islamic nomenclature. The day is not far when Ahmedabad, Aurangabad and Hyderabad will be renamed owing to the antipathy of the Hindutva elements towards the last four letters of these names. Is not purging Islamic history from all Indian towns and cities the foremost agenda in the nationalist programme of undoing 1,200 years of slavery? “Modiabad” is thus not an option. “Narendra Mahanagar” is much safer. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Skewed focus Sir — The environment activist, Subhas Datta, deserves immense praise for his wake-up call to the electorate as well as those seeking votes about environmental issues in the run up to the West Bengal assembly elections (“Green activists urge parties to focus on environment”, Feb 27). With political parties focusing on selfish, short-term interests, the environment has been conveniently forgotten. Among the burning environmental issues plaguing Bengal, Datta has identified worsening air pollution, shoddy waste management and the damage being inflicted on the fragile ecology of the Sunderbans as some of the areas of concern. Yet, political leaders seem blissfully unaware of these issues at their election rallies. The phasing out of commercial vehicles older than 15 years as directed by the Calcutta High Court, the introduction of clear fuel like CNG for public transport or the banning single-use plastic find no mention in their election speeches. The public in general, too, is oblivious to the fact that seven cities in Bengal — Calcutta, Howrah, Barrackpore, Durgapur, Asansol, Raniganj and Haldia — have been classified as non-attainment areas — places considered to have air quality worse than the national ambient air quality — by the Central Pollution Control Board. Datta also spoke about the large-scale destruction of mangroves, which act as natural barriers to devastating storms like Amphan, leaving villagers in the Sunderbans vulnerable to cyclones. This results in saline water from the sea flowing further upstream and destroying acres of agricultural lands, depriving the villagers of their livelihood and threatening the ecology of the Hooghly river. These questions of life and death are not being brought up by the political leaders while campaigning for votes. Unfortunately, this is true of parties across the political spectrum that rely on populism and are afraid to take difficult decisions. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — It was encouraging to read that environmental activists are urging political parties to spell out how they will tackle the ever increasing environmental problems in their election manifestos. The activist, Subhas Datta, rightly states that while political parties are vocal on solving the farmers’ problems or the rising oil prices, on issues like an action plan for clean air or deforestation in the Sunderbans, they have nothing to say. Political parties should include issues pertaining to the environment in their election manifestos for the forthcoming assembly elections. But most politicians have neither a clue about ecological issues nor a clear stand on natural resources and their equitable distribution. They should bring aboard environmental activists to consult on what ails our cities and the state and clearly state their agenda going forward. Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
01-03-2021||Opinion||Residual role: state and economic development||The prime minister’s recent remark about the ‘business of government is not to be in business’ is a well-known conservative articulation of the role of the State in economic development. The concept of the State revolves around the relative efficiency of the private sector, minimally regulated by the State’s fiscal and monetary policies along with the institutions that support market activities like courts and law-and-order enforcement agencies. The government has a residual role in providing services, which involves the production of public goods and, to some extent, bolstering the provision of adequate educational and health services. Despite these strong views that many economists and business persons hold, many countries do have public sector units that produce such critical inputs as oil, power, railway services and industries that are considered to be of strategic interest. The government, it is argued, cannot run businesses efficiently. Private profit earners take care of their businesses better and if losses are incurred, they are not passed on to the tax-payers. These are stereotypical views. There are exceptions as well where public sector companies run as star performers and private sector companies have abysmal levels of efficiency. There are historical reasons that need to be examined. In India, the origin of the public sector during the 1950s stemmed from the lack of large and mature entrepreneurs who could organize large-scale investments with long gestation lags in such arenas as steel, fertilizers, power, oil and railways. The State stepped in to create the ‘temples of modern India’ with which the private sector could grow and become experienced enough to ultimately take on the mantle of captains of industry. In today’s India, private investors are strong enough to take on the activities that exist under the umbrella of the public sector. Hence the government has prioritized the sale of PSUs and embarked on a process of privatization that rolls back the government from the market economy. However, what becomes of the economy is determined to a very significant extent by the quality of the government’s economic policies, the stability of its regulations, the depth of its institutions and, above all, by what it does for social and human development for those at the bottom of the pyramid. A large role remains for the government hovering in the periphery of private business — influencing it, controlling it, giving it direction. The mere absence of a public sector is neither a necessary, nor a sufficient, condition for improving the health of India’s economy and society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
01-03-2021||Opinion||Greta storm in a tea cup||When the controversy over Greta Thunberg’s tweet on farmers’ protests erupted in India, Charles Dickens burst into my memory. One of the unforgettable moments in the Dickensian oeuvre is in Oliver Twist. Oliver, famishing in the parish workhouse, dares to plead, ‘Please, Sir. A little more gruel.’ Bumble, the parish beadle, sees this timid cry as an insurrection. As per the workhouse rules, the inmates were required to be absolutely silent at meals. Oliver’s cry broke the rule. Dickens implies that the offence of an action is determined by regulations. Remove the rule and Oliver’s plea becomes innocuous. But with the rule in place, it is seditious, so to speak. If I were to teach the text today, I would connect it to Plato’s Allegory of the Cave in the Republic. Its inmates live as spectators of shadows. One of them goes out and encounters the truth. So long as he keeps the truth he knows to himself, there’s no problem. But what if he were to return to the Cave and liberate its inmates from their vacuous existence? He may; indeed, he must. But there’s a price to pay. “They will kill him,” writes Plato, “if they manage to lay their hands on him!” Socrates, Plato’s mentor, faced this conundrum. As a philosopher, he did his best to lead the youth of Athens to truth. This made him, as a citizen, guilty of ‘impiety’. He was accused of corrupting them. The Socratic predicament raises the following question: can a citizen be also a truth-seeker? To tell the truth, is to tell it ‘as it is’. But who has the right to know the given situation as it is? Can the individual’s liberty to know and share the truth exceed the right of the State to take care of itself? Didn’t Baruch Spinoza maintain in the 17th century that there is “no higher law” for a commonwealth “than the safety of his realm”? This is where Greta comes in, presumably armed with conspiracies against India. It is bad enough if a citizen presumes the right to describe a situation as he thinks it is. But outsiders like Rihanna, Greta, et al? They add a measure of complication to the ‘truth versus State’ dynamics that Plato could not have foreseen. How can outsiders know ‘the situation as it is’? Well, they don’t. Then why do they meddle with our affairs? There’s only one explanation: they are conspirators. After all, aren’t we living in a world of conspiracy theories? Controversies, fortified with relentless propaganda, have the power to galvanize a people more potently than any of the old-world religions. Let us return, briefly, to Oliver’s ‘asking for more’. Dickens constructs this scene in defiance of Newton’s third law of motion: action and reaction are equal and opposite. This law reflects the symmetry and reciprocity in nature. One body cannot exert a force on another without provoking a corresponding reactive force. Dickens makes Bumble react to the cry of a starving boy with disproportionate force. He overpowers and stigmatizes the boy. Oliver’s cry is turned into a primal offence via Bumble’s overreaction. Dickens means that this offence is not intrinsic to the action, but contrived and ascribed. Oliver does not have the right to decide whether he intended offence or not. That right rests solely with the parish establishment. To the workhouse, its interests are supreme. It enjoys the right to frame the laws. Who doesn’t know that laws are framed, argues Leo Tolstoy, with an eye to preserve the interests of the elite? Also, what is good for common folks is decided for them by those who, unlike them, know what is what, and, therefore, what is good for them. Once again, the ordeal of truth comes to the fore. Who shall decide what is in the best interests of the farmers and, therefore, the truths pertaining to how they are pursued? That brings us to Vincent van Gogh’s depictions of peasant life. Look, in particular, at the one depicting a pair of peasant boots. The artist invests the rustic, muddy, over-worn pair of boots with power and poignancy, immortalizing the mud-slaked boots as a witness to the grimness and forlornness of the peasant as he struggles to bring out the goodness of the earth to feed his fellow men. The truth is that our policymakers, political strategists and fly-by-night desh bhakts know not the sweat and struggle that underlie the food on their tables. How do you think the striking farmers have endured, in the bitter wintry chill, for as long as they have? Well, look, again, at van Gogh’s paintings. The farmers are steeled by the rigour of their life. They are living their protest. This is, alas, bad optics. The international attention must be negotiated with dignified restraint. It does not behove the stature of India to play Bumble to private opinion-makers beyond our borders. Public sentiments are culturally toned. Western societies value personal liberty and freedom of expression. As in Dickens’s workhouse, we can modulate the matrix of legitimacy to suit national interests. Our national interests are unlikely to be understood and embraced by the rest of the world exactly as we do. Asymmetry in reactions betrays lurking insecurity. Sending a ‘strong’ signal to the citizenry in India may be read differently by others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
01-03-2021||Opinion||Beyond dreams of art||In a letter to the artist, Asit Kumar Haldar, Abanindranath Tagore asked him not to be a gurumoshai and frighten students when teaching in “Bolpur”: “Remember, to teach birds one must turn into a bird too.” By Bolpur, Abanindranath meant Kala Bhavana, the fine arts school that Rabindranath Tagore had begun in Santiniketan. It started operating as a separate entity — not part of the original school — from 1919, two years before Visva-Bharati was recognized as a university. The relationship between teacher and student suggested by Abanindranath was intrinsic to his uncle’s idea of education and, according to artists from all over the country who have learnt or taught in Kala Bhavana, is one of its enduring features. This alone — overturning a traditional hierarchy — would put the institution at odds with today’s regime. In an address in Chennai called “The Centre of Indian Culture” in 1919, Rabindranath Tagore had said that “the mission of all education is to lead us beyond the present date...” This idea underlay the statement of the art historian, R. Siva Kumar, a former student, teacher and principal of Kala Bhavana, at the Kochi Biennale in 2017 that the contingent nature of preparations for the future required teachers to be learners too, fellow travellers with their students. Although going beyond hierarchies — embedded structures of power — is a mirage in the present political ethos, what remains undefeated is the other kind of power that Rabindranath’s ideas about teaching and the place of art generated, permeating the thinking, working and teaching of many of the artists and historians of art who have passed through or still inhabit the world of Kala Bhavana. Yet in its 100 years, the institution, together with the university of which it is part, has undergone numerous changes. In 1933, Sangit Bhavana took over music and dancing from Kala Bhavana, but the watershed came when Visva-Bharati became a Central university in 1951, subject to all the pertinent rules. But the procession of matchless artists who worked and taught there, beginning with Nandalal Bose, Benode Behari Mukherjee and Ramkinkar Baij, continues unbroken, like a still potent flowering of the unknown future implicit in the founder’s dreams for art and education. The breakdown of hierarchies was a determining element in Rabindranath’s ideas of learning. In “Kalavidya”, where he promises that the teaching of music and the fine arts would have a major role when Visva-Bharati became a university, he says that human beings express their inner love and desire not only by creating beauty in everyday objects, but also through music and the fine arts. The equality implied here demolishes traditional divisions between ‘high’ art and ‘craft’ while absorbing the energy of folk traditions. Education is pointless unless it brings us into an “organic connection” with our surroundings, Rabindranath said in the 1919 Chennai address, expressing his belief that “our educational institutions should be in the very heart of our society, connected with it by living bonds of varied co-operations”. The politics implicit in this vision has a broad and eventful context. A few months before Nandalal Bose took charge of Kala Bhavana, Tagore had written to Lord Carmichael, returning his knighthood. Jallianwala Bagh had hurt him deeply — and it had nothing to do with the attachment to rigidly nationalistic ideals which he had by then overcome. That aggressive nationalism and communal conflicts surrounding the partition of Bengal in 1905 put him off is clear in novels such as Gora and Ghare Baire, and he repeatedly spoke about the limitations of nation-based patriotism. But he did attribute the joylessness of life to Europe’s introduction of machines — as did William Morris, poet, writer, artist, designer, craftsman and a Socialist with an unflagging belief in the power of art to transform life — and in “Kalavidya”, Rabindranath described art as the expression of a human being’s inner vitality, without which a race loses its love of life, even the ability to work. He put down neglect of art education in India to the single-minded pursuit of an English-based education aimed at jobs. While establishing fine arts education as an integral part of university life, Rabindranath emphasized the diversity of personalities that found expression in art. Nurturing diverse abilities, expressions, techniques and forms while breaking the barriers between outside and inside, connecting the university with the busy lives and activities surrounding it, also meant destroying less visible power structures. Diversity, too, is unpopular now. At the time, Rabindranath believed that the traditions of Indian art had been obstructed, but pure revivalism did not satisfy him. He wished for a new art, in touch with the contemporary and open to the world, both East and West. Sending back the artist, Kampo Arai, from Japan, he wrote to Gaganendranath Tagore that our consciousness is keenly awakened when prodded by a new stimulus from outside. That Stella Kramrisch came to deliver 43 lectures on Western art was one outstanding instance of his efforts at sharing stimuli. The politics of his art education grew in inclusiveness. The First World War had deepened his conviction of the evils of narrow nationalism while suggesting the possibility of creating peace through bonds of culture. Nationalism — blind loyalty to the nation-state — brought out the most aggressive and selfish elements in people, he said in 1919, while culture was open-ended and dynamic, allowing creative sharing and the building of international alliances. He wrote to his son in 1916 that he wished to make the school at Santiniketan “a link between India and the world”. On Bengali new year’s day in 1918, he said to the students that “our ashram has raised no walls, drawn no boundary lines”. Visitors arrived from different parts of the world, “crossing all hurdles — of oceans, nationhood, region-born customs, religious practice”. Hoping in 1916 for a centre in Santiniketan that would “study humanity across all races and nations”, he gave it clearer shape in 1919: “... [I]n our centre of Indian learning we must provide for the co-ordinated study of all these different cultures — the Vedic, the Puranic, the Buddhist, the Jain, the Islamic, the Sikh and the Zoroastrian. And side by side... the European...” Besides living languages, folk literature would be studied too, to understand the psychology of “our people” and the direction in which “our underground current of life is moving”. Of course he was not alone in this venture; he had around him and after him people who through dedication, sacrifice, wisdom and belief in the vision made it as realistic and practical as possible. Change is inevitable, but it is amazing that the meanest of politics, academic and otherwise, has not — so far — been able to uproot the greater politics at the service of education, art, co-operation, cultural dynamism, the sense of fulfilment and freedom that determines the inner structure of the institution. It is, therefore, somewhat disconcerting to have the chancellor of the university tell students at the convocation that they should rise above their own interests and adopt a ‘nation-first’ approach. Sadly for us, in 1916, Rabindranath had thought that “the age of narrow-minded nationalism is approaching its end”. But was there a message in the chancellor’s reference to highly educated people spreading terror at a time when the prisons are full of students charged with sedition and ‘unlawful’ activities and Disha Ravi had been arrested? Visva-Bharati students were given a new kind of choice — of being the problem or its solution. Since thinking nation-first was the cure-all, the choice had not existed at all. The present vice-chancellor, meanwhile, is frankly impolite — to a degree that does not bear repetition. But it is the chancellor, the vice-chancellor and their cohorts that make the news, not Kala Bhavana’s centenary. Perhaps the choice Morris offered in his 1881 lecture, “Art and the Beauty of the Earth”,  is the one we must make: “So, which shall we have, art or dirt?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
