02-03-2021||Opinion||First shot: Congress-Left rally||An impressive rally — the turnout at the first public meeting of the coalition featuring the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front was sizeable — need not translate into electoral gain. Nonetheless, several intriguing signals emerged on account of the gathering. Bengal’s assembly election is being largely seen as a two-way contest between the ruling Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party that has emerged as the principal challenger. Yet, Sunday’s public meeting proved that the third fledgling alternative, featuring the Congress, the Left and its new ally, may have pockets of influence, especially in minority-dominated areas. This is because the ISF is likely to concentrate its efforts on mobilizing the Muslim vote that, some estimate, could decide the outcome in numerous seats. Ironically, the ISF’s perceived strength could weaken its allies. The Congress is worried about the ISF cutting into its traditional vote-base in North Bengal: its talks of seat-sharing with the ISF has run into rough weather. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), too, knows that the Muslim vote could be crucial to its resurgence. The squabblings within the allies need not broaden the smiles in the camps of their rivals. The Trinamul Congress would be keeping an anxious eye on a possible split in the minority vote. Although the BJP is likely to gain as a result of such a fracture and the counter-mobilization that it would engineer among orthodox Hindus, an energized Left could also mean that some segments of voters, who had traded red for saffron, may be willing to return to their original party of choice. These inferences signify both continuities and departures. For instance, the fracas between the Congress and the ISF shows that competitive politics around the Muslim vote remains unabated on the problematic assumption that the community votes en bloc. This may no longer hold true. Traditional constituencies — Hindus, Muslims and caste groups — are increasingly transforming themselves into subsets with specific aspirations. Politics, too, is aligning itself around these microcosmic mobilizations. Bengal is also experiencing these transformations that are likely to make electoral contests intense and unpredictable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||Long waited: Nirav Modi to be extradited||Sir — I was glad to read that the jeweller, Nirav Modi, who is wanted for fraud and money laundering in the Rs 14,000 crore Punjab National Bank financial scam, will be extradited to India (“Blow to Nirav bid to beat extradition”, Feb 26). The judge, Samuel Goozee, who presided over the trial, said that Modi’s extradition orders are in compliance with human rights laws and that, if he so wishes, he has the right to appeal against the decision. However, the judge also indicated that the case for the high-profile jeweller to face trial in India was strong as there were clearly links between him and ‘other connivers’ including bank officials who were guilty of approving the letters of undertaking supplied by Modi that facilitated the clearance of huge unpaid loans. The nearly two-year-long legal battle follows Modi’s arrest on an extradition warrant in March 2019 in the United Kingdom. His multiple attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down, both at the magistrates’ as well as at the high court level, as he was deemed to be a flight risk. The diamantaire is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings — the Central Bureau of Investigation case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through obtaining illegal letters of undertaking or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He is also facing two additional charges of evidence tampering and intimidation of witnesses, which have been added to the CBI case. Undoubtedly, his pending trial in India will be subject to much attention. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — After a long-drawn battle, it seems that the fugitive jeweller, Nirav Modi, will finally be extradited to India and tried before the courts in the country. He was arrested two years ago in the UK and is facing charges of fraud, money laundering and intimidation of witnesses in the Punjab National Bank scam case. Once criminals flee their home country, it can take years for the government to have them extradited, let alone put them on trial. Many such individuals — the former chairman of the Indian Premier League, Lalit Modi, is among them — continue to evade justice owing to ambiguities in the criminal justice system. Thus, the decision of the Westminster Magistrates’ Court to allow the extradition of Nirav Modi to India is welcome. Ultimately, this massive financial scam was possible because of corruption among bank officials as well as loopholes in the banking system in India. It is hoped that the jeweller will be brought to justice.Anshita Rochwani,Ujjain Take care Sir — It is no surprise that working from home and the lack of social gatherings during the global fight against the coronavirus have left many people in Japan feeling increasingly stressed and lonely (“Isolate the problem”, Feb 28). The administration is of the opinion that pandemic-linked isolation is primarily responsible for the first uptick in suicides in the country in the last 11 years. Thus, to battle the malaise, the Japanese government, following in the footsteps of the UK, created a loneliness countermeasures office in its cabinet earlier this month to fight problems such as suicide and child poverty. It is a matter of grave concern that Japan reported nearly 880 female suicides just in October 2020 — a 70 per cent surge compared to October 2019. The government has also set up a task force which will see different departments work together to investigate the impact of loneliness. It has been reported that Japan has the highest suicide rate out of any country in the Group of Seven leading industrial nations, at 14.9 suicides per 1,00,000 individuals. The UK was the first country to appoint a loneliness minister in 2018, after a 2017 report indicated that more than nine million people in the island nation revealed that they often or always felt lonely. However, it does not seem that there has been much progress. The country has gone through three loneliness ministers in three years. The government in Australia, too, has considered creating a similar position. The coronavirus crisis appears to have aggravated the problem of isolation and loneliness, with remote work and restrictions on human contact hitting those who live alone particularly hard. The editorial rightly concludes that India must study these templates of intervention to design effective, compassionate models that are likely to be efficient under Indian conditions. Loneliness is increasingly becoming a problem in our country as well. S.S. Paul,Nadia Ominous sign Sir — As the people of the United States of America voted Joe Biden to power after Donald Trump’s tumultuous presidency, it seemed that a dark chapter in American politics might be coming to an end. However, recently at a conference in Florida, Trump, reiterating his earlier claims that the 2020 election was stolen from him, hinted at the possibility of running for the top post in the next presidential elections in 2024. The Biden administration is already facing criticism for its decision to order air strikes in Syria. Unless the Democrats solidify their presence among the public, the next elections might not be in their favour. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||Big fight looms: inflation targeting||No one relishes the prospect of a battle royale between the government and the monetary authorities. But one could boil over later this month when the flexible inflation targeting framework that was framed in 2016 to underpin monetary policymaking in the country comes up for review. The six-member monetary policy committee has a mandate to maintain inflation at 4 per cent, with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side of the median rate. The MPC has broadly managed to hold inflation within this range between October 2016 and March 2020. The median inflation during this period has been 3.6 per cent. But there have been times when things have got a bit rough: inflation peaked at 7.6 per cent in January 2020 but it also plunged to a low of 1.5 per cent in June 2017. During the current Covid-blighted year, inflation stubbornly ruled above the upper bound of 6 per cent continuously between April and November 2020, which would normally be treated as a “failure” of the monetary policymakers to deliver on their mandate. The Narendra Modi-led government is extremely sensitive to criticism of its management of the economy. A surge in inflation is always a deep cause for worry because it can seriously dent public support for the government’s brand of policy reforms.  The government has been looking to overhaul the inflation targeting framework, and has raised the possibility of using a new yardstick for measurement. The Reserve Bank of India is clearly upset with the move. It put out a new report last week that argued against any change. It posited that the repetitive supply shocks and elevated inflation expectations made it all the more necessary to persevere with the current numerical framework for the next five years. The report, which has been prepared by the central bank’s experts, goes on to argue that it would not be wise to tinker with the existing formula at a time when the pandemic has left permanent scars on the global economy. Two interesting suggestions have been made. The first is that the failure of the MPC should be construed only when it is unable to hold inflation within the 2-6 per cent range for four quarters rather than three at present. The Modi government has been obsessed with the idea of creating a five-trillion-dollar economy by 2024-25 — and this has opened up a fierce debate on the growth versus inflation dynamic. The report reminds the government that the trend GDP growth has worked out to 6.5 per cent during the FIT regime when headline inflation has averaged 3.9 per cent — another reason why it should stick with the current formula. The government, however, seems to be in no mood to relent and could try to browbeat the monetary policymakers to accept sweeping changes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||When they met their mothers||How many of us ever imagine our mothers as young girls? Are they forever just mothers to us? The Chinese are asking themselves these questions thanks to a new movie that’s become the biggest hit of the Chinese New Year holiday. This time, many people heeded the government’s advice and stayed home to avoid spreading Covid-19 once again, instead of travelling back to their home towns to celebrate New Year with their families. Movie theatres made a killing — not only did viewers increase, tickets, too, were priced high because theatres were allowed to operate at only 75 per cent of their capacity and had to have Covid-19 preventive measures in place. Hi, Mom, which released on February 12, New Year’s Day, is about a daughter so overwrought by her mother’s sudden death that she travels back in time to when her mother was young, determined to give her a better life. The comedy, which left most female viewers in tears, is semi-autobiographical: the director, a well-known comedienne, lost her mother in an accident when she was just 19. By the time she reached home from college, her mother was in the crematorium. Now 39, the daughter plays the mother in the film. This is her directorial debut, and has made her the most successful woman director in China and the third most successful in the world. The film has been praised for its realistic depiction of life in the ancient military town of Xiangyang in the 80s. That was four years after Mao’s death, when China was just opening up its economy. But what’s made it a hit is the portrayal of the mother-daughter bond. The director has said she had wanted to show the happy times she spent with her mother, and hoped that the film would make viewers call up their mothers as soon as they finished watching it. The film has done more than that: it’s led to an outpouring of love for mothers. People have been posting pictures on the internet of their mothers when the latter were young. Seeing these pictures has led to a shocked acknowledgement of how much young women today rely on artificial aids to look good in photographs. More interesting, however, is the online survey that’s being conducted: what would you have told your mother if you could have met her before she got married? Many have answered: “[D]on’t marry Dad.” Mao’s revolution in 1949 was supposed to have liberated women from feudal bondage and brought about equality between the sexes; “Women hold up half the sky”, was his famous saying. But when young women in today’s China say they would have advised their mothers to be “independent and confident, don’t listen to everything Dad says, and don’t become a housewife” or, to “live for yourself” and not give up on their dreams just to get married, you wonder to what extent the generation that grew up under Mao achieved equality. Obviously, today’s young women consider themselves more independent than their mothers. Yet, even today, when an entire generation has grown to middle age after Mao’s death, girls start worrying about being labelled “left-behind” if they don’t marry by 30. But few of them give up their dreams for marriage. Funnily enough, the section to which the film is dedicated, that is mothers, is not quite so taken in by it. Some mothers say the depiction of life in the 80s is too romanticized; others haven’t appreciated the modern humour that characterizes the film.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||Shades of difference||By staging a coup on February 1, Myanmar’s commander-in-chief, Min Aung Hlaing, ended Myanmar’s brief and tenuous one-decade experiment with democracy. He claimed that the military takeover would avert widespread protests on opposite sides of the political divide — those in support of the claims of election fraud and those in support of the elected government. The National League for Democracy had won 396 out of 476 seats in the November elections in 2020, gaining the mandate to govern for another five years. The Union Solidarity and Development Party, founded by retired generals in June 2010, won only 33 seats. With a population of nearly 54 million, Myanmar, a land in which the majority adhering to the Theravada tradition of Buddhism coexists with ethnic and religious minorities, is no stranger to military rule. Except for the time periods of 1948 to 1958 and 2010 to 2021, the military, known as the Tatmadaw, has governed the country with absolute control for 73 years of its republican journey. Apart from fighting internal insurgent groups, the military has also monopolized the political economy by running enterprises like breweries and receiving licensing fees for the lucrative jade mining in the north. Externally, the reactions in the last one month were along the expected lines governed by geopolitical considerations. However, internally, the trend line reflects strong discontinuities from the previous episodes of military rule in Myanmar. Externally, the condemnation of the military coup from the United States of America and other Western players like the United Kingdom, which usually lead the United Nations Security Council initiatives on Myanmar, was instant. Several Southeast Asian countries like Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, Brunei, the Philippines and Thailand stayed neutral whereas regional heavyweights, such as Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, expressed concern and hoped for a return to democratic rule. Outside the Southeast Asian region, India, a neighbour with its own operational dependence on the military in the border areas, reacted in a calibrated manner with the aim not to disturb its overall interests. Japan, with vast, varied investments across Myanmar, was relatively vocal in criticizing the military leadership. China, whose initial reaction was more along the lines of its traditional realpolitik adjustment, agreed to a UNSC statement that called for the “immediate release of all those detained” and stressed “the need to uphold democratic institutions and processes, refrain from violence, and fully respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.” Apart from being one of the largest investors in Myanmar, China enjoys a complex relationship with the Tatmadaw, which is suspicious of its role in internal insurgencies. Chinese weaponry is circulating among various insurgent ethnic armed groups in Myanmar. In 2010-11, China was quick to sense the direction of the wind in Myanmar. After ignoring the NLD leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, for years, China’s ambassador in Myanmar met her in December 2011. The NLD rule was marked by a greater, intricate engagement of Myanmar with China. Internally, the situation is far from static, and the reactions are notable. First, with at least 40 per cent of its population being internet-users, the mobilization of the younger generation has become easier and spontaneous. The creative protests on the streets include murals and satire and they have exposed the military leadership before the international community. There were political activists who used satire even before 2010. The celebrated comedian, Maung Thura, popularly known as Zarganar, was infamously sentenced under different charges for 59 years. He was released in 2011 as part of the process to release political prisoners that won international acclaim. The power of social media is now making the internal protests more visible to the outside world. Bluetooth apps, such as Bridgefy, are being widely used as the military has shut down the internet intermittently. There is also a civil disobedience movement by civil servants. But the developments are unlikely to change the course of the military leadership immediately, sap the energies of the military administration and challenge the military’s narrative of stability, normalcy and control. Second, in 2021, any military repression to quell mass-protests through crackdowns will be instantly exposed, both internally and externally, because of the presence of smartphones. This is unlike the repression of 1988 and 2007. At least 3,000 deaths were reported in 1988. In 2007, the Myanmar State media reported that nine people had been killed though this number was widely disputed for gross underreporting. Third, protests are taking place in a situation in which corporate global brands are increasingly sensitive to risks to their reputation, particularly among the client base of millennials and Generation Z. Nike stood in solidarity with Black Lives Matter. In Myanmar too, the Japanese beer giant, Kirin, decided to pull out of a partnership in Myanmar that it runs with a conglomerate linked with Myanmar Economic Holdings, which is overseen by Min Aung Hlaing. Four, the military was expected to exploit the ethnic and religious fault lines within Myanmar, including those on the Rohingya issue, to justify its rule. Myanmar’s minorities form at least 35 per cent of the population. While areas like the Wa state adjoining China, which enjoys de facto independence, were aloof from coup-related developments, reports suggest that in other, non-Bamar areas, such as Kachin, Kayah, Karen, Chin, Rakhine, Mon and Shan, anti-coup rallies have taken place. This despite the fact that in its first term (2015-2020), the NLD had failed to inspire the minorities with the national reconciliation process. Five, the coup takes place when the Tatmadaw is seen by the international community as chiefly responsible for one of the biggest man-made crisis of this century. At least 6,700 Rohingya Muslims, according to a Médecins Sans Frontières finding, were killed in Rakhine in August 2017 and over 700,000 escaped to neighbouring Bangladesh. It was not surprising that after the coup, one of the first statements of the military leadership was to assure the international community that it would abide by the NLD government’s commitments on the repatriation of the Rohingya from Bangladesh to Myanmar. The process is presently in a stalemate because of various reasons, including the lack of suitable conditions for the Rohingya to return. Without the buffer of a civilian government, which had defended the military in the International Court of Justice, Hague, in December 2019, there is the possibility of greater resolute international efforts to indict the Tatmadaw’s leadership that is perceived to be the chief perpetrator of the Rohingya crisis in 2017 within the scope of ongoing mechanisms. Finally, on the basis of previous experience, there is a realization that the evisceration of the military from the country’s power structure will not happen anytime soon. Suu Kyi, who is 75 years old, is still the undisputed leader of the majority Bamar population. The protesters seem to be prepared for a long haul. A more diffused, ethnically diverse and relatively younger leadership with a blueprint for the country’s political future that could share the burden of the old guard and take over the leadership baton in a few years is the need of the hour. Indeed, it would have to factor in both successes as well as shortcomings of the three-decade-long efforts of the NLD leadership. The author was a member of the United Nations secretary-general’s Good Offices on Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
