03-03-2021||Opinion||Fragile thaw: India-Pakistan ceasefire||Hell fire can begin to rain on restive borders unexpectedly. But ceasefires — always welcomed by citizens manning or living along heated borders — can be as sudden. The recent joint announcement by the director generals of military operations of India and Pakistan that took political commentators by surprise is a case in point. Yet, as always, nothing happens without a reason in the world of bilateral engagement. There is speculation that in spite of New Delhi’s stubborn refusal to engage with Islamabad politically, India’s hand has been forced by the prolonged border tensions with China, a far more formidable adversary, so as to avert, if only for the time being, the worrying possible of hostility on two fronts. Pakistan, too, is a cornered nation today. A thaw in its relationship with India, Pakistan will be hoping, would enable it to find its way out of the dreaded ‘grey list’ of the Financial Action Task Force. There is also the long arm of the United States of America; under a new president, the US could well be pushing for an easing of the fractious ties between India and Pakistan so that it can devote its energies, with its allies in Asia, towards countering China. Yet, for the ceasefire to yield tangible political results, both countries would need to tame significant opponents to peace. It appears that Pakistan’s army chief, Qamar Javed Bajwa, is invested in this initiative. But the army and the political establishment in Pakistan seldom act in unison: they would have to do so to avoid abusing India’s trust as Pakistan has done on numerous occasions with covert or overt aggression. The Indian prime minister — he is said to have a weakness for unconventional approaches — would also find himself constrained by his regime’s robust refusal to fall back on diplomacy to break the ice in all these years. Perhaps it will do both nations well to abjure optics and concentrate on a beginning by falling back on the framework provided by history — in 2004, Pervez Musharraf and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had agreed that negotiations on peace must be supported by a scaffold of three principal pledges: Pakistan’s assurance not to support cross-border terrorism; India’s willingness to adopt a supple stance on Kashmir; the renewal of a series of confidence-building measures. How New Delhi and Islamabad choose to tread on these ‘core issues’ could determine the way ahead on this occasion too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
03-03-2021||Opinion||Generation doom: children of the pandemic||Covid-19 has not only taken a massive toll on people’s health; it has also destroyed the future prospects of children. A study by the Centre for Science and Environment indicated as much with its findings about the ‘pandemic generation’: 375 million children, from newborns up to the age of 14, are likely to suffer the long-term effects of the global contagion, ranging from malnutrition, stunting and increased child mortality to losses in education. While global attention has been monopolized by the deaths caused by the coronavirus — it has claimed more than 2.5 million lives around the world, with the casualties in India going beyond 1.5 lakh — the myriad plight of minors and children has been rendered invisible. The blow to the educational prospects of such ‘hidden victims’ is particularly severe: more than 500 million were forced out of school all over the world, with India accounting for over half the number. These figures bear serious implications for India, which now lags behind all South Asian nations in terms of sustainable development, save for Pakistan. Even at the best of times, the protection of children’s lives, rights and health has to be negotiated around formidable roadblocks, including State apathy. The picture becomes even bleaker for children — especially those on the margins — born or growing up during the pandemic. They are at greater risk of disease, poverty, food shortage and even sexual violence while facing poorer access to basic rights such as education and healthcare. While the global response has not been particularly encouraging — a United Nations survey of high-income economies showed that a third of them did not implement any policies designed to support children during the first wave of the pandemic — certain countries have taken some mitigatory measures. Singapore, for one, asked pre-school programmes and student care centres to cut fees by 50 per cent for a short time. But, India, seemingly, has looked the other way. The National Education Policy and the Union budget both saw the light of day during the pandemic. Yet, governmental expenditure on children came down by almost Rs 16,000 crore, while the NEP made lofty claims about online education and increasing the student enrolment ratio by 50 per cent with little clarity on how the digital divide is to be tackled. These challenges are only aggravated by health concerns — increasing air and water pollution are examples — thereby signalling the urgent need for holistic comprehension of the overlapping nature of the challenges so as to design appropriate interventions. The plight of 42 per cent of India’s population is too complex to be solved by a piecemeal approach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
03-03-2021||Opinion||Breathe life into postal life insurance||It was the early 1880s. The British administration in India realized that the subcontinent could not be administered without an effective communication infrastructure. The spread of the postal service thus became a matter of the highest priority. A poor babu of the Calcutta GPO died in harness at the time, leaving his family in a financial crisis. The postal authority felt the need to have a welfare scheme for its employees to cover the risk of life while in service. The proposal of the Director-General of Post Offices, F.R. Hogg, got express approval of Her Majesty’s Secretary of State for India. With that, the concept of life insurance first came to India in 1884 by an executive order in the form of Postal Life Insurance. Every year, the first day of February is observed by the oldest insurer as the day of inception of life insurance in India. The scheme that started as a welfare measure for postal employees was soon extended to other government employees and, subsequently, to the employees of defence services and paramilitary forces, autonomous bodies, public sector units, government-aided educational institutions, banks, local bodies, joint ventures (having a minimum of 10 per cent government/PSU stake), credit cooperative societies, employees of listed companies and professionals. In pursuance of the recommendations of the Malhotra Committee (1994), set up by the P.V. Narasimha Rao government on reform in the insurance sector, a separate insurance scheme was introduced by the Department of Posts in March 1995 exclusively for the people living in rural areas with the objective of financial inclusion of people hitherto untouched by the modern insurance sector. The two schemes together had 96.79 lakh active policies, covering a sum assured of more than Rs 2.05 lakh crore till November 2020. The total corpus of the two funds reached
Rs 1.13 lakh crore on November 2020. Interestingly, the government has not tried to propagate these schemes aggressively. But the PLI and its rural counterpart, the RPLI, have retained their welfare model of marketing even in the changed economic situation. Policies are primarily procured through the designated employees of India Post who are paid a modest incentive when compared to the industry standard of commission. Consequently, the cost of operation of these schemes is lower than that of corresponding schemes of established life insurance companies. The PLI, thus, can afford to distribute a higher ‘surplus’ to policy-holders in the form of an annual ‘bonus’. In spite of substantial higher returns, the market share of PLI among the eligible population is miniscule. The PLI comes under the category of an exempted insurer under Section 118 (c) of the Insurance Act (1938) and under Section 44 (d) of LIC Act (1956). But PLI isn’t an ‘insurer’ that can register itself with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. Subsection 9 under Section 2 of the Insurance Act defines ‘insurer’ as any individual or unincorporated body of individuals or a body incorporated under any law in force in India or incorporated under the law of any country other than India. Being a scheme run by the Central government and set up by an executive order, the PLI does not come under the ambit of this definition of ‘insurer’ and is not under the purview of the IRDA. The world of insurance in India changed drastically after the sector was opened up and the IRDA came into existence. New players and foreign insurers entered the market, which was flooded with new types of policies. Traditional ‘term policies’, ‘endowment policies’, and various combinations of the two gave way to ‘single premium policies’. Full foreign shareholding in insurance intermediaries has also been allowed. Such dramatic changes in the market further marginalized the PLI in the last two decades in the mainstream insurance market. No insurer can have new products today without the endorsement of the regulator. The PLI neither comes under the regulator nor the parent body — India Post has the mandate to bring new insurance products in the market. The PLI, which extended insurance cover to female employees as early as 1894, is struggling today with a handful of products. When a behemoth like the Life Insurance Corporation is so entrenched in the market, do we need another public sector player?  The answer to this question lies in the alternative business model of PLI that is based on keeping the cost of operation low by taking advantage of the massive infrastructure of post offices. It can offer higher returns to policy-holders and reach every nook and corner of India. The foremost step to reform the PLI lies in bringing it under the IRDA’s fold. This can be done by undertaking a minor amendment in the IRDA Act or by converting the PLI to a corporate body fully owned by India Post. The first option is easier, but the second one is wiser. A similar reform has already been carried out by the present regime with a scheduled bank — the India Post Payments Bank — that was launched by the prime minister in 2018. However, unlike a payments bank, the entry of a new player with huge potential in the insurance market may not be welcomed by existing groups. What is needed, therefore, is political will. The PLI’s distinctive business model and its reach may facilitate such a will. Japan Post Life Insurance, which was corporatized in 2007 as the Japan Post Insurance Company Ltd., is the fourth-largest insurance company of the world in terms of net premiums written and is also the largest insurer of the world when measured in terms of assets.  This reveals the potential strength of the post office network. How long can India shy away from postal sector reforms to release its true potential?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
03-03-2021||Opinion||Berchtesgaden bloom||Poor ideas often become alarmingly popular, good ones get cast by the wayside. What side of the table would have been the side to choose at Berchtesgaden in Bavaria in the September of 1938? On one side of it sat Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini, on the other sundry eminences of an alliance already hounded to supplication, most prominently Neville Chamberlain of Great Britain. The Austrian Anschluss was done and dusted, chunks of what used to be Czechoslovakia were about to be served to Hitler as appeasement pie. The hope on one side of the table was that the Munich Agreement would make dessert and sate his appetite for Lebensraum; Hitler was only treating it as hors d’oeuvre. But let’s leave what was served on the Bavarian table, let’s return to the two sides of it. Which side would have been the right one to pick? But is that even a question to ask? The right side, of course, didn’t win that day, the wrong one was handed rampaging rights. That table left us a lesson to be learnt, a lesson we often forget, and often suffer for the forgetting. The good idea is often poorly led; the bad one is brilliantly brandished. We may have been on that table a while now — diabolical talent strutting on one side, virtue slumbering on the other over what it takes to get kindled. Narendra Modi’s accession to power in 2014 uncorked the wounding of India with bolts of shock that may already have succeeded in obliterating what we used to be with blotches of the new normal. The most recent act of such re-branding is the official deification of Madhavrao Sadashivrao Golwalkar, patron saint of the powers and pupil to the abhorrent philosophies of Hitler and his abominable adherents. Golwalkar, it has now been proclaimed, shall inspire generations of Indians. Read Bunch of Thoughts and you will probably get a glimpse of what comprises inspiration — it doesn’t stop at plagiarism of putrescence, it is an exhort to punishable prejudices of the sort that we are getting used to committing or, more woefully, turning indifferent to. But in arriving at the unseemly altar of Golwalkar, we have traversed a journey; if, somewhere along the way, we’d have stopped and asked questions, wondered why, we probably wouldn’t be here. But there is still time, and opportunity, to see where we have landed ourselves. It no longer affects us that Nathuram Godse, assassin of Gandhi, has become a celebrated deity, does it? Lynching, trashing, just shaming folks for who they pray to and what they wear have become a thing to do, hasn’t it? Valley Kashmiris are all deserving of the lavish punishments wreaked on them, aren’t they? Dalits can be tied up, lashed and videographed; they are getting too big for shoes they never had. Our book of synonyms has become so much richer for how human beings can also now be referred to — termites, reptiles, snakes, insects, creepy-crawlies, keede-makode... sanctified terms. Some of those categories are deserving of being exterminated... sanctioned treatment, pronounced from lofty platforms. We don’t seem to care too much that a hostile neighbour has pawed away our territory and sits there dictating terms to our stuttering champions of nationalism. Cast a glance at our fallen status on global indices — of the state of our freedoms, of human rights, of corruption, of governmental excess. But we don’t need lectures from the world on who we are and how we shall be. We shall put people behind bars for not cracking the joke that was allegedly cracked. We shall arraign young ladies for standing up for those that make us a krishi-pradhan desh — our farmers. And those sons of this soil we are not embarrassed to call all manner of names they shouldn’t be called. Nothing stirs us. More than a hundred of those farmers perished on the vigil, but who cares? No, but we do care. For a mobile tower that fell victim to a dastardly agitation. We do care to question the right of labourers to be entitled to a wage because the sarkar is already feeding them for free. We do care to unleash the agencies of State on its people — sleuths armed with files and fabrication, jawans armed with everything — from water cannons to batons to fire-arms — plain-clothed agents licensed with monopoly on violence. We do care to char the evidence of crime under police protection. We do care to extract reparation from a citizenry harassed to the barricades. We do care to announce with fanfare that justice is no longer a thing to be equitably demanded or disbursed. Habeas corpus? But whatever is that? We upturned the fundamental principles of justice; jail gets precedence over bail, you are guilty before you have proved yourself innocent. Our prime minister plays mahant of the republic whose rules he defies and defines as he goes along and as he pleases, a man who, after the fashion of the most flagrant tinpots, wears monogrammed suits and gets spanking playing arenas named after him frilled out with tributes to pet cronies. We have arrived at disquieting violations of who we are, culturally and constitutionally, but remember, these violations are presided upon with unmatched energy and gusto. Some of what has become normal is debased and wicked, ideas and practices that take the sword and fire to the Constitution that the chief violator still implants dubious kisses on. He possesses imperial command, though he hectors and he is heeded, he soars above the field. It isn’t the first time foul notions are flying high. But we mustn’t omit to mention the laying low of the fair notions, the lackadaisical betrayal of them. Rahul Gandhi, espouser of right and reasonable things — plurality, inclusiveness, the ethics of equitability — he mingles, he listens, he sails close to the ideas that have kept the complex diversity of this nation sewn together, stood us under the same flag singing the same anthem. But Rahul Gandhi is also notoriously truant and whimsical, he’s there one day, gone the other. The good idea he has turned into a plaything of his caprice. Does he care that his ally in Bengal, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has just certified the unvarnished majoritarianism of the sangh? Did he even know, or care, that his party was sharing the stage of Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui’s anointment, as effective a fillip to the politics of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ as could be ordered? Rahul Gandhi refuses to take charge, he is reluctant to put another in charge — na banoonga, na banne doonga (I shan’t become and I won’t let another become). He declines to inhabit and animate the good idea, it has turned ramshackle on his watch, a frittered, unthinking thing. He once walked across the Lok Sabha floor chanting love and hugged Narendra Modi, believing that would make a better man of him. He mimicked Chamberlain’s handshake with Hitler at Berchtesgaden. We know what came of it. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
