04-03-2021||Opinion||Double blow to women employment||Crises — economic or medical — invariably have a disproportionate impact on vulnerable constituencies. The Covid-19 pandemic has reiterated this hypothesis. Data from the United Nations had already shown that the increasing domestic burden caused by the restrictions induced by the global contagion resulted in the loss of employment for women. But their suffering has clearly has not stopped there. Recent research at the Azim Premji University is indicative of a double blow for women. Not only were women seven times more likely than men to lose their jobs during the lockdown, but they were also 11 times more likely than men to not return to work thereafter. The scale of the crisis is humongous: half of the pre-pandemic female workforce lost their jobs and were unable to resume work once the lockdown ended. There are several causes for this imbalance and some of them are apparent in the study itself. For instance, married women were less likely than their husbands to return to work, clearly indicating that increased household responsibilities are being unequally distributed among the sexes in accordance with a skewed division of labour. Dishearteningly, women’s educational backgrounds have not made a difference to their fate. Those with higher educational qualifications — these are crucial in securing jobs — were less likely to be re-employed than men with similar degrees of education. The implications are troubling; data from the 2011 census show that between 2001 and 2011, the number of women earning post-graduate, professional and technical degrees went up manifold but it is clear that corresponding employment avenues are scant and are shrinking further. Gender-based prejudice remains a formidable barrier to equitable employment opportunities; it seems to have been aggravated by the pandemic. With India reportedly exiting the recession — gross domestic product growth was 0.4 per cent in the third quarter of 2020 — the government must now focus on regenerating jobs. Companies can harness the work-from-home model to create roles for women employees. The challenge, however, is steeper in the informal sector — at least 22 per cent of female workers are still out of work and little attention is paid to designing policies to address their needs. Rights-based employment initiatives must be mobilized on a war footing to make labour inclusive in rural areas and the informal sector. Unless women’s return to the workforce is encouraged and enabled, the devaluation of their labour and, in effect, their social roles and rights will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
04-03-2021||Opinion||Free show: BJP and politics of misogyny||Emotions should be recollected in tranquillity, or they run away in unintended directions. The minister of state for environment, forest and climate change, Babul Supriyo, may have expected laudatory responses to the meme on his handle — he neither created it nor did it carry his statement, he said — that had a ready reply to the Trinamul Congress election slogan with the chief minister’s picture, saying that Bengal wants its own daughter. Under a similar version of this in Hindi was a picture of the Union home minister with an imagined comeback: a daughter is someone else’s wealth — or belonging — and this time she will be sent off. The mischief is multi-layered. The meme is in Hindi, as though addressed to a special ‘peer group’ which will appreciate the mockery; thus it is, implicitly, divisive. Amit Shah’s image suggests the Bharatiya Janata Party’s endorsement of the meme’s attitude towards women. Mr Shah’s determination to remove the TMC from power is no secret; in the meme, this politics is merged with a blatant expression of misogyny. An outburst of criticism compelled Mr Supriyo to take down the meme and acknowledge that it should not have appeared on his handle. The minister of state is a proud gentleman, however, and declared that he would not be given lessons on misogyny by other parties. That is understandable: his own party has the most up-to-date lessons on it. But gender bias is part of a value system. It can manifest itself in politics as much as in society and at home. Being a father of daughters does not automatically cleanse a man of misogyny — then India would have had no female foeticides, female infanticides, minor marriages, girls’ malnutrition and poor education, dowry murders, domestic violence, sex crimes and torture. Mr Supriyo’s logic floundered a bit in his eagerness to wash his hands of the meme; besides, his accompanying comment emphasizing that ‘they’ will definitely send Bengal’s daughter off this time made him complicit, not innocent. Will Bharatiya Janata Party leaders — since one is featured in the meme — rebuke their minister for endorsing a communication that projects women as objects or possessions to be passed from one family to another? Or does India’s ruling party enjoy projecting misogyny in spite of its ‘save girls, teach girls’ rhetoric?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
04-03-2021||Opinion||The politics of bloodshed||Political violence in West Bengal is a routine affair, particularly in an electoral season. The violence embedded in Bengal’s political landscape is believed to be anomalous with the progressive nature of Bengali society and the refinement of its culture. Bengal, however, has had a long history of violence and politics being intertwined in different degrees and for different purposes. During British rule, Bengal was a fertile ground for violent revolutionary activities. There were several reasons that led a segment of Bengali society to turn towards violence in its fight against the colonial power. In the early twentieth century, the dominance of the bhadralok came under attack economically and politically. Earnings from land reduced significantly, as did the influence of educated Bengalis in the British administration. The biggest blow to the people of Bengal came in the form of the administrative decision to divide Bengal. It spurred a segment to embrace violence as prayer and petitioning — often seen as acts of political mendicancy— did not yield the desired result. So violence was accorded political approval and cultural valourization. However, with the rise of M.K. Gandhi in the Congress as well as in the Indian national movement, violence lost its legitimacy as a political tool and the Bengali leadership found itself sidelined. Subsequent political reforms, initiated by the British regime, further reduced the influence of the Bengali Hindu upper-caste leadership. Bengali Muslims emerged as an influential elite group and found a potential ally amongst a section of the ‘depressed classes’. The proposal for separate electorates, known as the Communal Award, ensured that Bengali Hindus remained out of power in the province. This arrangement also aggravated disillusionment with political reform and elections. As Independence approached, the idea of partitioning the province took shape and communal violence intensified. Bengal was ravaged by one of the worst man-made famines during this time. Bengal’s sharecroppers rebelled against the landlords, giving rise to the ‘Tebhaga’ movement that was marked by violence as well. Violent movements continued in independent West Bengal. The Food Movement in the 1950s witnessed violence between the protesters and the administration. The suppression of dissent and the use of brute force against the Opposition enabled violence to make inroads into Bengal’s political life. Another spate of violence began with the Naxalbari movement. Significantly, the communists — those who embraced democracy as well as those who chose revolution — have shaped the contours of political violence in Bengal to a great extent. A number of communist leaders — Promode Dasgupta for one — were drawn from revolutionary organizations like the Anushilan Samity. The communists played a leading role in the Tebhaga Andolan and the Food Movement. Their rise to power in West Bengal came after a long, violent political battle. Therefore, ideologically and experientially, violence had never been distant from Bengal’s communists. West Bengal, unlike other parts of India, did not witness much political mobilization based on caste or religion. These factors remained subterranean in Bengal’s political life. Class and, eventually, political affiliation became substitutes around which people were mobilized. For political parties, the call for support around class or political allegiance yielded better results than appealing to segments of society based on primordial identity. For the supporters, loyalty proved to be beneficial in a society where the party had a pervasive hold on the public welfare mechanism. Refusal to associate with the party was often treated with exemplary violence; the massacre of refugees of Marichjhanpi is a case in point. Gradually, the political narrative woven around class was superseded and the class enemy was replaced by the political opponent. This process, too, entailed a meticulous use of violence. From the Sainbari killings to the deaths in Nandigram, the communist regime ‘normalized’ violence in Bengal’s political life to perpetuate its hold on power. In Bengal, especially in rural Bengal, violence in politics and the politicization of violence went hand in hand. The party that ended communist rule quickly adopted this vocabulary of violence, enabling the vicious cycle to continue. Ironically, the violence is perpetrated to establish a ‘democratic’ claim to power. In reality, this ceaseless violence reflects the lack of respect for democratic ideals and practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
04-03-2021||Opinion||New equations||For political parties in West Bengal, a rally at the Brigade Parade Ground on the Calcutta Maidan has a special significance. For the Left, the significance has assumed the status of a special pilgrimage — a reason why the ailing Buddhadeb Bhattacharya despaired over his inability to attend the February 28 rally. With nostalgia in plentiful supply in recent years, veteran communists have created legends around the Brigade meetings. They look back wistfully at the time the rising communist party accorded an ecstatic welcome to Nikita Khrushchev — the then leader of the socialist ‘fatherland’— during his visit to Calcutta in November 1955. And they set their attendance standards by the estimated 11 or 12 lakh people who attended the Brigade rally in February 2011, a spectacular show of strength that couldn’t reverse the Left Front’s crashing defeat in the assembly elections three months later. It is always difficult to anticipate how posterity will view the CPI(M)-organized rally last Sunday to proclaim that the three-party alliance is the alternative on offer to the voters of West Bengal. In terms of attendance, the undeniably large gathering didn’t quite set a new record, as was hoped for by the Left Front chairman, Biman Bose. However, the head counting exercise apart, the rally was politically important for the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Since it crashed to its first defeat in an assembly election in 2011, the party has been witnessing a steady decline in its electoral popularity. It plumbed the depths in the 2019 general election when, for the first time since parliamentary democracy was established in India, the two communist parties failed to win even a single seat to the Lok Sabha from West Bengal. Indeed, it managed to save its security in only one parliamentary constituency. In 2019, the CPI(M) was edged out of its place as the principal opposition to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress by the Bharatiya Janata Party, a party that had hitherto been on the fringes of Bengal politics. There is no indication that this marginalization has been checked since then. Under the circumstances, last Sunday’s mega rally, when the CPI(M) pulled out all its organizational stops, was important to portray that the Left was back in business — this time with the aid of non-Left allies such as the Congress and the newly-formed Indian Secular Front. In determining its political approach, the communist parties have a tendency to fall back on history. Taking the assistance of non-communists for a larger fight has been part of the collective experience of the communist movement since the 1930s when it was confronted with the challenge of fascism in Europe. There were three approaches that defined the resistance to Hitler and the other variants of the Right. The first and, by far, the most disastrous approach was to go it alone, denounce social democrats as ‘social fascists’ and insist on the party’s monopoly of correctness. This Red Front approach was a factor in the dissipation of anti-Nazi energies in the immediate run-up to Hitler assuming power in 1933. The second approach, better known as the United Front strategy, lay in allying with non-communist parties and forces but with the communists at the helm. The CPI(M) has, for long, pursued this approach in West Bengal and Kerala, its two strongholds. It was the principle of the United Front that explains why the CPI(M) politburo rejected the suggestion that Jyoti Basu should assume charge as prime minister in the fractured Parliament of 1996. Since the CPI(M) would not be the dominant partner of any coalition, it chose the safe option of supporting the United Front government from the outside. Finally, there is the Popular Front approach, crafted in France of the 1930s, that lay in participating in mass movements and even governments as a non-dominant partner — an approach orthodox Leninists find abhorrent. In the West Bengal elections of 2016, the CPI(M) forged a mahajot with the Congress as an extension of the United Front strategy. Although it maintained its misgivings over the Congress’s larger political orientation, it felt that a ‘bourgeois’ partner was necessary to give the party an opportunity to recover lost ground and give breathing space to its beleaguered cadres who were in retreat since the AITC took over the state government in 2011. Of course, in the election, the Congress won a larger number of seats than the CPI(M) despite the latter contesting more. Apart from its failure to prevent a second term for the AITC, the CPI(M) drifted further to the margins and this was fully evident in the 2019 general election outcome. In this coming assembly election, unlike 2016, the CPI(M)-Congress alliance was fighting for a respectable third place. Some of its supporters entertain the hope that its intervention would lead to a fractured verdict and give space to the party to influence the formation of an anti-BJP coalition that included the AITC and the Congress. This plodding approach was upset by the unexpected emergence of Abbas Siddiqui of the Furfura Sharif seminary as a rallying point for Muslim youth, particularly in North and South 24 Parganas. Initially the thrust of this formation was to ally with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen of Asaduddin Owaisi and craft an independent Muslim bloc detached from both the AITC and BJP. However, a section of the CPI(M) made Siddiqui a more tempting alternative. A significant chunk of the Muslim vote plus the transferable vote of the CPI(M) would make the third formation more winnable in a large number of seats and catapult the ISF to a position where it could claim to be the foremost representative of Muslims in the state. Siddiqui, in short, would become the Bengal counterpart of Badruddin Ajmal in Assam. The CPI(M) believed it could use the ISF to make a strong comeback without jeopardizing its United Front strategy. However, at Sunday’s Brigade rally, Siddiqui showed he had other ideas. First, it is clear that he supplied nearly one-third of the crowds, a feat that demonstrated his mobilizing capacities and placed him a notch above the Congress. Secondly, with his aggressive rhetoric and demand for a stake in the power structure, he took Muslim politics a significant step forward. He made it clear that he was intent on making the Muslim community more than just a vote bank. Finally, he made it clear that he was not the third partner of an unequal alliance but the person who called the shots. To use the terminology of the communists, he transformed the United Front into a Popular Front. The CPI(M) was no longer in the driver’s seat but a passenger along with the Congress. This impression will be reinforced if Siddiqui persists with his angry rhetoric. It is always hazardous to predict the impact of these developments on voting patterns in the coming weeks. Any accretion of Muslim votes to the third front will, naturally, affect the AITC the most and, by implication, benefit its principal challenger — the BJP. However, there are two other possibilities. In 2019, the BJP benefited disproportionately from the shift of Left and Congress votes to its kitty. Will a chunk of these voters have a homecoming if it appears that a vote for the third front candidates will not be wasted on account of its starting with an assured Muslim support? Alternatively, will the aggression of the ISF see Hindu voters of the CPI(M) and Congress run to the BJP out of a sense of trepidation? As of now, the answers are unclear. What is, however, certain is that the angry leader from Furfura Sharif has thrown a spanner in the works. He has either made the electoral outcome more uncertain or made it woefully one-sided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
