05-03-2021||Opinion||Rich pickings: billionaires on the rise||Contradictions can be illuminating. Covid-19, the World Bank stated in 2020, had led to the largest ever contraction in the global economy in eight decades. The Indian economy suffered heavy losses, manifest in unprecedented shrinkages in GDP growth, massive unemployment as well as periodic retrenchment. Yet, in the same year, the world added 607 new billionaires — effectively more than three billionaires every two days, says the 10th edition of the Hurun Global Rich List. India, a poor nation, had a sizeable kitty of the super rich, adding 55 new billionaires which amounts to the emergence of one billionaire every 10 days. An exponential rise in the value of financial assets, such as shareholdings in profitable companies, led to a further deepening of select pockets. Wealth creators or wealth creation need not be vilified. The former can serve as symbols of the engines of growth. Indeed, the Indian prime minister is known for his generous views on wealth creators. The problem per se lies not in wealth creation but in the distribution of wealth. This process is marked by horrific inequalities that, studies say, have been further aggravated by the pandemic. Research by international agencies found that in 2020, the wealth of global billionaires rose by 3.9 trillion dollars while the combined earnings of global workers fell by 3.7 trillion dollars. One of the consequences of this anomaly has been a rising backlash against private wealth. India has not been immune from this development and neither can this collective animosity be blamed on mischievous political agenda or residual romanticism for a socialist ethos. The deepening poverty among large segments of the population — industrial workers, the various segments of cultivators as well as agricultural labourers, employees of the informal sector — compounded by the absence of social security has led to the consolidation of suspicions of an unholy, expanding nexus between the State and the Corporation. Economic policies directed at redistributing wealth, creating social safety nets and kick-starting moribund economies to generate employment may act as a balm. But economic interventions, given the cyclical troughs experienced by capitalist economies, can only offer temporary reprieve. A renewed, robust commitment to equality and justice by the State and the myriad political systems around the world is the need of the hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||Strange question: SC asks rapist to marry victim||Sir — The Supreme Court recently raised a question in the context of a case: should brutality in sexual intercourse on the part of the husband be tantamount to rape (“CJI marital rape query”, March 2)? The answer should be a resounding yes. It is a different matter that the apex court was also contemplating whether consensual physical relationships under the false promise of marriage can be termed rape, but just because two people are married, it does not give either partner the right to sexually abuse the other. In this case, the woman reportedly has medical reports to prove that she had sustained severe injuries on her private parts. It is therefore truly a mystery why marital rape continues to be difficult to understand and acknowledge in India. Another shocking question raised by the apex court — although in a separate case — was to a rape accused, who was asked whether he would marry the alleged rape victim (“CJI asks: Will you marry her?”, March 2). The suggestion itself is preposterous. The accused, if found guilty, should be punished for violating the woman and kept away from her at all costs. One wonders how such an offer can even be made. Besides, the woman had apparently already rejected his proposal to marry her and even complained that he threatened to throw acid on her if she did not comply with his advances. Giving such a man the option to have any kind of relationship with the woman in question is abetting such crimes against women. Many men in India already consider women their personal property, and sexual violence is often used to assert ‘rights’ over them. Some men may even think that sexually assaulting a woman who has rejected them would make her unacceptable to other men, leaving her no choice but to accept her attacker. This must be stopped at once, and it is hoped that the judiciary, led by the apex court, will take the first step in that direction. Srabani Bhowmick,Calcutta Sir — Two recent observations of the Supreme Court appear disturbing. First, a rape accused was asked whether he was prepared to marry the victim as a possible atonement for his alleged crime. But the woman whom he had reportedly violated was not asked whether she was prepared to accept him. Second, in a separate case, the apex court asked if sexual intercourse between husband and wife can be termed rape, however brutal the husband might have been. This would wrongly imply that a man can rape a woman and marry her, and continue to be violent with her with impunity because, in the eyes of the law, there is no such thing as marital rape. Bhaskar Roy,New Delhi Sir — The Supreme Court asking a rape accused whether he would marry the alleged victim — she was a minor during the purported crime — was deeply unfortunate. It defies all logic that someone who has caused such hurt to a young girl — physically and mentally — could even be given a choice to marry her. It is widely known that in Indian society, an immense amount of social stigma remains attached to issues such as rape, and rarely do victims and their families come out to name the guilty. On top of that, if the judiciary takes such a stance then it will be a great setback for all rape survivors. The judiciary must not entertain such thoughts. An apology should be in order for the woman and her family. Bal Govind,Noida Act now Sir — Based on a report, the United States of America has rightly decided to impose sanctions on Saudi Arabia on account of the murder of the journalist, Jamal Khashoggi, in 2018. But it is disappointing that no action will be taken against the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman, who had reportedly approved the murder, just so that the diplomatic relations between the two countries are not hampered (“Punish MBS: Khashoggi fiancée”, Mar 3). This shows that, as is mostly the case, people in power seldom have to pay for their excesses. The brutal murder of Khashoggi — his body was reportedly chopped and dissolved in acid — should not be forgotten. It was not only an assault on journalism and dissent but also a blow to any notion of civilization. Abhijeet Sardar,North 24 Parganas Sir — Washington released a long-delayed intelligence report that accuses Mohammed bin Salman of approving the murder of Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul in 2018. This has drawn a rebuke from Riyadh, which has strongly rejected the assessment. Joe Biden’s decision to not penalize the crown prince over Khashoggi’s killing, fearing a breach in ties with long-standing partners in the Middle East, is disappointing. The New York-based Human Rights Foundation has rightly called on the US and the European Union to urgently place sanctions on the crown prince. The former US president, Donald Trump, had sought to shield the kingdom’s de facto ruler. On the other hand, Biden had pledged during his campaign to make the kingdom a “pariah” after it got a free pass under Trump. Now it seems that the new president is instead adopting a middle path. Nothing less than justice for Khashoggi was expected from Biden, but he appears to have reneged on his promise. The demand of Khashoggi’s fiancée, Hatice Cengiz, to punish the crown prince is justified. S.S. Paul,Nadia In chains Sir — An academic, Simon Evans, recently revealed that in east and southeast Asia, the practice of deriving traditional medicines from the body parts of tigers — bone, skin, intestine — continues to thrive at an alarming pace. Worse, the condition of the ‘tiger farms’ — over 8,000 tigers are held captive across China, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam — is appalling. This situation must be rectified at once. Organizations fighting against animal cruelty should take steps to save the tigers from such a pathetic fate. It is perhaps of some solace that India has made remarkable progress in increasing its tiger population. Reba Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||About Turn: CJI mixes rape with marriage||At certain moments the current of history can almost be seen to turn back and plunge into an abyss. The Bombay High Court had set aside the anticipatory bail given by a sessions court to a person accused of repeatedly raping a minor girl of Class IX. The high court reportedly felt that the sessions court’s decision was ‘atrocious’. The physical restraints and threats during the serial violence allegedly drove the girl to attempt suicide. In spite of the gravity of the charges, including two under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the sessions court gave the accused, a government servant, anticipatory bail; he had pleaded he would lose his job if arrested. This is just one instance of India’s surreal values. A government servant’s perquisites apparently extend to protection from the consequences of his alleged crimes, however violent and cruel, as long as they are perpetrated on women or girls. When the accused appealed against the Bombay High Court’s ruling in the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice of India reportedly mentioned that he should have thought before he seduced and raped a girl — he knew he was a government servant. Among the cruelties and injustices towards women that activists have fought against for years is the convenient idea that if a girl is married off to her rapist, she is freed of stigma and the attacker freed of criminal charges. Shame, after all, is the girl’s alone. In this case, the girl’s mother, who prevented her daughter’s suicide, did not go to the police when the man’s mother promised that her son would marry the girl when she turned 18. The girl complained of rape when that did not happen. The acceptance of violence and injustice through marriage did not stop with the survivor. While hearing the man’s petition, the CJI reportedly asked him if he were ready to marry the complainant. The court could ‘help’ him then, or he would have to go to jail. The Supreme Court had, in some cases, ruled against mixing rape with marriage. Apart from demolishing women’s rights, this association reveals that Indian institutions have the weirdest ideas about sex and marriage. The court has given the petitioner interim protection from arrest for four weeks. The current of history is having a tough time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||Step ahead||Allow me a twist on the popular story of Vikram and Betaal. Life resembles the king with the riddle-loving vampire on his shoulder; it is always you and your baggage. The latter keeps gathering mass. Everybody has his/her demon to slay during a morning run. I have mine: it is usually a chorus of voices reminding me of how little money I made in life and how my happiness hangs by a slender thread. My Betaal loves to do this. There are days when he disappears quickly; there are days when no matter how far I run he stays there, chattering away. Some people are strong enough to run with the demon on the shoulder. Ever since its annual marathon became popular, Mumbai has served as the informal capital of amateur running in India. By November-December, the main road hugging the city’s west coast and leading to Marine Drive witnesses a long line of early morning runners logging their miles. The noise level is rarely high — all you hear is the sound of breathing and feet shuffling by. It is a beautiful experience, but it does not silence the Betaals around. Once in a while, you hear ongoing conversation about the share market and how the real estate bubble is faring. You hear chatter about the latest in job-hopping. Sometimes, the conversation is around office politics. This is not surprising because there is heavy corporate involvement in running, with companies spawning teams and employees showing up to train as groups. But who benefits from all that exercise if the baggage cannot be exorcised — Vikram or Betaal? Fed well, the corporate Betaal hangs on tenaciously into race day. Most runners try to give their best at the annual marathon. Who does not like a personal best in timing? And if you helped somebody get his/her personal best, it is both a good article for the in-house magazine and, hopefully, a gesture not easily forgotten by the beneficiary. At a previous edition of the event, I remember somebody nearby discussing anxiously with his friend whether he did the right thing by ditching his slow-moving boss so that he could salvage his own timing — “I kept him company for a long time but he was slowing me down. So I had to eventually leave him and move ahead. It’s okay, no? I took his permission…” At the finish line, the man decided to go back looking for his boss. Maybe it was corporate team spirit; maybe it was our habitual search for brownie points from superiors — who knows? Either way, Betaal was having a field day perched on runners’ shoulders. Talking of shoulders, a defeated posture is what one of my neighbours sported while speaking of his frustration with running. Despite his best efforts, his timing was not improving and given he worked in a company where running was a major fad in the hierarchy, this Betaal hurt much the same way regular work-related stress did. I asked him why it should matter. Couldn’t he let go of this obsession with timing; couldn’t he find peace in his own pace? “You know, there is a notice board in the office where good runners display their timings,’’ he said sadly, adding how such tactics improved one’s chances of being in the good books of the mighty. It was like social media: the greater the visibility, the greater the chance of bagging a reward. That was a formidable Betaal, strong enough for the runner in question to run in ways in which he could end up injured. But he didn’t give up. He joined hands with others to organize races. Betaal would approve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||Death by wish||A member of parliament, Mohan Delkar, was not a widely-known politician. However, in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the tiny Union territory, and in the tribal districts in south Gujarat, he was seen as quite a phenomenon. He was elected as MP several times and held sway over most assembly constituencies in the southern tribal talukas of Gujarat. Over a week ago, he was found dead in a hotel in Mumbai. A suicide note left behind by him points to victimization and harassment by official agencies as the cause for his decision. The note is not as elaborate as the 60-page-long note left behind by Kalikho Pul, a one-time chief minister of Arunachal Pradesh, who ended his life in August 2016. He had placed on record, under the title, “Mere Vichar” — “My Thoughts” — an elaborate account of his rise in politics and the rot he saw around him. It gave details of how even Supreme Court judges carried a price tag and how judgments could be influenced. The indictment of the system by individuals who can no more be summoned to give further testimony as witness has an obvious limitation as fact-sheets. However, they need to be read not as fact-sheets but as pointers to harsh truths. In the same year, 2016, another suicide note was left behind by a young student in Hyderabad. It said that he had wanted to be a writer, but there was a big gap between his mind and his body. His body, Rohith Vemula felt, was a fatal accident. This student wrote, “The value of a man was reduced to his immediate identity and nearest possibility. To a vote. To a number. To a thing. Never was a man treated as a mind.” Vemula’s note lays bare the social malaise arising out of caste identity. So does the suicide note of Payal Tadvi, a tribal woman who trained as a gynaecologist and worked at the Nair Hospital in Mumbai. She realized that her social identity as an adivasi was coming in her way as a medical professional. Like a caged animal, she decided to end her life barely a year after she started her medical practice. The notes by Kalikho Pul and Mohan Delkar express their utter dismay with politics in India. Do these tragic shockers have a message for us as a country? Nearly six decades ago, the historian, Upendra Thakur, published a study under the title, The History of Suicide in India (1963). He observed that the incidence of suicide in India is normally much higher than the cases reported in official data. The National Crime Records Bureau keeps the record. It reported 1,35,445 deaths by suicide in 2012. The NCRB, read in the light of Thakur’s well-researched observation, indicates that suicide cases have an alarming scale. The World Health Organization, too, maintains suicide statistics. The latest WHO data rank India at the 16th top place on “suicide profusion scale” among the 194 countries covered by it. The global average is 10.6 points (suicides per hundred thousand persons). Suicide incidence in India is 16, which is one and half times of the global average. Quite alarming, although the alarm tends to get neglected by conflating farmers’ indebtedness leading to their self-annihilation with the desire to reject the world which is an even more serious sign of our times. It has been quite some time since India left its farmers to die a slow death. The present regime’s complete indifference to them is its climax. However, suicidal tendency and the incidence of suicide prevail in other sections of society as well. Guru Dutt, Silk Smitha, Nafisa Joseph, Kuljeet Randhawa, Kunal Singh, Jiah Khan and Sushant Singh Rajput were celebrities, not nameless farmers. The truth is that suicidal tendency in the Indian population cannot be understood if it is merely seen as cold numbers. If numbers alone are the truth, the deaths by Covid-19, as I write this piece, come close to 1.6 lakh, while deaths by suicide for the same period, projected from the NCRB’s available three-year-old data, may be almost similar in terms of numbers. The pandemic surely deserves so much national attention; suicide, too, should deserve it. The question involved here is not as much about death as about the medical or anatomical aspect. It is also not about the criminal aspect associated with suicide since committing or abetting suicide is in the list of crimes. The question that this alarmingly large number of suicides makes one ask is if there isn’t something fundamentally wrong with India driving some of us to reject the order of things. I was recently going through the Dictionary of Martyrs (1857-1947) prepared by the Indian Council of Historical Research. Its volume for the old Bombay state lists nearly 1,500 names of individuals who died, in most cases knowing that they would die, in the name of freedom for India. These include persons from all castes, communities and cultural backgrounds. Many of them were the second or third generation ancestors of the farmers who committed suicide in recent time. The martyrs’ acceptance of death, painful and tragic for them and for their families, had no shade of rejection of the human order. It was, if one may imagine on their behalf, an affirmation of hope for a glorious tomorrow. The suicides of India’s farmers, artists, social activists, medical professionals, IIT students, housewives and politicians are an indication that the rot is not just in the economic inequality, in its caste discrimination, in its oppression of women and in its hopelessly bankrupt knowledge systems. It is much deeper than that. It was India that produced thousands of young men and women who willingly sacrificed their lives during the freedom struggle. Suicide is not merely death. It is death invited as an escape. Guru Dutt’s outcry in his classic of despair, Pyaasa — “Jala do, jala do, jala do yeh duniya” — accurately captures that sentiment. Suicide, apart from all the other things it means, is a declaration of the degeneration of things. The rampant incidence of suicide is a telling comment on how we have abetted the degeneration of every system, every source of hope, from the Constitution to the courts, from school to sachivalaya, from ideal to idiom. We may be a GDP-fat country, but are we doing well on the Happiness Index? No, clearly not. We need to envision India, once again, perhaps. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
