06-03-2021||Opinion||For shame: world food wastage||Sir — The revelations of Richard Swannell, the development director of the Waste and Resources Action programme — he said that if all the wasted food in the world were packed into 40-tonne container trucks parked end-to-end, they would circle the earth seven times — are shameful, especially when global hunger has been exacerbated by the pandemic. The amount of food thrown away by households, retailers and the hospitality industry in 2019 was far more than previously suspected. The suffering wrought by the pandemic requires governments to tackle several serious problems deftly. Will the problem of food wastage be given the importance it deserves? Pranav Ganguly,Calcutta Immense show Sir — I would like to draw attention to the six sixes scored in the same over by the West Indies captain, Kieron Pollard, off the Sri Lankan spin bowler, Akila Dananjaya, in the first Twenty20 match between the two teams in Antigua. Ironically, in the same match, before being hit for six sixes, the same spinner had become the 15th player and fourth Sri Lankan to take a hat-trick in a T20 international. This goes to prove that cricket is a game of uncertainty. Pollard’s performance in that over changed the course of the game in the West Indies’s favour. There are many such instances of a match being turned around; the latest instance is the Indian team’s performance against England in the ongoing Test series. Joe Root and his boys, after their fruitful 2-0 series win against Sri Lanka on the latter’s soil, seemed to have been dreaming about repeating the same against Virat Kohli and his team. They succeeded in decimating the Indian team during the first Test, taking a 1-0 lead in the series. Root was in his prime, and celebrated his 100th Test with a double tonne; the rest was taken care of by James Anderson and Dom Bess. However, as was the case in Australia, our boys bounced back during the second Test at Chepauk to inflict a humiliating defeat on Root’s team to level the series 1-1. They also won the pink-ball Test in Ahmedabad to take a 2-1 lead in the series. It remains to be seen what comes of the third Test. Vinay Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — It was thrilling to watch Kieron Pollard hit six sixes off Akila Dananjaya in what was a frenetic chase in the T20 match played at Antigua. He became the second player after Yuvraj Singh to score six sixes in an over in T20 international cricket. His first six went high over long-on, the second straight into the sight screen and the third over long-off. The fourth six was sent to the mid-wicket region, well over the fence. The penultimate six went over the long-on region. It was nerve-wracking to watch, so one can only wonder what must have been going through Pollard’s mind as he prepared himself to go for a final big hit. His efforts paid off as the sixth six went flying over the mid-wicket boundary. Ashwika Raj,Calcutta Unkind words Sir — I am a PhD research scholar specializing in children’s literature. As such, the article, “Booked young” (March 2), was of some interest to me, since it was ostensibly about young, published authors. However, upon reading it, I was taken aback by the condescending and demotivating approach it took towards its subject matter. The actual focus on young writers and creators, who are confidently carving a place for themselves in an arena where adults have traditionally exerted control, was minimal and cursory, barring a few perfunctory mentions. The bulk of the article is unfortunately focused on the comments of two men — one is a publisher, the other an author — who seem to be using their positions of privilege to disparage the efforts of these children. It is unfortunate to witness adults adopt such discouraging attitudes towards the child authors they talk about. Articles such as these can have terrible repercussions on readers — children and adults alike. In order to get perspectives on child authors that are unbiased and encouraging, the views of smaller publishing houses and authors might prove to be valuable. Ritwika Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
06-03-2021||Opinion||Word games: 'creative' mantra for the govt||One of the greatest talents of the politicians in power at the Centre is their ability to infuse old words with new meanings. ‘Freedom’, for example, seems to mean something other than what was generally understood so far. They have now become creative with the word, ‘creative’. There is to be a creative writing contest for teachers and parents of Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya schools before the prime minister’s discussion with students on examination stress. The idea of the prime minister as the students’ friend is creative enough, particularly when he mentors them about examination stress. His own youthful experience must be the source of his wisdom. That the prime minister, who is not noticeably fond of academics and students who speak their mind, should insert himself directly into young people’s thinking and mould their attitude to examinations is the very acme of creativity. But the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government wants more. More inventiveness than the gau mata examination entailed. The topics for the creative writing contest, which pupils in higher classes can join, indicate immediately that the word ‘creative’ means something new. Shorn of its association with freedom, creativity for parents is a kind of homework: lessons in the way they will reduce their children’s stress. “Your words make your child’s world — encourage as you have always done”, for example, has the government placing itself between parents and children and trying to regiment their attitudes with instructions about the child and parent writing each sentence in turn. “Be your child’s friend — keep depression away” is an order, not a creative writing topic; the parent is instructed to write the child a postcard saying why he or she is special. But to have parents join a contest — test, in effect — is a sign of the government’s creativity about its own rights. And do its aided schools teach that segment of students alone in which all parents are able to participate in a written contest? The topic given to teachers is about the benefits of online teaching and how to make it better. This is designed to stifle all descriptions of the problems faced by an enormous number of teachers and students all over India which deeply affect inclusivity and achievement, while condemning children to the monotony of screen communication without dynamic engagement with teachers, peers and physical surroundings. To write about the benefits alone would be truly creative; it is the kind of creativity underlies most of the government’s favourite agendas. The topics form a package. Students must write on examinations being festivals — must they be creative contortionists? — on incredible India, on aspiring not to be but to do and, most tellingly, on being grateful. The bleak irony of having to get creative about being grateful does not seem have struck the wise men at the Centre. Seen as a package, the topics make perfect sense. There is little scope for misunderstanding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
06-03-2021||Opinion||Life in music: Paul McCartney’s forthcoming autobiography 'The Lyrics'||Sir Paul McCartney’s forthcoming autobiography, The Lyrics, which will be published on November 2, has certainly caused a buzz. It is expected to reveal just how much India influenced The Beatles. From February till April 1968, the band relaxed in Rishikesh with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who plied the impressionable youngsters with talk of Indian philosophy, vegetarian food with no spice and transcendental meditation. But this was also a very productive period for The Beatles, who composed between 23 and 48 songs, some 17 of which were included in their White Album. McCartney was there with his girlfriend, Jane Asher, while John Lennon, Ringo Starr and George Harrison had come with their (first) wives, Cynthia Powell, Maureen Starkey and Pattie Boyd, respectively. McCartney’s unconventional autobiography is described as “the ‘extraordinary’ story of his life for the first time through the prism of 154 song lyrics”. It will be published in two 480-page hardback volumes priced at £75. Harrison, who had spent months in Bombay learning the sitar from Ravi Shankar, wanted to delve deeper into Indian spirituality. The work is edited by the Pulitzer prize-winning Irish poet, Paul Muldoon, based on conversations with McCartney over a five-year period. McCartney, now 78, explained: “I know that some people, when they get to a certain age, like to go to a diary to recall day-to-day events from the past, but I have no such notebooks. What I do have are my songs, hundreds of them, which I’ve learned serve much the same purpose. And these songs span my entire life.” My song was always “Hey Jude”, which I would play in Calcutta during the long vacations from university in England. Beautiful tracks Sophia Loren, now 86, was wonderfully engaging when she was a guest on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs last week, following on from Malala Yousafzai the previous episode. I went back and played “Lara’s Theme” from Dr Zhivago, which she had picked as one of her eight pieces of music. “This was the film that my [late] husband Carlo [Ponti] was... most proud of — he fought for this music to be in the film,” she said. I know the Italian legend would love to be invited to India. One of my Cannes highlights from 2014 was attending a ‘masterclass’ given by Sophia in the packed Salle Buñuel theatre. She had first come to Cannes in 1955. At one point Loren insisted, “I have never been beautiful”, and spoke instead of the beauty of Indian actresses. “We see many of your films on Italian television — and they are very beautiful. And the actresses are lovely, beautiful, great. Yes, yes, yes!”Old grudges The Financial Times definitely wasn’t amused by the Indian prime minister’s decision to rename the ‘world’s largest cricket stadium’ after himself in his own lifetime. The pink paper said in a leader that “Modi’s act of vanity is part of a wider effort to rewrite the country’s history and sense of self,” adding unkindly that “there is one other reason why political leaders start naming places after themselves while they are still in power. It is that they are not confident their nation will be quite so keen to honour them once they have gone.” But Narendra Modi is in good company. Sir Winston Churchill’s grandson, Sir Nicholas Soames, a former Tory cabinet minister, reminded us last week in a paper in Policy Exchange, a think-tank, that Churchill College, “the first one at Cambridge University to be named after a person living at the time of its founding, is the National and Commonwealth Memorial to Sir Winston Churchill and was to be the embodiment of his vision of how higher education can benefit society in the modern age”. Only Soames now wants Churchill College to be stripped of its name because he says his grandfather’s reputation is being trashed under its Master, Dame Athene Donald, who has sanctioned a year-long programme of events to discuss the wartime leader’s allegedly racist views on Empire, especially relating to the 1943 Bengal Famine. Soames wondered whether the College should continue to retain its name: “The College benefits enormously from Churchill’s name. If they traduce it, should they be able to have their cake and eat it?” The great betrayal I knew Roy Greenslade when we were colleagues at The Sunday Times. It puzzled me when, as The Guardian’s media columnist, he wrote a disobliging piece about one of my race stories about an English actor ‘blacking up’ to play Jinnah (this role was later taken by Christopher Lee). Last week his shocked former colleagues turned on him with a vengeance I have never seen before, after Greenslade, who also lectured on ‘media ethics’ as professor of journalism at City University, London, admitted he had for four decades secretly supported the Irish Republican Army’s bombing campaign in which countless lives were lost. As a young Daily Telegraph reporter, I had raced around covering one bomb blast after another.“I came to accept the fight between the forces of the state and a group of insurgents was unequal and, therefore, could not be fought on conventional terms,” admitted Greenslade, who also wrote a column supporting the IRA under the pseudonym, George King. “In other words, I supported the use of physical force.” Footnote Boris Johnson shouted, “[P]lease shoot that ******* dog,” after Dilyn caused expensive damage at Chequers, the PM’s country residence, by chewing antique furniture and soiling the carpet. But the rescued Jack Russell cross, loved by Boris and his fiance, Carrie Symonds, is staying despite anonymous briefings against him. A Downing Street official defended Dilyn: “He is a lovely little fellow but does not appear to have got enough training when he was a puppy... he doesn’t know... better.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
06-03-2021||Opinion||Deeper impact||A middle-ranking American diplomat who was posted in Calcutta in the early 1980s after serving in Dhaka had a disarming way of avoiding the risk of infection in the subcontinent. Declining ice or water in his drink, he would say, “Sadly, I don’t have your advantage of hundreds of years of immunization!” That excuse might explain the riddle of Indians in India appearing to have escaped initial grim predictions of mass slaughter while British South Asians (and blacks) suffered grievously from the coronavirus. I say “appearing” because not all the evidence from India can be relied on. At the same time, a wealth of statistics about the British situation seems to project an impression of race-based discrimination. That alone justifies revisiting a subject that this column discussed a month ago. However, if racism still lingers in Britain, it is not overt but ‘structural racism’, meaning that substantial numbers of people from minority backgrounds are unable to benefit fully from social institutions and facilities. Boris Johnson’s well-founded boast of heading the most racially inclusive government in British history offers little protection against this exclusion, the resentment it provokes or its fatal impact. Rishi Sunak’s budget did not address the peril directly. It did not do much for the hard-pressed National Health Service on which the future depends, and even less specifically for black and minority ethnic (Bame) communities whose medical plight is rooted in inequality. “It’s the economy, stupid” is as true of Britain today as it was of the United States of America in 1992. Well-designed and well-funded social welfare measures to raise Afro-Asian living standards would be more effective than the culture minister’s exhortation “to defend our culture and history from the noisy minority of activists constantly trying to do Britain down”. Their exuberance explodes from time to time in the vandalization of statues of national heroes and a clamour to ‘decolonize’ school and university curriculums. Widespread ‘taking the knee’ demonstrations express solidarity with the African-American whom the Minneapolis police killed last year. A huge Black Lives Matter hoarding flashes on and off down the road from where I am writing this in the heart of London’s Kensington. Only the intervention of the vaccines minister, Nadhim Zahawi, prevented the London-born ethnic Nigerian, Samuel Kasumu, quitting in a huff as the government’s adviser on ethnic minorities. Not that the revolution is lurking round the corner. Many Bame Britons might dismiss the pandemic as conspiracy but others are fully compliant. Rich tributes were paid to Ameta Rooplal, a nurse from Trinidad and Tobago who died recently of Covid-19 in Birmingham. Zara Mohammed, the Muslim Council of Britain’s new 29-year-old secretary-general, is busily rallying the community to meet the challenge. Farzana Hussain, a British-Bangladeshi general practitioner, has vowed to telephone every patient who had been offered but not accepted vaccination. There’s no concerted resistance. As Guddi Singh, an eminent paediatrician of Indian descent, pointed out, there are more genetic differences within the group than between it and whites. Disparities have improved for Black Africans, Black Caribbean, Chinese and Indians but have worsened for Pakistanis and Bangladeshis. The complaint that many of the thousand or so Afro-Caribbean settlers who arrived in 1948 are still in the same lowly slots hardly applies to Indians. Leave aside the brilliant examples of Sunak and Priti Patel, the three Indian news agents in Kensington High Street disappeared some years ago when their children won university places and they moved up the social ladder. To some extent, however, relative deprivation still links most Bame groups. It results in obesity which affects 36 per cent of people in poor areas against 21 per cent among the more affluent. It reduces life expectancy by eight years at lower income levels. A recent television exploration of colour and coronavirus claimed that a black person is 70 per cent more likely than a white person to live in a deprived area, implying pollution, congestion, poor housing and limited access to education and employment. The figures for Bangladeshis and Pakistanis were 114 and 246 per cent, respectively. People of colour are not more likely to get the coronavirus, but they are more likely to die if they get it because many of them already suffer from chronic ailments. They are all also more prone to infection. The programme’s author, David Harewood, himself suffers from asthma, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. As a 55-year-old black man, he is three times more likely to die from Covid-19 than his white friends of the same age. “This virus seems to have my name on it, which is worrying,” he says. Some affinities defy income, bearing out Harewood’s finding that 63 per cent of the health workers and a dizzying 95 per cent of the doctors who died of Covid-19 were coloured even though “doctors aren’t poor”. But — and here lies the rub — he says these front-line workers are less likely to be listened to on issues of protective equipment and personal safety because although Asians and Afro-Caribbeans make up 21 per cent of NHS employees, the management is white-dominated. Last year’s scandal of contracts for personal protective equipment worth billions of pounds — over 8,600 valued at £18 billion were awarded by July 31 — going to suppliers with high political contacts but no proven track record reflected on the Johnson government’s integrity. It had no automatic bearing on either the pandemic or race relations, but could affect both. It would be wrong to suggest no corrective action has been taken. As Kemi Badenoch, the ethnic Nigerian equalities minister, puts it, “this is not a one-size-fits-all situation”. The official multi-pronged approach involves working with more than 50 minority groups in 10 languages through 43 TV channels. Since the languages include Sylheti, I was curious to see what script was used. Although that pleasure was denied to me, the repertoire includes plenty of imaginative innovations like ‘Community Champions’ to act as trusted voices in their communities and a cross-government unit to “mythbust” (officialese!) false information about the virus and vaccine. Appealing though these steps might be, they can hardly be adequate now that South Asians in exile have lost the traditional immunity the American diplomat mentioned. Doctors speak of the pallid English sun being of little use in compensating for vitamin D deficiency in dark-skinned people. The novel challenges they face in a new environment include mental pressures and a sense of being needed but not wanted. With 10 per cent lopped off the economy and many shops, restaurants and bars forced to close, 2.2 million people (6.5 per cent of the workforce) are expected to be unemployed by year-end. The dismal long-term prospect is that instead of being a great leveller, the pandemic may exacerbate existing inequalities. Structural racism will aggravate differences unless substantive measures are taken to create a more level society. Sunak won brownie points last year by proposing that British coins commemorate Commonwealth achievers like Khudadad Khan, the first Indian Army recipient of the Victoria Cross, Noor Inayat Khan, a World War II spy, and even Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. He may have lost them this week by rejecting pleas for a pay rise for NHS staff — at least 230 front-line workers died in the pandemic — which would have benefited a large number of Bame workers. Kailash Chand, the first Asian to be elected deputy chair of the British Medical Association, and decorated for his services to the NHS, was especially scathing about fobbing off the service with “clapping and badges” instead of funding. With fears of the Kent variant of the virus, said to be 70 per cent faster than others and 30 per cent more deadly, running rampant, society’s most vulnerable potential transmitters need special attention to preserve society as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
