07-03-2021||Opinion||Health first||Sir — A nationwide survey found that about 98 per cent of adults in India eat inadequate levels of fruits and vegetables. Moreover, Indians also consume salt in excess. This is alarming. The absence of a balanced diet puts people at a greater risk of non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disorders, diabetes or cancers, often leading to premature death. While many Indians do not have access to adequate food, even those from middle- or high-income households, forgo fruits and vegetables in favour of processed food. Every region in India grows a vast selection of fresh produce throughout the year. It is time we learnt to eat well and prioritize our health.Priyadarshini Moitra,
Calcutta Fresh start Sir — As the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccinations kicked off, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, was one of the first people to get inoculated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (“Modi takes jab, app trips on first day rush”, March 2). Though approximately 1.19 crore front-line healthcare workers in India have been administered vaccines so far, the vaccination drive is yet to match up to the huge expectations and potential. Many people seem reluctant to take the vaccine, questioning its safety and efficacy. It is high time the ruling party as well as Opposition leaders came together to send a strong message to the masses about the importance of getting vaccinated. People in India are also likely to listen to sportspersons and actors. Thus, vaccination campaigns with celebrities at the helm tend to have a greater impact. Leading healthcare professionals should continue to send strong messages to the public regarding the dangers posed by the coronavirus and the importance of vaccines. We cannot let fear or distrust grow, especially when we are exporting vaccines to many other countries around the world.Reba Ghosh,
Calcutta Sir — India kicked off an important phase in its vaccination drive recently by roping in private healthcare providers to augment the effort. It is heartening that the prime minister was among the first to get vaccinated in this phase. This is an important move in pushing back against vaccine hesitancy that can slow down progress. In the current phase, India is moving towards controlled market conditions to drive the vaccination process. The Centre will procure the vaccines and use state governments and private healthcare providers affiliated to state medical insurance schemes to carry out the inoculation drive. The price, therefore, has been capped at Rs 250 per dose and the beneficiaries were restricted to senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities. The expansion of beneficiaries is a step towards normalization of social activities. It is hoped that eventually this will help the economy to get back on track. Khokan Das,
Calcutta
Sir — There is no doubt that India’s vaccination strategy is very closely intertwined with its economic fortunes. According to government estimates, the economy contracted by a staggering 8 per cent in the year 2020-21.  To recover lost ground, the service sector, which accounts for 50 per cent of India’s gross domestic product, needs a confident restart. However, a resurgence in infections over the past few weeks has led to renewed concerns regarding the pace of recovery. It seems that only rapid mass vaccination can instil confidence in businesses as well as consumers. Industry mavens are proposing an intensive three to four month vaccination effort that can cover 70 per cent of the population. This will require more vaccine approvals, greater manufacturing capacity, an open market and more private vaccination centres. If we take these steps, the economy will get a much-needed boost.N. Sadhasiva Reddy, 
Bangalore
Sir — As India witnesses a surge in Covid-19 infections, it is crucial that senior citizens as well as persons with comorbidities get vaccinated at the earliest. Considering the size of our population, there are certainly going to be numerous challenges along the way.Oishi Sarkar,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Injured democracy||Myanmar remains in the midst of a pro-democracy uprising that continues to challenge the country’s generals more than a month after the military coup. While the protesters and the civil disobedience movement are using various tactics on the street to maintain momentum, the strikes are continuing and wreaking havoc on the economy. The banks are closed, government offices empty and the country’s fuel supplies running dangerously low. Hospitals, universities and schools are mostly closed and most factories have also been idle. Meanwhile, the military is sticking to its battle plans and preparing to crush the protest movement. The security forces have put up barricades and blockades across strategic roads and thoroughfares in many of Myanmar’s prominent cities to enable better crowd control and dispersal. Greater number of troops and police have been strategically positioned everywhere, with convoys of soldiers and sailors being sent in as reinforcements to strategic towns. Tanks and water cannons have also been deployed in the major cities. After four weeks of relatively restrained action, the military has been progressively ratcheting up its response. This was highlighted by the tragic events in the last weekend of February that claimed 18 lives, although local monitoring groups believe that the toll is higher. The fear is the closer it gets to March 27 — Armed Forces Day, the premium anniversary celebrations for the military — the latter will not be able to tolerate the continued civil disobedience campaign nor the protests on the street. So expect the army to deploy its full military might against the protests before then. But parallel to their war against civilians on the country’s streets and neighbourhoods, the coup leaders are rolling out their plans for political reform that will cede them a continued and permanent role in the political structure. A game plan has been developed by the military over the last three years with more than 200 members having formed a secret think-tank, including senior officers taken off active duty and retired generals, preparing various scenarios behind the scenes, ready to roll them out at a moment’s notice. Myanmar’s top generals understand that the iconic, pro-democracy leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, remains the most significant thorn in their side and the greatest obstacle in the way of their plans. So they have launched a surgical strike against her — the country’s most popular civilian leader — in an effort to stain her character and end her political career permanently. The Lady, as she is widely known, has had a plethora of charges laid against her over the last few weeks. Each time she appears in court, extra charges are read out. She is also facing charges of corruption, sedition and, possibly, treason. Initially she was charged with violating government restrictions relating to imported walkie-talkies and breaking Covid restrictions during a campaign rally — the international community and human rights groups regard these as frivolous. But more charges are being prepared, according to sources close to the military. If convicted, it will prevent her from standing in future elections. The coup leaders have promised elections sometime next year after the state of emergency they have imposed is lifted. The authorities are still investigating more serious accusations related to receiving foreign funds, which could amount to treason. While many analysts and commentators are drawing analogies with the pro-democracy struggle of 1988, the army is much better prepared now than it was then, although there are some elements of comparison. The new junta is desperate to be recognized internationally, claiming the power grab was done legally and in accordance with the 2008 Constitution, which it drew up to legitimize a form of civilian-military government. The junta claims this coup, unlike the one that crushed the mass movement in 1988, is merely an administrative change. But as most commentators and diplomats point out, this cannot be further from the truth. Some parallels and echoes are there: after the resignation of the former dictator, General Ne Win, and the subsequent military coup, the State Law and Order Restoration Council formally took control of the country’s executive, legislative and judicial functions, much like the current State Administrative Council that is also governing by edict. It also gave birth to the notion that a multiparty democracy was the best fit for Myanmar, and was enshrined in the 2008 Constitution that was drawn up later. It created the military’s nemesis: the National League for Democracy and the emergence of Aung San Suu Kyi as the living symbol of the country’s aspirations for a democratic future. The current intense struggle is between the democratic aspirations of the majority — including those of ethnic minorities — and the army that is desperate to regain its shrinking authority and control over the country’s transition to democracy, which it defines as ‘guided democracy’ with the army in a supervisory role. These competing visions of democracy are currently being played out on the streets of Myanmar. Both sides are preparing for a long battle. In the short run, the coup leaders’ plan is transparent: convict Aung San Suu Kyi and prevent her from competing in future elections. Other prominent NLD politicians, including the president, Win Myint, and the Mandalay chief minister, Zaw Myint Maung, have also been charged with breaking Covid-19 restrictions. A case of corruption is also being prepared against the Yangon chief minister, Phyo Min Thein, according to government sources. The army sees the NLD as a snake and is intent on lopping off its head so the NLD cannot speak out or organize. But the army may have misjudged the mood of the people. A new generation of political leaders is already emerging. On its part, the army has put in place its roadmap for the future: promising fresh multiparty elections after the current state of emergency expires in a year’s time — although under the Constitution it can be extended for up to another year — and pledging to hand over power to the duly elected majority party or the coalition that it prefers to see. This is similar to what happened in 1958, when the then prime minister, U Nu, temporarily handed over power to the army chief, General Ne Win. Fresh elections were held in February 1960 — four months after the military caretaker government took office. Having crafted a Constitution in 2008 that catered to its political vision, the army is now trying to correct some of the perceived inadequacies that have emerged as a result of its abject failure to understand the people’s deep desire for democracy as represented in the second overwhelming electoral victory of Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD in the November 2020 elections. Before it can hold another round of elections, the army needs to eliminate the NLD in order to have a repeat of the sham elections of 2010 that brought in the ‘quasi civilian’ government of Thein Sein. So the military commanders are intent on preparing a case against the NLD in order to ban it from politics and declare it an illegal organization. The military foresees a political future where the army is an integral part of the political set-up, integrated into the power structure and administration along the lines of Thailand. In fact, the commander-in-chief, who is personally fond of Thailand, sees this as a model — an important role for the army where the military’s economic interests are protected, a self-sufficient economy and a ‘democratic’ outlook, resisting leftist, socialist or communist leanings. It is a concept of pluralist democracy with no interest group having a dominant role or power, allowing the army to continue to play a critical role. To strengthen this vision of politics, the coup leaders are planning to change the voting system from first-past-the-post to proportional representation, which will mitigate big parties dominating elections and having a massive majority, particularly in Myanmar where there are more than 90 registered political parties. This would allow the military a quarter of the parliamentary seats to control the legislature and the selection of the executive in coalition with some like-minded parties. The coup leaders also see the ‘roadmap to democracy’ of the former Senior General, Than Shwe, developed in 2003 by the then intelligence chief and prime minister, Khin Nyunt, as part of the model to be followed. The projected final stage, before a more liberal form of democracy, was a coalition government of national unity. That is what the military is currently rolling out as part of its current administration. It aims to ensure that this happens after the next election. The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Quiet revolutions||An American actress had once observed, rather caustically, that marriage is nothing but a financial contract. Indian women and their maternal families, unfortunately, would appreciate the sarcasm. This is because India, in spite its righteous claims of being a modern, knowledge-based economy, loses, according to data, as many as 20 of its daughters every single day on account of harassment related to dowry, a regressive custom that reduces marriage to an unequal, transactional compact. Social capital — education and employment — or the lack of it is no insurance against this venomous tradition. Recently, in Ahmedabad, a woman — young, educated, with a decent job — ended her life; her family says that she could no longer cope with the ceaseless demands of money and the torture from her husband’s family. Calcutta, too, is also reading about the death of another young woman, who, it is being alleged, faced similar harassment from her in-laws. At the other end of the spectrum are families in South Asia that are, studies show, driven to chronic poverty on account of exorbitant dowry payments that are far higher — by as much as 200 times — than their incomes. Several factors are attributed to explain the endurance of this nauseating practice cutting across classes: the imbalances in prevailing inheritance laws that give miniscule rights to women, ineffective deterrents — India’s Dowry Prohibition Act is one example — are among them. Bride price — the sum that the groom needs to pay to the bride in some cultures — has also been known to be a cause of friction and, often, violence. The battle against anti-progressive customs that discriminate against women needs to be fought on multiple fronts. Existing laws must be complemented by prompt, fair investigations, with punitive action taken speedily when guilt is established. Public awareness campaigns must be invested in to expose the troubling implications of such demands. But there is also a need to open a second front: an intelligent harnessing of tradition itself as a means of empowerment. Hearteningly, women and, on some occasions, men are showing the way by harnessing orthodoxy to a liberal agenda. Earlier this month, a young Muslim woman in Murshidabad set an example to her neighbours by demanding — and receiving — 60 books as part of her mohor. Such a welcome ‘transaction’ seems to be gaining ground with educated couples choosing knowledge over primitiveness: in the South 24 Parganas, a teacher — he loves reading — received, much to his surprise, a gift of nearly 1,000 books in another incident. This coupling of tradition with progress — the two need not always share strained ties — could yield encouraging results. It could put a healthy distance between institutions — marriage, for instance — and their gross material underpinnings. The jaundiced notion of linking a woman’s life and dignity to wealth could also be challenged without proposing radical alternative interventions that may not find wider acceptance in a conservative milieu. Emancipation is incremental. The challenge, for policymakers and administrators, is to nurture this flickering flame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Sasikala’s Gold Standard||While the rest of our politicians are busy with the de rigueur stuff --- switching parties, plotting raids, doling out sops, getting caught in sex scandals, diving with the fishermen, posturing as The Successor ‑ one woman, commonly described as a late politician’s powerful aide, has moved out of prison after four years and climbed onto a very high perch. Till recently, chief minister of Tamil Nadu and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami had been going hoarse crying “It will not happen. It will not happen”, referring to Sasikala’s readmission into the AIADMK. But Chinnamma’s announcement last week has silenced his thundering all right; for the lady has gone on to declare that she wants no part in the legacy tug of war and instead has pledged to continue to pray to Puratchi Thalaivi and god for the establishment of the “golden reign of Amma” Now, you could say an abstemious politician or a politician’s protégé is a rare thing. You might scream fake and fraud and poser, or you might want to listen closely to what Ms Sasikala is saying. In her two-page statement “quitting politics”, she has invoked Jayalalithaa’s golden reign. And indeed, it was a glittering reign. At the time of her death, the Karnataka government had in its possession the Tamil Nadu CM’s gold jewellery worth 21,280.3 grams. She had 1,250 kilos of declared silver. She was accused of amassing properties worth Rs 66.65 crore in her first term alone. After her death, during the multiple raids conducted on the premises of Sasikala, the IT department reportedly unearthed unaccounted wealth to the tune of Rs 1,400 crore; 187 premises were raided, 15 bank lockers were under prohibitory orders. Before being released from the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in Bengaluru, the woman who ran a video parlour in Mylapore till the mid-1980s paid a fine of Rs10 crore. According to the IT department, in 2016, at the time of demonetisation, while Jayalalithaa was in hospital, Sasikala had purchased property worth Rs 1,674.5 crore with banned notes. The long list includes two malls, a software company, two paper mills, two sugar mills, 50 windmills. Over the years, Sasikala turned housekeeper of Poes Gardens, was campaign manager and keeper of funds, till at some point she became Jayalaithaa’s family and her family became Jayalaithaa’s.  Even after her release from prison this January, there were reports about more properties owned by Sasikala that were being attached --- in Tanjavur, in Kanchipuram, in Tiruvarus. In her statement, Sasikala said, “I have never been after power or position even when Jaya was alive. Won't do that after she is dead.” Golden words. If you didn’t hear it like it is, that’s on you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Tell me please where we are||I mean is our map the same as it used to be? But of course it has been altered and altered many times. We do not even have the original. We are not agreed on the original. There is no original. Everything is a copy. Or a copy of sorts. Look at yourself. Are you original? You really think you are? Let’s call Friar Mendel, that Gregor of the peas and the rabbits. Don’t know him? Google, employ the reigning Gospel. He will tell everything is a mixture of everything and what goes into the making of one thing also goes into the making of another, though it is not necessary one and the other will be the same or different, although it is fairly certain everything is a mix of many things, a proper hodge and podge, kedgeree as they use to say. It used to be good to be part of mixed things, melting together in pots, getting from each other and giving, and become richer and richer in the process. All sorts of shapes and sizes and dimensions, each distinct and each inseparable from the other. Things like those in the picture kind of things, different and woven into a seamless one. It used to be the way we were. Now we are not the way we were. We are separate things, sifted, picked out, kept, and kept out. That is the sort of thing we have become. We do not fit into a picture, we are not the things that together form and make one picture. We are torn and fractured things, ripped away from ourselves and the things we also were part of and woven into. Where have we come, will someone please explain? How did we get here, will someone please tell? Where are we headed? Would you know? It’s dark outside, and from all that is visible, or not visible, there is nothing leading anywhere. Koi hai? Torch please! But are you sure? I mean about calling out for a torch? Considering where we are? Torches can torch. You know that. Or you must, by now. Things can suddenly be aflame and all can turn to embers and ash. And nobody will be able to tell whose embers and whose ash. It will all become a bygone sameness. But we don’t want that, do we? A sameness that is achieved as a consequence of the act of burning and charring? No that’s not the same we want. We want a sameness, but a sameness of differences co-existing as a larger sameness. But why do you forget, we do not want differences; we want a sameness, we want the homogeneity of embers and ashes. Is that where we are? Is that where we are going? In this darkness? I am asking simple questions. Why is it dark? Who brought us here? Where are we going? Will no one offer an answer? Why are answers so difficult to find? Have we become bereft of sense and reason on the way here? Or of our ability to speak and tell? Or do we know the answers and are too afraid to tell? Who of? Or are we merely reconciled we will be told lies and be commanded to be happy with them and not dare question them, and therefore we have come to this pass that we no longer bother asking. I mean, we did ask that question we asked at the very top, didn’t we? Have we been forced to become another shape on the map? Do we look different from what we used to until a while ago? Did someone violate our fences? Is someone sitting there, having violated us, and telling us to be happy with the shape that we have now been battered to? Dented. Then painted. Painted over so nobody can tell the dent. We asked. We were not clearly told. Or we were told things we don’t want to believe because we know them to be not true. There are so many such things that we are told but we know not to be true. There are so many questions whose truth we are not told and whose lies we live with. Is that where are are? Can we not go someplace else? Yeh kahan aaa gaye hum Yuunhi saath-saath chaltey? Yeh kya jagah hai dushmanon Yeh kaun saa dayaar hai?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||In Assam, BJP caught in a bind over two CM aspirants||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday announced the name of the senior Assam cabinet minister and its go-to man in the northeast, Himanta Biswa Sarma, as one of the 70 party candidates for the upcoming three-phase assembly polls starting March 27 even though the latter had formally expressed his unwillingness to contest in a letter to the state unit president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass. Although the move was along expected lines, given Sarma’s prowess when it comes to winning elections since his days in the Congress, his nomination has once again revived debate over the chief minister’s post. The incumbent chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, was named for the top post during a pre-poll rally by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, in 2016. However, the party has not made any such announcement till now, leaving state unit leaders and workers guessing because they are the ones who have to answer to the charges levelled by rivals, especially the Congress, of the state being run by a ‘double-engine’, alluding to Sonowal and Sarma. The last five years have seen Sarma do everything possible to impress the party leadership, and party insiders say that it was time that the leadership took a call on the issue in the greater interest of the party in Assam. Clearly, the BJP leadership has to think beyond winning the 2021 polls in the northeastern state. At a time when rising petrol and diesel prices have stumped the BJP in its campaign for state assemblies, party leaders in Kerala have been vying with one another with offers to sell the commodity cheap if they come to power in the state. While the state president, K Surendran, had once reportedly claimed that petrol and diesel could be sold for less than Rs 50 a litre by slashing state taxes, the veteran party leader, Kummanam Rajasekharan, has now promised to sell the fuel for Rs 60 a litre. The party would not explain the disparity between the two offers but many are of the opinion that the BJP can even afford to promise fuel for free since the party is not coming to power any time soon in the southern state. No Indian cricket fan would have forgotten how the skipper, Sourav Ganguly, took off his shirt after Team India defeated England in the famous NatWest Series finals at the Lord’s in 2002. The Congress member of legislative assembly, BK Sangamesh, replicated that action
in the Karnataka assembly on Thursday, although for a different reason. Sangamesh took off his shirt alleging that he and his family were booked in false cases by the BJP and its affiliates. Although the state party president and lawmaker, DK Shivakumar, kept urging him to put his shirt back on, Sangamesh continued with this unique form of protest and, in the process, got suspended from attending parliamentary proceedings for seven days. It was, after all, not that easy to pull it off in the House, as against Dada’s epic celebration at the Lord’s. In spite of the near total domination of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo over the government and the party, there are some leaders who are silently rebelling. The former Rajasthan chief minister, Vasundhara Raje, continues to be irrepressible, despite the best efforts of the current regime. Defying all attempts by the leadership to sideline her, the “Maharani”, as she is popularly called owing to her royal connection, is back in action. She has started to pitch herself as the face of the party in Rajasthan although polls are scheduled in 2023. Leaders close to her think that she is not taking any chances, apprehending she could be edged out as the chief-ministerial face by election time. Raje is well entrenched in the state’s politics and feels the need to be assertive to scare the leadership. The Central leadership seems to be upset with Raje’s current activities but finds it difficult to take action against her. The Modi-Shah regime has systematically tried to replace the old order with an order of its own. It has picked relatively younger leaders and promoted them to build a loyal team. However, some like Raje still dare to resist. That the control of the Congress high command over the party has weakened because of the leadership crisis created by Rahul Gandhi’s unexpected exit after the debacle in the parliamentary election of 2019 is now manifest in different forms. Although Rahul is still being treated as the supreme leader in the party, Sonia Gandhi’s presence at the helm more like a ceremonial head than a functional one is affecting the organization the most. While Sachin Pilot organized farmers rallies in Rajasthan without overt support from the pradesh committee, the same oddity is now being repeated in Madhya Pradesh. The former chief minister, Digvijaya Singh, has launched his own kisan mahapanchayats in the state, without involving the state unit. When asked about his solo run, he reportedly said he had consulted Kamal Nath. But he was obviously keen to make his distinct mark on the programme as he asserted this was strictly apolitical. Several meetings have allegedly taken place over the past three to four days without any party flags or political discussion. Singh explains the problems in the farm laws and pleads with the farmers of the state to strengthen the ongoing movement. This was unthinkable earlier, when the high command controlled every activity, from state to district levels. Although Singh and Nath have better relations than what Ashok Gehlot and Pilot have — an explicitly bitter enmity — that the kisan mahapanchayats are not being led by the state chief has raised eyebrows in the party. The Rajya Sabha member, Subramanian Swamy, is going on the offensive and the leadership appears to be afraid of acting against him. Peeved over the BJP embracing the 88-year-old former ‘metro man’, E Sreedharan, as the CM candidate for Kerala, Swamy has used this to raise questions over seniors like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi being denied tickets to contest elections. Many others in the party also feel that Sreedharan’s case could give courage to other retired leaders to speak out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
