08-03-2021||Opinion||Great challenge: Holding Kumbh Mela||Sir — Holding the Kumbh Mela this year will be a great challenge for the authorities. Sadhus have already begun to take part in processions in numbers. Although protocols to prevent the spread of the coronavirus are supposed to be enforced, it is unlikely that the officials concerned will be able to control the large swathe of devotees. The visitors themselves should make sure that they follow all the rules and help the nation beat the pandemic. Debayan Bhowmick,Calcutta Bitter pill Sir — The government has rejected the latest annual rankings by the global democracy watchdog, Freedom House, which demoted India from “free” to “partly free” category (“Freedom report? Govt points to map”, March 6). But brushing it under the carpet will not work. The incumbent, thin-skinned dispensation at the Centre is under the illusion that every action, policy or programme rolled by it is the gospel truth, and cannot be questioned. Invoking the sedition law at the drop of a hat and unleashing investigating agencies against dissenters have become commonplace. Rather than taking criticism positively and engaging in course correction, the Centre chooses to crack down on its citizens, whose only fault is a difference of opinion. Even outsiders are not spared. The report for 2021 speaks volumes on the condition of democracy in the country at present, and should serve as an eye-opener for the government before India is pushed into the same category as its rogue northern neighbour in the eyes of the world. The fact that none of the three pillars of democracy — the legislature, the executive, the judiciary — has been able to keep a check on the other counterparts is also telling. The government has failed to provide citizens with an environment conducive to free speech. The demotion by the watchdog should be interpreted as an alert. India must do better. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — One cannot be surprised that the Centre has rejected the report by Freedom House on the status of democracy in India. The incumbent ruling dispensation at the Centre cannot even take criticism from its own citizens. Criticism works for those who want to better themselves. Those in government at present clearly want only a good ‘image’ of the nation so that they can cling on to the seat of power, not to genuinely improve the condition of the nation as a whole. Rabi Sengupta,South 24 Parganas Sir — It is indeed a matter of serious concern that Washington-based Freedom House dropped India from the list of ‘free’ nations on the charge of frequent violation of human rights. The country seems to be going towards authoritarianism under the influence of corporate houses. Now India, as per the declaration, enjoys the status of being ‘partly free’. The common citizens are confused about the impact of this situation on the future of the country. Arup Kr. Ghosh,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Look back: new madrasa courses||There is never a dull moment with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre. The National Institute of Open Schooling, called an autonomous body but under the Union education ministry, is introducing 15 courses on Indian knowledge and heritage for levels equivalent to Classes III, V and VIII in 100 madrasas. This is to execute the aims of the National Education Policy, and the courses will be extended to 500 madrasas. The lessons will include studies of the Sanskrit language, the Bhagavad Gita, the Ramayana, the Maheshwara Sutras derived from Panini and so on. Yoga as well as science lessons from the Vedas in the conservation of land, air and water, the origin of creation and other topics would be taught together with vocational skills ranging from making beds to organic farming, including cow rearing and cleaning cowsheds, using ayurveda in daily life and methods of cooking and serving. Independent madrasas in Uttar Pradesh have expressed resistance, saying that even if institutions under the Madrasa Board accept the new curriculum, private madrasas run by the community have no obligation to do so. These institutions for Islamic studies already teach English and mathematics. No one could object to the opening up of education, but will schools run by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh be teaching the Quran or Urdu grammar? This question, far more than other issues — such as the confusions caused by studying the texts of two religions together and so on — hints at the lack of innocence in the government’s agenda. There is no one holy book for the majority religion, by the way. Although the Bharatiya Jnana Parampara courses, reportedly, are not compulsory, the Union education minister has said that they are part of the NEP’s aim of creating a pride in Indianness in the learner’s inner self. Indianness for the BJP lies solely in glorifying ancient or pre-Mughal India; making minority community students absorb this lesson is a planned step in defining the BJP’s idea of India. The deliberate destruction of balance among differences and the undermining of autonomy in the educational sphere can be useful in hardening definitions too. Anyone who refuses to learn how to clean a cowshed may well be seditious or ‘anti-national’. The pot must be stirred continuously; no dull moment allowed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Thin stream: poor credit off-take||The Reserve Bank of India recently expressed concern with the poor credit off-take from banks by large industries. There has been a contraction in credit to the industrial sector as a whole, from a positive growth of 2.5 per cent in January 2020 to a negative contraction of 1.3 per cent in January 2021. For the large industrial sector alone, the contraction was more severe, falling by 2.5 per cent in January 2021 from a positive growth of 2.8 per cent in January 2020. Credit to the micro and small industries grew only marginally during the same period. However, credit to medium industries registered a robust growth of 19.1 per cent in January 2021 against a growth of 2.8 per cent in January 2020. The data have some important implications. Large industries absorb 82 per cent of all credit from the banks; the remaining 18 per cent is absorbed by small and medium industries. Similarly, in the portfolio of personal loans, home loans comprise 50 per cent. The deceleration of home loans growth has been sharp: it fell from 17.5 per cent in January 2020 to 7.7 per cent in January 2021. The banks are reluctant to lend to large entities because of the accumulation of stressed assets over the past five years independent of the pandemic. After the pandemic, risks generally increased in all types of loan portfolios. The RBI, as the regulator, tightened compliance norms for identifying potential non-performing assets. Home loans, on the other hand, are considered one of the safest types of loans. They are secured, and people typically default on their home loans only as a last resort. The deceleration in home loans is a reflection of the lack of demand, with household income having taken a beating during the pandemic. A slowdown in this segment affects the derived demand for steel, iron and such other construction material like cement and home fixtures. The banks find themselves between a rock and a hard place: those the banks wish to lend have no appetite for credit, and those who would like to borrow, the banks are wary of them. The regulator wants more credit pumped into the economy, but is tightening the belt on banks’ risk appetites. The moratorium and regulatory forbearance forced by the pandemic are possibly hiding a large accumulation of fresh non-performing assets induced by the economic disruption of last year. The economic recovery has to be fuelled by large-scale fiscal spending. Depending on the RBI will not suffice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||New role: shift to blended classes||The global pandemic has forced Indian education to go online, arguably for the better. It has compelled teachers to train themselves in technology and hone their skills to keep up with the pressing need, both out of concern for students’ education and their livelihood. Some teachers found this an easy transition; others had to endeavour to become proficient in online teaching. But most metamorphosed from being tech-novice to tech-savvy. As we hope to tiptoe back to normalcy, we have already started discussing hybrid/blended classes. But do we understand what blended learning is? Do we acknowledge the need for research to investigate which type of BL will work in the Indian context, given the lopsided teacher-student ratio, lack of infrastructure, paucity of skills in educators, inadequacies in syllabus and policy? BL’s failure to gain momentum in India is blamed on the limitations in the internet infrastructure in schools, especially those in rural areas. But statistics reveal that there has been a sharp increase in internet usage and smartphone penetration in rural India. What is the problem then? The problem lies with the ability of children and their families to use smartphones as well as the latter’s affordability. In rural areas, where midday meals, free education and other such incentives offered by the Right to Education Act did not inspire every child to attend school, how can we expect online education or blended classes to work? BL or online education is a luxury they can ill-afford. More queries Let’s focus on another question. Are educational institutions equipped to shift to blended classes? In the last few years, ‘smart classes’ have been introduced in several Indian schools. Usually, interactive boards are used that can ‘speak’ and show moving images. The main reason behind the failure to use these interactive boards to their full potential is that they are used only as teaching aids. Most teachers are not required to carry out research to investigate the best practices in teaching-learning that will work effectively for students. The diversity of students and their needs is such that the mode of teaching cannot become a standardized, static protocol. The use of internet, tablets, laptops and smartphones as online textbooks or information resources does not ensure successful online education. Gadgets are means of communication. The key to using such resources meaningfully lies in appropriate lesson-planning by teachers. It is important to plan a lesson that can nurture collaboration, critical thinking, communication, and creativity in learners. Teachers must adopt a pragmatic approach to teaching. Project-based learning, group discussions, integrating diverse subjects are the needs of the hour. The Central Board of Secondary Education recently introduced an Art-Integrated Learning project for students from Classes IX to XII, but only for internal assessment. It is a splendid alternative to the otherwise mundane methods of evaluation. More such projects need to be incorporated in order to ensure the development of learners’ skills. Such projects should not remain a part of internal assessments only. Are the teachers ready to evolve? If BL were to succeed in India, the role of teachers is bound to change. The environment of the classroom has to be redefined from passive learning to active discussions, problem-solving, and a hands-on experimental learning module. The role of the teacher will be transformed to that of a guide. Teachers will not be needed to deliver lectures. Learners can go through pre-recorded videos at their own pace and return to class in order to build on the information. But teachers may have to change a lot more than they are comfortable with. These transformations will not reduce the importance of teachers. They would elevate them to the stature of mentors in the truest sense.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Politics remains gender blind||A heartening aspect of Indian democracy has been the rise in turnouts of women voters. The results of the assembly elections in Delhi and Bihar in 2020 reinforce this claim. In Bihar, the National Democratic Alliance scraped through, courtesy women voters who voted decisively for the Nitish Kumar-led alliance. Out of the 125 wins by the NDA, 99 came in assembly seats where women’s turnout exceeded the male turnout. The Aam Aadmi Party’s landslide victory was similarly powered by Delhi’s women voters. As the age-old theory of women surrendering to the wishes of family patriarchs while exercising their democratic franchise gets a silent burial, politicians are leaving no stone unturned to woo this ‘new vote-bank’. More women are queuing up outside polling booths, but are more women also entering the law-making bodies — state assemblies and the Lok Sabha? Unlike women voter turnouts, women’s representation in law-making bodies has grown at a snail’s pace. Between 1952-1977, women MPs accounted for 5 per cent of the total strength of the House. Despite women’s representation being at an all-time high of 78 MPs (14 per cent) in the current Lok Sabha, women’s representation is far from impressive. According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, in 1998, India was ranked 95th globally in terms of women’s representation. India slipped to the 148th position in January 2021. The situation in state assemblies is not promising either. According to an ADR report based on data compiled by the Election Commission, 9 per cent of a total of 4,120 legislators are women. Why is women’s representation so dismal? Are women not nominated in large enough numbers or, having been nominated, do they struggle to win? Political parties are reluctant to field women candidates: 9 out of 10 candidates in parliamentary polls have been male. Even during the best period for women candidates in assembly elections, between 2002-2019, only 1 in 12 contestants was a woman. An oft-repeated explanation for the under-representation of women is that they are ‘weak’ candidates. Ironically, women have always had a higher winning strike rate than their male counterparts. Between 1952-1977, 25 per cent of male candidates emerged victorious in the Lok Sabha elections; the strike rate for women was 46 per cent. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the percentage of victorious male candidates was 6 per cent as against 11 per cent for women. The under-representation of women is a serious cause of concern for the world’s largest democracy. The women’s reservation bill, which proposed to reserve 33 per cent of all Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha seats for women, was passed in the Rajya Sabha in 2010 but met with fierce resistance in the Lok Sabha. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress have been vocal in their support for the bill. But seven years and two massive mandates later, the BJP has not shown any political will to pass the bill. The success of the 73rd and the 74th constitutional amendments in ensuring greater access for women to decision-making positions has been revolutionary. Various states have increased this quota to 50 per cent: Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tripura and Telangana have extended the quota to urban local bodies. The empowerment of women has curbed corruption and improved the quality of governance. According to a report card by the Praja Foundation, women councillors have consistently performed on a par with their male colleagues in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation — Asia’s richest civic body since 2012 — where the quota for women was hiked from 33 per cent to 50 per cent. A caveat must be issued here: passing the women’s reservation bill will not be enough. That many women are made dummy panchayat pradhans and councillors to fulfil a constitutional provision is an open secret. Canny male politicians have also devised ways to get around the women’s quota by fielding family members, a point well made by Kanchan Chandra in Democratic Dynasties. Nonetheless, passing the women’s reservation bill would be a good way to start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Shadow lives||The binary of men as combatants and women as passive grievers is perhaps the most common projection of gendered realities in a conflict zone. Men are often seen as principal negotiators who make the difference when it comes to critical decisions on everyone’s behalf. Women’s participation, roles, risks, and their circumstances, on the other hand, get eclipsed in this binary. Women in conflict zones are faced with intriguing circumstances with regard to their status, roles, expectations and vulnerabilities. In conflict zones like Kashmir, these realities compound other vulnerabilities for women. Although the lives of men and women are intricately linked, the pre-existing socio-cultural understanding and the masculinist nature of conflict increase women’s vulnerabilities. For instance, in Kashmir, frequent visits by security personnel to houses on tip-offs or even for routine enquiries stigmatize women. For women, these visits by security personnel represent a dangerous concoction of unbridled power and a hostile male gaze, complicating not just their present but also their future conditions. After their houses were raided, some families found it difficult to find marriage alliances for girls in their families as they were suspected to have been violated. Unrestrained power and the lack of accountability have led to the creation of the image of the armed forces as an adversary in the people’s consciousness. Interface between the people and the armed forces results in stigmatization. This is felt most strongly in the case of young women, widows and single mothers. A comparison between the situations of young male and female pellet victims in Kashmir shows a stark difference in their realities. For the male victims, the lack of access to healthcare and being visible on the radar of the security apparatus are the most immediate threats, setting off layers of further victimization. These layers get compounded in the case of female victims, whose families fear that their present and future social relations would be damaged, resulting in their social and economic exclusion. A girl child from Shopian — she was 18 months old in 2018 when she was hit by pellets in her right eye — is a classic case that reveals how the complications are far more layered for the girl child and her family members than those faced by male pellet victims. Her parents do not wish anybody to know her name. They fear that this could impair her social relations in the future. Her father — a police constable who hardly gets to be at home on account of being a target of the Hizbul Mujahideen — has enforced long-term negative familial consequences on the girl child. This girl’s life projects the potential risks irrespective of one’s affiliation in a restive zone. Sides don’t matter in conflict zones; vulnerabilities do. People’s lives should be judged not by their perceived affiliations but on the basis of vulnerabilities, risks and marginalization. As such, an ecosystem facilitated by a holistic health infrastructure needs to be nurtured for a life away from suspicion and stigma. Psychological and physical health deteriorate when people don’t have faith in or the confidence to approach the healthcare system and other institutions out of fear of victimization through identification. Health is no longer a private matter in conflict zones. The turmoil of conflict creates the need for greater assistance while, simultaneously, restricting accessibility to the same. Women’s choices and bargaining power become the worst casualties in conflict zones. The option of getting remarried after the loss or disappearance of their spouses or not remarrying is hardly a choice as it is governed by the potential vulnerabilities of a stigmatized life. This stigma gets magnified when women suffer at the hands of the armed forces. Today, even though several years have passed since the Kunan Poshpora outrage, the mother-daughter relationship in the region remains complicated. This is because the daughters are facing humiliation in college and in other public spheres for their mothers’ charges of being allegedly raped by the armed forces.The stigma has not been obliterated from social memory, straining intra as well as inter-generational relationships. The demand for accountability and responsive institutions needs to be kept alive. For this, women’s experiences should be looked at as separate from those of men. In the absence of such a framework, the complications of women’s lives are getting lost in the metanarrative of ‘the combatant versus the State’. A simplified understanding of these multi-layered experiences and their repercussions can cause deeper damages. Women and men experience conflict differently due to differences in their culturally determined roles. The rampant displacement of women goes unnoticed. Destruction of houses, the loss of a spouse, being single or being a single mother, loss of jobs or property can lead to such displacement. This adds to the gender-role complications. Women’s identities have been reduced to half-widows, widows or mothers of disappeared children. This imagery excludes them from their claim on the role of active agents. Protests are the only means through which women transcend into being active agents. Yet, in the public imagination, they simply come across as bearers of loss.There is thus a need to view women as complete entities whose experiences of conflict are distinct from those of men. Their experiences must be part of any dialogic process of conflict-resolution. Women’s realities should be seen as integral to the process of strengthening accountability and law-making. Women’s experiences are also a testament to complex vulnerabilities. Consider the women who came from Pakistan with their former militant husbands in 2010-2011 under the rehabilitation policy of the then Jammu and Kashmir government. Most of them live in Budgam, Baramulla and Srinagar. They are the ‘lost women’ with no citizenship rights or recognition. Even their disappearance goes unaddressed as they do not belong. Somiya Sadaf, hailing from Muzaffarabad and educated in India, who accompanied her husband to Batergam, found her citizenship challenged when she tried to contest the recent DDC elections from Drugmulla constituency. She is popular in the region because of her social and humanitarian work. The plight of women from Muzaffarabad should be seen as a humanitarian crisis; they can neither visit their native place, nor can they belong to their current place of residence due to the lack of documentation. Conflict contributes to the precariousness of women’s socio-economic and political opportunities. Guilt in seeking government jobs as well as loss in businesses and dwindling economic support on account of conflict-related disturbances may deeply damage their positions in the long run. Any attempt to enforce citizenship will only erode people’s trust and diminish their opportunities to prosper. Enforced citizenship compounded by the lack of accountability turns citizens into detainees, with women’s lives revealing the worst forms of active and passive exclusion resembling the risks and invisibility of a trafficked life. The author is Assistant Professor of Sociology, Advanced Centre for Women’s Studies, Aligarh Muslim University. This article emerges from the author’s ongoing research on lived experiences of exclusion in Kashmir and is funded by ICSSR under IMPRESS scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
