09-03-2021||Opinion||Dual edge: Chinese cyber attack||As the world evolves, so does the way in which nations choose to arm themselves — for deterrence and aggression. The possession of nuclear weapons has for long been viewed as the apex of military deterrence; India’s identity as a nuclear-armed State was considered a landmark in its military history. Increasingly, however, it is becoming clear that the future of global conflict will be dominated by the use of digital technology. Exponential progress in the digital domain, mainly in the commercial and service sectors — finance, banking, communications, travel and power — has led to the flourishing of myriad technological services. Yet, such progress has also been paralleled by a worrying tendency to weaponize such technology to target the sectors that rely on it. This was evident from a recent report by a cybersecurity firm in the United States of America that indicated that a malware originating in China had infiltrated systems managing India’s electricity supply, causing the power outage that incapacitated Mumbai last October. Indeed, cyberware attacks have been a global phenomenon; in 2017, a Russian ransomware spread like wildfire across the world, eating into electronic equipment, extracting data and temporarily paralyzing large corporations. Some reports estimate that the global financial burden of cybercrime is expected to rise to six trillion dollars by this year. Significantly, India is the second most targeted country for ransomware after the US. The government is reportedly working closely with multinational cybersecurity firms to issue timely alerts on ransomware and zero-day attack campaigns, and provide updates on trojans and malware targeting Indian users and organizations. Yet, the Indian State remains ever willing to use cyber technology in a manner that violates citizens’ privacy rights. Digital rights advocates have decried the installation of facial recognition systems in several government schools in Delhi; digital identification was also used by the Delhi police to mark out 1,100 people allegedly involved in the Delhi riots. There are, at present, around 16 facial recognition tracking systems being actively used by the Centre and state governments. But legal checks and balances are yet to catch up, thereby rendering the technology vulnerable to misuse. India still does not have a comprehensive personal data protection law. The protection of privacy must be factored into the draft of this legislation at the earliest. This, along with inducements for the private sector to help prevent the weaponization of cyber technologies, can enhance rights and safety for the nation and its citizens in this digital era.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
09-03-2021||Opinion|| A darker shade: Meghan and Harry's tell-all interview||Sir — A year after the Sussexes decided to step back as working members of the British royal family, Meghan Markle revealed in an interview some of the pressures that came with royal life — she even contemplated suicide. It is shocking that concerns were allegedly raised about the skin tone of the couple’s biracial child. The royal family would have been expected to mitigate racism, not abet it. Rashika Verma,New Delhi Waste not Sir — According to a recent report published by the United Nations Environment Programme and its partner organization, Waste and Resources Action Programme, an estimated 931 million tonnes of food was wasted globally in 2019. The Food Waste Index Report 2021 found that 61 per cent of the wastage came from households, while the food service and the retail sectors accounted for 26 and 13 per cent, respectively. In India, the household food waste was calculated at a staggering 50 kilogrammes per capita per year, or 68,760,163 tonnes a year, almost at par with countries such as the United States of America and China. While no country can afford such humongous waste of food, when it comes to India, where millions live below the poverty line and many children die annually as a result of malnourishment, such findings point to an inherent disparity not only in accessibility but also in the attitude towards food among classes. As such, food wastage is an unforgivable crime. It is of utmost importance that we educate people, especially the youth, about the reality of unequal accessibility to food. It is only then that we would be able to ensure a dignified living for all. N.R. Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — It was shocking to learn that a study by the UNEP found that Indian households waste an estimated 50 kg of food per capita per year. Many of us, who have grown up with limited resources, are perplexed by the figures. We must take note and do all we can to drastically reduce food wastage. Mindful eating and the practice of taking only what we can consume can go a long way in rectifying the situation. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Experts have long insisted that reducing food waste could not only solve chronic hunger but also lead to a reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases and significantly slow down global warming. It is time that we heeded the warnings and took necessary steps to better manage our food. It is certainly possible to do so. It was found that spending more time in planning meals and cooking at home during the Covid-19-induced lockdowns resulted in a 20 per cent reduction in wastage in the United Kingdom. Citizens around the world must do all they can and strive towards minimal wastage. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
09-03-2021||Opinion||Unproductive: Haryana state reservation||The deputy chief minister of Haryana, Dushyant Chautala, has stated that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government is open to suggestions from industry bodies on a law that offers 75 per cent reservation to sons of the soil in private sector employment within a specific salary ceiling. The apparent willingness on the part of Mr Chautala’s government to engage in deliberations on the matter is welcome because industry has raised some serious concerns with the legislation. One of these is related to the principle of merit. A skilled workforce is a prerequisite for industrial productivity and the pool for talent should, ideally, be as wide as possible. A rule to limit the scope of recruitment would undoubtedly have an adverse impact on merit and skill, which, in turn, would have a bearing on the ease of doing business, productivity and, ultimately, competitiveness. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 could well inhibit investors, lowering investments in a state that remains agrarian in character. The legislation also straddles grey areas in terms of constitutionality and legality. The Constitution does not have an explicit provision that empowers states to extend reservation to private employment since it could have troubling implications on the fundamental rights to equality and against discrimination. These constitutional concerns have often found expression in judicial notings. After Andhra Pradesh had given its nod to a similar provision the Andhra Pradesh High Court had observed that such an intervention appeared to be unconstitutional prima facie. Curiously, constitutional and legal proprieties have not stopped elected governments from pursuing such a narrow agenda. Haryana and Andhra Pradesh are not the only states to have crossed into uncharted territory. Madhya Pradesh has announced a law reserving all government jobs for ‘children of the state’; there are whispers that Jharkhand, too, is contemplating reservation in private jobs. The principal reason behind such measures is competitive populism, which has intensified with a corresponding spike in inequality, unemployment and the erosion in the stature of the State as a custodian of welfarism. If provincial instincts were to reflect in policy, it would have a debilitating effect on India’s inclusive, pluralist ethos that guides social and economic activities. The irony of claims of affirmative action — the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 is being touted as one example — deepening division must not be ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
09-03-2021||Opinion||War on cancer||“If I could be anything, I would have wanted to have been the president [who] ended cancer... ,” said a tearful Joe Biden at a gathering in the Rose Garden of the White House when he withdrew from the presidential race in 2016, months after cancer claimed the life of his eldest son, Beau. His words sprung from realization and resolve that had crystallized as a result of his brush with a particularly fatal type of cancer and his countless interactions with leading cancer experts across the world during a two-year-long personal odyssey. “But I know we can do this,” he said, “we need a moon shot”. The Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot programme, with the audacious aim to compress 10 years of cancer research in five years’ time, was born that evening. The bipartisan support it received in the US Congress, which thrice rebuffed Donald Trump’s efforts to cut funding to the National Cancer Institute, the principal organization for the programme, is a testament to the impact of cancer on everyone’s life. The current pandemic, which has disrupted cancer treatment, has, paradoxically, also become a boon for cancer research as envisaged in the Cancer Moonshot programme whose three main guiding principles are erasing the boundaries among different research agencies, interest groups and even nationalities; sharing of big data and experiment results in real time to build on each other’s success so that time and money are not wasted in reduplicating work; and simplifying financial regulations for allocation of funds and resources to enlarge the scope and reach of clinical trials. The swiftness with which medical communities and science researchers have responded to develop treatment protocols with new vaccines in the case of Covid-19 by sharing clinical data and experiences often forgoing research credits shows that the lofty objectives of the Cancer Moonshot programme through the formation of multi-national and multi-institutional global alliances remain realistic. This is also the call of World Cancer Day, following the adoption of the Paris Charter at the World Summit Against Cancer for the New Millennium in February 2000. The idea is to form a global alliance against cancer, one that will not only stretch up to the last citizen but also encourage active participation. The success of any public health programme depends on active participation by citizens motivated through tireless awareness campaigns and the sharing of relevant information. Yet, this is far from an easy task. Science was abused during the pandemic through misinformation that, at times, served political interests. The anti-vaccine movement and the reluctance to undergo a biopsy are two facets of the same problem. Public education and spreading awareness regarding methods of prevention are perhaps the more important components of all anti-cancer programmes. There are more than 200 different types of cancer with diverse biologies that evolve through multi-factorial processes. It will thus be difficult to find a common trajectory to reach them all. Modern cancer research has grown with sophisticated but costly procedures. Genetic engineering and immune modulation will take time to reach clinical application and make a difference. Preventive oncology, however, can address the challenge. Programmes to raise awareness about cancer-causing substances, HPV and Hepatitis B vaccination, establishing telemedicine networks for remote screening of and early detection in rural populations and periodical checkups can substantially reduce suffering in this country where 40 per cent of cancer deaths are caused by preventable cancers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
09-03-2021||Opinion||Covid vaccine: advantage, New Delhi||When Cambodia, China’s closest ally in Southeast Asia, asked for Indian anti-Covid vaccines having received a free starter supply of one million Sinopharm doses, alarm bells rang in Beijing. In what has been seen as a battle for goodwill and influence, growing requests for Indian vaccines from nations as far off as Brazil and Cambodia did indicate India is ahead of China on this score. Beijing’s discomfort was writ large when its media trouble-shooter, Global Times, went on to accuse India of meddling in Bangladesh to stop trials of the Sinopharm vaccine. With two million free doses of the India-made AstraZeneca vaccine helping Bangladesh begin its ambitious vaccination programme and another thirty million doses purchased by its Beximco conglomerate to reach Dhaka in phases, China is clearly receding from Bangladesh’s public imagination. Even virulently anti-India BNP politicians, who had railed against India-made vaccines by doubting both supply commitments and efficacy, are lining up to take the jab. The Bangladesh Nationalist Party leader, Amir Khasru Mahmud Chowdhury, scotched the party’s pitch against Indian vaccines when he told a television channel, “there can be no politics over the vaccine”. With Air India charter flights landing in neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka and Seychelles, Maldives and Myanmar, with free gift packs of India-made vaccines, diplomats are ecstatic over what one described as ‘our finest hour’. The unmistakable thrill in New Delhi over India’s lead role in fighting Covid-19 globally was evident in a tweet by the prime minister, Narendra Modi: “Fast development of vaccine and its launch [in India] is an important landmark in our joint endeavour for a healthy and disease free world.” Modi had earlier said that India will soon be the ‘pharmacy of the world’; this promises business and credibility that can boost the country’s economy and diplomacy. Unlike the Chinese vaccines which have faced uncomfortable questions over efficacy in trials in Brazil and Indonesia, the world is not questioning the effectiveness of the Indian vaccines but asking whether it can actually produce enough — and quickly enough — to meet the global demand. China is seen as a rising superpower, capable of taking on the United States of America militarily and economically; India has been seen, at best, as a “swing state” (How to Run the World, Parag Khanna), capable of influencing the power balance in Asia. Most military analysts did not give India much of a chance against a modernizing Chinese military. But the Indian army has stood its ground against the Chinese in the icy Himalayan heights twice in less than four years, first at Doklam in 2017 and now in Ladakh. That the People’s Liberation Army finally agreed to pull back to April 2020 positions in eastern Ladakh sends out unmistakable signals to the rest of the world (especially in India’s neighbourhood) that the Indian army has come a long way from 1962 and is capable of giving the PLA a bloody nose like the one it suffered in Vietnam in 1979. That the PLA has not come out well in military confrontations since 1962 will not be missed in Asia where many countries look to India as a future net security provider against an assertive China. The northern army commander, Lieutenant-General Y.K. Joshi, had a point when he said that China has gained nothing and lost its face in the Ladakh stand-off. India is closing the gap in terms of equipment, infrastructure and training with the PLA at some speed. Its presence in Quad, along with its ever-expanding strategic alliance with the US, France and other democracies, is surely a stronger deterrent against China. Stealing the thunder both in vaccine diplomacy and the Himalayan stand-off has left India in a far better position in the neighbourhood. In Myanmar, demonstrators marched with placards saying ‘Myanmar Coup, Made in China’, forcing the Chinese embassy to express apprehension over the military takeover. India’s pitch for ‘orderly democratic transition’ in Myanmar, without undermining the improved military relations that are so important in New Delhi’s fight against northeastern insurgencies, was about striking the right balance. Even Pakistan, China’s ‘taller than mountain’ friend, had joined seminars on Covid-19 strategy hosted by New Delhi, and some in that country are asking Imran Khan to seek Indian, and not Chinese, vaccines. None will doubt China’s deeper pockets and technological prowess, but Covid-19 has been a leveller of sorts, leaving Beijing in a quandary and New Delhi with an edge at least in South and Southeast Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
09-03-2021||Opinion||Painful jabs||It’s coming, it’s coming, it’s coming! It is actually a ‘they’ and they should be ready soon, they should be here soon, they should be with us imminently (or as Americans would say, ‘momentarily’, meaning not fleetingly but within moments), they are almost there, they are competing to see which one can be ready first, which one packs the most punch, the least side-swipe, the cheapest price-tag, the lowest high-maintenance in terms of transport, temperature and other assorted to-do. They are competing; like runners in a heat; except the sprinter in lane one wins in one country, while the medium distance runner in lane three continues onward and wins in another continent! Oh, look, we have one of our own that’s entered the fray — the testing is incomplete, the sampling is on a wing and a prayer, but the authorities say it works variously between 110 and 200 per cent, and we always, always trust the authorities, so it becomes part of the ‘they’ and surges forward in an atma-udhar kind of way! Aayo rey, aayo rey, aayo reyyy, vaccine aayo rey, aayo rey, aayo rey! Aayo, yes, but not so fast. Wait. First, the frontline folks in February. The masses maybe in March. In the meantime, as we wait, each phone call we make gives us the new recorded mantra: don’t listen to rumours, don’t listen to doubters! The home-made vaccine is fully tested, effective and safe! Take it at once when available! Dawai bhi, kadai bhi! Wait, what? Medicine also, cooking vessel also? No, no, no! Then... medicine also, embroidery also? Uff, no! Kadai = kadak = strict caution, as in kadi nazar, that is, baleful eagle eye! Oh, right, okay, at least that part of the message is correct — taking the vaccine will not mean the end of protection protocols and vigilance. While waiting we see we are hardly one-some in the vaudeville of vaccine vacillations: the United Kingdom is finally doing well with giving the shots — but it’s not! The vaccines may not cover the new strains; Europe displays all sorts of lottery games and Russian roulette-type clownery; in the post-Trump United States of America, the Liar-in-Chief’s complete lack of planning, in fact anti-planning, has not only resulted in over five lakh deaths but is leading to further chaos: each state has its own rules as to who can get the shot and where, and many states are chopping and changing those rules to add to the chaos — yes, this could only happen in America. Finally, March 1 dawns over Calcutta and the two heroes arrive in town, like Thomson and Thompson, or Goopy and Bagha, or Jagai and Madhai. The government hospitals are giving shots, the private hospitals are giving shots, there is a website on which there is a long list; you can get it free, you can pay for it, you can get the Covaxin aka Ram Bharosey or rather Harsh Bharosey or you can get Covishield, which is more Vigyan Bharosey. How to get it? Well, you have to be over 60, or over 45 with a certified comorbidity. Wealthy people start to do things they have never done before, such as enter government hospitals; Calcuttans do what Indians have always done, such as get their doc to do fake comorbidity certificates and bingo, shot lag gaya! Some of us stay on the straight and narrow and go to the website. It is impressive. There are buttons; there are instructions as to what to do with the buttons; there is the beaming visage of the First Servant of the country — why? Don’t ask, don’t say dawai bhi meri aur badhai bhi meri — just click on the buttons as instructed. Okay, so click on the ‘Register’ button. Impressive, three blank slots asking for state, borough, pin code. You fill the slots from the drop-down choices. Nothing happens. An hour later, same thing. Another 40 minutes later, the clicked choices fill the slots and a list of dispensing hospitals and clinics unfurls down. Wow, they even have two separate hyperlinks for some hospitals, one specifically labelled Covaxin, the other one presumably for the pesky Doubting Thomases who want Covishield. Okay, click on the latter. Blank weekly time slots open up, with tiny fine print above which says ‘no appointments are available for this period’, okay click on the next week, again the same, nothing till the end of March. A friend in Delhi, using the same website, has already made bookings for eight seniors in their family, but that’s Delhi, typical NCR privilege. In Calcutta, the website is as unforgiving as the Indian Railways one when it’s captured by web-touts. After two days of web-wrestling, a friend says, “Just come to X-Vue Hospital by 8.30, they are taking walk-ins!” So, on a hot morning we find ourselves in a queue outside X-Vue, one of the city’s poshest hospitals, two of us 60-plus and one who will turn 60 in a month and therefore, according to the regulations of the government of India, eligible for the shot. The whole thing is a mess, people are jostling, many are not masked, some take them off and put them on like they are goggles or necklaces, the line moves slowly, leading into a dark hallway that is even more crowded. One of us decides to check out an alternative clinic and taxis off. He is back in 30 minutes to find the friends more or less where he left them. What happened? Oh, that place is even worse! After a while, the friend who’s not yet 60 is told she cannot be registered. She argues but, being civilized, gives up despite being in the right and goes off, cursing the wasted time. Other upper-middle-class denizens of this patch of South Kol are not quite so bhadra and a huge fight breaks out around the registration desk. People are shouting in each other’s faces, masks are being waved like lethal weapons, spittle is flying everywhere, screams of “Shut up! No you shut up!” reverberate off the ceiling. Finally, registration is achieved and a time slot received. At the appointed hour, we crowd into an elevator, half the people unmasked or with masks at half-mast, noses poking out innocently as if to say, “Who me, sir? I am just nose, sir! I have nothing to do with all this!” In less fancy hospitals the waiting rooms have open windows and fans spinning on full. Here, in the lap of luxury, these eighth-floor windows are sealed with locks and the AC is on full blast, in desi defiance of the fact that the virus loves crowds in closed air-conditioned rooms. Perfect. Names are called, payments received and due diligence questions asked before you are sent to the poke-station. I ask the nurse if I can see the actual vaccine bottle and she snaps at me, “It’s Covishield! Do you think we are lying?” “No, ma’am, no! I just wanted to do darshan of this deity one has been praying to for so long!” The jab hurts badly. When I check with my friends, they all say it hurt, so I know it wasn’t personal. Now I’m looking forward to the second date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
