10-03-2021||Opinion||Act now: Myanmar military coup||Sir — History is replete with instances which show that it is difficult to dislodge a military government from the saddle once it is firmly astride. In Myanmar, the junta has a history of forcibly occupying parliamentary seats with the objective of enjoying perennial power (“Injured democracy”, March 7). Now, the citizens of Myanmar are undergoing a harrowing experience at the hands of the Tatmadaw. The international community must come to the rescue of the people of Myanmar. It should create pressure on the army so as to stop its atrocities on the countrymen. It seems that the army has launched a war against the unarmed people of the country. A coup is not acceptable in a civilized nation. The army must withdraw and hand over the power to the National League for Democracy-led government that won a landslide victory. Aranya Sanyal,Siliguri Sir — Even in a country as democratic as the United States of America, a nasty political melodrama was recently witnessed when the former president, Donald Trump, lost a hard-fought election and then alleged voter fraud for his party’s failure at the hustings. He nearly proceeded to overturn the election results by means of force. Similarly, in the recent elections held in Myanmar, the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party tasted a humiliating drubbing. This has now led to the army perpetrating a coup against the democratically elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi, on the pretext of voter fraud. The intensifying stand-off in Myanmar, however, is not surprising — the country has a long history of peaceful resistance to military rule as well as brutal crackdowns. The battered condition of democracy in Myanmar is disappointing. Earlier, incidents of genocide against sections of the population sullied the country’s record. It is now time for the comity of nations to proscribe the military government socially and impose sanctions on it. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Bitter taste Sir — Even as the protests against the three controversial farm laws continue, apple farmers in Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand seem to have spotted a speck that is causing a rot in their business. Some private players are allegedly importing Iranian apples in the name of Afghan apples — the latter are exempt from taxes. This is hampering the sale of indigenous varieties of the fruit. Apples from the three states in question are famous the world over. Given its lofty talk of being ‘vocal for local’, the Centre should immediately look into the complaint and act in the best interests of the farmers. Abhiroopa Das,Calcutta Look deeper Sir — There is no place for true ideology-based politics in New India. Ideologies are now used as triggers, only to win elections by polarizing the masses, through appeasement or hate-mongering. It is true that when ideologically motivated political parties were created, there must have been a specific thought process behind each of them, based on the societal situation of the time. But times have changed, and there is no need for those outdated ideologies any more. The perceptions and priorities of the people, too, have changed. As such, staunchly motivated parties can only disrupt communal harmony or incite violence. These days we see ministers jump ship from one political party to another with polar opposite ideologies right before elections. This proves that there is no ideological commitment in these political leaders. Rather it is simply about who is providing a better package, just like it is in a corporate deal. It is unfortunate to see that we, the common people of the country, fall prey to such ideological warfare. We should understand that these ideologies will not improve our lives in any way, and we definitely should not base our votes on them. The youth today should not tie itself to a polarizing thought process or succumb to propaganda. Instead, it should be more concerned about whether a party can deliver on issues such as employment, price rise and education and whether it can bring about positive change by making the lives of ordinary citizens better. Indranil Barat,Dhanbad Pay attention Sir — The lack of media coverage of the Simlipal fire is disturbing. Newspapers and social media are abuzz when a forest in a foreign land catches fire. But the fact that such huge stretches of forests are burning in Odisha — even as the Simlipal reserve continues to burn, the Kuldiha sanctuary has caught fire — is hardly generating any curiosity or support. The state authorities and firefighters are putting up a strong fight. But this will not be enough. The Centre must deploy aid for Odisha at once, and ordinary citizens should do their part to help as well. Ayan Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||Just Oral: Bar Council defends CJI||Laws matter less than social attitudes when the institutions of law and justice send confusing signals. The Bar Council of India’s resolution defending the Chief Justice of India in the face of criticism for two comments made orally in court has exacerbated dismay about the legal institution’s perceptions. Although numerous activists and other citizens expressed alarm at the CJI’s comments, it is the letter of Brinda Karat of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to the CJI and its reporting that have been described by the BCI resolution as contempt and part of motivated criticism that will weaken the institution of justice. Reportedly, the CJI had asked a petitioner accused of serially raping a minor — now past 18 — whether he would marry her and, in another case, had asked whether sexual violence towards the wife perpetrated by the husband, however brutal, can be termed rape. The BCI pointed out that oral comments which are not part of any judgment have no legal sanctity. The argument is a technical one. But can the issues raised by the comments be whisked away by a technicality? Is the BCI dismissing so many people’s concern as merely ignorant, or motivated, or both? By questioning the right to criticize, the BCI resolution undermined the right to freedom of expression. Besides, technicalities are irrelevant when, as Ms Karat said, even oral remarks by judges affect society, giving legitimacy to regressive social attitudes. These are particularly damaging in a country where laws have not yet been able to address gender-based cruelty and oppression adequately. And marital rape has still not been outlawed, the argument against it implicit in the CJI’s reported suggestion that sexual violence within marriage cannot be called rape. In the other comment, the CJI’s question to the petitioner undermined the rights of the alleged rape survivor, again by implication. Society could interpret these comments as putting the interests of the male accused over the complainants’. The BCI, however, ignored the need to uphold judicial principles and processes in its resolution, reportedly arguing that a marriage with the alleged rapist had been agreed to, and expended its ire on critics and criticism. But technical correctness has nothing to do with ethics. Surely, the BCI cannot believe that ethics is unrelated to the approaches inscribed in justice?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||Bad news: regulating media||In the age of communication, a government cannot be faulted for attempting to get the message right. The problem, however, arises when an elected government seeks to spread only its word — dressing up bitter truths as palatable dessert for the nation to consume. There are whispers that the masters of such spin have been at work, once again. The recent leaking of a ‘toolkit’ suggesting that among a range of options that were deliberated upon by a group of ministers in a series of meetings to improve communication during the pandemic were such measures as an alleged colour code for journalists to indicate their proximity or, conversely, opposition to the powers that be, strategies to neutralize ‘false narratives’ that are, in essence, critical of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led dispensation as well as the roping in of right-wing parties from the international fraternity to create a common cause. These measures, the wise ministers purportedly agreed, had become necessary given the negative perception of the government around the time. Some of the other interventions that were apparently discussed — a mechanism for digital entities and OTT platforms to comply to, for instance — have come to pass. This raises the possibility that the meetings may not be a figment of imagination. It remains to be seen whether the other strategies to bring ‘good news’ to the nation would assume concrete form in the days to come. But what must not go ignored is the nature of the thoughts that seem to be prevailing in the highest echelons of power. The BJP is often, and quite rightly, criticized for its inability to engage with criticism — in media reports or public opinion — in a constructive manner. The GoM’s enthusiasm for packaging content shows that its propensity for controlling independent narratives remains undiminished. The eagerness to court friendly journalists — unfriendly scribes are a rarity in New India — also violates the principle of fairness. The consequent erosion of independent, free-thinking discourse is, of course, of little concern for a regimented party. These spilled secrets, however, lend further credibility to international assessments of the deterioration of the quality and character of freedom in this democracy. The Centre’s stubborn refusal to admit that these transgressions — it was dismissive of Freedom House’s poor assessment of freedom in India recently — may not cut any ice soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||Mission: Shakti: the eyes do not have it||The Lucknow police is reportedly setting up AI-enabled cameras to record pictures of women ‘who look distressed’. The additional director-general explained that “The cameras will be able to detect any change in the facial expressions of a woman being subjected to stalking, threats or harassment on the streets, and an alert will be sent to the police control room.” He further clarified that around 200 hotspots for crimes against women have been identified by the Lucknow police on the basis of areas frequented by women as well as from spots that generated the most complaints. This initiative, which was launched under the Uttar Pradesh government’s ‘Mission Shakti’ programme, has met with a backlash from civil society organizations and lawyers. There is a lot to unpack here. First is the assumption that using AI to recognize emotion is helpful. Emotion regulation algorithms are increasingly employed in job interviews in the United States of America and in South Korea. But studies show that such claims are often not backed by scientific evidence and there have been several instances of false positives. AI gives the appearance of neutrality and credibility. However, the AI technology is structurally limited by the prejudices of those creating the algorithm and feeding it the initial data to run checks against. A leading research institute, AI Now, is worried that the use of emotion regulation algorithms may lead to racist and sexist outcomes. This technology is likely to lead to over-policing. Second is the assumption that surveillance of women is going to keep them safe. Surveillance can be defined as attention that is ‘purposeful, routine, systematic and focused’. Surveillance is not necessarily undesirable. Administrators need some types of information about the governed to do their job efficiently. However, surveillance sans transparency and accountability mechanisms is a means of controlling populations and has a disproportionate impact on marginalized communities. B.R. Ambedkar and, before him, Jyotirao Phule understood this back in the 1940s and urged the lower castes to migrate from villages to cities in the belief that the relative anonymity of the Indian city would allow them some reprieve from untouchability that was integral to lives lived in closely-knit social and commercial spaces. In other words, a life away from surveillance would allow them to lead a life of dignity.  Surveillance, on the other hand, has a chilling effect on the right to freedom of expression, freedom of movement and freedom of association. The Indian government has several surveillance systems, including the National Intelligence Grid and the Central Monitoring System. It has often relied on the argument that increased surveillance of public spaces would increase women’s safety. The installation of CCTV cameras, development of safety apps (Nirbhaya app), making it mandatory for all phones to have panic buttons — each of these policies has an adverse impact on privacy, a constitutional right protected under Article 21 and recognized by the Supreme Court in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy vs Union of India. This landmark case provides for certain standards that have to be met to justify intrusions into people’s right to privacy. These standards include the existence of a law, a legitimate State aim, proportionality and procedural safeguards to check against abuse. Crucially, in the present case, there is no anchoring legislation to regulate the use of emotion regulation algorithms by the police. We do not have a data protection regime to oversee the collection, processing and storage of data collected by these systems. Further, it has not been clarified whether the data collected would be analysed by the police officers themselves or sent to third parties. Without an express purpose limitation on data use, the ‘function creep’ of any technology enables its use in any number of insidious ways. For instance, surveillance of women might ostensibly seem like it is for their protection but it might also be used to control women who do not fit the stereotype of the ‘chaste, pure, domesticated and submissive’ Indian woman. Counter-intuitively, it might even lead to crime against women going unnoticed in the cases of those who do not meet the stereotype or have the ‘correct facial expression’. Sexual violence is pervasive in India. Resources should be diverted to fight the problem. However, this policy, which reinforces existing stereotypes while giving rise to a surveillance State, fails to acknowledge the agency of marginalized communities and intrudes upon their privacy rights through the use of technology by carefully examining contextual factors such as the types of crimes the particular model is meant to record, who has ownership over the device and the data, and who gets to mobilize it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||A novel unity||Western Uttar Pradesh is witnessing a novel unity between Muslims and Hindu Jat peasants in the course of the agitation against the three farm laws. This is important for an obvious reason. The Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 which had created a strong communal polarization in this region had enabled the Bharatiya Janata Party to reap rich electoral dividends in the 2014 parliamentary elections. Because of the huge number of seats it won in Uttar Pradesh, it got an absolute majority in Parliament, something that had eluded all previous BJP governments. The effects of this polarization also contributed to the BJP’s triumph in the UP assembly elections and even in the 2019 parliamentary elections. In fact, the perpetuation of such a communal division has been central to the BJP’s recent electoral ascendancy. The fact that this division is being overcome because of the anti-farm-law agitation helps undermine this ascendancy. So complete is this break from the past that an influential BJP leader of the region, currently a member of the Union council of ministers, who thought he could defy the leaders’ call to avoid BJP bigwigs even on social occasions by turning up on such events, was not allowed to remain in the village. Mass movements on issues of material life have this remarkable effect of uniting people. The anti-colonial struggle itself was a vivid example of this. The fact that a country marked for millennia by the institutionalized inequality of the caste system and by horrendous gender, caste and class oppressions could unite against colonial rule and adopt a Constitution that guaranteed universal adult suffrage, one-person-one-vote, a set of fundamental rights for all citizens and the separation of the State from all religions became possible because of the logic of the anti-colonial struggle and the mass movements it unleashed. The philosopher, Akeel Bilgrami, provides a very specific example of the effect of a mass movement in inducing attitudinal change. In 1921, a bill for introducing women’s suffrage was brought before the Bengal Provincial Legislative Council and was defeated, mainly because of the opposition of the Muslim members. But as the Khilafat Movement gathered steam, members of the Muslim community participated in large numbers in it. Meanwhile, Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das had started his Swaraj Party within the Congress to fight elections for entering legislatures so that progressive laws could be enacted; many Muslim participants of the Khilafat Movement joined the Swaraj Party. When in 1925, the bill on providing suffrage to women was brought, once again, before the Bengal legislature, it was passed with Swarajist Muslims, many of whom had opposed it in 1921, supporting it despite the Swaraj Party not issuing any whip. Participation in a mass movement, Bilgrami argues, had brought about an attitudinal change in prominent members of the Muslim community because of which they dropped their earlier opposition to women’s suffrage. The Khilafat Movement, although anti-imperialist in its outlook, was not even a progressive movement, and was certainly not concerned with issues of material life. But it was not a divisive movement. It still had this capacity for bringing about significant progressive changes in people’s attitudes. (In fact, many early communists had emerged from its ranks: the Tashkent School imparting political training to communists had recruited many Khilafatists. Some of them were arrested by the British while returning to India and tried in the Peshawar Conspiracy Case). Introducing respect for democratic values and unity among people is a hallmark only of non-divisive movements, for which I reserve the term, ‘mass movements’, as they are not directed against a particular segment of the masses themselves but are open to all. Many journalists had described L.K. Advani’s rath yatra for building a Ram temple in place of the Babri masjid as the biggest ‘mass movement’ witnessed in a long time; but this is an indiscriminate use of the term, which obliterates the distinction between movements that unite people and movements that divide people. Movements over issues affecting material life typically unite people: the ongoing kisan struggle, described as the biggest mass movement in the world, is one such. The Jat-Muslim unity is not the only novel unity being forged. There is an emerging unity between kisans and agricultural labourers which is even more striking because between these two groups there is not only a class contradiction (employers versus employees) but also a caste contradiction (Jats versus Dalits). This is a long-standing contradiction prone to occasional flare-ups, as had happened some decades ago in the village of Kanjhawala on the outskirts of Delhi when CPI-led agricultural workers had come into conflict with Jat landed interests. To imagine these two groups coming together would have been unthinkable earlier, but the mass movement against monopoly capitalist encroachment on the agricultural sector has united them. There is a common realization that if the farm laws are allowed to become operative, not only would the kisans come under the hegemony of monopoly capital, to the point of being pushed into landlessness, but also the agricultural labourers would find themselves without work as agriculture becomes corporatized. This realization has overcome their centuries-old hostility. Likewise, the large-scale participation of women in the anti-farm-bill agitation points to yet another major break in traditional patriarchal relations. Women becoming so active in the movement is partly explicable in terms of the years of suffering that have led to widespread farmer suicides, but the scale of their participation is as unprecedented as the scale of this movement itself; the importance of the issues underlying the movement has contributed to both. This is bound to have a lasting impact on gender relations. Similarly, the support extended by industrial workers in the neighbourhood to the agitating kisans has become a striking example of worker-peasant unity that was hitherto rather elusive. The kisan movement has not just fostered unity among disparate and even conflicting groups; the symbols it has used, the memories it has recalled, the history it has recovered are all highly evocative. For instance, the call for a ‘pagdi sambhal’ day is a celebration of an episode in 1906 when the colonial government had passed three anti-farmer laws, and in opposing these Bhagat Singh’s uncle, Ajit Singh, had played a leading role. Appropriately, Ajit Singh was remembered by the present kisan movement on the ‘pagdi sambhal’ day it observed on February 23. Likewise, the pervasive evocation of Bhagat Singh’s memory that informs the present kisan movement is indicative of its stress on secularism, non-divisiveness, and unity among the people. Divisive movements by contrast, those that pit one segment of the people against another, typically a majority community against a hapless minority, do not have this trait of bringing about any attitudinal changes in favour of democracy and unity. On the contrary, they build on the existing fault lines in society, on existing suspicions, prejudices and latent hatreds and exacerbate them; their success arises precisely because they build on the existing divisions based on the prevailing consciousness, which are not transcended but reinforced. Because of this, the oppressive society within which this consciousness has been nurtured also gets reinforced instead of being challenged. Such movements reinforce oppression, unlike the kisan movement which seeks to prevent a new chapter of Neel Darpan-style oppression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
