11-03-2021||Opinion||Food wastage and hunger||A closer look at the cause of human suffering can yield shocking revelations. The United Nations’s Food Waste Index Report 2021 showed, for instance, that in 2019, an estimated 931 million tonnes of food were thrown away by households, restaurants and other food services around the world. This, at a time when hunger and malnourishment are global concerns. It is often believed that hunger is the result of inequitable access to food or its underproduction. The UN report, however, tells a different tale. In India, the food wastage per person in a year was estimated to be 50 kilogrammes. One of the consequences of such waste is there for all to see; in last year’s global hunger index, India ranked 94 out of 107 nations and was bracketed in the ‘serious’ hunger category. The report underscores the need to view hunger holistically: lack of access to food, faulty distribution, chronic poverty, conflict, populous societies and, significantly, food wastage all play a part in aggravating the problem. While the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India launched an initiative to encourage saving and sharing food that might have been wasted, it is unlikely to yield far-reaching results without governments conducting targeted awareness campaigns to sensitize households to the need to cook and consume according to their needs. There is an additional — moral — issue that must not be ignored. The excessive purchase, stocking and consumption of food is increasingly being projected as a signifier of wealth, ostentation and power. According to one estimate, about 10 to 20 per cent of the food at the Great Indian Wedding — and, possibly, at other such social occasions — is wasted. Such pandering to excess, mostly by the rich, in a country that accounted for 22 per cent of the global burden of food insecurity — the highest for any nation — in 2017-19 is shameful. China has launched the ‘clean plate’ campaign under which efforts are being made to reduce food wastage. Similar policies to curb criminal wastage elude India. In 2018, the Delhi government told the Supreme Court that it was considering imposing restrictions on the number of guests at “extravagant” weddings to minimize food wastage; it is unclear whether the policy has fructified. Meanwhile, there is a push to reduce food subsidies with the Niti Aayog recently recommending the reduction of the rural and urban coverage under the National Food Security Act. In a nation floundering under the weight of starvation, a concerted public campaign fortified with a legislative framework must be in place to prevent and penalize food wastage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
11-03-2021||Opinion||Great tragedy: Koilaghata Building fire||Sir — The death of nine people a few days ago in a fire that broke out in a building in Calcutta that houses offices of the Indian Railways is particularly egregious as the tragedy took place in a modern multi-storied building (“Lift tragedy in city blaze”, March 9). What is even more appalling is the blame game that is being played between the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, and the Union railways ministry even before a probe can be conducted. Several such tragedies have taken place in Calcutta in quick succession. The inferno that broke out in the Bagbazar area earlier this year is still fresh in everyone’s mind. The preliminary account suggests that poor attention to fire safety basics and, possibly, the absence of robust fire mitigation technologies led to the unfortunate incident. It must be investigated whether the Strand Road building met the fire safety norms prescribed in the National Building Code. According to recent data by the National Crime Records Bureau, deaths from accidental fires stood at a staggering 10,915 in 2019. There is an urgent need to remedy the situation. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It was heartbreaking to read that nine people lost their lives in the fire that broke out on the 13th floor of the New Koilaghat building on Strand Road. It is being reported that the fire started in the office space of the Eastern Railway and spread to other parts of the building. This is not the first time that such an incident has occurred. It is shameful that we have not learnt any lessons from the past. The authorities must investigate the matter and do all they can to ensure that such accidents are prevented. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Grave news Sir — As countries begin the vaccination process in full swing, a new study has revealed that the Covid-19 vaccines produced by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech appear to be significantly less effective against the mutated strain of the coronavirus that was first found in South Africa. The Covid-19 vaccines, which were developed at an accelerated pace, had failed to convince many about their efficacy. Findings such as these will only reduce public confidence and discourage many from getting inoculated. It seems that it will take longer than anticipated for the situation to get back to normal.  Ananya Saha,CalcuttaDangerous war Sir — The veteran actor, Mithun Chakraborty, recently joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in a flagrant show of publicity at a rally at the Brigade parade ground (“Mithun joins BJP with cobra quip”, March 8). Sadly, it was another act of deception and spewing of venom by an actor rather than a serious show of commitment towards politics. He quoted several threatening one-liners — “I will hit you here, and you will land in a crematorium” followed by “I am not a non-venomous snake... we are purebred cobras. One bite is enough to kill”. Such arrogant and divisive comments take the political discourse in our country to an all-time low. It is hoped that people will respond justly to this unprovoked verbal attack through the power of the ballot. The irresponsible and threatening language used by Chakraborty may appeal to a few but it poses a serious question for the majority: how long must we tolerate politicians’ lust for power that has ruined the inclusive fabric of our nation? Aires Rodrigues,Ribandar, Goa Sir — The campaigning in West Bengal is undoubtedly heating up in the run-up to the 2021 assembly elections. It has now become so vitiated  that the erstwhile Bollywood actor, Mithun Chakraborty, on joining the BJP, thought it would be appropriate to liken himself to a “purebred cobra”. The Trinamul Congress and the BJP appear to be the main contenders for power. However, the alliance forged by the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front may make unexpected gains. More than ever, tactical voting by the different constituencies will have a bearing upon the results of the election. The 2021 polls will be an ideological battle between secularism and the forces of Hindutva. The religious connotations inherent in the BJP’s campaigning are being amplified by the indiscriminate use of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ as a war cry in a bid to polarize the voters. This election is crucial as it will decide if West Bengal remains multi-hued or turns saffron. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has vowed to bring about ‘asol poriborton’ or ‘real change’ in the state. So far his promises of change have led to the untold misery of the people in the country. Thus, Mamata Banerjee’s comment, “Before the election he said Ujjwala and after the election all is jumla, all is ghapla...” will resonate with the voters. The economic policies of the BJP have made daily life much more difficult for ordinary people. Such factors will play an important role in determining the outcome of the election. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
11-03-2021||Opinion||Only cake: Modi at Brigade||Promises, fault-finding — not always without foundation — and mockery seem to have become the formula for campaign speeches from leaders of the party ruling at the Centre. Specific issues touching people in their everyday lives have never been favourite subjects of any ruling party, because that suggests accountability. But Bharatiya Janata Party leaders have made this avoidance into high art. The prime minister sets the model; his speech at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta was a lovely example of bland evasion. True, Narendra Modi did not harp on religion or cows, his party’s preferred themes, or go overboard with sedition or ‘anti-nationals’ — although he did promise that the BJP would work against anyone who is ‘anti-Bengal’. But nothing of what Mr Modi said — like a party leader and not a prime minister — referred to people’s needs and demands. The incredible rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas cylinders have added to the miseries of a population already fighting high costs together with the loss of jobs and livelihoods. Entertaining his audience with a vision of the West Bengal chief minister almost falling off a two-wheeler she rode in protest against the inexplicable rise in oil prices cannot be the best way to dodge that. Or is it? Religion and cow-worship have paid the BJP well in the past; bread-and-butter issues could be ignored. To say that the Trinamul Congress government has done nothing for workers and farmers may raise cheers too, but it glosses over countrywide unemployment and the controversial new labour laws, while pretending that thousands of farmers are not waiting for months with their demands outside Delhi in spite of deaths and sickness. The TMC government is far from perfect, and can be charged with numerous failures, corruption among its adherents being most notable. The lack of industry, which Mr Modi promised to correct, is an inescapable fact. But criticizing the chief minister at length and painting a rosy picture of an imagined BJP-led Bengal is not a road-map, nor does it answer any questions. The Bengal chief minister is bringing up some bread-and-butter issues pertaining to the BJP-led government. But it is not yet clear how far political parties can go with the rhetoric of religion, nation, future success, aggressive criticism and contempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
11-03-2021||Opinion||Prisons and the pandemic||The World Health Organization declared the outbreak of Covid-19 as a pandemic in March 2020. Everyone around the world experienced a ‘house arrest’ (lockdown) for months. But things were different for prisoners. The prisons were overcrowded, making prisoners particularly vulnerable to Covid-19. According to 2019 National Crime Records Bureau data, 1,350 prisons in India have a combined capacity of 4.03 lakh people, but house 4.78 lakh prisoners. The Justice A. Roy Committee report stated that the total prison population in India increased by 8.2 per cent against a rise of 0.7 per cent in the sanctioned capacity of prisons between 2016 and 2018. In its order dated March 23, 2020, the Supreme Court said, “The bitter truth is that our prisons are overcrowded, making it difficult for prisoners to maintain physical distancing... like any other viral disease’s susceptibility of Covid 19 is greater in over-crowded places, mass gatherings…” It instructed states and Union territories to decongest prisons. The direction was to constitute a ‘High Powered Committee’ to ascertain categories of prisoners to be released either on bail/parole or furlough. Finally, it was decided to set free prisoners convicted for one offence or imprisoned for less than seven years. Delhi, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh implemented the directive proactively. An HPC was formed in Bihar but no data on meetings were provided. Fifty eight prisons in Bihar had 39,814 prisoners with an occupancy rate of 93.4 per cent. According to the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative’s ‘Covid-19 State-wise Response’, the Bihar government’s estimate of the release of undertrial prisoners was zero. Later on, 413 such prisoners  were ‘released’: the state government transferred undertrial prisoners from one jail to another. During the pandemic, we visited the Beur Central Jail in Patna as well as four other sub-jails to find that not a single prisoner had been released. Prisoners in Beur Central Jail were transferred to prisons in Samastipur, Jehanabad and Bhagalpur. Family members found it difficult to travel so far and several bail applications could not be filed because of the transfer of prisoners. But it would be unfair to blame only the prison authorities. The role of courts needs to be scrutinized as well. Almost 14,000 bail applications were filed in different trial courts, out of which a large number of applications were rejected because case documents were not available. Several undertrial prisoners languish in jail for periods that are longer than the terms of imprisonment. Some prisoners had been granted bail but they could not be released on account of irregular court services. Marginalized undertrial prisoners are landless and have no money to pay as surety. They were not given the benefit of such provisions as personal recognizance bail bond. We took up the matter with the Chief Justice of Patna High Court. An order was issued in this regard: undertrial prisoners who are destitute or mentally challenged must be released on the PR bail bond. But the prisoners who received bail faced formidable socio-economic challenges. Their criminal history made it difficult for them to be rehabilitated and reintegrated into society. They had no source of livelihood to support their family. On analyzing this pitiable situation, we prepared a list of families that were in dire need. We drafted a proposal and had it mailed to the Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives, mentioning our objective and presenting a blueprint on how to assist marginalized undertrial prisoners during the pandemic. We soon received an email confirming that the APPI was ready to finance our initiative. In collaboration with the Bhartiya Jan Utthan Parishad, we were able to reach out to more than 150 families of undertrial prisoners, providing them with ration kits and, more importantly, a glimmer of hope. There is no legislation that empowers prisoners to secure decent jobs after they leave prison. Their voices are rendered inaudible to the government and most of them suffer in silence. In spite of the fact that several directions have been passed and appropriate guidelines framed to ameliorate the conditions of prisons, affirmative actions are yet to be taken. It is high time that the recommendations on jail reforms are accepted and implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
11-03-2021||Opinion||Serious erosions||Some major states are going to choose a new legislative assembly in the coming month. West Bengal’s outcome is of particular significance to the future of Indian politics. The Bharatiya Janata Party has been trying its level best to make deep inroads into Bengal, and has been reasonably successful so far. This success can be traced to a number of reasons. The first is the undercurrent of discomfort with minorities that the middle-class Bengali bhadralok hides beneath a façade of liberal posturing. The second is the Trinamul Congress government’s pandering to minorities in an attempt to ensure the support of a very large vote bank. The third is of course the anti-incumbency factor that has set in, with many people perceiving the state government as corrupt, inefficient and unduly centralized, with effective power resting almost exclusively in the hands of the chief minister. Finally, the BJP is a well-organized party with a strong backing from the even more organized Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that has concentrated its efforts in expanding its organizational base in the rural areas and small towns of the state. This time, therefore, there is a substantial chance of the BJP winning a majority in the state elections. This chance is being enhanced by the fact that the opposition is splintered and fragmented. The TMC has been losing a number of popular faces of the organization to the BJP. The Congress exists only in tiny pockets with hardly any organization worth the name. There is no well-known state level leader who has any mass base. The Left parties have become moribund with not a single new young face projected at the state level. Many Left party workers joined the TMC and even the BJP, possibly to save their own skins, or perhaps to partake of the political loot that every ruling party in India extorts. The Left appears confused about what to do and what strategy to adopt, except making sporadic noises about the imperial machinations of neo-liberalism. One might say that political parties come and go, governments change, illustrious personalities win and lose elections — indeed, is this not the name of the game called democracy? Hence, what is the big issue about the Bengal elections? Yes, Bengal has a history of electoral violence and hence the rather outlandish schedule of holding elections in eight phases. Is it not better to be safe than sorry? All these are true but this election is still significant in terms of long-term political trends. For the BJP there will be a huge symbolic significance if it can wrest West Bengal from the TMC, or even come close to a majority. Bengal has a strong legacy of left democratic politics and dissent. Indeed, Mamata Banerjee’s political and economic priorities (despite her deep dislike of the Marxists) are extremely similar to the Left’s populist strategies, barring, of course, the mention of Marx or Lenin in its official discourse. Bengal also has the second largest concentration of Muslims in India. Gaining control of the state and preaching the gospel of Hindutva would be a spectacular gain for the BJP. It would appear to reclaim the territory from where one of the icons of Hindu nationalism came — the late Shyama Prasad Mookerjee. It could also become another laboratory for the UP style of politics. Uttar Pradesh, incidentally, has the highest number of Muslim residents in the nation. Finally, it would be a big step forward for the BJP in creating an Opposition-free India. With the BJP in power, the organizational set-ups of the Opposition parties (weak as they already are) could soon be decimated in the state. In this important election, the role of the Left-Congress combine could be decisive. It has acquired a new ally in the Indian Secular Front which is essentially a minority vote bloc. The combine is equating, in its election campaign, Mamata Banerjee’s TMC with Narendra Modi’s BJP. However, its own support has been dwindling rapidly, and its ability to win a significant number of seats in a triangular contest is exceedingly slim. What it might be able to do, however, is split the anti-Hindutva vote so as to give an advantage to the BJP. The Left parties have often realized their tactical errors after the opportunity has slipped away. This election is likely to add to their list of historic blunders. Why would it be inaccurate to equate the TMC with the BJP? The answer lies in distinguishing between authoritarianism and fascism. Mamata Banerjee does not have a defined ideological position. She is focused on more mundane, daily issues. She is surrounded by opportunistic and self-seeking sycophants. Banerjee finds comfort, in her inimitable maverick way, in centralizing power. She has few people she can trust. Her party’s organizational strength is weak. She rides on the popularity of her own image. She takes decisions on her own. She is quick to isolate anyone she is suspicious about. Her personal likes and dislikes are important ingredients in her decision-making process. She is authoritarian without a doubt. However, she is not communal and does not believe in majoritarianism. She has also been, arguably, the strongest, most consistent and loudest anti-BJP political voice in the country. This is the vital difference between her authoritarian politics and the fascist trends exhibited by the BJP. The BJP has a clear ideology about the concept of nation, the importance of religious practices as a cultural force, and the secondary position of minorities in the order of citizenship rights. The party’s organizational strength and financial resources are awesome, especially considering the backing of the RSS. The senior party members speak the same language and share the same vision. Their ability and propensity to shut out dissent are much stronger and purposive than those of the TMC. The TMC leadership can be undemocratic and has used force to increase political control. This is a feature of all political parties in India. The BJP can and does do the same, but the key difference is that the political tactics of the party lead to well-defined outcomes. Mamata Banerjee is the TMC and the TMC is Mamata Banerjee. This is not true for Narendra Modi and the BJP. The Left might have one argument in favour of its strategy: it wants Banerjee to be defeated so that it can gloat over a pyrrhic victory. With the BJP in power, it perhaps believes that all anti-fascist forces will gravitate towards the Left parties. The Left parties are still licking the wounds inflicted by the TMC. But with the TMC gone, the Left is likely to get a more comprehensive beating from the Right. That is what history has taught us a number of times. The argument for a purely left anti-fascist movement is not very convincing either, since it has tied up with its bitter old enemy, the Congress, in an effort to boost its electoral tally. Indian politics is at a crossroads. We are looking at the concrete possibility of a political Opposition-free nation with serious erosions of civil liberties. The country has already slipped from being considered a free nation to being categorized as a partly-free nation for the first time in history. India’s economy continues to slip, as discontent and despair keep mounting and inequality gathers momentum. Yet, strangely, these issues are considered less important. The promise of a messiah, the return to a golden age and the vision of a strong nation remain the key ingredients that stoke the fire of hope in so many of our fellow citizens. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
