12-03-2021||Opinion||Clear it up: reservations in India||The issue of reservations has long lost its clearer contours, although the 1992 Indra Sawhney versus Union of India case, known as the Mandal judgment, had endowed it with some. The Supreme Court’s reported question, whether another look at the 1992 ruling may have become necessary because of Constitutional amendments, court judgments and changed social dynamics, itemizes some of the factors that have resulted in the uneven history of quotas in India. It is a history of confusing, sometimes apparently contradictory, precedents, tussles among different groups and their political manipulation for votes, of the ‘creamy layer’, of the place of merit and of the ever-expanding sphere of quotas, from education to jobs to promotions. This time the Supreme Court was sitting on the issue of reservations for Marathas in Maharashtra in education and jobs that would breach the 50 per cent cap on reservations laid down in the Indra Sawhney case, with exceptions for extraordinary circumstances. Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Telangana have crossed 50 per cent already — Tamil Nadu’s case is awaiting judgment. Reservations were introduced as a kind of affirmative action for those historically oppressed and made outcasts, and they undoubtedly have had visibly positive results in many cases. But politicization has eroded the best effects. Instead of time-bound, carefully monitored reservations for each group, especially so that the most underprivileged in each group can access quota benefits, reservations have kept on growing in scope and sphere so that politicians can satisfy specific constituencies. The courts, too, have not been consistent in their rulings on the numerous issues that have sprung up since 1992. It has to be asked if there is more discontent, more caste consciousness, more sense of deprivation on one side and dependence on quota benefits on the other than a gradual levelling of educational and employment fields and erasure of social differences resulting from the political misuse of reservations. Revisiting the 1992 judgment to reconsider the ceiling and exceptional circumstances can be fruitful and just, but only if the data on benefits, achievements and deprivations are laid out, and the administration of quotas — giving them a time-frame with scheduled reviews, for example — is considered. The messiness surrounding the quota question suits all politicians. It is urgent to clear it up, so that the reservations policy has its intended effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
12-03-2021||Opinion||Slip shows: India now an 'electoral autocracy'||Democracy is supposedly the very antithesis of autocracy. Ideally, what distinguishes democracy from a totalitarian polity is free and fair elections. In a worrying development, the traits that distinguish free societies from those in shackles seem to be merging. Thus, distinctly authoritarian regimes that impose restrictions on fundamental freedoms are borrowing the fig leaf of unfettered polls to keep up with the charade of democracy. India’s anointment as an ‘electoral autocracy’ by the Varieties of Democracy Institute, which assesses democratic conditions on the basis of a wide range of parameters, is indicative of this global regression. India registered a precipitous decline — by as much as 23 percentage points — between 2013 and 2020, to be bracketed, along with Hungary, Brazil and Turkey, as an ‘autocratizing’ nation. The largest ‘democracy’ in the world has, according to this report, accomplished several other feats: in matters of censorship, India, to cite one example, performed as ruthlessly as Pakistan, something that Narendra Modi’s muscular government would perhaps contemplate on. V-Dem’s findings are consistent with other contemporary international inferences on the quality of democracy prevailing in India: Freedom House designated India to be ‘partially free’ recently. The erosion of freedoms in India seems to be consistent with the retreat of liberal democracies around the world. Mr Modi’s government, unsurprisingly, has contested such reports repeatedly. But it cannot deny that the signs of authoritarianism are too stark to be wished away. The Indian media are facing an unprecedented crisis with large segments of the fourth estate having turned into cheerleaders of the government. The handful of independent voices that remain in this fraternity are being silenced with the help of legal instruments such as sedition and defamation. Civil society members, those who have the courage to speak truth to power, are being incarcerated. False narratives curated by the powers that be, polarization of the citizenry, the weakening of the secular ethic and targeted discrimination of minorities — some of the other facets of an emerging autocracy — are at play as well. Institutions that serve as the bulwark of democracy must regain their spirit and purpose for India to arrest its slide. But such an awakening looks unlikely unless citizens themselves take up the cudgel for the sake of democracy. Otherwise, India’s claim of being a democratic entity would soon be taken with a generous pinch of salt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
12-03-2021||Opinion||Hit the brakes: election-oriented budget||In her budget speech, the Union finance minister talked about highway projects in the election-bound states of West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu for which Rs 25,000 crore, 65,000 crore and 1,03,000 crore, respectively have been announced. Taken together, these projects are worth Rs 1,90,000 crore. In comparison the budget allocation for the entire ministry of road transport and highways is just Rs 1,18,101 crore in 2021-22. Similarly, the Bengal government has also announced many huge flyovers all over Calcutta and a large network of roads and bridges all across the state. But the total allocation for the next financial year is only about Rs 3,000 crore. It is anybody’s guess how long it will take to complete all these projects. The Union budget has also announced construction of three new dedicated freight corridor projects — for two of these work was initiated some 15 years back but only 50-60 per cent of it has been completed. The budget speech also indicates that work on the third has not yet started. This is not just a current trend. A government announces projects to suit its political priorities, but when the government changes, new projects are announced and old projects get little attention, but still some money is spent to keep those projects alive. Interestingly, in the railways sector, the oldest pending project is in West Bengal — the 109 km-long line between Howrah and Furfura Sharif announced in the rail budget of 1974-75. According to the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, on December 31, 2020, there were 1,695 ongoing Central government projects costing Rs 150 crore or more. While more than Rs 12,00,000 crore has already been spent on them, more than 13,00,000 crore is needed to complete these provided there is no further cost escalation, which is unlikely. Before making new announcements, the government should have considered these funding commitments too. Railways and roads are the two sectors that have seen maximum delays and cost overruns as these sectors are also most affected by political populism. Essentially, governments launch too many infrastructure projects without considering cost and time. Construction of many projects simultaneously involves substantial direct and indirect costs and reduced returns and life of these projects. Compare two scenarios — the government announces 15 projects in a year and takes 15 years to complete all of them. Alternatively, the government can announce one project a year and complete all of them in 15 years. The second scenario is much more beneficial. Now imagine a project of metro railways constructed on an elevated corridor. If the life of such a corridor is 50 years, and if such a railway takes 15 years to build, then the stretch that has been constructed in the first year will become unusable after 35 years after the project is completed. So the effective life of the project will become just 35 years instead of 50 years had the entire project been built in one year. Moreover, repairs will be needed even before the project is completed. This is one of the reasons why delayed projects experience cost escalations. Another adverse consequence of starting too many projects at a time and delayed projects is that quality control suffers. Most such projects are constructed by private contractors under the supervision of some government department or agency, which have limited human resources for supervising a large number of construction activities spread over the whole country or state. The collapses of under-construction flyovers or newly constructed bridges are examples of such deficiency in supervision. One can see long stretches of metro tracks under construction in several parts of Calcutta. None knows when these will be completed. While the delay is partly due to difficulty in getting land, it is also owing to poor allocation of funds. But these constructions are causing great inconvenience in terms of traffic congestion, higher transport costs, longer time taken to travel, more pollution as well as a negative impact on economic activities. There is a strong case for putting a brake on announcements of such projects which should be launched only after proper planning and not owing to political exigencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
12-03-2021||Opinion||Moving forward||Coincidentally, I wrote in these pages last month on the forthcoming 20th anniversary of the Agra summit. The February 25 joint announcement of the Indian and Pakistan militaries on an agreement to enforce the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control was certainly as much of a surprise as the invitation from the then prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, to General Pervez Musharraf to visit India for a summit meeting two decades earlier had been. Much like the situation before the Agra summit, the current agreement comes at the end of a long and particularly tense period. Major terrorist attacks (Uri, Pulwama) and strong Indian military responses (surgical strikes, Balakot) were one aspect of the period from 2016 to 2020. Alongside, the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories and legislative changes with regard to Article 370 led to a super-charged public opinion and a diplomatic storm in Pakistan. The net result — and even before the pandemic had consolidated its hold in South Asia — was a closure of trade and cross-border movement of people, a virtual freeze of cultural contacts, and a substantive reduction in the level and size of the respective diplomatic representation in either country, along with a host of other negatives. There were, alongside, regular exchanges of fire, often fierce with high-calibre weapons, along the LoC. The ceasefire of 2003 seemed buried pretty comprehensively. In the India-Pakistan context, diametrically opposed and entrenched positions are hardly new. Even so, the position by the end of 2020 seemed especially chronic. Pakistan’s stance was one of ‘nothing doing’ until the restoration of Article 370 as well as a rolling back of the legislative changes of August 2019. In India, the government and a significant section of the public seemed to have firmly coalesced to the position that ‘terror and talks cannot go together’. Démarches and polemics constantly ricocheted off each other in what now appeared to be — some feared, others hoped — a new normal in India-Pakistan relations. So when the joint announcement of February 25 came, the bemusement among many was inevitable. Diehards on both sides married to the elusive grail of consistency pointed to the abandonment of principle and a maverick approach. Thus, some in India wonder if the latest step forward is a harbinger of other initiatives and, if so, what happens to the principled position on the cessation of terror before diplomatic engagement? In Pakistan, similarly, some ask that if a broader engagement is to also follow, where does this leave Pakistan’s demand that the August 2019 ‘annexation of J&K’ be reversed first? Alongside its numerous negatives, the history of India-Pakistan engagement has also, however, a characteristic redeeming feature: naysayers are unable to hold up agreements to move forward. This is so notwithstanding the generally accepted notion that chances of success in such engagement are low and numerous trip wires exist to derail an incipient process. The impulse to break the mould of hostility and strategic mistrust has coexisted, even if uneasily, along with the numerous divisive issues of the India-Pakistan portfolio. Thus even as the negative milestones of the  post-2016 downturn are listed, major initiatives, such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unannounced visit to Lahore in December 2015 or the opening of the Kartarpur visa corridor, also stand out as contrarian events that buck the general trend. There is the inevitable speculation about what precisely led to this announcement of adhering to a ceasefire agreement otherwise in tatters. Some explanations point to the need of both India and Pakistan to better position themselves vis-à-vis the new administration in the United States of America. Others have suggested India’s mounting concern over a real two-front conflict — with China and Pakistan — actually materializing and, therefore, the necessity to seek some easing of tensions on both fronts. Conversely, Pakistan, now that an India-China softening is underway, would certainly not like to be left alone with a ‘hot’ LoC. Alongside these speculations, there are others — military hardware on both sides, on account of the wear and tear, requires respite; the economic challenges that loom ahead for both countries; the quiet role of the Gulf states and so on. The search for such explanations is itself based on the premise that something very unusual has happened for which there has to be some direct and objective reason. What this approach overlooks, of course, is that crests and troughs comprise the natural rhythm of the India-Pakistan history. These cycles, in fact, have overridden ideological, political and institutional divides in both countries. For example, over the past quarter-century, virtually the entire political spectrum of both countries has either been in government or been the supporter of the government of the day in one way or the other. All the principal actors of the present and past have thus been participants in the crests and troughs of India-Pakistan relations. In India, the election to power of the current government was seen by many as the harbinger of a new and muscular approach on all matters concerning Pakistan. While this may well have happened, what is overlooked are the efforts, often in parallel, to reach out to strike a positive balance, beginning with the invitation to the then prime minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, to attend its first swearing-in. Similarly, there is a view both in India and in Pakistan that military interventions in Pakistan’s polity act as a setback to any India-Pakistan stabilization. There is a kernel of truth in this, but the fact is that the Pakistan military has also been an entity with which progress has been made by Indian interlocutors. The current initiative regarding the ceasefire thus cannot be easily explained by the view that post Nawaz Sharif no major step forward was to be expected given the fact that the army was effectively back at the helm in Pakistan. The point, perhaps, is also that in so heavily securitized a relationship, there is a natural cynicism built into the positions on both sides. This cynicism naturally breeds a fundamental conservatism in approaching the bilateral relationship. Political initiatives then remain the major way by which logjams are broken. These initiatives are moulded not by considerations of bureaucratic precedent or of being consistent with earlier positions, but through larger assessments of national and political interest. The present agreement with regard to enforcing the ceasefire has to be seen in this context — possibly both sides came to the conclusion that the status quo, with a high level of military and political tension, was no longer in their interest and had, in fact, become counterproductive. What lies ahead? The India-Pakistan landscape is littered with failed initiatives. The dangers that exist are well known — whether from political turbulence or terrorist attacks. The differences in the respective positions of both sides are as stark as ever. Perhaps the public health crisis that engulfs us will, in fact, provide elements for a more stable platform to be constructed. But, in sum, if diplomacy is again going to be the platform for future dealings, that is a positive development and must be supported and nurtured. If it can ease the intensity of future crests and troughs, that itself will be no small achievement. The author is a former High Commissioner to Pakistan and is currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
