13-03-2021||Opinion||Those lucky women||Celebrating men is undoubtedly a laudable programme. History may not have done enough for them — and society, especially Indian society, seems to have run out of ways to accommodate their importance. A special day may be needed. So on International Women’s Day, Sonal Mansingh, a Bharatiya Janata Party member of parliament for the Rajya Sabha, demanded in the upper House that an International Men’s Day be celebrated too. Since the BJP MP mentioned equality as the reason behind her demand, she obviously feels that men are hard done by. It takes a courageous lady to put this out in these days of women’s assertiveness. Perhaps the BJP MP feels that the hullabaloo about rape, female foeticide and infanticide, domestic violence, trafficking, exploitative domestic labour, discrimination in the workplace, especially in the informal sector, the overall insecurity of women in every sphere and other such phenomena is a fuss over quite natural events — why should society be different? Confusingly, she also read from her own work to the effect that women still do not have enough rights. The whole exercise showed that she is a model representative of her party — ‘demanding’ a man’s special day for the sake of ‘equality’ and paying lip service to women’s lack of rights. The ‘demand’ may have been pushing a point about excessive female ranting over men’s violence and oppression — irritating for the ruling regime — because Ms Mansingh’s apparent ignorance about International Men’s Day on November 19 celebrated in many countries is odd. Besides acknowledging men’s achievements, the day focuses on issues such as the health of men and boys — they can be prey to sexual violence too — or even the effects of toxic masculinity, for ‘being a man’ can be a painful burden for many. It is not a competition with women for a special day based on some silly idea of equality that can make a men’s day meaningful, but renewed attention for those human beings whose deeper problems are concealed behind a traditional veneer — and expectation — of strength and domination. In India, however, sexual crimes against women, political and social attitudes to and interventions in these, threats and violence against complainants and witnesses, the astonishingly poor conviction rate, caste and class equations affecting perceptions and outcome as well as other factors suggest that an International Men’s Day here, whatever its theme, would be perceived less as being concerned with men’s problems and more with their glorification. Ms Mansingh’s demand refers to equality, presumably with women who have their own ‘day’, but it is doubtful that Indian men would enjoy being equal with women on their special ‘day’ even for the sake of merry-making. A men’s day in this country should be dedicated to ways in which men’s training and values can be changed to create a less sexually oppressive and violent society. That would be unlikely to please Ms Mansingh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
13-03-2021||Opinion||Picture imperfect: EC asks to remove Modi photos from vaccine certificates||Sir — The Election Commission was right to ask the Union health ministry to follow the model code of conduct in letter and spirit by removing the picture of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, from the Covid-19 vaccine certificates in the poll-bound states (“EC axe on PM photo on vaccine cards”, March 7). One wonders why a particular health measure should be used to advertise or promote a person occupying the top position in our country. Such gimmicks do not suit the office of the prime minister. It is beneath the prime minister to resort to such cheap publicity tactics to garner people’s attention just so that his party can easily win the forthcoming assembly elections in a number of states. Modi’s photo should not only be removed from the vaccine cards in the poll-bound states; it should be removed from the vaccine certificates in all Indian states. The complaint of the Trinamul Congress to the EC is a valid one, and the EC’s decision to ask the health ministry to comply with its instruction is also laudable. Until the polls in all the states concerned are over, any such measure to promote the cause of a particular political party must be strictly prevented by the EC. This is in the best interest of the people of our state. The health and hygiene of citizens is of utmost importance, especially at the time of a global pandemic; as such, no undue favours should be granted to individuals or political parties who aim to use these very real concerns to enhance their own gains. The people of West Bengal only want to see a free and fair election. They should analyse the administrative policies and developmental work of each party contesting the polls before casting their precious votes. They should not listen to rumours propagated by politicians of any party who have a self-serving agenda. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — It was distasteful to see Narendra Modi’s picture on vaccine cards. The prime minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party will stop at nothing to promote themselves, even when it involves the health of citizens. Mercifully, the EC ordered the removal of Modi’s photo from the certificates. Shayan Das,Calcutta Speak up Sir — Meghan Markle has been in the news for her interview with the talk show host, Oprah Winfrey. But earlier, in another striking departure from the silence usually maintained by the British royals on important subjects, she had written a personal essay about losing her second child in a miscarriage. She expressed grief and the hope that, during hard times, more people would check in with and care for one another. Her sentiments highlighted a problem not often talked about: that a significant number of pregnancies end this way. Some women have multiple miscarriages; yet, few people talk about it. The tragedy is seen as a private failure, and the anguish is borne in silence. Much like the taboo surrounding menstruation, this aversion to talking openly about miscarriages is rooted in a culture of toxic masculinity. As such, more disclosures from prominent figures about their trials can help other bereaved women deal with their isolation. It would remind people that this can happen to any pregnant woman, and the least we can do is be compassionate. Moreover, describing one’s ordeals as a woman, instead of following what patriarchal practices deem to be worthy of conversation, is a freeing experience. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta  Home is gone Sir — It was distressing to read that five people were injured in an attack when a leopard strayed into a residential area in Indore this week. Indore is an urban hub; that a wild animal ventured into a residential area only highlights the fact that environmental conservation is in the doldrums. While the incident must have been terrifying for the residents, it must be remembered that the wild animal is not at fault; it strayed into a human settlement because its own habitat is being systematically destroyed. It is heartening, however, that the leopard was tranquillized and not harmed. Sulagna Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
13-03-2021||Opinion||Stand tall: Women’s History Month||March is Women’s History Month — a month-long celebration and acknowledgement of the achievements of women throughout history who have had to overcome unique barriers. It started off as International Women’s Day, still celebrated on March 8, and expanded into a week-long celebration until it was recognized as Women’s History Month. In New York, State Street Global Advisors installed shards of broken glass, symbolizing the metaphorical broken glass ceiling, around the statue of the Fearless Girl on Wall Street. A nearby plaque reads: “Today’s broken glass ceilings are tomorrow’s stepping stones.” The Fearless Girl statue was installed in front of the New York Stock Exchange in 2017 right before International Women’s Day. Apple is amplifying women’s voices through its music, podcasts, books and more by featuring content created by women. Apple Maps will allow users to discover statues of famous women, restaurants of Michelin-starred female chefs, must-visit businesses in Los Angeles and street art by women artists in New York. The theme for 2021 is ‘Choose to Challenge’. It encourages people from all gender identities to stand up for what they believe in and show solidarity. Covid-19 has shed light on the extent of gender disparity that exists in society given that women are paid less than men, comprise the majority of single-parent households or live close to poverty. The United Nations Foundation summarized in a recent report the disproportionate impact of the coronavirus on women and girls. Bright idea The pandemic has decreased the number of visitors to traditional indoor museums, galleries and exhibitions, but there is a new art display in town that you can enjoy just by walking through the city of New York. The LA-based Ethiopian American artist, Awol Erizku, is displaying a series of photographs at about 200 bus shelters across the city through June 20. The show is curated by the Public Art Fund. The subject of photography ranges from gender and race to religion and spirituality. Erizku uses African symbolic art and depicts the Islamic religion in his photos. These can be seen at bus stops in all five boroughs, with a concentration in the Bronx, Erizku’s hometown. They are also on display in Chicago. The Public Art Fund website has city maps of Chicago and New York, each with pin drops showing the location of every photograph. The exhibition, New Visions for Iris, is dedicated to his one-year-old daughter, Iris. In a similar tone, the Metro Transit agency in Minneapolis commissioned five local artists to create colourful artwork with positive messages to be displayed, to spread some positivity and joy amidst last summer’s civil unrest and the ongoing pandemic. Metro Transit will place the artists’ images inside 15 bus shelters and on the exterior of 30 buses that will travel through south Minneapolis and the east metro. Images will also be featured in ad spaces inside many Metro Transit buses. The plot thickens Last month, Netflix released a new true crime docuseries, Crime Scene: The Vanishing at the Cecil Hotel, that explores an unsolved murder of a college student and hotel guest that took place in a seedy downtown Los Angeles hotel in 2013. The show beat another series that had spent seven consecutive days at the number one spot on Netflix. While the murder remains unsolved, the show dives into various conspiracy theories into what may have happened. In fact, a few days after it started streaming, the Los Angeles Police Department phone lines were ringing off the hook with tips. The 21-year-old victim, Elisa Lam, had gone missing until she was found several weeks later drowned in the water tank on the hotel rooftop. The LAPD told TMZ that a majority of the ‘tips’ were coming from couch detectives and people riveted by the case doing some internet digging. Since long before the case, the Cecil Hotel has had a dark history and is featured as a popular spot during city-wide tours in LA. It has housed serial killers, it has had several guests jump to their deaths from their hotel rooms in the 50s and 60s and served mainly as a transient hotel while more upscale hotels were cropping up in the neighbourhood. The establishment shut its doors in 2017 after a failed attempt to rebrand itself as a low-budget hostel called ‘Stay on Main’. If you are in LA, you can still see the ‘Stay on Main’ sign on the 1920s architecture. If you peer in you can view the lavish lobby and marble flooring. Raise a toast It has been almost a year since the United States of America went into lockdown owing to the pandemic. Last year, around this time governors were still on the fence about which public events to proceed with and which to cancel in the spirit of public safety. One of the celebrations that ultimately got cancelled across the country was St Patrick’s Day. Unfortunately, 2021 is not looking to be much different, except many of the celebrations are going virtual on March 17. In Jersey Shore, a large parade was being planned on March 13. But a St Patrick’s Day Observance Mass will take place instead. The group said the Catholic church in Wildwood — the largest in New Jersey — can accommodate 2,000 people, but under coronavirus restrictions, about 1,000 socially-distanced seats will be available on a first-come, first-serve basis. NYC has also cancelled its parade but has planned to have a virtual event to honour front-line workers. It launched a campaign encouraging people to send a message of support to essential workers, family and friends as part of the ‘New York City St Patrick’s Day Parade Gallery of Greetings’. Officials from the NYC St Patrick’s Day Parade still plan to hold a “very small” parade through Manhattan to keep the 260-year-old tradition alive. In Chicago, the Liquor Control Commissioner sent a certified letter to the thousands of liquor licence holders reminding them of their responsibility to uphold safety guidelines. There will be a virtual parade, featuring scenes from past parades and the annual dyeing of the Chicago River. Footnote While Joe Biden is settling into his new role at the White House, his two rescue dogs, Major and Champ, are also enjoying the spotlight: the ‘First Dogs’ have the ‘Oval Pawffice’ page on Twitter. Donald Trump was the first president in a century to not have a pet. Recently, the pro-Trump conservative network, Newsmax, criticized one of the dogs, and immediately invited criticism. “He’s in better shape than any of you — and smarter than all of you combined,” tweeted the journalist, Keith Olbermann.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
13-03-2021||Opinion||Twain doth meet||I have been reading the memoirs of Dora Russell, a pioneering British feminist and educationist. These were published in three volumes, of which I have just finished the first. This covers her upbringing in Edwardian England, her education at Cambridge, the development of her views on gender equality, an experimental school she established, and the years of her marriage to the brilliant and controversial philosopher, Bertrand Russell. Like others of her generation, Dora Russell was profoundly influenced by the Bolshevik Revolution, which occurred when she was in her early twenties. Shortly after the Revolution broke out, she travelled through Russia to study its impact first-hand. Speaking to ardent Bolsheviks in Russia in 1918-19, Dora was reminded of medieval Christian theologians who had dreamt of the Perfect Universe that they hoped god would create. Like those religious utopians, “these men [in Russia] were emulating the Great Clockmaker, the Architect of the Universe, and, just as He had set the planets in perpetual motion, so they would make a blueprint of the new society, based on industrial mechanism, in which each man or woman would find a place to work and contribute to the whole. Once set in motion, this new rational social system would carry on of its own momentum.” In her conversations in Soviet Russia, Dora Russell was both impressed and somewhat disturbed by the fierce dogmatism of the Bolsheviks. As she wrote at the time, “the teaching of communism, however necessary it may appear for the building of the communist state of the future, does seem to me to be an evil in that it is done emotionally and fanatically, with an appeal to hate and militant ardour rather than to constructive reason. It binds the free intellect and destroys initiative.” A decade after Dora Russell, the poet, Rabindranath Tagore, visited Soviet Russia. Tagore spent two weeks in the country, going to schools and factories, and speaking to a wide cross-section of the citizenry. Shortly before he left, Tagore gave an interview to the Party newspaper, Izvestia. He praised the “amazing intensity” with which the Soviets had spread education, then added these caveats: “I must ask you: Are you doing your ideal a service by arousing in the minds of those under your training, anger, class hatred and revengefulness against those not sharing your ideals, against those whom you consider to be your enemies? True, you have to fight against obstacles, you have to overcome ignorance and lack of sympathy, even persistently antagonism. But your mission is not restricted to your own nation or own party, it is for the betterment of humanity according to your light. But does not humanity include those who do not agree with your aim?” In Tagore’s opinion, a mature political system would permit “disagreement where minds are allowed to be free”. For “it would not only be an uninteresting but a sterile world of mechanical regularity if all our opinions were forcibly made alike. If you have a mission which includes all humanity, acknowledge the existence of differences of opinion. Opinions are constantly changed and rechanged only through the free circulation of intellectual forces and moral persuasion. Violence begets violence and blind stupidity. Freedom of mind is needed for the reception of truth; terror hopelessly kills it.” Tagore’s remarks are quoted in a book published the same year by Visva-Bharati. The book was put together by the scientist, P.C. Mahalanobis, who accompanied the poet on his travels. It is unlikely, however, that Izvestia reproduced the interview in its entirety. As a Party newspaper, it could not print criticism of the Soviet State. Fortunately, however, Tagore’s strictures on the vengefulness and the hatred that were (and still are) so characteristic of Communist ideology were taken down for posterity by Mahalanobis. To return, once more, to Dora Russell. A couple of years after her travels through Soviet Russia, she visited China, and spoke to the activists of the fledgling Communist Party there. Their dogmatism and ardour, if anything, exceeded that of their Russian comrades. In a letter written to a friend from Beijing in January 1921, Dora remarked that while ideologues “can have visions of an immediate reign of communism it can be no more than a religion both in China and Russia yet... As a religion it may have the advantages that religions do have for states in the making, that of binding people into a community and giving them an expression of herd feeling. It is amusing to see the West supplying the East with a religion for a change.” Later, in the same letter, she remarks that “the tyranny of a doctrinaire may be far worse than that of fat capitalist... I get absolutely crazy at the lack of understanding of the scientific outlook in all these people who talk so proudly of science.” Notably — as the contemporary history of our own country shows — the radical Right shares many attributes with the radical Left. They believe that the ends justify the means, that politicians in power must control the bureaucracy and the judiciary, that the State and the ruling party must have the powers to control and direct how novels are written, how songs are sung, which slogans are encouraged and which prohibited. The radical Right also disregards the scientific outlook and is guided by the mystical, irrational elements of its own faith. The parallels between right-wing and left-wing absolutism were brilliantly sketched by the French historian, François Furet, in his book, The Passing of an Illusion. Here, Furet writes: “Just as there was a Soviet people, so there was a National Socialist people: anyone outside it was an antisocial individual. Unity was constantly celebrated and reaffirmed publicly, above all in ideological pronouncements. Its supreme form was the cult of the leader, the Führer. The masses were thus in compulsory and permanent communion with the party-state. Beyond that, there were only enemies of the people — a category both elastic and repetitive at the disposition of the Führer; for Lenin, this meant the bourgeois; for Hitler, the Jews. The existence of a plot had to be emphasized at all times in order for the people to remain vigilant and the regime eternal.” Furet further notes that for Fascism as for Communism, the most violent and immoral means were acceptable if they would lead to political domination. Thus, for Lenin and for Hitler, “you could kill your fellow citizens like enemies in a war. They need only belong to the wrong class or to an opposing party. The denunciation of legality as a ‘formal’ lie led to the ‘real’ exercise of arbitrary power and of terror.” Furet’s book deals with inter-war Europe; hence the juxtaposition of Lenin and Hitler. A future historian of postwar Asia might see a similar parallel between the rise of Communism in China and the rise of Hindutva authoritarianism in India, and especially between the cult of Mao and the cult of Modi. Indeed, although Furet never visited India and probably had read little about the history of this country, the passage I have quoted is eerily prescient about India today. Like the Chinese Communists under Mao, the Bharatiya Janata Party under Narendra Modi wishes to build a ‘party-State’. It has assiduously created a cult of the Great and Flawless Leader; it demonizes opponents and critics as anti-national; at periodic intervals, it claims that there are assassination plots against the prime minister and, most worryingly, it demonizes Indian Muslims just as the Communists have demonized non-Han communities in China. Although neither side likes to acknowledge it, the hard Left and the hard Right have always had a great deal in common. Consider afresh this quote from Dora Russell: “The teaching of communism, however necessary it may appear for the building of the communist state of the future, does seem to me to be an evil in that it is done emotionally and fanatically, with an appeal to hate and militant ardour rather than to constructive reason. It binds the free intellect and destroys initiative.” Substitute ‘Hindutva’ for ‘Communism’, and this would be a piercingly accurate description of what the RSS and the BJP are seeking to do in India today. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
