14-03-2021||Opinion||It is all in the great Aashhole||You may have seen this before, and if you have, my apologies for affording you another look. You most likely have seen this before. In this space. But you may have seen it elsewhere too. Isn’t such a rare sight. This is to be seen everywhere, it cannot be avoided or averted. You have to look at it, and look at it you must. It is in your face, can’t run away from it. Look at it, the aashhole jinish. It’s coming, roaring like a storm cloud, sweeping, or wanting to, everything that comes in its way. Can you hear the sound of it, the thunder and the echo of it? Aashhole.... Aashhole...! AASHHOLE!! Can you hear it galloping, those high-voltage horsepower barrelling in from all sides? Aashbe. Aashchhe. Aashhole! Think of the prospects. Imagine them. What could happen. A lot many things happen around the promise, or the existence, of aashhole. You’d be familiar, of course; most of you would be. With the things that happen when aashhole things happen. Stinky things happen too, be warned, not all of those things are pleasurable. Though some are. For some. But let us not stray, as we are often wont to, let’s us stay this side of the limits. Let’s not cross them, as some folks we know tend to. It is as if they want to drill it in. Oh, don’t even mention it, the very thought of drilling. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Asshhole! Where is the need? But there is no escape, it would appear. From the drilling of Aashhole! Be prepared, several more rounds await, as if they were some dose of essential vaccination. Against something. An injection. Of antibodies. Beware. Everybody who has a body beware. Aashhole is not a smooth prospect; if you do not yet know, you will. You will be drilled with antibodies. They are there. All over. With that cry. You can hear it. Don’t say you were not warned, because they are making sure you hear it, that it is drilled into your ears. Or any other part of your being that requires to be drilled with this: Aashhole! Think. Look. Before it leaps onto you. I mean, this thing that is galloping on and on, closer and closer, faster and faster, louder and louder, more and more belligerent, more and more accompanied, more and more possessed of horsepower. Look at the formidable war chest approaching; we have heard of chests, haven’t we, those fifty and some inches of it. And that chest is in war mode. Yelling: Aashhole! Aashhole!! That chest. At war. Approaching. Don’t tell me you didn’t know. Don’t tell me this is not what you thought it would be. Don’t tell me this is not what you wanted. Have you had occasion to be familiar? With what is being offered? That thing whose mention I do not wish to repeat more times than is necessary? The one who is offering it does not tire of mentioning it, but that is no reason one should fall prey to the habit and follow suit. It may yet get mentioned in these columns, all eight letters arranged with integrity in the same sequence, but for now there is no need to mention it again. Perhaps in the next paragraph, should that be required. But, really, have you had occasion to be familiar? No? Which is why the illustration that accompanies. As repetition. And as aide-memoire. Look. And be well. Please. That is of the utmost importance for the good health of the nashun. Should you have an orifice Or more than one and several Do know it’s no thing of artifice It clarifies, it’s actually cerebral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||It’s a bird, it’s a plane, it’s Ajay Mohan||Okay, we get it. There are horses for courses. But say there is a course, a very crucial one too, would you then risk trotting out a creature most alien on it and still hope for recourse? The BJP, everybody agrees, has the pulse of the people, and yet it seems quite determined to have Ajay Mohan Bisht aka Swami Adityanath campaign for it for the upcoming Assembly polls in Bengal. The same Bengal it seems desperate to win, quite literally, by the hair of its chinny chin chin. Some might argue Adityanath’s efficacy on the campaign trail and cite the BJP's big win in the Hyderabad municipal elections last year, but if you jog that memory, in those elections the BJP had pulled out all its big guns from Amit Shah to J.P. Nadda. And what is it that Adityanath said there? Something about the election being all about making the bhagya of Bhagyanagar --- as he promised to name Hyderabad. He gave the examples of Faizabad and Allahabad, and how they had become Ayodhya and Prayagraj, respectively, after the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh. As if to say, a change of name alone guarantees an improvement in fortunes. Adityanath had campaigned in Bihar last year; there were reports about his "Midas touch". And yet we know now that the Bihar verdict was not unequivocally saffron as a Midas should have ensured. Recently, Adityanath kicked off his Kerala campaign, wherein he told people of the Indian state with the highest proportion of literate persons that its state government had failed to restrict the spread of Covid-19. He is expected to campaign in Assam and Tamil Nadu too. In 2019 he had said that the NRC drive was brave and important and if needed he would implement it in UP. In Tamil Nadu perhaps he will repeat his sentiments about Hindi as a unifying force. The BJP had Adityanath begin his Bengal poll duty with Malda --- erstwhile capital of Gour-Banga and a seat of prosperity and learning --- the same where Hindu and Muslim cultures are braided as closely as a school girl’s morning plaits. Here he thundered about love jihad and expressed concerns about cows not returning home. He is expected to visit at least a dozen places in Bengal by March end. Reports routinely refer to him as the BJP’s star campaigner. Could it be that courses have outgrown horses? And the party that has the whole zoo, hissing cobras and stomping pachyderms et al, on the road gets the most votes. Where does that leave us, I wonder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||Mahanta, epochal and controversial in equal measure, will be missing the elections||Several politicians who dominated Assam’s political landscape for decades will be missing from the upcoming three-phase assembly polls starting from March 27. One of them is Prafulla Kumar Mahanta, whose curriculum vitae would be the envy of any career politician. The 68-year-old is a former president of the influential All Assam Students’ Union that led the six-year-long Assam Movement against the influx of immigrants, resulting in the 1985 Assam Accord. A signatory to the historic accord, he was also the founder-president of the regional party, the Asom Gana Parishad, and a two-time chief minister, the youngest-ever in the country when he assumed charge in 1985. A member of the legislative assembly since 1985, Mahanta had also been the leader of the Opposition in the assembly. But the Mahanta story, epochal and controversial in equal measure, has come to an end for all practical purposes because of his poor health and intra-party politicking. His posturing against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act had not gone down well with the present AGP leadership since the party is a part of the ruling alliance led by the Bharatiya Janata Party. After being denied a ticket to contest the polls, Mahanta declared he would not stand for election amid speculations that he might revive the Asom Gana Parishad (Progressive) — an outfit he had floated as a rebel in the mid-2000s, only to merge it with the parent party a few years later. In spite of his achievements, Mahanta is more fondly remembered as a student leader than as a politician. The former CM has started preparing to shift to his private residence in Guwahati once his present term ends. His aides say that his Kharghuli residence is in need of serious renovation — much like the man himself, if he wants to remain a flag-bearer of regionalism. Nitin Gadkari is regarded as one of the most efficient ministers in the Narendra Modi government. He is also known to be blunt and extremely intolerant of inefficient bureaucrats. Gadkari controls two big ministries: micro, small and medium enterprises in addition to transport. On more than one occasion he has pulled up bureaucrats when projects have been delayed. Recently, his bluntness towards bureaucrats scaled a new high. During a live virtual inauguration event, the minister compared inefficient bureaucrats with cows and buffaloes that do not give enough milk in spite of being fed well. “Kya sarkar isliye hai ki hum logon ko phokat ka tankhwa de? (Is the government there to pay salaries for free?)”, he asked. Going ahead with his comparison, Gadkari said that people keep cows and buffaloes and feed them well to get good quantities of milk. “But if we keep feeding them and don’t get enough milk then what is the use of keeping those animals? This question will naturally arise,” he said. The reference to the buffalo might not ruffle feathers, but Gadkari could be pulled up for seeking to label a cow useless if it does not give enough milk. The list of Congress star campaigners for the upcoming assembly polls drew attention because of the absence of big names from the G-23 — the leaders who are seen as dissidents after they wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi on the pitiable situation in the party. But Congress circles were abuzz with something else. Party leaders pointed out that the lists were prepared on the basis of personal rapport, not the electoral requirements and political stature of the leaders. One senior leader reacted angrily, “They say about some leaders that they are not mass leaders despite spending decades in public life and holding key ministerial portfolios in several governments. So they need not campaign. And RPN Singh, BP Singh, Jaiveer Shergill, Akhilesh Prasad Singh... are mass leaders. Doesn’t Rahul Gandhi see that the party is being run like [a] friends’ club?” Many other leaders are wondering whether the people will listen to P Chidambaram, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal on the economy and China, or the likes of Jaiveer Shergill and Pawan Khera. While Raj Babbar, who was a permanent fixture in Congress campaigns across the country — and drew crowds because of his celebrity status — is now out of favour because of his association with the G-23, Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was the most prominent face among Muslims, has now been replaced by Salman Khurshid. Navjot Singh Sidhu, whose name reappears in the list of star campaigners, has not gone for electioneering in the last few years. Even among women campaigners, the Congress has nobody in the list except Sonia Gandhi, who rarely goes out campaigning anymore, and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, whose participation, too, is restricted. Even hardcore loyalists admit to the brazen groupism and the lack of application of the mind reflected in the selection of campaigners. There is little doubt about the political acumen of the Congress leader from Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala, who could even be the next CM if the United Democratic Front manages to win the upcoming state elections. But he has left even his diehard supporters confused by finding a link between the BJP and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) after Amit Shah addressed his own party’s rally in Thiruvananthapuram last Sunday. Chennithala contended that Shah not uttering a word about Rahul Gandhi during his speech meant that there was a clear understanding between the BJP and the CPI(M). Party workers are scratching their heads trying to decipher this mysterious claim. Karnataka politicians fear nothing more than ‘CD’. They equate ‘CD’ with any secretly-recorded video or audio clip with career-ending content. After the state minister, Ramesh Jarkiholi, got stung owing to a sleaze tape, at least half a dozen ministers got a court injunction against the publication of any such material on them. Why are political parties not disciplining leaders caught in such messes? As is said in Karnataka, some of them are larger-than-life owing to caste and regional power equations in politics and are thus uncontrollable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||Shut down||Sir — It is worrying to note the sudden crackdown on television content being streamed on online platforms after the new OTT regulation rules were announced. Recently, a furore was created over a show on Amazon Prime Video. Now, a web series on Netflix has come under the scanner. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights claims it portrays children inappropriately. While the allegation must be investigated, one wonders whether similar concern was shown when the consumption of child pornography after the lockdown in India went up by 95 per cent. Are we looking at a future where outrage will be used as a pretext to muffle creativity and expression?Devina Guha,
Calcutta Shining star Sir — The ace batswoman and captain of the Indian women’s cricket team, Mithali Raj, must be congratulated for crossing the mark of 10,000 international runs (“Mithali’s run, 10000 & beyond”, March 13). This is a stupendous feat. The former England captain, Charlotte Edwards, is the only other woman to have scored 10,000 international runs in the history of cricket; she made 10,273 runs overall. This means that Raj is now only 272 runs away from equalling Edwards’s record. Given Raj’s present form on the cricket ground, it is only a matter of time before she crosses this milestone as well. Indian cricket lovers will be waiting eagerly for that moment to come.Sourish Misra,
Calcutta Sir — The fact that the veteran cricketer, Mithali Raj, became the first Indian woman to make 10,000 international runs is a matter of immense pride for our country. If she continues to play for another year or so, she will certainly reach even greater heights. One wishes her and her team the best for their remaining one-day international matches in the series against South Africa.Janaki Mahadevan,
Chennai Sir — Mithali Raj’s stunning achievements are not just about the 10,000 international runs she has scored; they are also about her having played at the international level for 22 years. This is no mean feat. Raj’s ODI batting average of over 50 after 212 matches bears testimony to her consistency. It is to be hoped that she goes on to play for a year or two more so that she can achieve many more laurels for her country. Raj and the legendary bowler, Jhulan Goswami, are two of the greatest legends of Indian cricket. Hopefully, after watching them perform, more young girls will get inspired to play cricket.Bal Govind,
NoidaWake up Sir — India’s education policies are getting embroiled in one controversy after another. A furore has now erupted among intellectuals over the claim made by the All India Council for Technical Education that mathematics, physics and chemistry are no longer mandatory for admission into some engineering courses. Although the AICTE clarified its stand later, the incident points towards the growing promotion of an unscientific mode of thinking encouraged by the current dispensation at the Centre. It can be argued that the AICTE’s proposal is in keeping with the vision of the National Education Policy to offer students more flexibility in choosing their subjects, especially at the secondary level. But it cannot be denied that studying engineering without a solid base in mathematics will be to the disadvantage of the learner. Be it the Centre’s decision to train ayurveda students to perform surgical procedures, the University Grants Commission’s promotion of the ‘cow science’ exam or the numerous unscientific claims made by ministers and luminaries, they all bear grave implications for the future of our country. Unfounded statements, such as the claim that Lord Ganesha got his elephant head owing to plastic surgery, might elicit laughter in cozy drawing-room discussions, but we treat them as benign at our own peril. It is time we became aware of the serious flaws of the current government. Informed citizens who dare to question the administration and hold it accountable for its words and actions are the need of the hour.Satabdi Dutta,
Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||Those Sunny days||My classmates and I were thirteen when Gavaskar saved us from second-rateness fifty years ago. He scored three half-centuries, three centuries and a double century in four Tests in his debut series. He rounded off his tour with a hundred and a double hundred in the same Test. 774 runs for the series... who is to say he wouldn’t have scored a 1000 if he had played all five? We used to play book cricket during lunch breaks in school and make runs on that scale. Gavaskar scored those runs in real matches, on tour, against the West Indies, in a winning cause. 774 is the highest series total notched up by a debutant in all of Test cricket’s history. Sometimes, figures do tell the whole story. On the subject of numbers, he was 5’4¾” tall. If you were thirteen and desi in 1971, you were likely shorter than that. This made Gavaskar practically one of us. He was, like the small Indian bodybuilder, Manohar Aich, our very own World Champion, Short Man Class. Between 1975 and 1980, when my cohort was in university, Gavaskar was the greatest batsman in the world. He scored a staggering 18 centuries in that time. There were periods of drought before and after this purple patch, but there was a sunburst of runs in the last two years of his career, and he signed off with 96, a masterclass in playing spin bowling on a turning pitch, in a game India lost to Pakistan. It is patently the case that Gavaskar is the greatest Test batsman India ever produced, but even if it weren’t, my generation, which came of age during his prime, is unlikely to concede the point. Many of us still date our young lives by the landmarks in his career. I remember, for example, the year that I did my thesis viva simply because it was the summer of the MCC Bicentennial match when Gavaskar scored his only hundred at Lord’s. He had announced his retirement from international cricket the evening before when he was not out on eighty, so celebrating his hundred the next morning was a strange, elegiac business. I was furious when the contest was allowed to devolve into a carnival match because it diminished this last achievement. Along with his cricketing achievement, the reason Gavaskar became a hero to young people in the Seventies was that he took the trouble to build a persona for himself. He wasn’t just a creature of cricket, he was a public man in his own right. Bishan Singh Bedi was and remains the most independent-minded and outspoken Indian cricketer ever, but he was one of a generation of cricketers mentored by the Nawab of Pataudi. Gavaskar seemed interestingly self-made, an opening batsman who announced himself to the world as the finished article. There was an assertiveness about Gavaskar, an awareness of his public, that set him apart from his contemporaries who tended to live within the constraints of a relatively poor and poorly administered sport. Gavaskar was undeferential about cricket’s shibboleths; he was, for example, dismissive of the fetishization of Lord’s as sacred ground. He was rude about India’s cricketing establishment while still an active player — he once famously called Indian selectors ‘court jesters’ — and there was a pugnacity to his on-field manner that gladdened the hearts of young fans. There was a perverse thrill in watching him walk off the field in 1981, taking Chetan Chauhan with him, in protest against Australian umpiring. It was the wrong thing to do as Gavaskar acknowledged afterwards, but I couldn’t help thinking that when Arjuna Ranatunga threatened to walk off many years later in 1999, after Muralitharan was called for throwing by an Australian umpire and won that argument, a cycle of South Asian civil disobedience had been brought to a successful conclusion. The most interesting part of Gavaskar’s persona was his writing. In a cricketing culture where players take their cues from the politicians who run the BCCI, it’s hard to imagine a young player writing an opinionated memoir. Gavaskar published Sunny Days in 1976 when he was in his mid twenties. It reads like a first draft that needed an editor but it is, for all that, an invaluable account of a young genius’s coming of age. That missing editor might have blue-penciled the racism of Gavaskar’s description of hostile Jamaican spectators in Kingston: “All this proved beyond a shadow of doubt that these people still belonged to the jungles and forests, instead of a civilised country.” This shouldn’t be excused by gesturing at the casual prejudices of a bygone age because it was called out by readers and reviewers of the book even then. But it is fair to say that this was an isolated instance of prejudice never repeated either in the book or subsequently. The important thing about Sunny Days is that Gavaskar wrote every word of it. This was unusual because most cricketing memoirs are ghostwritten. Mansur Ali Khan, the Nawab of Pataudi, had published a slim book in 1969 called Tiger’s Tale, but it was, in the tradition of cricketing memoirs, an ‘as told to’ effort. Sunny Days gives us its author warts and all and it’s worth the price of admission for its brusque description of Lord’s: “Quite frankly, I don’t understand why cricketers are overawed by Lord’s. The members are the stuffiest know-alls you can come across, and the ground is most uninspiring. It slopes from one end to the other. I shuddered to think of it as the Headquarters of Cricket!”
In a world where players either speak in cricket corporatese or tweet on demand or stay mum for fear of displeasing their political masters, it’s good to have a hero who used to speak his mind. At a time when cricket was a precarious livelihood, when cricketers depended on the generosity of individual and institutional patrons, Gavaskar’s forthrightness was both unusual and brave. Recently, when Wasim Jaffer was accused of communalism by a cricket administrator in Uttarakhand, most of his erstwhile teammates didn’t say a word in support or solidarity. In 1993, during the riots in Bombay, Gavaskar ran down from his terrace to rescue a Muslim family cornered by a violent mob. The distance in time and temperament between those two events is the distance between two worlds. To watch Gavaskar receive a cap commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of his extraordinary debut from Jay Shah was strange, like watching a dystopic film that mashed these worlds together. As the young Gavaskar’s contemporaries and admirers, it’s down to us and our memories to keep those worlds apart. That past was a foreign country; they did things differently over there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||The Game is afoot||Scholars are viewed as harbingers of change; their ideas challenge and, often, break established moulds. As such, it is only fitting that a significant change in a different arena — football — is being brought about by a man known as ‘Le Professeur’. Arsène Wenger, one of the most revolutionary thinkers of the Beautiful Game — his approach towards training, nutrition and man-management transformed the way in which coaches looked at English football — has proposed a change in football’s contentious offside rule. At present, players on the field are adjudged offside if any part of their body with which they can play the ball is closer to the opponents’ goal line than both the ball and the last defender. The existing rule has stoked controversy and given football fans untold heartache, with offsides often being declared by the tightest — some would say, the unfairest — of margins. The former Arsenal manager’s proposed rule — it will be tried out by Fifa in the Chinese league — could mean a huge victory for attackers in the law books of the game. Mr Wenger’s rule states that attackers will be deemed onside if any body part with which they can play the ball is in line with the relevant defender. If the new law gains wider legitimacy, there will be a number of implications. For one, areas of uncertainty — and the coronary status of football lovers — will no longer be at the mercy of the blind spots of technology. Second, it might signal the end of marginal offside calls, thereby making the game more attacking and enhancing its dramatic appeal. Mr Wenger’s proposal does have its critics, with many arguing that it would alter the basics of defending and not be properly enforced by on-field referees. Setting these quibbles aside, it would be instructive to analyse the agenda of rule-change in sport. Changes in regulations that guide sporting activity signify that evolution is natural to sport as it is to life. But such transformations are not always innocuous: they also mirror extraneous factors and their connection with the consumption of sport as a spectacle. Changes are rarely implemented without the intent to render a game more competitive. This is because the element of competition has a complementary relationship with viewership, sponsorship and, consequently, revenue. Football has not been the only theatre of such experimentation. The shortening of boundaries, the application of the decision review system, the introduction and subsequent tweaking of the ‘super over’and such other changes in cricket were all decisions taken with an eye on heightening drama and, by implication, filling the coffers of the administration. Yet sport also sports warts that seem unchanging. The pay gap between men and women footballers has been found to be worse than that in medicine and politics; institutional support for differently-abled sportspersons and competitions remains patchy. For sport to be held up as a theatre of inclusion and fraternity, there is a need to ring in changes that are more radical than those pertaining to the offside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
