15-03-2021||Opinion||Be prepared: vaccine diplomacy at Quad meet||The inaugural meeting of Quad has led to the inception of a welcome initiative on the Covid-19 vaccine, with the four member countries deciding to pool in their individual capacities to augment the delivery of the much-needed medications. The strategy to remove bottlenecks assumes significance in the light of the growing spike in coronavirus cases in India that has resulted in legitimate speculation of a possible second wave. India added over 20,000 new cases of infection on three consecutive days last week, confirming fears of the burden of cases getting heavier since February. It is being reported that several states and Union territories have experienced a surge, albeit disproportionately, with Maharashtra, once again, leading the way, followed by Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Delhi and Haryana. A number of causes are being attributed to these worrying signs. India’s testing rate has fallen to 40 per cent from its peak capacities; it needs to be raised significantly to prevent the contagion from overwhelming spatial congregations, communities and, eventually, the health system. Public functions, accompanied by laxity in adhering to precautionary measures among participants, may be responsible for the resurrection of the virus in some parts of the country. The apathy towards precaution must be addressed on a war footing. India’s vaccination programme has gathered pace with nearly 30 million doses being administered; yet, the number of people inoculated remains a meagre percentage of the total population. There is a clear need for the vaccination programme to adopt a flexible approach so that wider segments of Indians, especially the young, mobile groups, receive special attention. It has also been reported that the vaccination programme in urban clusters has received a tepid response from the poor. A discernible class division seems to be at work. It is possible that the cost of a jab in private facilities eludes a large number of Indians in penury but what is worrying is that the concentration of the poor in government hospitals, where vaccines are being administered for free, remains equally disheartening. Lack of awareness, prejudiced ideas about vaccines or, simply, indifference may be the principal factors behind this challenge. India must fall back on the wealth of experience and knowledge it has gathered in the course of other mass vaccination programmes to find a way around these obstacles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
15-03-2021||Opinion||Moot point: cow examination||Sir — As expected, the government is having to eat its words with regard to several claims made in the study material for the ‘cow examination’ that has now been postponed. Leaders of the ruling party who extolled the virtues of the desi cow must be disappointed. Leaving aside the serious problems of spreading false information — nearly half a million people had registered for the test — this episode raises the question whether leaders who support such outlandish beliefs can be trusted to run the government. Ishita Chowdhury,Calcutta Stand together Sir — The article, “A novel unity” (March 10), by Prabhat Patnaik — it highlights the potential of the farmers’ protests to unite the people of India — is scintillating. It is very unfortunate that the ‘annadaatas’ of our country are being mistreated by the Central government. The farmers’ struggle has not only withstood multi-fanged State repression but has also strengthened its resistance over the past few months. More farmers have continued to join the protests. In several states — Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan among others — thousands of farmers have been holding mahapanchayats. People are transcending barriers of caste and religious belief, responding to clarion calls to intensify the protests. Many have come forward with water tankers, food and all other essentials to sustain the farmers in their struggle against the formidable odds they are facing. The Centre may well know that a community that is strongly united for a cause cannot be defeated. That is the true lesson of this iconic movement. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Grim situation Sir — It is a matter of great concern that the army in Myanmar massacred 12 protesters in a fatal resistance (“12 protesters die in Myanmar firing”, March 14). Since February, the military junta has taken over power in the country by deposing its democratic government headed by Aung San Suu Kyi. Over 70 people have already died. Many are allegedly being tortured in custody; several are trying to flee the country. Democracy and human rights are being trampled on. Only a few organizations are being able to shed light on the situation from within the country. The United Nations must be more active in Myanmar. The rights of the people have to be retrieved so that democracy can be restored. Raghunath Pramanik,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
15-03-2021||Opinion||Unkindest cut: intimate partner violence||In the largest multi-country survey of violence against women using data from 2000 to 2018, the most striking feature is the scale of intimate partner violence. The study, conducted by the World Health Organization with a special working group of the United Nations, found that around 736 million women are subject to violence, and 641 million women have experienced physical or sexual violence from their partner. This begins early: a quarter of 15- to 24-year-old women have been subject to it by their mid-20s. Women in developing countries have it worse, with 37 per cent of 15- to 49-year-olds having been beaten up or sexually violated by their spouses; in some regions this goes up to one woman in two. Violence against women worldwide is hardly a secret; this report exposes the rate at which male partners in relatively better-off and apparently gender-equal countries hurt women. Yet the study excludes the Covid-19 period, when housebound violence grew worse. That no law or education is effective in curbing the desire to perpetrate violence on a woman partner suggests that men’s desire for control and domination remains unchecked. The prevalence of intimate-partner violence also indicates the endorsement of this by the Establishment. A silent belief seems to be that marriage — when that happens — means possession. This is demonstrated clearly in India, where there is no law against marital rape and where a member of the highest judiciary can ask in court whether violence by the husband can be called rape. India is one of the leading countries in violence against women; violence by strangers is as common as violence within the family — and not by the spouse alone. Dowry deaths and honour-killings show that marital and natal families are equal participants in lethal cruelty, while spousal violence, suggests the National Family Health Survey-5, is far more widespread than is recorded. Stigma, financial dependence, the children’s security, lack of support from the natal family and society, poor education leading to joblessness — all compel Indian women to bear untold torture. The WHO report can be useful for comparisons: conditions in countries with less familial violence may be studied to see which bits they got right. Unless the socially accepted, gender-based logic of power undergoes a change, of course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
15-03-2021||Opinion||Rotating capitals in India||The Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, recently spoke in favour of four rotating capitals in the country instead of just one national capital in Delhi. While there may be arguments both in favour of and against such an idea, another one — that of decentralization and/or making one or more small cities the national and state capitals — might be worth discussing. Although the word, capital, originates from the Latin word, capitalis, meaning ‘of the head’, a capital may not necessarily be a big city. While in Ottawa, I sometimes walked from one side of the city to the other, and wondered how such a small city could become the Canadian capital instead of Toronto, Montreal or Vancouver. I learnt that, in 1857, when a few cities were competing for the status of the capital, Queen Victoria chose Ottawa as it was centrally located between Montreal and Toronto, and was along the border of Ontario and Quebec (the centre of Canada at the time). Also, being reasonably far from the border of the United States of America, it seemed safer from attacks. Instead of New York, Chicago, Los Angeles or San Francisco, the founding of the much-smaller Washington, DC as the US capital in 1790 was grounded in political compromise. Alexander Hamilton and the northern states wanted the new federal government to assume Revolutionary War debts, and Thomas Jefferson and James Madison wanted the capital to be in the South. George Washington chose the exact spot on the Potomac River’s navigation head, near two well-established colonial port cities, George Town (now Georgetown, a section of the city of Washington) and Alexandria. Similarly, one might wonder why Canberra, not Sydney or Melbourne, is the capital of Australia. It is often said that the inland city of Canberra was built as the ‘bush capital’ as a compromise somewhere between Sydney and Melbourne. Some historians such as David Headon, however, believe that “The most significant reason... was that [the white population] could only really thrive and lead by living in a cold climate”. In Europe, during the years of the Cold War, a relatively small city like Bonn was the capital of West Germany. In fact, Bonn was chosen because Konrad Adenauer and other prominent politicians intended to make Berlin the capital of reunified Germany. They thought that a major city being made the capital would mean that it would be the permanent capital, and would weaken support in West Germany for reunification. The German federal government still maintains a substantial presence in Bonn. Decentralization of government activities is not an alien idea. The branches of government in South Africa are split between Cape Town (legislative), Pretoria (administrative) and Bloemfontein (judiciary), although the Constitutional Court is in Johannesburg. The history, however, can be traced back to the days of the creation of the Union of South Africa in 1910 after four British colonies were unified and agreement could not be reached on where the capital would be located. Interestingly, in India, Andhra Pradesh earlier had four capitals: Visakhapatnam (executive), Amaravati (legislative), Kurnool (judicial), and Hyderabad. The ‘glamour’ of big cities like New York, Toronto, Frankfurt or Sydney is not lessened by the fact that they are not capitals. In fact, this might have eliminated for them the burden of parliament, accommodations for ministers, foreign embassies and the rush caused by secretariats, government offices and apex courts being located there. Delhi, India’s capital, has a severe air pollution problem, so much so that its chief minister called it a ‘gas chamber’. Decentralization, or even shifting the capital further south might restore normalcy and cleaner air to Delhi. Similarly, Calcutta, Mumbai or Hyderabad would not lose any stature if they cease to be state capitals. If a small city is made the capital, it might trigger development in the concerned region as well. In 1961, Brazil moved its capital from Rio de Janeiro to inland Brasília “to bring progress to the interior of Brazil”. But an apolitical ‘capital push’ may not be easy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
15-03-2021||Opinion||India and the Great Game||The secretive India-Pakistan negotiations for the border ceasefire raise perplexing questions. Scoring in propaganda, the Pakistan army publicized the ceasefire before India could state soberly that it was a joint decision. Veterans of the government linked the ceasefire to the Joe Biden administration’s desire to draw India and Pakistan together as it takes on its rivals, China and Russia, but the reaction of the United States of America came later than usual. The question is this. Would rededication to the ceasefire owed to the statesmanship of the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, be a self-contained exercise or catalyse negotiations on Kashmir and other issues? In February, the Pakistan army chief spoke of resolving Kashmir “in a dignified and peaceful manner”. Viewing the ceasefire as an Indian concession, Pakistan would now expect movement on Kashmir. Before this, India refused any common ground till Pakistan’s ‘cross-border terrorism’ in Jammu and Kashmir ceased. Since the 2016 Indian counterstrike on Pakistan’s border posts and the Balakot air attack in 2019, New Delhi has continuously weighed military options to neutralize Pakistan’s ‘State policy’ of terrorism. In a noteworthy change, the second anniversary of the Balakot strike on February 26 passed uncelebrated; this is unusual for an overtly nationalistic regime. While the Biden administration may indeed have wrought India’s change of heart, the ground has also shifted unfavourably for New Delhi. Since last summer’s border clashes between Indian and Chinese soldiers, China has successfully merged expansion with negotiations. The anti-China Quad with the US, Japan and Australia is a non-starter. ‘Trusted friend’ Russia decries Quad and puts China ahead of India to counter US and Western antagonism towards Vladimir Putin’s hard rule. Russia has its own problems with India’s proximity to the US post the Cold War and since the 1991 market reforms. With the reforms enriching India, Russia is transactional, no longer memorable as the Cold War ally of Bangladesh’s creation and extorts in defence deals. Since Pakistan abuts oil-and gas-rich Middle East and is pivotal to Afghanistan’s geopolitics, Russia accommodates Islamabad and pays lip-service to India’s concerns. Although India is part of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, Russia, China and Pakistan form their own club in it. In the best of times, India has had to balance relations with all. Jawaharlal Nehru understood the nature of the Indian State and gave it Non-Alignment. Its geography denies alliances. It is not in the Asia-Pacific to where growth has shifted from the West since the 1980s. It is not linked by land or religion to the Middle East, which, with North Africa and Turkey, has weighed on Europe’s strategic consciousness. India’s uniqueness lies in democracy; a multicultural, multireligious secularism; and in its mixed-market economy. These assets transcend its geopolitical disadvantages. This was the settled position till six years ago when the political, social, economic and strategic coordinates of the country were changed to fit a narrow nationalistic ideology and base. Although the changes were internal and unstoppable, it manifested in the internal-external realm before long. On August 5, 2019, Article 370 and aligned laws for Jammu and Kashmir’s special autonomy were scrapped. The next day, China was tacitly warned from the Lok Sabha to vacate Indian territories. The rest, as they say, is history. The present government certainly inherited the China, Pakistan and Kashmir problems. But it also made them worse with ultranationalism. Sooner or later, internal turmoil reflects internationally. Pre-2014 India posed no threat to peace in the neighbourhood and beyond. The world was happy for democratic, secular India growing steadily with reforms. India was almost able to escape its geographical confines. No longer. The world is not where it was six years ago when India could profitably engage with it. Donald Trump’s narrow nationalism and white supremacist presidency have eroded US preponderance versus authoritarian powers like China and Russia. Chinese programmes like ‘Made in China 2025’ and the ‘Belt and Road Initiative’ prepare it to lead the world in technology, innovation and infrastructure-building. Russia has joined its Great Power advantages with China in a new Cold War against the West. Brexited UK is floundering while continental Europe has tied its future with China and — covertly — with Russia. It is not apparent whether India has understood the profound changes in world politics stuck in failed and self-defeating mantras like autarky and nationalism and encouraging religious divisions in citizens and minority persecution. The world has three more-or-less equal powers and one of them straddles India’s northeastern borders. India’s security hitherto lay in being a status-quo power. Changing the status quo has driven the country into a cul-de-sac. All three Great Powers want India-Pakistan peace, with the US resolve being the weightiest. Even without that, the border ceasefire is overdue. There’s no miracle cure for the self-inflicted wounds of Kashmir or the gratuitously destroyed ties with China and it hasn’t helped to reduce the country to an India-Pakistan binary. The ceasefire is expected to follow a natural course and if it returns India to pre-2014 peace and stability, no one should cavil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
15-03-2021||Opinion||Reassessing ideas||Leo Tolstoy’s Anna Karenina begins with a disquieting aphorism on unhappiness: “Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” While accepting that there is a uniqueness to each unhappiness, it is possible to grade some misery experiences as greater in intensity and extent than others. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has surpassed the unhappiness caused by the two World Wars. The phrase, World War, in fact, is more symbolic than literal. Although only a few nations were primary participants in these two wars, they are presented as wars of the entire world. In contrast, the novel coronavirus became globally pervasive within the short span of a few months, setting a record. The unhappiness caused by the pandemic is, arguably, greater, making ‘Covid’ the most widely-used word across the continents over the past year. Unlike the World Wars in which the enemy was a visible presence, the ‘enemy’ during the pandemic is an invisible virus. This has caused much confusion. In some cases, people sanitizing where there is no virus and not protecting themselves adequately where there are significant threats. This has led to immense complications, further compounding the sufferings of people across the world. Just as important cities were targeted by aerial bombing during the war, this virus is concentrated in developed countries and big cities. The area of operation has shifted from the border right to the heart of the cities. In effect, the less developed countries and rural areas have been affected less. Assuming that we are entering a new era, there is a need to philosophically scrutinize some existing ideas and practices, especially the idea of dependence that emerges from Adam Smith’s division of labour, liberal ideas of individual autonomy and the domain of needs of human beings. One needs to reassess — not necessarily abandon — the path of globalization that involves the dependence of countries on each other for production, distribution, and consumption. No other event has confronted issues arising from globalization, capitalism, and international trade on as large a scale as the pandemic. This forces us to make readjustments to our lifestyles at a micro-level and to global trade at the macro-level. The pandemic has revealed vulnerabilities in the idea of dependence and exposed weaknesses in its opposite, namely independence and autonomy. The pervasive liberal notion is individual-centred. In its preoccupation or near-obsession with the self, liberalism seems not to have recognized the importance of the other, even though the other is another self. At times, it sees the other as a necessary evil. The pandemic, however, has made us intensely aware of how dependent we are on the other. For instance, one must be healthy and virus-free and ensure that others are virus-free. This creates a strong dependence on others, which calls into question the liberal idea of autonomous individualism. The idea of leaving crucial decisions, such as wearing masks or maintaining social distance, to individual discretion needs critical scrutiny. The decision not to wear a mask as an act of individual choice seems to have accelerated the spread of the virus in some developed nations. There is a need to learn from these experiences and re-examine them, especially for countries like India. Alongside economic equality, health equality has now emerged as an important issue. In this changed scenario, others’ health is as much of a concern for the self as for the community. It would be interesting to revisit some ideas of Emperor Ashoka without lapsing into preliberal ways of life in this context. He advocated an important idea in his Twelfth Edict about the relationship between our own sect and another’s: “Whoever honours his own sect and disparages another man’s... does his own sect the greatest possible harm.” The underlying message here is that others’ happiness and welfare precede the individual’s happiness and welfare. This reversing of the sequence is a radically different moral principle regarding the relationship between the self and the other. This alternative morality highlights the importance of the other unlike liberalism that is centred on the self. Concern for the other in Ashoka seems more useful in the context of the pandemic. Another important idea for critical scrutiny and evaluation is M.K. Gandhi’s distinction between need and greed. In his criticism of modern civilization, he disparages its greed-centredness. It may not be viable to follow his rigorous asceticism in our day-to-day life. However, his distinction between need and greed can be useful to determine what is dispensable in life and what is not. In pre-pandemic times, we witnessed a proliferation of desires that largely fall under greed. At a more fundamental level, the younger generation’s basic needs are often seen by the previous generation as greed. Then again, ideas considered radical or modern by one generation are deemed orthodox by the next. The present is largely regarded as modern and past ideas, which have preceded it, as orthodox. Despite the shifting definition of needs, the pandemic lockdown provided an opportunity to discover how much of what we desire is a need and how much is greed, what is indispensable in life and what is not. The lockdown across the world has provided a rare social spectacle to closely watch how people have dealt with what Gandhi would call greed and how much they have suffered due to the non-availability of goods for their needs. For instance, during the lockdown, the private medical sector that accounts for more than 75 per cent of India’s health facilities was closed down. It will be interesting to explore — with an open mind — how many suffered due to the lack of medical facilities during the lockdown and how many benefited by avoiding the cost of non-essential treatment, including the battery of often unnecessary medical tests that are routinely prescribed, significantly inflating a patient’s medical expenses. This will also help us assess our health preparedness. In the post-pandemic era, we can critically scrutinize the basic ideas of dependence, autonomy and need. The last idea has a serious consequence for ecology, environment and threat due to global warming that may cause a bigger catastrophe. Vaccination cannot protect human beings from this possible future catastrophe. While each unhappiness may be unique, it is possible to compare one with the previous and the possible future sufferings. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
