16-03-2021||Opinion||Leading the way||Sir — The qualification of the 27-year-old fencer, Bhavani Devi, for the Tokyo Olympics — she is the first Indian to accomplish this — is an incredible achievement. Fencing, an elite sport, demands niche equipment and specialized coaching, both of which are difficult to come by in India. So far, very few Asian countries have broken into the upper echelons of this sport. Bhavani Devi’s pioneering foray into fencing heralds a new era in the world of Indian sports.Anamika Saha,
Calcutta For shame Sir — The report, “Beasts we’ve enthroned” (March 14), represents the social and political scenario of New India under the Bharatiya Janata Party government in a nutshell. It is shameful that a young Muslim boy was allegedly slapped and kicked by one of the caretakers at the Dasna Devi Mandir in Dasna, Uttar Pradesh for drinking water at the shrine. The attacker seemed to want to establish the boy’s religion — he is seen asking the boy for his name and his father’s name on camera — before beating him. Tragically, many have expressed support for the accused and reviled the critics who condemned the assault and bigotry. This speaks volumes about the state of secularism in our country. Be it this brutal incident in Dasna, the unlawful detention of the environmental activist, Disha Ravi, or the treatment of the hundreds of farmers protesting against the three agriculture bills on the borders of Delhi, all of these point to the sorry state of affairs in India. The bigotry of the ruling BJP government and its supporters are laid bare for all to see. In the midst of this, it was good to read that Yashwant Sinha, formerly a Union minister of the BJP, has joined the Trinamul Congress before the 2021 assembly polls in West Bengal. It is hoped that the ordinary people of Bengal will make an informed choice and reject the BJP in the upcoming elections.Jahar Saha,
Calcutta
Sir — It is worrying that the atrocities inflicted upon the minority and Dalit communities by Hindutva forces are increasing by the day. The idea of a secular India and its constitutional values have all been decimated. The recent incident — the thrashing of a young Muslim boy in Uttar Pradesh for daring to drink water from a temple — is one among many. These have become daily occurrences in New India. Whether it is caste atrocities, religious intolerance or crimes against women, Uttar Pradesh seems to be the centre of all such brutalities. The chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, should focus on the law and order situation in his own state before declaring West Bengal to be mired in lawlessness.Kajal Chatterjee,
Calcutta
Sir — There is no doubt that BJP-ruled states have witnessed a significant rise in the number of attacks on religious minorities and Dalits. The people of Bengal must take note and vote against the saffron party in the upcoming elections.  Ria Sarkar,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||No surprises: V.K Sasikala quits politics||Some questions are fated to remain unanswered. The ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu, with its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, must be relieved that V.K Sasikala, former right-hand woman of J. Jayalalithaa, decided to step away from politics after being released from prison. How the chips would have fallen had she contested the assembly elections scheduled for April 6 is now an irrelevant question. Ms Sasikala could have divided the AIADMK. The present leadership, comprising the chief minister once anointed by Ms Sasikala, E. Palaniswami, and his deputy, O. Panneerselvam, an earlier rival who became a friend with the BJP’s help, do not want her back. It seemed for a short while that she would draw on the popular support visible after her release and the gratitude of those legislators whom she had initially named as candidates to upset the apple cart. Reportedly, Ms Sasikala was talking quietly to supportive politicians and moving about with the AIADMK flag. Support would also come from her nephew, the once powerful T.T.V. Dhinakaran, and his party, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, formed when he failed to overturn Mr Palaniswami’s leadership after his aunt was convicted in a disproportionate assets case. Both aunt and nephew were expelled from the party in which they were once heavyweights. Revenge is a strong spur, as is the desire for control. Yet they did not work. Factionalism in the AIADMK could have been to the Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s advantage, unless Ms Sasikala’s presence, evoking memories of the larger-than-life Jayalalithaa and the loyalties she cultivated turned the tide fully towards a new leadership in the AIADMK. The BJP could have supported the winning side: all it wants is to establish itself in the state. But Ms Sasikala’s withdrawal must have helped the BJP’s peace of mind; it can focus its calculations on other states. Mr Dhinakaran, disappointed, has led his party into an alliance with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen. It is not clear what this will achieve apart from eating into the DMK’s assured minority community base. The battle remains, ostensibly, between the two parties that have traditionally alternated in ruling the state. But the old glamour is gone; the BJP’s presence evokes grey arithmetic, not the colourfulness of the leaders who have passed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||Party hopping: Sovan Chatterjee quits BJP||Politics is treacherous terrain. That perhaps explains why politicians are prone to performing somersaults, either by volition or on account of sour fate. Some leaders are particularly skilled at such acrobatics. Sovan Chatterjee, the former mayor of Calcutta, seems to have perfected the art, hopping from the bandwagon of the Trinamul Congress on to the cart of the Bharatiya Janata Party: he has now tumbled out of the latter. Mr Chatterjee is said to have been miffed with the BJP’s refusal to give him an election ticket from his favourite constituency. Indeed, humouring disaffected leaders could take up a lot of energy within the BJP in the coming days, given the heartburn among its cadre over ticket distribution in Bengal. The BJP’s district chief of Alipurduar has declared that he has little knowledge of the party contestant chosen for the seat; it has also been reported that the BJP’s nominee for Raidighi — he was accused of corruption by the BJP — is yet to join the party formally. Encouraging defections from the camps of opponents is, these days, held up as an instance of chanakyaniti. Consequently, the turncoat is making hay — and not just during the season of elections. Even though every political outfit has attempted to appease the turncoat, it is the BJP — does it not have the deepest pockets? — that has gained the most by engineering defections: Operation Lotus bloomed spectacularly in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, to cite two examples. Carrots and sticks — monetary inducements as well as intimidation — are used generously to make defectors turn tables on their original patrons. The existing anti-defection law has not proved to be a match for such mischief. The ideological infidelity of defectors, their indifference to the mandate of the people and, most worryingly, citizens’ apathy towards the chicanery of their representatives are worrying signs for Indian democracy. But the turncoat is as much a bane as a boon. The BJP’s Bengal experience is a pointer to this double-edgedness. The induction of deserters from the TMC is said to be widening chasms within the BJP, with a number of old-timers expressing their unhappiness with the party’s willingness to reward defectors. The BJP’s strategy to keep its door open shows that in spite of its ambitious proclamations, the party remains organizationally deficient. If the poll winds blow differently, Bengal could witness a round of ghar wapsi among defectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||True vision: three months of farm protests||It’s been about four months since farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh started protesting along the borders of New Delhi, braving the cold, the rain and then the heat. The trigger was the enactment, without broad consultations, of three specific laws that the Narendra Modi government says will usher a reformist era into Indian agriculture and liberate the farmer. The farmer, on the other hand, is not only apprehensive but he also does not support the laws. While the immediate demand has been to repeal the laws and make minimum support price a legal guarantee, the larger question he is raising relates to State support, which farmers argue is essential for their survival not just in India but across the world. China, the United States of America, the European Union and Japan dole out massive subsidies — direct, indirect, cyclical, counter-cyclical — to their farmers, while subsidies for farmers in India are dwindling. The contribution of agriculture to our gross domestic product is falling; real farm incomes are dropping and wages are stagnant. The protests seem to be restricted to the north, where agriculture markets are better organized. Yet, agrarian crisis is a pan-Indian phenomenon, with varied outcomes, from suicides to migrations. The protests have support from farmers all over. We have to situate the agitation in the continuing agrarian crisis and rising income inequalities. Last week, we learnt that the fortune of the Indian businessman, Gautam Adani, rose by a whopping $16.2 billion to $50 billion in the time of the pandemic — impressive, given that many Indians actually lost their jobs and incomes. On March 8, the Centre told the Lok Sabha that the scheduled commercial banks had written off bad loans amounting to Rs 1.15 lakh crore during the first three quarters of the current fiscal year. In its reply to a question, the Centre said that banks waived loans of Rs 2,36,265 crore and Rs 2,34,170 crore during 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively. In two decades, banks have written off loans worth lakhs of crores for corporates, money that could have built a vibrant, new India. According to the 2021 Oxfam report, The Inequality Virus, income inequalities widened in the pandemic year. “Extreme inequality is not inevitable, but a policy choice,” said Oxfam. The Modi government’s policy vis-à-vis the farm sector has been haphazard. On the one hand, the Centre gives a direct annual support of Rs 6,000 to a farmer — around Rs 16.5 a day. On the other hand, it wants to wriggle out and leave agriculture markets unregulated for private players. What it gives, it takes away by imposing higher taxes (take fuel, for example). It attacks the cooperatives, but wants farmers to form their own companies. It puts the onus of supporting farmers on states, already saddled with financial crises after demonetization, the imbroglio around the goods and services tax and disruptions caused by the pandemic. Meanwhile, the talks between the Centre and the 40-odd farmer organizations steering the protests in Delhi are stalled. No one is budging. The movement seems to be quietly expanding. Several kisan panchayats, all massively attended, have been held so far in the north. Now, the farmers’ leaders are fanning out across the country, beginning with the five states that are due for assembly elections. In three decades, farmers’ movements across India either splintered or stagnated. This one is looking to bring small groupings under one umbrella. For that, it needs to be flexible with regard to its avatar and demands, so that it can rally farmers from different states. It needs to study many workable farming models that exist across India to seek the right policy support. For rallying a demand is one thing. But building a pragmatic, sustainable and climate-resilient vision for Indian farming is a prerogative the movement must not shy away from. It is time farmers worked together to set their own agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||A fatal complacency||The frequent emergence of killer zoonotic viruses that were not known to infect humans earlier has been so prominent over the last two decades that underestimating their potential to evolve and kill us, as it did in the case of the recent pandemic, is suicidal. The loss of over 25 lakh human lives from this otherwise evitable pandemic has shattered our complacent belief that ‘humans are invincible’. Admittedly, addressing sickness from viral infections has always been a challenge. The frustration is subtly reflected in the enduring clinical advice — with medicines a virus can get you sick for a week and without medicines for as long as seven days. Thus, prevention has always been the preferable option rather than exploring possible cures for viral diseases. This holds true even today. It is well understood among those in charge of disease control that a combat approach of ‘will see when it comes’ is unlikely to work for a virus of this nature and the only way to avert it is to prevent it. Not surprisingly, the desperate experiments with multiple existing drugs in the guise of ‘repurposing’ them when we had, in fact, no clue on how to kill this virus had miserably failed to curtail the loss of human lives. Shamefully, it also exposed our lack of preparedness and competence to contain an expected viral invasion although billions of dollars of taxpayers’ money are spent every year on research related to disease surveillance, prevention, and control. Surely resources were not lacking in our failure to stop this virus. Then what was it? There is perhaps little doubt today that the SARS-CoV-2 originated in China and spread to even the most remote places through physical transmission from infected human travellers. It is difficult to believe that the ‘fertile human brains’ that prescribed the use of thermal guns as the sacrosanct method for screening passengers at airports and seaports failed to realize that this would not be an effective way to stop the spread of the virus. It was already known as early as February 2020 that most of the infected who could potentially spread the virus were asymptomatic. The blind dependence on thermal guns and their obvious failure to screen the infected at the port of entry was the primary cause of the global spread of the virus. Why is this device then still being used? One is also forced to wonder why there was such a delay in developing vaccines against these emerging killer viruses. The SARS virus, the evolutionary predecessor of SARS-CoV-2, had warned us with its deadly appearance in China in 2002. Exactly 10 years later came an even more deadly virus of the same genre — MERS in the Middle East. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in China was perhaps not surprising, notwithstanding the digressing conspiracy theories about its origin. In saying so, one cannot absolve China from the crime of suppressing necessary facts about this deadly virus for over two months, contributing to its spread. Nevertheless, there has been no serious effort to develop vaccines against any of these zoonotic viruses notwithstanding their life-threatening potential. Is it because the panic index was not high enough for the pharmaceutical companies to make enough money out of such a venture? Indeed, none of the previous coronaviruses was as contagious as the present one and no virus in history has created such a large customer base for vaccines. If there was a vaccine ready even against the almost 20-year-old SARS virus, this pandemic could have been prevented to a great extent. The role played by public health organizations and the government is critical when it comes to protecting public health. But the political will to save human life using public money seems to be losing priority. This is due to the growth of an extremely powerful and rich lobby that is supported by the pharma and healthcare industries. Today, healthcare has become a lucrative business backed by influential catalysts that help in creating and promoting human health crises for money. This pandemic has revealed shocking instances of ‘conflict of interest’ in the conduct of organizations deployed for safeguarding public interest. It is important that amidst scientific efforts to prevent the re-emergence of such a pandemic, we also resolve to restrict the forces that continue to pitch human life as a commodity for business. If that is not done, the day is not far when such pandemics would be artificially created.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||Mood enhancer||Such has been the recoil of private investment that new plans announced by businesses, which filled media spaces some years ago, have all but disappeared from the landscape. Public pronouncements of infrastructure projects have replaced private ones instead. It has even retreated from our memories how, in the peak years of 2006-2011, planned investment values commonly ranged between Rs 24-28 trillion; these essentially halved in the three years to 2019-20 as per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy database. Public investment proclamations have become the norm, accentuated further in the wake of Covid-19. It is the long slumber of private investment that the government is trying to jolt awake through change in direction, a transformed attitude, and an altogether different view about the respective roles of the public and the private sectors in the economy. Quite likely a response to popular demands for a 1991 moment to break out of the standstill, speculation is intense about the prospects of success of the new narrative. The failure of business spending to resume despite numerous helpful measures and reforms in the past years has been glaring. Even before this February’s sharp turn in policies and viewpoint — the preceding specific thrust for domestic industry in response to Covid-19 last year and even the earlier set of measures to boost private enterprise in 2019 — industry and investors alike were urging the government for a 1991-like moment. Such voices or requests only sharpened when the pandemic struck India in what were already-depressed growth conditions. This, argued many, would charge the environment, be the electric spark that lights up the desire to invest. One can speculate if the visible changes in direction and attitude are due to the lack of choice — binding financial constraints limiting the scope of public investments — or perhaps even the latter’s failure to stem the downslide since 2017-18. Or if this is an explicit choice to seek a different route to push growth, investments and employment, given the constant economic deterioration that has been further worsened by Covid-19. The fact is that the government has responded with some seminal changes and an altered approach towards the role of the private sector in economic progress. The changes can be broadly described as reducing government involvement in production and finance, deregulating factor markets (agriculture and labour), preferential policies for large-scale manufacturing, further liberalization, new infrastructure financing initiatives, fresh redress measures for resolving bad debts, amongst others. The production-linked incentive scheme is the centre piece fitted into the large-scale manufacturing thrust; this is now widened to include 14 industries with Rs 1.97 trillion spread out over five years for scale-acquisition in domestic production for home consumption and exports. The transformation in thinking is obvious in some upfront decisions in this year’s budget — outright sale of public assets and non-strategic public enterprises, reducing ownership stakes in others, including strategic ones, sale of two public sector banks. Here, the government’s open embrace of ‘privatization’ against the more guarded ‘disinvestment’ casts aside a long-standing political aversion to the former nomenclature. Arguably, these shifts may have brought clarity about the government’s position on the public versus private sector debate, dispelling investors’ perceptions about ambivalence on this. The government has also withstood the political economy fallout of agriculture marketing reforms last year, holding on and signalling policy stability. The directional turn is only one side of the effort. The other part is perhaps more important — the accompanying articulation at various public forums, including Parliament. Led by the prime minister, a new mindset has been expressed. This eschews the role of government in production, stressing the domain rightfully belongs to the private sector, which is the central driver of growth, investments and job-creation. It condemns the draining inefficiencies of public enterprises; it censures the bureaucracy for its obstructive and non-specialist character, batting for inclusion of private experts instead while scaling up industries to enhance productivity. Furthermore, there are hectic parleys, other interactions with industry at various levels by key ministers and officials. Ministries are reaching out to note industry’s concerns, seek ideas and proposals, with the active involvement of business bodies. And no less than the prime minister has discussed road maps to the PLI-scheme with top private sector executives. In short, there is visible qualitative effort to enthuse, elicit response and get the momentum going. Even if interpreted cynically as a desperation to push for growth, a different narrative and active outreach impressing transformation can make businesses feel upbeat. Changes in laws and policies do not always translate into actual plans or investments if the agents do not feel optimistic. We only have to look back five-six years in which structural reforms, such as inflation targeting, GST, IBC, amongst others, failed to inspire private investment; growth decelerated instead and investments remained depressed. Feeling hopeful about the future really matters as that shapes decisions to take the plunge. The longing for a 1991 moment referred precisely to such feelings. Now accorded a valuable, primary place in the economy with attendant changes, positive responses could follow in the future seeing the resounding endorsement of private participants in the last one month. What then are the chances of changing the private investment trajectory? It is a critical question weighing on the mind of every stakeholder. Seeking an answer is difficult at this point though. One must weigh, for example, if upbeat mood and sentiments stand alone — can these be decoupled from the demand environment and associated uncertainties? Private agents also look back to look forward for their business decisions. In this instance, if the past was of economic weakening, the prospective course is exceedingly uncertain: there are doubts about the post-pandemic future of some businesses and sectors; the extent to which households and firms may have lost incomes and revenues, or increased savings, and the restoration, longevity and duration of demand and the structural shifts and resource reallocations that may have been triggered. These are some — but not all — considerations. While there are no clear-cut answers about future investment prospects, it remains obvious that growth must stabilize enduringly in the first round for any meaningful reactions to the new economic narrative. When the pandemic itself is yet to recede in India and elsewhere in the world, lifting the declining trajectory of private investment will be up in the air for a while. Expectations of solid returns to directional change must, therefore, be tempered. The question is if the current mood uplift will endure. The stakes are high. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
