17-03-2021||Opinion||New friends: first Quad summit||It is a matter of perspective. While the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, correctly surmised that the first summit of the members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue was a “force of global good”, China, tellingly, denounced the engagement as an attempt by nations, presumably India, the United States of America, Australia and Japan, to form cliques. Beijing’s allegation against Quad members of ganging up is bound to sound rich given that Quad’s genesis lies in the unprecedented show of aggression by China, especially in the Indo-Pacific stretch. Little wonder then that the summit’s joint statement, even though it did not name China, pointedly referred to reservations with coercion in the region. While the lengthening shadow of China may be a common worry within the Quad, the alliance, refreshingly, has chosen not to be limited in its focus. This was evident from the fact that one of the first plans — the Quad Vaccine Partnership — discussed during the summit concerned the pooling of financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistics to expedite the reach of Covid-19 vaccines across the Indo-Pacific. This would undoubtedly earn the goodwill of nations in this stretch and, possibly, draw other multilateral blocs towards the Quad. If this were to happen, not only would it signal a welcome shift against insularity and protectionism but the emerging solidarities in the Indo-Pacific — the new theatre of conflict — would also act as a much-needed counterweight against a predatory China. One way of weakening the Quad would be to drive a wedge among the members. China, apparently, is attempting this already: the Global Times, it enjoys the patronage of the Chinese State, is of the view that India’s Quad membership implies that it has become a ‘negative asset’ in such other fora like BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. New Delhi must not lose sleep over this. What India needs to do is achieve harmony between its traditional foreign policy pivots — non-alignment, for instance — and a supple strategic vision that takes into account the changing global reality. This is a fine balance but it must be attained. Only that will enable New Delhi to chart the unpredictable, troubled waters of international diplomacy without being cornered for its proximity to any particular country or platform. The Quad is both an opportunity and also a test for Indian diplomacy. Imagination, instead of ideological prerogatives, must be its guide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
17-03-2021||Opinion||Renewed discussions on the Places of Worship Act||This is a sensitive time. A notice issued by the Supreme Court to the Centre regarding a petition questioning the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 may send confusing signals. Renewed discussion on a law that prevents the conversion of religious places and upholds the continuation of their religious character as on August 15, 1947 may be disconcerting to many in the post-Babri Masjid demolition period. The only exception to the 1991 law had been the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi issue, because the matter was already in the courts when the law was promulgated. High praise for this law had come from the Supreme Court bench that allotted the disputed land to the advocates of Ram in 2019; the reference could have been seen as a reminder that no other place of worship could become the subject of dispute. The court then said that the cut-off date indicated that independence from colonial rule offered the constitutional basis for healing past injustices. The operative word in this comment is ‘healing’. The dawn of an independent republic built on unity amid diversity meant erasing old wounds inflicted or imagined to have been inflicted under completely different conditions in the obscure past. The court reportedly felt that by enacting a law upholding the equality of all religions and secularism, part of the Constitution’s basic structure, the State enforced a constitutional commitment. This understanding is of overwhelming importance at a time when polarization of communities seems to be the aim of much political rhetoric, frequent administrative action and certain government policies. The challenge to the 1991 law comes from the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Ashwini Upadhyay, whose petition criticizes the cut-off date as arbitrary and the law for barring Hindus, Buddhists, Jain and Sikhs from ‘reclaiming’ their places of worship which were encroached upon by ‘fundamentalist barbaric invaders’. This petition follows one filed by the Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh last year, challenging Section 4 of the same law and believed to be targeted at ‘reclaiming’ places of worship of the minority community in Mathura and Varanasi. The time when religions competed with one another for dominance and the world of democracy, equality and secularism represent two different phases in history. It is up to the people to decide which phase they wish to inhabit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
17-03-2021||Opinion||Education and the budget||The year, 2020, will be remembered not only for the global pandemic but also for the National Education Policy. When NEP-2020 was announced, it was clear that heavy financial resources would be needed to execute its ideas. It would be instructive to see what this year’s budget had to offer for the NEP. The new education policy has proposed several changes to the existing education system, from school education to higher education. It aspires to introduce formal education for children above three years of age, foundational learning for children from ages three to eight, mother tongue-based primary education and organizational changes. But the implementation of ideas mentioned in NEP-2020 remains unclear on account of budgetary constraints. Six per cent of the gross domestic product, it was announced, would be spent on education. This is an old demand, going back to the last five decades. However, a scrutiny of the education budget would reveal that this commitment had been made without addressing economic bottlenecks. What is even more astonishing is the reduction in the education budget. The total allocation for education in 2020 was 99,311 crore; it has been reduced to 93,224 crore in 2021. This year’s budgetary allocation in education has been the lowest in the last three years. Budget cuts would also adversely impact the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, which merged the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan. The allocation for the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan stood at around 38,750 crore last year; this year, it has been slashed to around Rs 31,050 crore. The closure of schools in 2020 hampered learning and the mid-day meal scheme. The National Family Health Survey-5 data, released in 2020, reflect the poor state of nutrition in India where malnourishment is a major concern. The mid-day meal scheme got 11,500 crore this year, a hike of 500 crore. This is a move in the right direction but it required further resources to tackle the issues raised by NFHS-5. Apparently 15,000 schools will be created in line with the ideas integral to NEP-2020. What needs to be seen is whether these are Kendriya Vidyalayas/Navodaya Vidyalayas or state-controlled schools. Since the budget for Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas has been increased, it is likely that the proposed schools would be turned into laboratories of NEP-2020. An increase of 1,284 crore for Kendriya Vidyalaya and 500 crore for Navodaya Vidyalaya has been announced. Even if 15,000 schools in this category are transformed into ‘centre of excellence’, they would still cater to a limited number of children. Pilot projects have become a regular feature in the school education sector. Central and state governments and Union territories keep setting up schools — Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodaya Vidyalayas, Model Schools, Pratibha Vidyalayas, Vivekanand Schools — with improved norms. But these model schools have not been able to maintain their standards in the absence of a political commitment towards education. The failure of these pilot projects to create quality education and an inclusive learning environment needs to be examined for the sake of future school projects. Schemes to encourage girls at the upper secondary level have also faced budgetary cuts. Girl students from marginalized communities are more likely to drop out of school, especially during the pandemic. Thus, the reduction in incentive money may hamper the momentum gained by the Millennium Development Goals and the Sustainable Development Goals for 2015-2030. Support for girls’ education does not only motivate girls but also reduces child marriage. If the provision of quality education for marginalized groups is not a priority, then the target of increasing enrolment in higher educational institutions cannot be achieved. Incidentally, NEP-2020 has set an ambition goal to achieve 50 per cent enrolment in higher education by 2035. Yet, the budget for higher education has decreased by nearly one thousand crore. Some Central universities have been set up over the years; some state universities have been elevated to the stature of Central universities. Has this elevation in status helped them impart quality education and attract meritorious students? The quality and challenges faced by these institutions remain potential areas of research. The National Research Foundation, proposed in NEP-2020, must assign studies on the state of higher education. The announcement of a Central university in Leh is a welcome move. Scattered villages of Leh and Kargil would benefit from this. But care should be taken to ensure that the university does not come in the way of cultural exposure and exchange for students in the region. One hundred new Sainik Schools are set to be opened too. They will be established with the support of private agencies and non-government organizations. Till now, Sainik Schools were under the government’s control. Would these new Sainik schools, built with monetary support from private agencies, be inclusive and affordable? 750 Eklavya Schools would also be established in the tribal areas. Several primary schools have been shut down in tribal areas recently. If new schools have to be opened in these areas, why can they not be Kendriya or Navodaya Vidyalayas? During the lockdown, online education was promoted aggressively in schools and in higher education. This exposed the challenges faced by innumerable students who did not have access to the required gadgets as well as data-purchasing capacity. Surprisingly, such issues as the digital divide, education during emergencies and loss of learning in year 2020 did not find a place in the budget discussion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
17-03-2021||Opinion||Age of reckoning||In February 2021, Facebook briefly banned all news content in Australia. Australian users were restricted from posting or viewing news content on its platform. The company also deployed tools to scrub its platform of links to content by the Australian press. This unprecedented move sparked a global conversation about the grand narratives of digital sovereignty and big tech. Yet, the issue at the heart of this conflict has escaped deeper scrutiny. Facebook took the step as a reaction to Australia’s News Media Bargaining Code. The Code, among other things, requires large platforms to negotiate commercial terms with Australian news publishers for showing their content and to pay publishers for their content shared on the platform. Facebook opposed this, claiming that the Code misunderstands the relationship between its platform and publishers. Subsequent negotiations have ended the stand-off — the ability to view news content was restored by Facebook in exchange for changes to the law conceded by the Australian government. Why did the issue of sharing advertising revenue with news publishers lead to this high-stakes Westphalian drama? One must reckon with the state of the media industry to answer this. Media houses have grappled with an existential economic threat in the last decade, given the costs of producing high quality-journalism. The Covid-19 pandemic demonstrated this frailty in the Indian context, with many reports of newsroom closures and job losses. In this context, the business model of news, the rationale for revenue sharing and the political facts emerging from this conflict are key to evaluating what this means for the future of news. Public interest in high-quality journalism arguably makes it a public good, lending to its eternal challenge of developing a sustainable business model. Despite its nature as a public good, asking governments to play a direct role in financing the press is like leaving the sheep in the wolf’s care. Financial control by government strikes at the inherent tension between the State and the press in the liberal democratic set-up given the role of the press in critically examining government policy. An alternative is asking readers to pay for news. This, too, is a partial solution at best. Subscriptions create financial barriers to access, excluding large segments of the population. Further, most digital subscriptions are priced outside the common man’s reach, in addition to the practical hassle of obtaining multiple subscriptions. The traditional answer to this conundrum is to rely on advertising. This led to the development of a model where revenue from advertising cross-subsidized the readers who paid only a nominal amount. In doing so, advertising emerged as a way of financing the production of news without relying on government support or burdening readers. With the emergence of social media platforms and improvements in targeting algorithms, advertisers have obvious reasons to prefer advertising digitally through advertising services offered by these platforms as opposed to engaging publishers individually. It is here that things get tricky. Publishers say they do not get a fair share of digital advertising revenue generated through their content. This is attributed to the market power of advertising platforms like Facebook and Google that intermediate publisher-advertiser interaction and, together, control nearly 60 per cent of the digital ad market. Publishers state that this makes them unavoidable trading partners, with asymmetrical bargaining power in negotiations, if any, on terms of advertising and revenue sharing. The central question then becomes: in the digital era, who should pay for news? Governments cannot be trusted to finance the very people who are supposed to criticize them. Readers, largely, cannot afford subscriptions and, in any case, subscription-led models deny access to news to the indigent. Advertising revenues, on the other hand, are not reaching publishers. The solution proposed by the Australian government is to require platforms like Facebook and Google to agree to terms for sharing advertising revenue with news publishers subject to binding arbitration. In essence, this is intended to ensure that a fair and equitable share of advertising revenue reaches the publisher. The logos of requiring revenue sharing is that Facebook and Google are unavoidable trading partners and set the terms of digital advertising. This makes it impossible for publishers to negotiate fair terms. The Code creates a structure for negotiations to address this imbalance. This is bolstered by the ethos of requiring revenue sharing, which holds these platforms accountable to their claim of establishing new ‘global public spheres’. As per this argument, the unique position of operating the global public sphere comes with responsibilities, which safeguard public interest. This includes enduring limitations on private profit for the sustenance of an important public good. The pathos is supplied by the narrative of the slow death of print media, emergence of global tech monopolies, and journalism as a central facet of democratic processes. While some reservations to the Code are well-founded, it would be premature to treat them as fatal flaws. Many, including Facebook, state that the Code misunderstands the impact of platforms, which do not ‘leech’ ad revenue but instead amplify content and increase traffic, benefiting publishers. This is empirically true. At the same time, platforms like Facebook are complex and perform many functions. An appreciation of the distribution-function of social media platforms (which is user-driven and free) should not mean ignoring market failures or asymmetries in their advertising-function (which is provided as a paid service). Others argue the law only benefits legacy media houses with obsolete business models, preventing new business models from emerging. The business model of legacy media outlets may not sustain in the long run, and a shift towards decentralized freelancer-led models of journalism may be the future. This should not gloss over the fact that legacy media houses currently employ a substantial number of ‘on the ground’ journalists. Worsening economic health of the media industry risks not only job losses for these journalists but also affects journalistic output in this transitional period. To sacrifice the sustainability of high-quality journalism at the altar of a romantic vision of the internet would be to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs. The power imbalance between publishers and platforms is not the only imbalance, which has come to light over the past month. Many describe Facebook’s actions in Australia as the successful ransoming of a sovereign State. When Facebook carried out its threat of disabling access to news content for the citizenry of an entire nation, it arguably crossed the Rubicon in terms of its relationships with sovereign States. Governments across the world are waking up not just to the tremendous power that platforms wield over people but also to the unsophisticated nature of their own regulatory toolkits. A likely consequence is a cascade of regulations across the world, as governments try to protect themselves from similar reactions by platforms. For many, sovereignty is under direct threat from unaccountable tech platforms that can dictate the well-being of an entire citizenry. Considering the way in which Facebook lashed out at the Australian law, this is not far from the truth. As governments create laws cutting at the heels of big tech but framed in their constituents’ interest, we are likely to see many more rounds of sparring between these giants. In this, Australia is not alone. There are reports of the Indian prime minister “discuss[ing] the progress” on the Code with his Australian counterpart. The Indian Newspaper Society, an industry body of legacy media houses, has already written to Google seeking 85 per cent of advertising revenue generated from their content. In many ways, this is an age of reckoning for big tech. Platforms like Facebook may be Goliaths in negotiations with news publishers but we are yet to see if they can stand up to sovereign States with comparable effectiveness. If the source material is anything to go by — in the hierarchy of Biblical giants — the Leviathan far outranks the Goliath. By requiring the operators of the ‘global public sphere’ to pick up some of the tab for production of journalism, the Leviathan is intervening on David’s behalf, as it rightfully should. The author is a Research Fellow at the Centre for Applied Law and Technology Research (ALTR), Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
17-03-2021||Opinion||Origin story||Sir — Man is not the original provider, as patriarchal history would have us believe. Archaeological evidence from Peru now suggests that some ancient big-game hunters were in fact women. Since hunting — done by men — is cited as the prime driver of evolution and the reason behind the rise of the family, men often say that their dominance in society is ‘biological’ or ‘evolutionary’. It now follows that the patrilineal family structure is nothing but a social construct that was crafted by men to consolidate their power in society. This finding raises important questions about gender roles and the need to revisit ‘scientific’ notions that propagate patriarchy.Kaveri Raj,
Ernakulam Slim chances Sir — Opinion poll results for the West Bengal assembly elections have started rolling in and all of them reveal huge gains for the Bharatiya Janata Party, while still predicting Mamata Banerjee’s return to power by a small margin. This is worrying given the horse-trading that has become part and parcel of electoral politics in Bengal. The saffron party undoubtedly has more power and money than the regional outfit and since ideological affiliations mean less than nothing these days, chances are the BJP can undermine the popular vote by buying off winning legislators. Yet, there may be hope. Even in 2016, the opinion polls had predicted a slim margin for the Trinamul Congress, while the party actually won 211 of the 294 seats. The already inexact science of psephology is made even more inaccurate in a large and vibrant democracy like India. One is forced to wonder why a majority of opinion polls get it so wrong. This is not specific to India either. In 2016, the opinion polls got the election results of the United States of America terribly wrong. The thing is, when it comes to opinion polls few people — if they do speak — actually reveal the truth. In a country like India, where political parties now rule by muscle power, people are scared to express opinions that might get them into trouble. Stories about people being harassed and even beaten up for swearing allegiance to one political party are not unheard of. As such, it would be foolish to trust the results of the opinion polls. But if what is being predicted does come true, then the future of West Bengal seems very dark indeed.A.K. Sen,
Kalyani, Nadia Take a stand Sir — The two-day nationwide bank strike on March 15 and 16 is laudable since it aims to send a strong signal to the Central government. Bank employees are letting the government know that they will not consent to the privatization of the public sector, which will no doubt affect the general people adversely. While the top echelon of the banking hierarchy is not part of this strike, this will not have a huge impact as this section only comprises 20 per cent of total bank employees. Unless the other 80 per cent of employees agree with the Central government, the banks cannot run smoothly. Since the BJP came to power, they have introduced one anti-public policy after another, crippling the life of the common people. Some of the government’s policies — demonetization, goods and services tax, and the merger of some public banks into one Union bank are just some instances — have brought disastrous results, breaking India’s economic backbone. The government has also failed miserably in controlling the price hikes of essential commodities of daily use, adding to the woes of the poor and the middle classes. As if these economic difficulties were not enough, crimes against minorities have also risen significantly. This is a matter of great concern. If Indians want to go back to living in a peaceful country that was prospering economically, then they must dethrone the saffron party and defeat its communal intentions. People should teach a lesson to the party using the power of the ballot in the forthcoming assembly elections. These leaders should not be allowed to lead our country into the pit of darkness and ignominy because of their self-serving agenda which is to please a handful of capitalists.Iftekhar Ahmed,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
