18-03-2021||Opinion||Think again||Sir — Many people, especially in India, tend to believe that children are a source of ‘pride and joy’ and berate those who choose to be child-free. However, research indicates that having kids does not necessarily make people happier. For many, having children can result in the loss of financial, emotional or physical well-being. Raising children is a tremendous responsibility and the decision must be taken willingly after careful consideration. It is also time that we learn to respect the decisions of those who choose not to have children and refrain from pressurizing them to conform.    Arin Sengupta, Calcutta Sir — The article, “Those Sunny days” (March 14), by Mukul Kesavan was a glowing tribute to the legendary Indian opener, Sunil Gavaskar, on the occasion of him completing 50 years of his Test debut against the West Indies at Port of Spain, Trinidad on March 6, 1971. The cricketing journey of the original Little Master — it lasted for 16 years — is a glorious chapter in the annals of Indian cricket. Gavaskar played in an era where fast bowling was at its best. When batsmen from around the world would flounder while facing such powerful bowlers, he would always be a picture of calm and self-assurance. His stance was always perfectly balanced. In those days, perhaps no other international batsman could have stamped his authority on and propagated the ‘straight drive’ the way Gavaskar did — the ball, hitting a portion of the bat, would race down to the fence as straight as an arrow, leaving the spectators in awe. There might have been a few disconcerting moments during his illustrious career, like when an angry Gavaskar asked his fellow opener, Chetan Chauhan, to walk off the ground with him at Melbourne in 1981, following a controversial leg before wicket decision, and his infamous 36 not out in his inaugural World Cup in 1975. Nevertheless, Gavaskar took Indian cricket to newer heights, paving the way for the country’s current position as a cricketing superpower. In multiple ways, Gavaskar is a legend in Indian cricket. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai Sir — Sunil Gavaskar is a cricketer that I admire even to this day. I consider him to be one of the most prolific opening batsmen in the history of the sport. He achieved extraordinary feats during his career, setting the bar high for generations to come. Gavaskar faced some of the most fearsome fast bowlers of his time but always kept a cool head. He was a fine fielder as well. Gavaskar was charismatic both on and off the field. Even today, when I hear him lending his voice to cricket commentary either on television or on the radio, it is abundantly clear that he has an unparalleled grasp over the finer aspects of the game. I was still in school when Sunny Days was published, and I requested my father to buy me a copy of the book. After reading Mukul Kesavan’s article, “Those Sunny days”, I felt the urge to revisit the book. Indian cricket has produced very few athletes of his calibre. Today many excel in the short version of the game, but struggle when it comes to Test cricket. Gavaskar excelled in Tests. The new generation of cricketers have much to learn from a batsman like the Little Master.Alok Ganguly, Kalyani, Nadia Sir — It was wonderful to read the article by Mukul Kesavan on Sunil Gavaskar within a few days of the 50th anniversary of his Test match debut. Gavaskar is not only my all-time favourite cricketer, but I am also a fan of his excellent commentary and writing. I remember that it was on my 11th birthday that my parents gifted me Gavaskar’s memoir, Sunny Days, after noticing my love for the Little Master. Before that, I was only a fan of his batting skills, but after I read the book, I instantly became a huge admirer of his writing as well. Since then, I have read many memoirs written by renowned sports personalities, but Sunny Days remains the closest to my heart.Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — As Indian cricket becomes increasingly commercialized, it is good to remember players like Sunil Gavaskar who loved the game just for the sake of the sport and contributed to its growth without prioritizing personal gains. Many of us long to return to those golden days.Rakesh Sharma, Gwalior||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion||Daily blood: community based violence||Crime figures and categories provided by the government give a partial, even if alarming, picture. The target, site, background, level of cruelty and aftermath of each crime must be laid out for the whole picture to emerge. That would show that intensely violent incidents have become a part of everyday life in India. A man mercilessly beat up a teenage boy for drinking water from a tap within a temple precinct in Ghaziabad because the boy was from the minority community. The fact that a video clip of the incident was uploaded with expressions of support before it became viral indicates that the practices of hatred are confident and mutually inspiring. The clip led to arrests, but the temple had recently put up a notice warning members of the minority community to keep out, demonstrating how exclusion is being institutionalized at every level. Neutrality and fairness have grown elusive. A 2019 study by a non-governmental organization and the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies indicated that half the police personnel surveyed showed community bias. Everyday violence is experienced by other groups as well. It is now flourishing, as though dominant sections of society and institutions are thumbing their noses at the law. In 2019, the 46,000 crimes against Dalits showed a 7 per cent rise since 2018. Rajasthan had the highest crime rate under this head but Uttar Pradesh topped the absolute numbers. It is routine: last June, four men shot and killed a Dalit teenager for entering a temple. The law does not matter when the establishment — UP thrives on ‘encounter’ killings — endorses violence. The police themselves were implicated in more than one crime in UP just this month; in one, the father of a rape survivor was allegedly pushed under a truck in their presence. The murder of family members of victims is now common — evoking Unnao and Hathras — while government data show that out of 88 women and girls raped daily, 10 are Dalits even after reported police reluctance to register their complaints. Women in general have grown 44 per cent more vulnerable to rape in the last 10 years. This is apart from the 1.26 lakh domestic violence cases recorded in 2019. Large sections of Indians live with cruelty and fear, whether outside the home or within it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion|| In the dark: racism in India||The residents of the proverbial glass house are vulnerable creatures. They should, as the old adage advises, desist from taking aim with stones. It is doubtful whether India’s external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, agrees with such wisdom. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha, hours before a scheduled meeting with the British minister of state for the Commonwealth and the United Nations, Mr Jaishankar assured the House that New Delhi would take up the issue of racial discrimination in the United Kingdom, adding that the land of Mahatma Gandhi cannot afford to turn its eyes away from racial prejudice. Ironically, it appears that the external affairs minister has been looking the other way. For India, like the UK and other parts of the world, is equally plagued by the spectre of racial discrimination. The list of related transgressions is despairingly long. Bangalore had witnessed the gory spectacle of an African woman being stripped and paraded in public; in Bengal, notwithstanding its claims of a progressive agenda, two teachers had been suspended after using a text book in which the illustration of a black man accompanied the description of the word, ‘ugly’; incidents of racial taunts, humiliation and assaults against India’s northeastern citizens are worryingly commonplace. The prejudice has infected the State and the market. A Bharatiya Janata Party leader had courted controversy after making a pejorative remark on the skin shade of the people of South India; India’s cosmetic industry flourishes by turning fairness into some sort of a virtue. Of course, the Indian variant of racism has its own template. What makes racism in this country unique and complicated is its indisputable link with casteism, ethnicity as well as the colonial experience. Modern indigenous research has indicated that caste distinctions, instead of being premised on a code of division of labour, can be traced back to differentiations along genetic lines. It is possible that the coating of racism on caste has prevented affirmative action, such as reservation, from having its desired effect. The burden of colonialism has also aggravated the bias. While pre-colonial India was welcoming of the Siddis of African descent, post-colonial India is notorious for its intolerance of the principle of racial and ethnic equality. What India needs is a spirited public mobilization against such bigotry; something that the West, including the UK — Mr Jaishankar’s target of scorn — has in the form of Black Lives Matter and other movements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion||A sinking island of political pawns||“How long can we keep our faith in words? I feel that not only have I been betrayed, but I have also betrayed my people. What else can I do except boycott the party gatherings [referring to the TMC] and withdraw from all this?” Walking alongside the river, as one observes the landscape that evinces the reality of the shrinking island, Minarul expresses his resentment. A 34-year-old resident of Ghoramara island of the Sunderbans, Minarul has been committed to the Trinamul Congress. In the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, West Bengal is poised at a historic juncture with the Bharatiya Janata Party making steady inroads with the hope of coming to power by uprooting the TMC. Ghoramara, Minarul’s home, is the poster-child for the sinking Sunderbans. From the 1980s, local governments have been resettling its population in neighbouring Sagar island. Minarul explained how, in recent years, after much effort, he had managed to negotiate with the higher echelons of the TMC, including the MLA, and had received an assurance of rehabilitating 40 families. In exchange for their rehabilitation, he would guarantee that these families vote for the TMC. He says, “Nowadays when it is even difficult to bring consensus among three brothers, I brought 40 families to agree with each other.” He continued: “But, even with our best attempts in the last 7-8 years, not a single rehabilitation has taken place from the government's end.” Dejected, he says, “I have lost face; how can I return to ask for votes again? Even if five families would have been rehabilitated I could have understood that there is at least an honest attempt but to my despair we don’t see any movement... just the same old empty promises.” As per the 2011 census, 1095 households still remain on the fast-sinking island. Current proposals for planned retreat and resettlement away from the Sunderbans are immensely problematic, not just because of the narrow cost-benefit analysis with which economic value is put on investing in lives and livelihoods but also because on other Sunderbans islands there are several push and pull factors, a diversity of desires and a lack of consensus among residents in the same village or even between two brothers of the same household, as Minarul suggested. Ghoramara’s case is different: all its remaining residents aspire to leave. So what is stopping the government from relocating these 1095 households? The major impediment to rehabilitating residents is the very specific vote-bank politics in light of the upcoming elections. Ghoramara belongs to the Sagar constituency. Sagar island is where many of the households were previously rehabilitated. However, over the years, there is no space left on Sagar for an ingress of another wave of climate refugees. Moreover, sea-level rise is threatening the existence of Sagar too. This means that the remaining islanders of Ghoramara would have to be relocated to other islands, that is, other political constituencies. There is a proposal to rehabilitate them in Kakdwip and, as per the islanders, Kakdwip constituency is willing to offer them the requisite place and support to resettle. As it happens, both these constituencies — Sagar and Kakdwip — are currently under the TMC. But such a shift of populations would dilute the vote bank of the candidate who would contest from Sagar. With elections coming up, the Sagar constituency is not ready to let go of this vote bank. Ghoramara has 3800 voters. In the last Vidhan Sabha elections in 2016, the TMC won the Sagar constituency by a margin of 18,000 votes. Hence, the rehabilitation of Ghoramara islanders to Kakdwip means that Sagar constituency will lose voters that almost equal one-fifth of its last election vote margin. TMC leaders from Sagar do not want to risk tilting any vote bank that they have already secured through their promises of rehabilitation. With the BJP making inroads, the TMC is doubly cautious about not disrupting its winning margin. As a result, there is no interest in maintaining, improving or sustaining any infrastructures that will protect Ghoramara’s islanders. Ghoramara’s residents acknowledge that they receive enough aid from the government in terms of food, water, and other essential items. But Subala, a 37-year-old woman, reveals that this is not the kind of welfare they want to continue living on: “each spring tide or every monsoon, our farmlands and homes are engulfed; how can we survive? We don’t need subsidized food. If the government rehabilitates us we can farm, work hard and earn to make both ends meet. We want to live a dignified life.” However, the government values these lives only in the form of 3800 crucial voters and is not keen to rehabilitate them on the off-chance that such a move will unsettle its already tenuous vote bank. In one sense, these are ‘surplus populations’; in another sense, each of these individuals is an integral voter and is, therefore, seen as essential in these upcoming elections. What is often glossed over in conversations around climate change among the new aristocracy of experts and in the corridors of power is the politics at the local level. Ghoramara’s residents are seen as important political actors. The choice, it seems, is to keep them afloat as long as they can vote. [The names of individuals in the article have been changed in order to protect their identity]||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion||Emerging patterns||In 1957, Isaac Asimov published The Naked Sun, a science-fiction novel about a society in which people live on isolated estates, their needs provided by robots, and they interact only by video. The plot hinges on the way this lack of face-to-face contact stunts and warps their personalities. After a year in which those of us who could worked from home — albeit served by less fortunate humans rather than robots — that sounds about right. But how will we live once the pandemic subsides? Of course, nobody really knows. But maybe our speculation can be informed by some historical parallels and models. First, it seems safe to predict that we won’t fully return to the way we used to live and work. A year of isolation has, in effect, provided remote work with a classic case of infant industry protection, a concept usually associated with international trade policy that was first systematically laid out by none other than Alexander Hamilton. Hamilton asserted that there were many industries that could flourish in the young United States of America but couldn’t get off the ground in the face of imports. Given a break from competition, for example through temporary tariffs, these industries could acquire enough experience and technological sophistication to become competitive. The infant industry argument has always been tricky as a basis for policy — how do you know when it’s valid? And do you trust governments to make that determination? But the pandemic, by temporarily making our former work habits impossible, has clearly made us much better at exploiting the possibilities of remote work, and some of what we used to do — long commutes so we can sit in cubicles, constant flying to meetings of dubious value — won’t be coming back. If history is any guide, however, much of our old way of working and living will, in fact, return. Here’s a parallel: what the internet did and didn’t do to the way we read books. A decade ago, many observers believed that both physical books and the bookstores that sold them were on the verge of extinction. And some of what they predicted came to pass: e-readers took a significant share of the market, and major bookstore chains took a significant financial hit. But e-books’ popularity plateaued around the middle of the last decade, never coming close to overtaking physical books. And while big chains have suffered, independent bookstores have actually been flourishing. Why was the reading revolution so limited? The convenience of downloading e-books is obvious. But for many readers this convenience is offset by subtler factors. The experience of reading a physical book is different and, for many, more enjoyable than reading e-ink. And browsing a bookstore is also a different experience from purchasing online. I like to say that online, I can find any book I’m looking for; in fact, I downloaded a copy of The Naked Sun a few hours before writing this article. But what I find in a bookstore, especially a well-curated independent store, are books I wasn’t looking for but end up treasuring. The remote work revolution will probably play out similarly, but on a much vaster scale. The advantages of remote work — either from home or, possibly, in small offices located far from dense urban areas — are obvious. Both living and work spaces are much cheaper; commutes are short or non-existent; you no longer need to deal with the expense and discomfort of formal businesswear, at least from the waist down. The advantages of going back to in-person work will, by contrast, be relatively subtle — the pay-offs from face-to-face communication, the serendipity that can come from unscheduled interactions, the amenities of urban life. But these subtle advantages are, in fact, what drive the economies of modern cities — and until Covid-19 struck these advantages were feeding a growing economic divergence between large, highly-educated metropolitan areas and the rest of the country. The rise of remote work may dent that trend, but it probably won’t reverse it. The revival of cities won’t be entirely a pretty process; much of it will probably reflect the preferences of wealthy Americans who want big-city luxuries and glamour. “The main problem with moving to Florida is that you have to live in Florida,” one money manager told Bloomberg. But while cities thrive in part because they cater to the lifestyles of the rich and fatuous — like it or not, their wealth and power do a lot to shape the economy — cities also thrive because a lot of information-sharing and brainstorming takes place over coffee breaks and after-hours beers; Zoom calls aren’t an adequate substitute. Or as the great Victorian economist, Alfred Marshall, said of his own era’s technology centres: “The mysteries of the trade become no mysteries; but are as it were in the air...” So the best bet is that life and work in, say, 2023 will look a lot like life and work in 2019, but a bit less so. We may commute to the office less than we used to; there may well be a glut of urban office space. But most of us won’t be able to stay very far from the madding crowd. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
