19-03-2021||Opinion||Quad sends a clear message||Sir — Although the first-ever leader-level summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue took place virtually, it has sent out a clear message to China that its increasing expansionism and hostility, particularly in Asia, will not be tolerated (“New friends”, March 17). The four members of Quad — India, Japan, Australia and the United States of America — seem willing to act together to take on China’s desire to establish supremacy over other countries in the Indo-Pacific region. The summit took place against the backdrop of three critical regional and global developments. First is India’s military face-off with China in Galwan. China’s incursions along the Line of Actual Control and attempts to escalate military confrontation proves that it is willing to go into battle to establish its supremacy. The second is the election of Joe Biden as the president of the US. While former president, Donald Trump, took a tough stand on China, Biden prefers a multilateral approach, alliances and partnerships over unilateral action. The third aspect is China’s unclear role in the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. All members of Quad have reasons to be resentful towards China. China imposed sanctions on Australia and made inroads into the southern Indian Ocean and southern Pacific regions. Japan is concerned over China’s new coast guard law which allows China to open fire on any ship posing a threat in waters claimed by China. The US realizes that China can challenge its status as the world’s superpower. Further, Covid-19 exposed the dependence of countries on Chinese supply lines, prompting nations to build wide-ranging partnerships with friendly nations. However, it remains to be seen whether the Quad will prove to be a solution to the threat posed by China, as the priorities of the members with regard to the approach towards the country are different. Venu G.S.,
Kollam, Kerala Sir — While it is good to know that the Quad has a broader developmental agenda than having a mere anti-China stand — the intended production of one billion Covid-19 vaccines jointly would be a right step at this time — the animosity towards China is quite evident. Yet no country in this group — India, Japan, Australia or the US — is in a position to cut its ties with it. China’s expansionism can be ignored only at one’s own peril. So an effective group like Quad was indeed the need of the hour. However, that it is not confined to strategies and counter-strategies against China is equally important. D.V.G. Sankararao,
Nellimarla,
Andhra Pradesh Sir — It bodes well for India and the other members of Quad that the first leadership summit turned out to be a meaningful exercise. But the US’s attempt to strengthen the ties between India and itself is a development that seems to have displeased China, which insists on delinking its border dispute with India from bilateral exchanges. But China should realize that if the Quad has gained momentum, it has only itself to blame. The fact that time-tested India-Russia ties have lost some of its warmth, with Moscow strengthening its bonds with Pakistan and China, also seems to have played a role in New Delhi looking elsewhere for support. As the Quad finds new credibility, China would do well to reconsider its approach. All the four members of Quad have mutually beneficial relationships with China, which has risen to become one of the largest economic and military powers in the world. But if China continues its pursuit of hegemony, the Quad is bound to act as an inevitable balancing force. Meanwhile, New Delhi should make the most of its growing friendship with the other members of Quad and further its strategic and economic interests as well as keep Beijing on the back foot. S.S. Paul,
Nadia Sir — China has all the reasons to be edgy after the successful summit of Quad nations. Its growing aggression in the Indo-Pacific region is not hidden from anyone. But credit must be given to Quad members for making the vaccine partnership a priority, given that it is probably the greatest need of the hour to pool in resources and help all countries which are struggling to get their citizens vaccinated. Indeed, China will not leave any stone unturned to drive a wedge amongst the members, but India needs to play smart and act strategically: it must keep its long-term interests in mind. India’s diplomatic skills will surely be put to test as it strives to strike a balance between its relationship with China and with other nations. Bal Govind,
Noida Sir — It has been some 10 days since all the brouhaha over International Women’s Day and Tirath Singh Rawat, the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, made a condescending comment about a woman wearing ripped jeans running a non-governmental organization. He is apparently concerned about the example she was setting before society. While it is no one’s business what a free citizen of the country chooses to wear, it is disappointing that to this day a woman continues to be judged by her clothes and not by the work she does. Lip service to women’s empowerment will be of no value until people change their regressive mindset. Sonali Dutta,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
19-03-2021||Opinion||Desi democracy indices||It is heartening to note that the foreign ministry is taking the prime minister’s ‘Make in India’ slogan to heart. There is some speculation that the ministry is contemplating the formulation of a ‘world democracy report’ as well as a ‘global press freedom index’ with the help of an independent, indigenous think-tank. The issue assumes significance on account of some recent developments. Late last year, the Prime Minister’s Office is said to have forwarded to the external affairs ministry a letter written by a former chairman of Prasar Bharati that New Delhi should frame its own parameters to define a democracy index in order to counter the critical assessment of India’s freedom and democracy by international bodies. This response has a context. Since the genesis of this purported letter, India has performed quite poorly on these indices in several studies. For instance, the V-Dem Institute has downgraded the quality of democracy and described India as an “electoral autocracy”. Its findings are not anomalous: the World Press Freedom Index ranked India 142 among 180 nations. In spite of rubbishing these appraisals — the foreign minister rejected the reports, saying India has no need for tedious moral lectures — a touch of nerve — or is it nervousness? — is apparent. Growing international concern and condemnation could well energize efforts to create domestic, but curated, templates for measuring democracy. This is worrying on two counts. Such an intervention goes against the principle of objectivity, with the possibility of a think-tank enjoying the patronage of the powers that be playing judge and jury. Second, the proposal, if it were to take concrete shape in the future, shows that the Narendra Modi government remains unwilling to engage with censure. This irritation is typical of authoritarian regimes. Does not the collar of ‘electoral autocracy’ fit rather nicely then? Of greater concern is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s understanding of the fundamental tenets of freedom. With the BJP as the political minder, India could be schooled into adopting a newer, desi model of democracy whose parameters are in conflict with the markers of liberalism that are cherished by the rest of the world. The stress on the creation of new benchmarks in the aforementioned note is particularly relevant. Perhaps the point made by Rahul Gandhi that elections take place even under totalitarian regimes needs to be studied carefully by the conscientious citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
19-03-2021||Opinion||Move softly: new Delhi NCT bill||Testing the waters needs a step at a time. The government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, 2021 could be perceived by critics as a disguised step towards making an elected government redundant. That is a blow to the Aam Aadmi Party government, which has been assiduously echoing the values — deshbhakti, for example — and attitudes — prosecution of ‘anti-national’ students — of the Narendra Modi-led government. The bill defines 'government' with reference to any law passed by the Delhi assembly as ‘lieutenant-governor’. More, it bars the assembly or its committees from making rules regarding everyday administration without the lieutenant-governor’s say-so, questioning administrative decisions and carrying out investigations as it is now doing, for example, into the alleged role Facebook played in the violence in north-eastern Delhi. The bill which, like other controversial ones in the last seven years, is expected to pass through Parliament like knife through butter demolishes hopes of Delhi’s statehood. It was not just the former Congress and the present AAP governments that had promised statehood, but the Bharatiya Janata Party government headed by Madan Lal Khurana had once upon a time complained about the government’s limited powers too. What prompted the bill may not be clear; perhaps too much investigation into occurrences like the Delhi violence is not healthy for an elected government. Or the reason lies in the seeds of the future. But the Centre said that the bill will further define the roles of the government and the lieutenant-governor in accordance with the 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court. Odd, because the 2018 judgment in effect gave the elected government freedom in forming policy and in other matters of governance while keeping the lieutenant-governor informed. His role was of an administrator with discretionary powers advised by the council of ministers. The bill, once it becomes an additional provision in the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991, will have interpreted the judgment in an original fashion. The protests of the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, may sound a little weak; clearly he has been left floundering by the Union government even after he supported its cancellation of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and the state’s division into Union territories. Had not the Centre’s move been ominous, the irony would have been lined with comedy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
19-03-2021||Opinion||There is nowhere left to run||Once upon a time, running away was quite a tradition for children. The Bengali classic, Bari Theke Paliye, by Shibram Chakraborty, turned into a memorable film by Ritwik Ghatak, has Kanchan, a defiant, fearless teenager, running away to Calcutta, in a train, from his village to escape his father’s wrath. His father is the only person on earth that Kanchan is afraid of. In Calcutta, Kanchan discovers an urban dystopia that is ruled by money and is deeply alienating. He returns to his village and realizes his oppressive patriarch of a father is actually not that much of a monster. In another Bengali classic, the Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay story, Gonshaibaganer Bhoot, Burun, the boy who gets only 13 in maths — it becomes a useful mantra later — runs away from home, again, because of a terrifying father. But instead of in a hostile city, Burun lands in Gonshaibagan, a place both savage and enchanted, and magical events follow. In real life, almost 70 years ago, my father, as a teenager, had tried to run away from home at least two times. Reaching Howrah station, on each occasion, however, he had failed to board the train that would take him to an unknown destination for various reasons. I suspect that he did not really want to run away. The running away was done mostly by boys, though some girls were not to be left behind. As late as in the Nineties, a girl known to my family, a teenager, had reached Howrah Station, yes, again, to go to Mumbai. The police caught her and she told them her name was ‘Kajol’. Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge — featuring another tyrannical father — had just been released. Too many things have happened since the great era of running away. Have fathers become less threatening, especially towards their sons? Or are they as threatening, but in different ways? Which reminds us of another great Bengali institution: that of the patriarch declaring a son “tyajyaputra” (meaning disinherited, but the English word does not have the flourish of the Bengali one). A lot of Bengali fiction and cinema had authoritarian fathers, someone like Kamal Mitra or Chhabi Biswas, shaking grandly with passion and cancelling the property rights of the young mutinous son, someone like a young Uttam Kumar. It was some version of the Oedipal, as primal as it was brutal. Such a vengeful father is hard to find now, certainly in popular culture. Maybe also because there is not much to disinherit sons from, the capital having run away from Bengal long ago? Maybe someone should research the relationship between paternal wrath and capital. King Lear could be a case in point, though he only had daughters. The train journey has changed. The train, boarded or not, was an important part of running away, linking the familiar with the unknown. But the romance of trains is gone and the idea of adventure has changed — and no place is unknown on Google. Besides, children going away in trains to an unknown place has now become associated sordidly with trafficking. Teenage rebellion has changed. When there is a conflict at home — and when there is not — children can always turn to the mobile phone. No train can go where mobile data takes them. Once they are there, they are lost, with few parents, angry or otherwise, being able to retrieve them. But no point blaming technology alone. Some adults I know would like to escape  too. From the virus and from the politics that surrounds us, making breathing difficult. The truth is there is no place to run away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
19-03-2021||Opinion||Snafu season||Elections are usually seen as celebrations of democracy, as festivals of plurality that mark Indian culture. But the elections this year feel different — almost eventless — a burlesque of politics enacted as a reflex. Election time this year is eventless as history. All the incidents seem to be borrowed from earlier plots. If you mention violence, experts reply that it is an old habit, tracing its genealogy back to a different era. The political scripts are also mediocre even if the challenge before us is ominous and devastating. We are facing the irony of an electoral democracy where the regime is destroying the very institutions that made democracy meaningful. In fact, there is a sense of continuity without vision. Probably the best example is the launching of the Central Vista project by the Bharatiya Janata Party, a celebration of monumentality without achievement, which I guess is Narendra Modi’s idea of a Parliament. Instead of challenging the Haussmannic imperial idea of power present in Lutyens’ Delhi, Modi shows he is native to this imagination of power without responsibility. The elections in various states look like silent movies, without ideas, with each actor semaphoring his intention of holding on to power. One usually holds an election as a review of policy or a rethinking of power. One senses little of this in politics. There is, as an acute observer told me confidentially, a surreal in the banal. Take Tamil Nadu’s case. The election looks like a revivalist cult centring on V.K. Sasikala and J. Jayalalithaa. It is more a tribute to the two corrupt matriarchs than an assessment of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The struggles seem pitifully local. There is no sense of big issues. Politics in Bengal looks like a collection of vendettas. The ease with which politicians shift parties makes one wonder if loyalty and commitment are part of politics. Kerala seems more haunted by corruption. The BJP rescues E. Sreedharan from the mothballs of retirement, promising a new technocratic Ram rajya. It is eerie to watch a man with impeccable credentials succumb to the halo of power. The entire electoral scene is built on the superficial, more a battle of identity and reservation politics than a contest involving serious debate on issues. There is an indifference, a lapse in memory, as if the vaccination was timed for the election, a sense that between vaccine and vote, India is returning to normal. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) pulls off one or two redeeming moments, too little and too late as it hosts a lot of student candidates and not its habitual gerontocratic club. As a friend wryly said, Covid-19 has had an impact at least here, as older people are seen as vulnerable. Frankly one does not see a vibrant India at the elections. It is more a voyeuristic India propping up local issues. The excitement of democracy and the magic of an open polity are sorely missing. There is a word that soldiers in World War II coined for such a meaningless situation where activity presumes the normal but adds little to the meaning. They coined the word, SNAFU, an acronym that means ‘situation normal, all fouled up’. India conducts its elections as empty rituals over the glorious mess of institutions and governance it has decimated. I want to highlight a few issues that worry me as an academic and a citizen. The election did not provide time or place to initiate civil society into the election process. There is no alternative to civil society activism given the emptiness of political parties. The Left sounds vacuous, and the Right increasingly pompous. The citizen has to reinvent a politics of ideas and institutions. At a crisis level, it has to immediately rehabilitate the three things that the regime has destroyed — civil society itself, the university as a microcosm of a knowledge society and the environment as a source of livelihood and a vision of diversity and ethics. The idea of civil society needs to be revived as a source of diversity and plurality, as a nursery for ideas that the marginal and the minority can thrive on. Civil society has the political humus to create alternative imaginations when ideologies and technocracies dry up, becoming aridly repetitive. Civil society must challenge the simulacra of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that the BJP has propped up as its idea of community and civility. When the cadre pretend to be communities, one creates disciplines without normativeness, obedience without a sense of conscience. It is civil society that sustains plurality and the nation state. Civil society offers the fecundity of dissent, which no cadre or clerk can generate. It is in the potentialities of dissent that the Johnny Appleseeds of our future democracy will survive. Once civil society becomes an organic entity, fertile with plural ideas, the citizen must strive to create a community of playful ideas from the adda to the panchayat to the university. Each is a critical institution that creates the fertility of debate and ideas. The character Amartya Sen called the Argumentative Indian should become a creative figure in all three theatres. Sadly, the university has been emasculated by this regime while it hides its academic crimes behind the New Education Policy. The policy report turns knowledge into a giant tutorial college that even Macaulay would have loved, a secretariat for clerks when we desperately need new inventions. The modern university has to be a place of experimentation. One invokes in this context not the current Santiniketan but the original Santiniketan that Rabindranath Tagore, Patrick Geddes and J.C. Bose conceived, a university which could carry out a dialogue of civilizations and disciplines in its search for a livelier holism. Only universities can maintain a dialogue of civilizations to challenge the uniformity of the nation state, which literally cannibalizes citizenship today. Civil society has to create a new imagination around human rights rather than rest content with the idea of citizenship as it exists. One needs a concept that is more life-giving to the displaced, the defeated and the excluded. India’s silence over the Rohingya reflects the death of a civilization even as the nation state preens itself on its tactical handling of the Myanmar army. The idea of environment has to be reworked beyond the current notion of nature as a commodity, a resource or a tourist spectacle. Like the Maori and as suggested by many leading scientists, nature must be represented in the Constitution in the full sense of the idea of the sacred and in terms of ecosystemic diversity for issues like livelihood to become legal, cognitive matters and for citizenship to become an inclusive dream of dwelling and hospitality tackling the politics of development and ethnicity. Civil society in a more participative sense must add to the vitality of institution-building. It must create knowledge panchayats, which debate the issues of science, diversity and livelihood from different perspectives. Citizenship must challenge the obscurities of expertise more creatively while sensing the new uncertainties and complexities of knowledge. The silence around the coronavirus has to be worked into a series of participatory scenarios that make science more meaningful for citizenship. The recent farmers’ strike needs a different response from the regime and the civil society as the future of agriculture extends beyond the fate of any election. Whether in agriculture, education or public health, there is a need to create a science policy, which reworks the relations among knowledge, livelihood and democracy. The alleged ‘benign neglect’ of the farmers’ strike is an obscenity of attitudes democracy must avoid. Civil society through its involvement must atone for the indifference of the regime. Finally, one has to confront the levels of violence in our society and create institutions that can work creatively around these problems. Sadly, our democracy has lost its sense of civilization and its short-term memory of violence over the last two decades. An information society that specializes in erasure and surveillance is the last thing India needs. This range of challenges before us shows that elections have turned cosmetic. We need new forms of institution-building where new ideas as alternatives are worked out. A non-violent society needs a satyagrahi in law, science and governance who adds constructive work to protest for democracy to be playful and inventive again. The Stalins, the Mamatas, the Modis, the Amit Shahs add little to the imagination or to the future of Indian democracy. It needs a different set of dreamers with a different quality of conscience. Current politics is too impoverished to provide it. The Party must return to civil society to re-educate itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
