20-03-2021||Opinion||Free no more: Pratap Bhanu Mehta resigns from Ashoka University||Sir — The resignation of the eminent academic, political commentator and vocal critic of the Narendra Modi-led government, Pratap Bhanu Mehta, as professor of Ashoka University is a worrying development (“‘Political liability’ upheaval in Ashoka”, March 19). This is widely believed to be the result of the exertion of political pressure on the university’s administration. The event is disheartening as it has happened in an institution held in great esteem for its intellectual output. The university, set up in 2014, has employed some of the most brilliant minds in the country. But its administration has fallen in the estimation of citizens for its perceived lack of courage in standing up to a political regime intolerant of criticism and its inability to put up a spirited defence of free-thinking public intellectuals. It is deeply troubling that the university felt it had to placate the powers that be. The economist, Arvind Subramanian, who also quit soon after his illustrious colleague did, has described the institute’s inability to “provide a space for academic expression and freedom” as “ominously disturbing”. Of what use is a university if it is unable to protect its autonomy and academic freedom? That a private university could not rally around a faculty member such as Mehta says a lot about the times we live in. A university is a centre for critical thinking, creativity and originality; it is not supposed to be an arm of the government of the day. As such, the reason cited by Mehta for his exit — he stated that the university’s founders made it “abundantly clear” that his association with the institution was a “political liability” — is a clear sign that academic freedom was encroached upon. Mehta has never been afraid to say what he thinks. He cannot be expected to sing from the ruling dispensation’s hymn book. He has shown great strength of character by speaking truth to power. The shrinking space for public intellectuals renders democracy poorer. It is time we guarded our hard-won rights and freedoms. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The resignation of two eminent professors from Ashoka University has caused massive outrage. Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian resigned from an institution hitherto perceived to be truly free from political interference. Most disturbing is the fact that even private institutions are succumbing to political pressure in an environment where free speech and tolerance towards criticism have already taken a back seat. Bhaskar Roy,New Delhi Sir — Ashoka University, a liberal arts institute, has found itself at the centre of a furore following the resignation of Pratap Bhanu Mehta and the subsequent departure of Arvind Subramanian. In his resignation letter, Mehta said that the founders made it clear that his association with the institute was a “political liability”. The resignations have led academics, students and faculty members to question the idea of academic freedom at the university, which claims to encourage its students to think and question freely. Mehta has never minced his words about the current regime. He had also been critical of the erstwhile United Progressive Alliance government. But the Bharatiya Janata Party is ready to brook no criticism, especially given the brute majority it was awarded in its second term in spite of its disastrous policymaking in its first term. Mehta’s colleagues should resign en masse in support of him. Kakoli Das,Calcutta Happy people Sir — It is unsurprising that Finland has been found to be the happiest country in the world in spite of the pandemic. Researchers have indicated that its performance can be attributed to the mutual trust between citizens and the administration, which helped protect lives and livelihoods during the pandemic. The nation even reported some of Europe’s lowest cases of Covid-19 infection. It is telling that Finland’s head of government is a woman; research has already shown that countries led by women, such as New Zealand, had “systematically and significantly better” Covid-19 outcomes. Umair Ali,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
20-03-2021||Opinion||Sound of political music||Elections are a strenuous affair, especially for the voters’ ears. The loud exhortations of canvassing politicians and the even louder trading of barbs among contestants can jangle the nerves. As such, a touch of melody can act as a soothing balm for the senses in such shrill times. This musical reprieve has been provided, yet again, by the jingles and catchy tunes composed by political parties as Bengal hurtles towards its assembly elections. Even the usually dour comrades are not out of tune: the Communist Party of India (Marxist) released a parody of a popular song, “Tumpa sona”, which has gone viral. The ironies are palpable. The Left leadership, once the bastion of the upper class, Hindu bhadralok, has been forced to rely on a rather subaltern rhythm in order to reclaim lost turf; the Bharatiya Janata Party — the high priest of authoritarianism — now has a ear out for foot-tapping, soul-stirring stuff. It released its own version of “Bella ciao”, a 19th-century Italian protest song against fascist forces, morphing it, with a touch of uncharacteristic humour and imagination, into “Pishi jao”, in a bid to pinch the Bengal chief minister where it hurts. But it is the Trinamul Congress that seems to be the principal contender for the Political Grammys: its signature rap song, “Khela hobe”, has stormed YouTube. Music and message go hand in hand in these political melodies. Through these curated tunes, the CPI(M) has focused on joblessness and the frustration of the youth; the BJP has pledged to root out corruption; the TMC, meanwhile, has invoked the spectre of the ‘bargi’ to project itself as the protector of Bengal’s culture and ethos against a marauding outsider. The differences in these claims notwithstanding, what is refreshing is that in a country known for the sterility of its political discourse manifest in tired rhetoric, empty promises, grandiose claims and unimaginative policy, political contests — an election, one of the markers of a vibrant democracy — retain their ability to serve as a fount of creative energy. This creativity also injects the critical elements of banter and playfulness that are essential to sustain dialogue and democracy in the long run. A fecund political landscape can also do a lot to undo the propensity among politicians to make intemperate remarks against their opponents. A clever turn of phrase or a sardonic song, arguably, delivers a far more potent punch than some of the offensive comments that have come to substitute civilized political dialogue. The sound of political music is also a heartening reminder that the kernel of democracy can come to fruition even amidst the lengthening shadow of regimentalism. This is because soulless, totalitarian tyrannical regimes are synonymous with silence and the absence of melody. China had, until recently, outlawed such Western composers as Beethoven; the Soviet Union had forbidden works by ‘bourgeois formalists’; while Nazi Germany had condemned ‘Jewish music’. Election beats could well be construed as the beating heart of democracy. Hopefully, India’s ruling party would not find the notes too jarring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
20-03-2021||Opinion||Unpleasant truth: Britain's deep-seated racism||My favourite hymn is “Jerusalem” because of its evocation of “Englands green & pleasant Land”. It is based on William Blake’s poem set to music by Hubert Parry and orchestration by Edward Elgar. But now a scholarly new book, Green Unpleasant Land: Creative Responses to Rural England’s Colonial Connections by Corinne Fowler, professor of postcolonial literature at Leicester University, argues that behind the beauty of rural Britain lies deep-seated racism. “I could have called it Green Unpleasant Land with a question mark,” she tells me. “But I wanted to signal... disrupting our more traditional views of the countryside. ‘Green & pleasant Land’ is something which gives us a feeling of nostalgia, of love for the countryside... I wanted to slightly trouble that feeling. Hence, the provocative title. I’m looking afresh at the English countryside. I’m trying to open up its histories of connection to the British Empire, to the East India Company and to transatlantic slavery in particular.” She points out: “Despite Blake’s call to ‘love the human form/ in heathen, Turks or Jew’, “Jerusalem” has been enlisted to support racially exclusive visions of rural England as a space of whiteness. Historically, the countryside is a terrain of inequalities, so it should not surprise us that it should be seen as a place of particular hostility to those who are seen not to belong, principally Black and Asian Britons.” Fowler is among the academics who brought out a National Trust report revealing that 93 of its properties were financed by the slave trade or colonial loot, mostly from India. “It’s really important to correct that fallacy about the colonisation of India in any way benefiting the Indian economy... it quite clearly fleeced that economy in a way that was devastating,” she says. Fowler has been denounced by right-wing tabloids and commentators for allegedly denigrating Britain: “I get horrible threatening emails. I think I’ve just got dragged into this culture war.” Beauty business Listening to Reita Faria last week on the BBC’s Witness History spot made me wonder whether I shouldn’t return to university to do a PhD on the Indian beauty business. It is worth recalling that Aishwarya Rai won the Miss World title in 1994, followed by Diana Hayden (1997), Yukta Mookhey (1999), Priyanka Chopra (2000) and Manushi Chhillar (2017). Sushmita Sen won Miss Universe in 1994. But the first Indian to win Miss World was Faria, a Goan girl from Bombay, in 1966. Now 77, Faria, a retired doctor, and her husband and endocrinologist, David Powell, live in Ireland. They have two daughters and five grandchildren. She travelled the world for a year as Miss World, including going to Vietnam with Bob Hope to entertain the American troops. She was afraid that the Indian government, which “didn’t support the American war in Vietnam”, might impound her passport. Faria says about her unexpected 66-1 victory in London: “I was proud for India — I wore the Indian sari for the entire year because I wanted the image of India to be established at that point.” However, she was resolved not to go into Bollywood but become a doctor, which she did by qualifying from King’s College Hospital in London. Does she think there is a place for beauty contests in today’s world? Her reply: “I don’t to be quite honest — it really has passed its sell by date in the sense that the world has matured and there really is no fairy tale to anything anymore.” Scottish at heart It is worth recording that Sirdar Iqbal Singh, who passed away, aged 91, on March 6, was someone whom the Scottish people took to their hearts. He was born in Lahore in 1930, came to London in 1959, worked in a factory before making his money in property, and moved to Scotland in the 1980s. He bought the deserted 100-acre island of Vacsay in the Outer Hebrides, which he named after Robert Burns, Scotland’s national poet. He had poems by Burns, including “Auld Lang Syne”, translated into Punjabi, and wore blazers in the invented Singh tartan. He was nicknamed “Laird of Lesmahagow” by the Scottish media — laird refers to a person who owns a large estate. I stayed one night in “Little Castle”, his 20-bedroom turreted mansion in Lanarkshire. Iqbal’s turban was always white, a reflection of his deep faith. From his younger brother in London, Inder Singh Uppal, I learn: “He used to spread a white sheet downstairs. When we asked why, he said, ‘Don’t you know? Guruji comes at night.’” Balanced image Bite-Sized Books is an innovative publishing house which churns out short books on contemporary issues. I contributed something to a book on Brexit once. Now my good friend, Mihir Bose, has done a characteristically balanced biography, Narendra Modi: The Yogi of Populism. It suggests that Modi’s populist policies may have inspired Donald Trump and Boris Johnson to emulate him. Bose quotes Ajit Gulabchand as saying Modi is “a very sincere man” who is “not corrupt”. But a journalist from a leading paper, who tells the author, “There is hardly any journalism happening now” and that “Modi’s government has cowed the media”, asks not to be named: “No, no please do not.” Footnote A new set of stamps from Royal Mail commemorating the legend of King Arthur takes me back to learning Tennyson’s “Morte d’Arthur” at St Xavier’s in Patna. It depicts the young Arthur being handed the Excalibur by the Lady of the Lake. Later, the dying Arthur has the sword returned to the lake by a reluctant Sir Belvedere: “But ere he dipt the surface, rose an arm/ Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful,/ And caught him by the hilt, and brandish’d him/ Three times, and drew him under in the mere.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
20-03-2021||Opinion||Positive paradox||In three of the five states going for polls in the latest round of elections, a Muslim party would be contesting a large chunk of seats as part of a larger secular alliance. In Assam (the Congress-Left-AIUDF alliance) and West Bengal (the Congress-Left-ISF alliance), this represents an entirely new pattern of political configuration, while in Kerala (the Congress-IUML alliance) this is part of the long-established political norm. We are witnessing an interesting paradox of an unprecedented acceptance of autonomous Muslim political parties at the height of the Hindutva dominance of India. What are the driving forces of the diverse Muslim political parties of India? At the outset, we can point to three fundamental political developments that have structured Muslim party politics over the last two decades. One, the publication of the Sachar Committee report, which provided the political vocabulary for Muslim parties to launch an attack on their secular competitors. The damning picture of the social and economic backwardness of Muslims under secular regimes constructed the legitimating framework for the organizing of Muslims as a political bloc. It laid the rationale for a separate political identity that could be formed in the modern terms of social justice and derived itself from the constitutional promise of social and economic equality. Two, the rise of Hindutva as the dominant political force in the country, and the concurrent decline in the political representation of Muslims. While Muslims are rarely, if ever, fielded by the Bharatiya Janata Party, even secular parties have cut down on their tickets to Muslims out of fear of Hindu consolidation. In the most recent instance, the Trinamul Congress has cut down its Muslim candidates by a third from 2016. Hindutva dominance has also created a shared consciousness of oppression among Muslims cutting across regional, caste, class and gender divides. This shared consciousness not just animated the nationwide anti-CAA movement  but has also helped a party like the AIMIM expand its national footprint, as was witnessed in Bihar and Gujarat. However, as the cold-blooded out-turfing of the AIMIM from the electoral arena of Bengal by the ISF has demonstrated, Muslim politics is still largely conducted through a regional idiom by state-based parties. Three, the weakness of former dominant secular parties has pushed them into a more accommodationist stance with regard to autonomous political parties of the states. It would have been unthinkable a decade back to imagine the staunchly secular Left Front in alliance with a Muslim party in Bengal, or the Congress in Assam allying with the same AIUDF it ruthlessly attacked under Tarun Gogoi. Within this analytically sprawling category of ‘Muslim parties’, we can draw out three distinct strands of Muslim politics, which can help us understand both the driving force of contemporary Muslim politics as well as gauge its possible future courses. The first strand of Muslim politics is represented by the mainstream communitarian party which mobilizes on the provision of public goods by being part of the governing regime, exemplified by the Indian Union Muslim League. This form of Muslim politics has been facilitated by the consociationalism of the politics of Kerala, which integrates communitarian parties into two broad coalitions. The IUML has played a critical role in state politics since the formation of the state in 1956, being part of coalition governments of both the Left parties and the Congress. It has, in recent times, consistently won around twenty seats of the state legislature with the help of some additional support base of its allies. The resolute pragmatism of the IUML can be gauged from its stand on continuing with the Congress alliance in the heated post-Babri Masjid phase, despite facing an open rebellion by a faction which blamed the Congress for the demolition of the mosque. The appeal of the IUML thus depends on its bargaining power with the ruling alliance in providing Muslims with representation in all spheres of public life. The second strand of Muslim politics is represented by the isolationist identity-based party which mobilizes in opposition to the existing political system. The All India United Democratic Front led by Badruddin Ajmal is a good example. The party arose in the aftermath of the Supreme Court order in 2005 overturning the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act, 1983. The reversal of this instrument — which lent a layer of legal protection to Bengali Muslims — fuelled the anxieties of this community that the Congress could no longer protect them, either from the violence of Assamese ethno-nationalists or from the harassment of state officials. This type of party builds its popular base by attacking its secular competitor and weaning away their support base. In its first election in 2006, the AIUDF wrested ten Muslim-dominated assembly seats from the Congress. However, there are limits to this exclusive identity-based mobilization. One, in the absence of coalition partners, the party is susceptible to reverse communal polarization of Hindu votes. The performance of the AIUDF in the 2016 assembly elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections showed a marked downward trajectory as the BJP ascended to pole position on the back of Hindu consolidation. Second, the AIUDF is unable to present itself as a viable party of government that can effectively bargain for public goods on behalf of its constituents. This is particularly important for Muslim-dominated areas of lower Assam which are marred by poverty, lack of educational facilities and under-development. The coalition with the Congress indicates that the AIUDF is attempting a transition from an isolationist identity-based mobilization to an IUML-like political bargaining-based mobilization. The third strand of Muslim politics is represented by a new class of political parties which have emerged against the backdrop of the Sachar Committee report. These parties’ articulate Muslim identity in terms of socio-economic backwardness, allying with other backward groups, and moving beyond the issues of security and cultural recognition that formed the core of an earlier generation of Muslim parties. The Uttar Pradesh-based Peace Party of India is a quintessential exemplar of this politics, taking birth in 2008 just in the aftermath of the release of the Sachar report. It quickly established a base among the backward Ansari weavers of eastern UP, bagging four seats in the 2012 elections. Its surgeon founder, Mohammad Ayub, blasted secular parties for ignoring the material needs of Muslims since Independence, claiming that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance “avoids even discussing the Justice Sachar Committee report”. Meanwhile, he accused the Samajwadi Party leader, Mulayam Singh, of mobilizing Muslims by giving “inflammatory speeches in favour of the Muslims” and provoking them into conflict. However, the eclipse of the Peace Party post 2014 exposes the vulnerability of such parties to extreme communal polarization. Recently, its leadership and support base in UP has been appropriated by the more strident AIMIM. The newly formed Indian Secular Front can also be broadly seen as the lagged outcome of this post-Sachar mobilization. The publication of the Sachar Committee report had perhaps the greatest political ramifications in Bengal as it contributed to the decisive shift of the Muslim vote away from the Left Front to the TMC. Despite the careful nurturing of this Muslim vote by Mamata Banerjee, Bengali Muslims continue to lag behind in social and economic indicators compared to Muslims of other states. It is this opening that has been exploited by Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui, whose focal point of attack on the TMC government remains the socio-economic backwardness of Muslims. In order to underline its inclusive credentials of social justice, the ISF has given ten out of its 21 seats to backward-caste Hindus and adivasis. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, which generates the most headlines of any Muslim party, is a hybrid of all these three types of Muslim parties. In its home state of Telangana, it enters a bargaining alliance with the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi; in Parliament and other national forums, it predominantly employs a Sachar Committee-derived vocabulary of social justice; while in its election rallies in greenfield states it often falls back on hot-button identity-based issues to outflank competing secular parties. Being the only Muslim party to nurture national ambitions, it is extremely fleet-footed and aware of different political contexts. The argument between secular and Muslim parties on the matter of who constitutes the true representatives of Muslim citizens has been encoded in the very foundation of our Republic. After all, the genesis of the Partition lay in the unrelenting refusal of the Congress to legitimize an increasingly separatist Muslim League as the voice and protector of the Muslims of British India. The Congress, notwithstanding its overwhelmingly Hindu leadership, never conceded on its cherished ideological principle of representing Indians of all religions and ethnicities. The newly-found acceptance of autonomous Muslim parties within an enlarged (and more nuanced) secular framework is thus a welcome signal of the maturing of our secular imagination. It couldn’t have come at a more urgent time. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
