21-03-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s sorrow||Can geography become history? The query need not necessarily be looked at as a riddle. Geography — Bengal’s riverine geography, a fragile landscape threatened with imminent destruction — is very much on its way to becoming a relic of history. Bengal’s riverine ecology has been correctly surmised to be symbolic of the fecundity of its soil, intellect and culture. Poets, writers, artists, film-makers have celebrated this bond between land and water memorably: the joyous sparkle of “Amader chhoto nadi” by Rabindranath Tagore, the pathos in Jibanananda Das’s Rupashi Bangla, Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s enchanting Ichhamati, Ritwik Ghatak’s Subarnarekha — the list is both rich and long. Yet, the lives of Bengal’s rivers appear to be short. A recent rally by Sabuj Mancha, a philanthropic organization, in Calcutta brought to light the sorrow of Bengal’s rivers. The data are discouraging. Seventeen of the most polluted rivers in India are from this state; 10 major rivers — the Alokananda, Kankona, Chaiti and Bhairab are among them — have gone extinct; the Kalinga, Paglachandi, Morali, Mathabhanga, Churni, Buriganga are either nearing or threatened with annihilation. Their feeble waters will carry with them intricate local ecologies, enchanting marine flora and fauna, dependent cultures, traditions, occupations — entire ways of life, living, and civilizations — to the grave. The causes of this devastation are well-documented. Untreated sewage continues to be one of the principal poisons being injected into the rivers: an earlier report by the state pollution control board had found that most of the major rivers in Bengal are massively polluted. Administrative apathy, the multiplicity of government departments that make it easier for the authorities to pass the buck and — most crucially — the marginalization of ecological prerogatives in the political domain have been instrumental in deepening this rot. The scale of the crisis necessitates seamless, coordinated action on a number of fronts. A specific department to look after the health and regeneration of rivers sounds like a promising idea. However, India’s experience with the rejuvenation of the Ganga at the national level shows that a dedicated department need not always make a difference. What can make a difference though is turning conservation — of water, air, forest, species — into a truly representative, public endeavour. Sabuj Mancha’s suggestion of decentralizing conservation, with its proposal of the establishment of specific tiers of redressal at the grass roots — a river sabha, panchayat and zilla sansad — could well be an imaginative way of replenishing the fraying bond between communities and water bodies. There is also an indisputable economic rationale behind the resurrection of Bengal’s waterways. It has been estimated that over 25 lakh people have lost their jobs on account of dying rivers: the return of life to these precious waters could resuscitate allied marine industry. What is needed for all of this to come together is the transformation of the environment into a political issue. Unfortunately, there is some distance to be covered here. None of the political parties in election-bound Bengal seems serious about their pledge of ecological revival. A metaphorical river separates election manifestos and the needs of Bengal’s ecological renaissance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
21-03-2021||Opinion||We all know who calls the shots in BJP||The truth always comes out. Although it is no secret who the real boss in Delhi is, the Bharatiya Janata Party still tries to keep up appearances. The importance of the home minister and former BJP chief, Amit Shah — both in the affairs of the government as well as within the party — is not hidden from anyone in Delhi’s corridors of power. In fact, it is widely believed that Shah still calls the shots, even though he stepped down as the party boss before taking up the mantle of the home ministry. Great care is taken, however, to not exhibit this power hierarchy to the public. This is why for key party meetings, Shah is the one who heads over to the home of the present party chief, JP Nadda, and not the other way around. The unpleasant reality, however, was exposed recently during an informal interaction with a select group of journalists at the BJP headquarters. Two chairs had been set out for the occasion — one for the party chief, Nadda, and the other for Shah. But as soon as Shah arrived in the hall with Nadda, he ordered one more chair to be brought in for the party’s media in-charge, Anil Baluni. And although Nadda was given the pride of place right in the middle, he remained a silent participant all through the interaction. Journalists, too, knew who the real boss was and so all the questions were directed at Shah. From party affairs to issues concerning the government, Shah handled everything. In a conversation between the Congress member of parliament, Rahul Gandhi, and the faculty and students of Brown University via video conference this past week, many caught a glimpse of an illustrious past. The interaction brought Rahul face-to-face with Leela Gandhi, the John Hawkes Professor of the Humanities and English, at this private Ivy League research institution. The latter also happens to be Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s great-granddaughter. The two ended up discussing the idea of ‘shoonyata’ (spiritual self effacement) that the Mahatma referred to very often. To many of those watching, this discussion was almost a throwback to the kind of discussions that the Mahatma had with his Congress colleagues during the freedom struggle. It was a nomination rally which put all other such nomination processions to shade this poll season in Assam because of its massive scale and the message it sent out. But then the persona and political style of the BJP’s key strategist in the Northeast and, for many, Assam’s chief minister-in-waiting, Himanta Biswa Sarma, ensure that he stands out in a crowd. His rally after joining the BJP in 2015 and the one taken out during the filing of his nomination in 2016 were equally massive, clearly projecting him as a mass leader. In attendance were the incumbent chief ministers of Assam and Manipur, the Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, and other senior party leaders such as Baijayant Panda. That he will win his Jalukbari bastion is a foregone conclusion for his supporters and loyalists. What the two-kilometre-long nomination rally that brought a portion of Guwahati to a standstill aimed to do was send a message to the Central leadership that he remains the party’s man for all seasons and reasons in the region. It was also meant to convey that the leadership need not look beyond Sarma for the post of chief minister, his supporters said. The party has not named a CM candidate. Both the incumbent CM, Sarbananda Sonowal, and Sarma have left it to the BJP parliamentary board to decide. Sarma, however, had made his ambition to become CM public all the way back when he was still in the Congress, which he left in 2015 after he saw his bid to become the CM thwarted. The ruling BJP clearly has a lot more on its plate apart from merely winning the battle for Dispur. At a time when beef has become a dirty word in Karnataka, which recently passed a stringent law against cow slaughter, the Congress leader, UT Khader, wondered why the National Democratic Alliance government in Delhi did not dare pass a ‘one nation, one anti-cow slaughter law’ instead of laws that are as diverse as the states. India being one of the world’s biggest exporters of beef, Khader challenged the Centre to bring about a uniform ban on cow slaughter across the country and contented that beef has become solely an electoral issue to harvest votes. Chew on that. Trust Pinarayi Vijayan to come up with swipes that amuse and singe at the same time. The entry of the ‘Metroman’, E Sreedharan, in Kerala’s political landscape is a hot topic. After dusting up his old connections with the sangh parivar, the acclaimed technocrat is now in the fray in Kerala. But it is his constant trashing of the state’s development model that ticked off Vijayan. Helming the Left Democratic Front, seeking a rare second consecutive term, Vijayan took a jibe saying even experts in their proven fields would begin talking trash once they join the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
21-03-2021||Opinion||Soft warble||Sir — Just like humans, animals learn behaviour crucial for survival from older members of the same species. But how does one learn such a skill when the older members are dead? The regent honeyeater may now go extinct. Not only are young birds not learning to sing, but their songs are also becoming less intricate. In spite of a rising number of endangered bird species, surprisingly little is said or done about how a decline in population might affect birdsongs, which in turn will further endanger the birds. Is there a case to build an archive of birdsongs before it is too late? This makes for fascinating study, and might also help conservation efforts in the future.

G. Bhattacharjee,
Calcutta Sir — In West Bengal, workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party are protesting against their own organization — what a bizarre situation for a political party to be in. It is not surprising, though, given how the BJP has distributed tickets to defectors from other parties instead of rewarding its own party workers for their loyalty. If anything, this should serve as an eye opener for all political parties. Over the years we have seen how elected representatives dump the party from which they are elected and join another party or the ruling party, even bringing down elected governments, through defections. Needless to say, this is not good for a democracy. Turncoats will be turncoats, no matter which party they may belong to. Building a ‘Sonar Bangla’ is fine, but can we trust turncoats to do that?Melville X. D’Souza,
Mumbai
Sir — The grass-root workers of both the BJP and the Trinamul Congress have been denied tickets, while high-ranking leaders and turncoats have been rewarded for their corrupt ways. Party bosses always consider the grass-root workers as those meant to serve party leaders, and as such, unworthy of being nominated for elections. But the top leadership should not forget that each of their victories comes from the tremendous hard work and sacrifice of the party’s rank and file. These tireless soldiers work day in and out and even risk their lives to make the party successful, but the fruits of the gain are eaten by the top leadership. Now, there is also a new class of people who stand between the grass-roots workers and a taste of political success — these are the celebrities. Both the BJP and the TMC are firm in their belief that star power can win seats and as such have generously doled out tickets to celebrities. But are the celebrities really close to people on the ground? As far as turncoats are concerned, they have switched parties just to ensure they stay in power and their pockets remain lined. They do not care about serving the people.Mrinal Kanti Kundu,
Howrah Sir — A large number of politicians have been flocking to the BJP recently. However, this seems to have created a problem for the BJP. Unhappy with assembly election nominations being handed out to the new entrants —particularly those from the Trinamul Congress — the BJP’s old guard is expressing discontent in inconvenient ways. Some angry supporters ransacked the party’s office, one party worker also reportedly attempted suicide fearing that a former TMC strongman who recently joined the BJP may get a ticket. Meanwhile, several BJP leaders threatened to contest as independents against the party’s official candidates. It is true that ticket distribution always causes heartburn for certain party workers. But the BJP’s poll campaign focuses on highlighting corruption and syndicate raj under the Mamata Banerjee-led government. Thus the TMC turncoats getting preference over the party’s old-timers can undermine the BJP’s message of paribartan.Khokan Das,
Calcutta
Sir — The huge number of turncoats once again proves that politics is nothing but a power game in India. A party’s manifesto does not matter; it is ideologues and the selfish politicians who define Indian politics. As far as Bengal is concerned, the political weather is changing rapidly. Yet, with each change people are making it clear that internally disbalanced parties do not have a chance in the upcoming elections.
 Suranjana Mitra,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
21-03-2021||Opinion||The Midas touch||‘What is happening to Bengal?’ The question is heard often enough now, in these election times. But there is more to it than we might imagine. It does not ask what is happening in Bengal. It asks what is happening to it. And that ‘to’ says it all. Something, the question implies, is changing Bengal, changing it forever. The Bangla word, paribartan, means change or, in a more immediate sense, a replacement. It had been brought into dramatic play during the elections 10 years ago when Mamata Banerjee wrested power from the Left Front. It is now being deployed in a counter challenge to her decade-old incumbency. The challenge of change is certainly in the Bengal air. ‘Who would have thought’, the questioner continues, ‘... that the land of the brightest spiritual luminosity... the highest intellect... tallest science... greatest literature... noblest politics’ would become the site of fractious animosities breaking into a collective din?’ And goes on: ‘Who would have thought that this land of stalwart patriots... of men and women of unsurpassable stature... economists of world class... lawyers of unrivalled ability... political leaders of vision and integrity... administrators of exemplary efficiency... would lurch into... into... this?’ ‘Who would have thought that in Vivekananda’s, Tagore’s and Subhas Bose’s Bengal abuse, belligerence and cunning would try to spell the a b c of its culture, its life?’ Who indeed. Let me state at this point in my reflection that the imminent election in the state is not what this article is about. I am not on the question, ‘Who is going to form the next government in Calcutta?’ The issue that concerns me is: will the quality of the present ‘air’ in Bengal hurt the purity of its lungs, the rhythms of its heart, the delicacy of its soul? Even as Bengal is a unit, one of 36, comprising the Union of India, it is something of an entity in itself. Does not every province feel that about itself? Of course it does, and is entitled to. But even other parts of India would acknowledge that history has made Bengal the palladium of India’s thinking and feeling mind. And in that distinct role, Bengal is bigger than its worst crisis, greater than its toughest challenge. It has it in its being to withstand all conditions of decay, debilitation and even of death — whether in economic organization, social custom or in the largest theatre of life. Take the life of agriculture in Bengal — its very life-breath. The province’s peasant-life had, in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, become a theatre of distress telescoping into disaster. At the time of the Great Bengal Famine of 1770, which, coinciding with the Bengali year, 1176, had come to be known by the chilling name of Chiyattorer Monnontor; anything between 2 and 10 million died of starvation and disease in the province. From the so-called Permanent Settlement of Cornwallis (1793) through to and beyond the Great Bengal Famine of 1943, rural Bengal suffered an unrelieved loss of skill, energy and hope. But did Bengal, as a whole, wither away? It did not. A steadily growing peasants’ movement culminated, post-Independence, in the unveiling of land reforms with the Left Front government of Jyoti Basu launching, in 1978, Operation Barga, which lifted share-croppers from their immiseration to a new life as bargadars. The scheme has not been without problems, controversy. But even its critics recognize it as one of the most successful examples of agrarian intervention not just in India but the world. The greatly debilitated agrarian ‘air’ that seemed to have doomed the province’s lungs to collapse did not change Bengal. Bengal changed that ‘air’. Social custom can incubate barbaric practices. Bengal had followed much of India in one such outrageous, hideous practice — sati, the burning of ‘widows’. Many, if not most, of them were very young, child marriage being then the norm. But an enraged and enlightened Rammohan Roy’s counter-flare of opposition shook public and official conscience on the matter as nothing else had, leading to the practice being banned in 1829. That counter-flare of Bengal did not stop there. It spurred a succession of gender-based legislation even in those benighted pre-Independence times — the Hindu Widows’ Remarriage Act of 1856, the Female Infanticide Prevention Act of 1870 and the Age of Consent Act of 1891 followed. The shaming custom, which spelt nothing less than death for its women, could not singe Bengal; Bengal exorcised it. The raj’s brazen policy of ‘divide and rule’ saw Bengal physically partitioned by Lord Curzon into East and West in 1905. Did Bengal capitulate? It did not, launching an impassioned movement against the division with a boycotting of British goods and institutions at its core, thereby stunning the raj. Abanindranath Tagore’s great painting made that year of Bangamata, later named Bharat Mata, symbolized the province’s fervent rejection of the division. With Lord Curzon’s partition being annulled by Lord Hardinge in 1911, the threat to the province’s political integrity was reversed by Bengal. ‘But’, the reader might — ought to — say, ‘the partition did happen, after all.’ Sure, it did.  Bengal could not over-ride the demand for Pakistan based on the Two-Nation Theory proclaimed by the All India Muslim League and several ideologues of a Hindu rashtra. The Radcliffe Line’s eastern flank cut through Bengal in 1947, creating an East and West out of it, once again. In the white heat of that trauma, a Gujarati named Mohandas, traversed the lengths of what was becoming East Pakistan with the anthropologist, Nirmal Kumar Bose, and a chosen few speaking — and, yes, singing — of the courage of a loner’s conviction in Tagore’s Ekla Chalo Re, and of Hindu-Muslim unity in the Hindi hymn, Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram. In the Noakhali village of Paniala, the largely Muslim gathering at his prayer meeting began, demurringly, to disperse as that ode to Ram commenced. Manu, his grand niece thought, quite impromptu, to introduce into its singing a new line — Ishvar Allah Tere Nam. Those who had started to leave returned with a receptive curiosity if not conviction. Some months later, in Calcutta, as post-Partition rioting erupted, he fasted in expiation and by his readiness to die for harmony in Bengal; he stilled the carnage. Bengal could not stop its partitioning but it drew the poison out of that deep cut. On January 30, 1948, in New Delhi, as Mohandas sank to the ground with Ram on his lips, his grandniece-in-law, Abha, a daughter of Bengal, reflexively held his head in her hands. Who fell, what held? In 1971, Tagore’s Jana Gana Mana, identified as a national anthem of free India by Subhas Bose and later so enthroned, was joined by another composition of Tagore’s — Amar Sonar Bangla — as the national anthem of the new nation, Bangladesh. Two scores, one music. Somnath Hore, the great sculptor, has made an amazing bronze ‘head’ of Tagore. I was working at The Nehru Centre in London in 1995 when Jyoti Basu, the then chief minister of West Bengal and then minister for culture, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, graciously sent it for permanent display there. When I opened the consignment, it seemed to me to be a confusing tangle of scrap. But seeing it a little later, from a certain distance, it stunned me. Tagore was looking at me, in the perfection of his indefinable intensity and calm, his hollowed eyes showing pain and an understanding and an overcoming of that pain. It was the truest Tagore head made in the foundry of art, of Bengal, of conscience, the everlasting a b c. Bengal can look confused and confusing. But looked at with attention, it confounds confusion. Bengal alters that which seeks to alter Bengal. Slowly at times, but surely always.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
21-03-2021||Opinion||Watch me on the Danda March||There it is, the new anthem. I have given it to you. Or handed it down, rather. It is titled “Danda”. That’s all there is at the moment, “Danda”, just the name. The rest will follow. That is upon you; you shall write the rest of this. You have the headline, make the lyrics as you go on, but make sure they are becoming of the title you have been given: Danda. I know, and we all know, there is Dandi. It could well be it is the feminine of this new thing — you know, Danda and Dandi — but it could well be it is not. These are different times. Correct times. You can make masculines of feminines and feminines of masculines and think you will get away with that. You may, well if you are lucky you still may, but not all the time. Beware. Of Correctness. It is the new incorrectness, a bigotry all its own. It bans words, it invents words. It is offended at words, it dictates what words may be used, what words may absolutely not be. Correctness believes it is correct, but in so believing, it turns, very often, the opposite of it. Is hectoring correct? Is dictating correct? Is pronouncing on what is right and what is wrong, what may be said what may not be, correct? Is becoming arbiter of virtue and vice correct? But who are you to decide? Is that a correct question to ask? No. Absolutely not. And that is where Correctness goes incorrect. There can be no questioning or Correctness. It is a Book. It is a Religion. It just tells you, it does not want to hear. It tells you it is my way or the highway, it tells you that you are either with us or against us. That sort of thing. It is black and white, this or that, there are no greys. You know what I mean. I mean there is a problem when things are only white or black, one way or another, right or wrong. Things are not always like that, or are they? Between an apple and a rotten apple, there must be an apple not so apple and an apple not so rotten, isn’t it? Anyway, it is not as if one expects to be understood. Reason is not everybody’s thing. But then, dogma isn’t everybody’s thing either. There is no good person or bad person, there can be good persons with bad things about them and bad persons with a few good things about them. No? All right then, I have quite lost you in that case, but I shall forge on. This space needs to be filled, that’s the job. We were on our new anthem. Danda. Dandi is passé, no matter that it also sounds smaller and a bit feminine. Pardon me, Dandi is no match to Danda. I couldn’t care who agrees. Try telling someone you are going to use the Dandi. Try telling someone you are going to use the Danda. Tell me the difference in how folks react. Be honest about it. Danda wins. Danda is something we have always toyed with, but seldom been able to use. We only fantasised about the Danda. We had Dandas, never used them. We persisted with Dandi. We did Dandi Marches. Now, the Danda. Danda March. Be prepared. Dandi is a known sort of thing, I know. But it is also a bygone sort of thing. Dandi was the work of that emaciated very — not-56 fellow. Bag of bones sort of thing. We need sterner stuff, 56 kind. Dandi will not work anymore, we need Danda, it will be our new freedom song. Danda is what we require to achieve freedom. Danda is what we need to use in order to get where we want to. Spare the Danda and spoil the Funda. We need to use the Danda, we need to beat out a few things. We have extra things, we have things we do not want, have never wanted. We need to spank out what does not fit. That is why we invented the Danda. A long time ago. When we began to imagine what we should be. We knew we needed the Danda, not Dandi. We needed no Dandi March, we needed a Danda March. Now that time has mercifully come. No regrets. Forget the time when... We would only uselessly meet For such a long time And gloat and mime Who we would one day beat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
21-03-2021||Opinion||On your marks, get set, go||Reacting to Meghan Markle’s recent Oprah interview about being subject to racism from within the British royal family, French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo has released a cartoon. It depicts Queen Elizabeth II with a knee on Meghan’s neck, a sight reminiscent of George Flyod, the African-American man who was murdered by policemen in Minneapolis in the United States last year. Now, shock and outrage are both socio-culturally embedded reactions. Some people think nothing of smashing weavers’ thumbs to reduce to smithereens a rival's industry, or letting a people starve because they anyway “breed like rabbits”, or conducting nuclear tests in lands known to be inhabited, and there are others who think nothing of forbidding a community from going about their business by daylight because even their shadows "pollute", still others feel it is justified to flog in public view honest men going about their business of skinning a dead animal. Expectations of shock and outrage and how one negotiates them are typically shaped by one’s awareness of the past and equally of the present. Leave aside the royal family mess; focus only on the ‘R’ word. Meghan Markle’s recent disclosures, as well as the outpouring of shock and outrage from a global audience on her behalf are proof of a willing suspension of historicity and societal norms. Oprah Winfrey went “WHAT?” Tennis legend Serena Williams dubbed Meghan “noble” and “selfless”. The US Vice-President’s niece, Meena Harris, also roared in support of Meghan. And then there was the other set who debunked Meghan's allegations altogether. In Britain, TV personality Piers Morgan quit his show, Good Morning Britain, after coming under criticism for calling Meghan a liar. Indian actor and talk show host Simi Garewal too faced a backlash. She had said, “I don’t believe a word… She is using the race card to gain sympathy.” And the young American poet Amanda Gorman tweeted, “Meghan was the crown’s greatest opportunity for change, regeneration, and reconciliation in a new era.” If there is any take away from what Meghan said, it is this ‑racism is not class-proof. It is not status-proof. It is not achievement-proof either. Yes, the degree of attention it elicits and the criticism it merits might vary with these things, but no one gets a free pass. Former first lady of the United States Michelle Obama just about got it right when she said, “… race isn’t new construct in this world… so it wasn't a complete surprise to hear her feelings…” It wasn’t. Really.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
