22-03-2021||Opinion||Just a button: right not to vote||The right not to vote is as important as the right to vote. The voting option, ‘None of the above’ or Nota, has been operative in most elections since 2009. Responding to a public interest litigation brought by a Bharatiya Janata Party leader asking for fresh elections when Nota polled more votes than any candidate, a Supreme Court bench headed by the Chief Justice of India issued notice to the Centre and the Election Commission. The professed purpose of the PIL is to ensure a perfect democracy by honouring people’s rejection of the candidates in the running and, by this possibility, forcing political parties to field honest and ‘patriotic’ candidates. At present, even when Nota polls the most votes in an election, the candidate running second is declared the winner. The reasoning behind the Nota option was to allow scope for negative or neutral votes, so that more people would be willing to participate in elections. The Supreme Court in 2013 had emphasized the importance of secrecy that would be permitted by the Nota option — no one would know if someone were disapproving — and had also hoped for ‘sound’ candidates as a result of this expression of people’s dissatisfaction. With regard to this PIL, the Supreme Court reportedly expressed concern regarding seats left unfilled in Parliament when Nota votes exceeded votes of candidates. The expense, manpower and organization needed for any election would delay a fresh vote. Establishing the people’s wishes would, ironically, create greater stress on them in the matter of time, energy and, ultimately, funds. The court’s reported remark that an influential political party may get many candidates rejected and hence make it difficult for Parliament to function could point to discomfiting possibilities. Power, manifested by money and muscle — including threats not physical — is an undeniable feature of elections in India, especially now. The corruption in the system is reflected in the number of sitting legislators under the shadow of criminal cases. That the Supreme Court should mention the possibility of an influential party bringing Parliament to a standstill by ensuring Nota victories when the BJP leader’s PIL wishes to make elections free of corruption throws an unexpected cross-light on how and why Nota may be abused. It seems that the same option can make democracy perfect or render Parliament irrelevant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Soft target: prisoners and pandemic||Wilful amnesia may be a universal phenomenon, but it does not make problems go away. This was evident from a report by Amnesty International that highlighted the sufferings during the pandemic of an already-beleaguered constituency: prisoners. The plight of the latter, in India and around the world, appears to be two-fold. To begin with, the opacity of prisons makes society easily forget the asymmetrical relationship that binds inmates to the authorities, manifest in routine violations of prisoners’ rights and dignity. The pandemic — this is the other challenge — seems to have heightened these transgressions. Last year, the Supreme Court had ordered all Indian states to consider releasing some prisoners on parole to reduce overcrowding in jails during the Covid-19 outbreak. The apex court had also directed that video conferencing be introduced for prisoners so that they can stay in touch with their families. The findings of the Amnesty report are damning in this respect. Not only was the rate of release insufficient to mitigate the magnitude of the risk but detainees, according to a source in Jammu and Kashmir, were also allowed just one call to their families in 15 days. The State’s apathy towards the health of prisoners is unlikely to change even as some states face a second surge of the coronavirus. Given that prisons are particularly vulnerable to the infection on account of congestion — around 27 per cent of prisons across India are still overcrowded — it stands to reason that inmates, nearly 70 per cent of whom are undertrials, ought to be prioritized for vaccination. Yet, while prison staff were listed among three priority groups for vaccination, prisoners were dropped from the list. The embedded moral ambivalence towards the condemned may have played a part here. The pandemic could have been used as an opportunity to assess the weaknesses in India’s prison system and institute reform. Sadly, this has not been the case. This is especially ironic given the apex court’s push in this direction — the overall prison occupancy came down to 93.3 per cent from 117.6 per cent between April 1 and June 30 last year on account of the Supreme Court’s directive. This momentum must be taken forward to address a number of challenges that confront prisoners — deplorable sanitary conditions, poor medical facilities, the flouting of social distancing norms and absence of protective gear — each of which can turn the country’s prisons into Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Live and let others live||Polls in the time of a pandemic, compounded by a vaccine conundrum and spiralling Covid-19 cases, have been aggravated by the propensity of the populace to abandon face masks. In a show of one-upmanship, political parties are striving to draw crowds to election rallies, yet no one sports a mask. This was an opportune time for politicians to caution the electorate to maintain pandemic protocol, but none of them appears to have anything but securing an assembly berth on their mind. With the initiation of Covid-19 vaccination, even domestic air travel is back to the jostling, mask-abandoned-at-will, protocol-flouting melee. Against this backdrop, the decision of the Delhi High Court judge, C. Hari Shankar, who travelled on a national carrier this month and found passengers refusing to use masks, to register a suo motu writ petition was a timely and necessary step. During my last couple of flights, there were several passengers without masks or donning them like appendages under the chin. We had paid for aisle seats and the passenger in the middle seat next to me on a flight from Calcutta had to be coaxed into wearing his PPE gear. Even before we took off, he removed his mask and began to snore. Finally, I had to opt for a seat change. Obstinate fellow passengers often refuse to comply despite repeated exhortations. So it was in the fitness of things that the Delhi High Court, acting on Justice Hari Shankar’s petition, said “it is constrained to pass the order because of an alarming situation which was witnessed” during the Air India flight from Calcutta to New Delhi on March 5. In response, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said on March 13 that passengers would be “de-boarded” from flights if they don’t wear masks properly inside the aircraft or follow “Covid-19 appropriate behavior”. Passengers violating protocol despite repeated warnings will be treated as “unruly”, the aviation regulator said and conveyed this to the Delhi High Court on March 17. The court then disposed of the petition. As a result, passengers are now being handed over to the police for refusing to adhere to norms and wear masks. Hopefully this will act as a deterrent to insensitive and obtuse individuals. In his petition, the judge had said: “It was only on repeated entreaties made (by me) to the offending passengers that they condescended to wear their masks properly... [T]he cabin crew... stated that they had directed all the passengers to wear masks, but were helpless in case they did not comply.” Not just in the skies, there is concern on the ground too, with Covid cases peaking alarmingly again. Nilakshi Roy, professor of English at a college in Mumbai, was hospitalized with Covid-19 last month. “For all of us who have got vaccinated, awaiting their turn, or got Covid and antibodies, well... there’s no way of getting out of the face mask. There is really no alternative to protecting oneself and others by using the only thing that is proven: wearing the mask. I am isolating myself at home after a second bout of hospitalization after my first quarantine. I use the mask if I ever step out of the room or if anyone comes near my otherwise locked bedroom. And I will wear the mask at least till the year-end,” she stressed. Octogenarian Manjusha Dasgupta of Calcutta, who has just been vaccinated, was categorical: “Mask is a must to keep Covid at bay.” Headlines on the “record rise in active Covid cases” are back. With several states going into stringent control mode, the least we can do is adhere to safety measures. Thank you, Justice Hari Shankar, for taking a stand on the mask, which all of us should have, but didn’t.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s child brides||‘Banglar meye’ is at the centre of a political campaign in West Bengal. That could well be because women, particularly school-going girls, have been the primary beneficiaries of numerous welfare schemes in the state. The first visible outcome of these targeted welfare schemes run by the Trinamul Congress government is that girls have outnumbered boys in secondary-level school enrolment in Bengal. Several independent studies of ‘Kanyashree’, and ‘Sabooj Sathi’ have revealed positive outcomes as far as enrolment and girls’ education is concerned, particularly among scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and the Muslim population. However, recent data from the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) do not indicate any improvement when it comes to child marriage in West Bengal. The percentage of women aged 20-24 married off before the age of 18 remains high at 41.6 per cent. The figure was the same in the NFHS-4 report from 2015-16. In rural Bengal, child marriage, according to NFHS-5, is much higher at 48.1 per cent: the figure is 26.2 per cent for urban areas. The fact that four out of ten women aged 20-24 are married off before 18 should ring alarm bells for policymakers. A closer look at data from the districts would reveal more details about the malaise. Of the 23 districts, only nine have shown some improvement when it comes to reducing child marriage. Jalpaiguri, Malda, Uttar Dinajpur and Purulia have done particularly well. Murshidabad, Purba Medinipur, Bankura, Hooghly and Howrah have registered a surge. Child marriage has adverse impacts on the health of the girl child as well as on human development indicators, including infant and maternal mortality. It also cuts short girls’ schooling, restricts their entry into the workforce and brings along life-long subjugation and sufferings.  In short, child marriage is a hindrance to meeting Sustainable Development Goals set for 2030.  Among these, target 5.3 specifically highlights the elimination of harmful practices, including early and forced marriage that amounts to violence against children. The question is this: despite the rise in girls’ enrolment, why have there not been a corresponding positive outcome for child marriage? Child marriage was once considered to be an upper-caste practice that sought to protect the sanctity of caste lines. Population explosion, poverty and such other social factors made child marriage a common phenomenon. The notion of keeping family honour intact by marrying off the girl child by the age of 10 still accounts for some percentage of child marriage. Research conducted by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (Mitra and Parasuraman, 2015) on the lived experiences of early marriage shows that ‘bad girls’ — those expressing sexual agency — are likely to be married off early to keep adolescent sexuality in control. These interventions are influenced by the notion that the value of a woman is contingent upon her ‘chastity’. Data from 2007 suggest that marriages before 14 are common among Muslims, followed by STs and SCs. Girls getting married below 18 are more prevalent among STs, followed by caste Hindus. However, a closer look at the NFHS-5 data makes it difficult to arrive at a pattern. Significant improvement in the reduction of child marriage has been reported from Malda, Uttar Dinajpur and Purulia. These districts have Muslim and tribal representations. Similarly, Murshidabad, Purba Medinipur, Bankura, Hooghly and Howrah, which have higher mixed populations, have registered a rise in child marriage cases. Child marriage is not always a response to economic deprivation.  Several cases reveal individual volition, or are the result of trafficking.  Deeper penetrations of social media and mobile phones seem to have had an effect on child marriage.  Covid-19 has also triggered such instances. The closure of schools and greater economic burden — the outcomes of the pandemic — have aggravated the crisis. Greater access to secondary education should also be seen in the context of girls not pursuing higher education and their abysmal representation in the workforce. Thus, the success in girls’ enrolment will make little sense if urgent action is not taken to identify the hotspots of child marriages in West Bengal, identify their underlying causes, and ensure that girls have access to higher education and employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Restoring nature||We live in an Age of Extinction. Halting the extinction of species and protecting the diversity of life are widely seen as the premier environmental challenges of our times. In this effort, India is a key arena and the site of new attempts. This may not be evident at first sight for this is a country with over 400 humans to a square kilometre. Over half the land is under the plough or, rather, the tractor. Over the last half a century, more than five per cent of the landmass has been brought under some form of State protection as park or sanctuary or conservation area. Much larger areas still harbour a rich variety of life forms. In the recent past, there have also been efforts to go beyond preserving ecosystems to restoring them. Prominent among these are steps to restore populations of wild birds or animals to parts of their former range. In a recent book, Rewilding: India’s Experiments in Saving Nature, Bahar Dutt catalogues a range of such initiatives. One of the most significant of these initiatives concerns the world’s smallest (and most handsome) wild pigs — the pygmy hog. Over the last quarter of a century, more than 100 of these animals have been bred at a centre near Guwahati and released into three sanctuaries. Goutam Narayan is a veteran ecologist of the wet grasslands who oversaw and led the project for much of this time. He faced a common question in all such schemes. Is there habitat that can serve as secure home? The pygmy hog — it has had a precarious existence — had been considered extinct and was even ‘rediscovered’ in the 1970s. Much of its extensive grassland home from Assam to Bhutan has been cleared. There are sanctuaries for the state animal of Assam, the greater one-horned rhino, where the small wild pig has found refuge. The rhino was, in conservation parlance, the umbrella species. Reserves created in its name sheltered other lesser-known creatures. But to make it easier to hunt game or to herd cattle, many managers of grassland light fires before the rains. These may have suited large herbivores that flee the fire and return later. But the fires were fatal to pygmy hogs in many areas. The return of the pygmy hog has helped us learn much more about the ecology of fire in the grasslands. The answer is not to abolish it but to control it. For the tapestry of life to be complete, it needs mending: the return of even this small mammal is a step in the right direction. More recently, the debate on the re-introduction of the cheetah has taken a new turn. The last cheetahs vanished — as was shown by Divyabhanusinh — as recently as 1967. The usual narrative places their extinction in 1947 when Ramanuj Pratap Singh Deo shot dead three specimens. But possibly the latest records of its sightings were from 1967 and 1968 from Surguja district. At the time of writing, experts from South Africa and Namibia are to arrive shortly to advise on how best to re-introduce a few cheetahs to protected areas of grassland and scrub jungle. There is here a commonality between the pygmy hog and the cheetah: both are mainly inhabitants of grasslands, not dense forests. This, in itself, makes it worth following through with such efforts. Nature conservation in India was taken up on a war-footing around half a century ago. The tiger was the poster symbol of a nationwide effort to secure habitats and species. The vanishing tiger and the dwindling forest were the two dimensions to the government effort. Project Tiger was launched in 1973. A year before that, new legislation to protect wildlife was enacted at the Union level. In 1980, the Forest (Conservation) Act was put in place. Today, over 160,000 square kilometres are under sanctuaries and parks. There are more than 50 tiger reserves. It is not surprising that forests were the centre of attention. Therein lies a problem. Much of the focus in the British era was on securing forests for timber. The major works, including the great magnum opus by Harry G. Champion and S.K. Seth, saw the country in terms of different forest types. New research led by Jayashree Ratnam from Bengaluru has re-looked at the records. She also examined pollen samples and other material remains and came to a new conclusion. Much of India — mainly in the Deccan, the Northwest and the North — was not densely forested in historic times. It was grassland and scrub jungle. The ecology and the diversity of these tracts have been much harmed by the expansion of cultivation, human settlements and mining. Their protection and restoration should be a priority. As with fire in Assam’s grassland sanctuaries, there may be space for some human presence and use. But the study and care of the fauna and the flora of these dry and wet grasslands are the major challenges of our times. The flora and the fauna and the cycles of nature apart, they may be even more crucial as sites of study in times of rapid climate shifts. There is little doubt that bringing back a locally extinct species can pose challenges at a human and a scientific level. The return of the wolf to the Yellowstone National Park in the United States of America faced strong opposition from ranches adjacent to the park. Labelling the predator “Saddam Hussein of the Animal World”, the ranchers of Wyoming and Montana pledged to shoot them on sight. After extensive dialogue, wolf-recovery teams were put in place for packs that entered private lands. Such initiatives may be even more critical in India where restoration entails the return of large predators. Cheetahs  may prey on domestic livestock and engender conflict. One key feature of many grasslands, both in semi-arid and high-rainfall zones, is that they are grazing grounds for cattle, goats and sheep. There is much debate on how many livestock are too many. Ecologists often point to overgrazing of the grass and the shrubs; anthropologists record co-habitation of wild plants and animals with pastoralists. The challenge is that exclusive nature protection zones with no extraction of biomass are bound to be rare. However extensive, they will still have wild animals moving in and out and some livestock grazing within. This calls for systems to redress the loss of amenity for the people as well as protection for the predator. Keeping spaces for nature intact was the key challenge half a century ago. Now restoration may well be a key word. Bringing back stable breeding populations in biologically productive habitats will not be easy. But it is a challenge worth taking up. Restoration is a small step. Restoring the fabric of nature may unleash new, creative energies. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
