23-03-2021||Opinion||Sucker punch: India's middle class shrinks||In a recent report, the Pew Research Center in the United States of America found that India has experienced a deep impact of the coronavirus-related economic recession during 2020. According to the report, India’s middle-income group — the middle class — has shrunk by 32 million. It was estimated that during the period between 2011-2019, about 57 million Indians had improved their economic position to join the middle-income group with earnings between $10 and $20 per day. The number of very poor people, with incomes of less than $2 per day, has actually increased by 75 million during the period of the pandemic. India’s economic contraction is estimated by the World Bank to be around 9.6 per cent for 2020. A comparison with China, based on the same report, revealed that poverty in China — people living on less than $2 per day — has remained more or less unaffected. The decline in the size of the middle-income group in the country was around 10 million compared to India’s much larger 32 million. These disturbing numbers have emerged despite the economic support through relief packages provided by the Government of India. The upshot of these data indicates an erosion of economic gains made over a decade. Unemployment will remain high and the demand for goods and services will remain muted for quite some time going forward. While it is true that all countries of the world have had their own share of economic woes, India’s impact remains one of the worst. Two interrelated reasons can be cited to explain this debacle. This might help policymakers evaluate future interventions to reduce poverty and unemployment. The first is the large number of people whose standard of living is so fragile and unstable that the slightest perturbation can send them reeling down the income scale. Hence the level of income must be coupled with the stability of livelihoods to assess well-being and quality of life. The second reason is the absence of a well-defined safety net for workers and some kind of legislative protection that covers low-paid labour contracts. Unless these are addressed decisively, the level of deprivation will remain alarmingly high in the economy. These problems will become more severe with the emergence of new technologies that are essentially labour-saving in character. One way the government might address these problems is by diverting the proceeds of its privatization strategy, provided it can accumulate a sizeable kitty, to offer solutions that are creative and sustainable for people at the bottom of society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Family man: New RSS gen sec close to Modi||A subterranean tension has, over the years, marked the relationship between the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The RSS, the ideological parent of the BJP, has usually kept BJP-led governments on a tight leash. The parental-offspring relationship has not been without turbulence. For instance, Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s prime ministership witnessed quiet battles of attrition between the former prime minister and the orthodox sangh. But it was the RSS that usually prevailed over party and government on most occasions. This inner dynamics in the parivar appears to be changing, and the prime minister, Narendra Modi, could well claim credit for that. This is because Mr Modi  appears to be succeeding in leaving an indelible imprint within the parent body of the BJP. The elevation of Dattatreya Hosabale — apparently Mr Modi’s man — as the general-secretary of the RSS is a testament to the new churn in Nagpur. There are several explanations for Mr Modi’s greater leverage on the RSS. He has been a loyalist as well as an energetic proponent of the sangh’s vision and mission. His electoral popularity is an additional advantage; it makes it difficult for the RSS to confront the prime minister. The parivar is likely to attribute Mr Hosabale’s anointment in terms of his skill sets. His organizational skills, the RSS-BJP must be hoping, would help the fraternity make deeper inroads into southern India — presumably the sangh parivar’s next frontier. His patronage of RSS affiliates in the West may have consolidated his candidacy. But what tilted the scales undoubtedly in Mr Hosabale’s favour is his endorsement of this government’s pivotal policy visions, be it the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or the National Register of Citizens. There are several advantages of a pliant RSS sarkaryavah for the government. The RSS’s tepid criticism of the manner in which Mr Modi has dealt with farmers is there for all to see. It is possible that the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh and the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh would be equally docile while responding to Mr Modi’s thrust in favour of privatization. The ebb and flow in the bond that binds the RSS and the BJP reinforces another fact. The sangh parivar, just like any other Indian family, has its own paterfamilias. There is little doubt that at the moment, the title belongs to Mr Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Ominous sign: Delhi NCT bill||Sir — The recent introduction of the government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, 2021 in Parliament has revived apprehensions of a bid by the Centre to circumscribe the powers of Delhi’s elected government (“Move softly”, March 19). This proposed law, in effect, will undermine the elected government and sends out the message that the Centre will extend support for the greater autonomy of the Delhi government only if the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power. The Aam Aadmi Party — it is currently in power in the Union territory — is right to feel indignation towards the government. There is little to disagree with in the AAP’s contention that the ‘democratically and constitutionally dangerous move’ will render the elections and elected government meaningless. Making it mandatory for an elected government to route all files through the lieutenant governor, in an effort to tilt the balance of power, infringes upon its autonomy. It also all but ends the hope of full statehood for Delhi. The Centre must rethink this ill-advised move. It would do well to revisit D.Y. Chandrachud’s note in the 2018 verdict pertaining to the autonomy of Delhi: “In a democratic form of government, the real power must subsist in the elected arms of the state”. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — In a massive blow to the federal structure of this country, the Narendra Modi government at the Centre tabled the government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on March 16. The bill defines the term “government” with reference to any law passed by the Delhi assembly as the “lieutenant governor”. The bill is in direct conflict with the Supreme Court’s 2018 verdict that gave the Delhi government primacy in legislative matters. This has put a dampener on the AAP government’s aspirations for full statehood for Delhi. It is clear that after being rejected by the people in the Delhi assembly elections, the BJP is trying to curtail the power of the elected government through an unconstitutional bill by taking advantage of its majority in the Lok Sabha. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Clear cut: Gender sensitive judiciary||Incongruity produces laughter, they say. Yet while Indian society is forever eager to have its sensitivities hurt in matters such as religion or fiction posing as history, it remains stolidly insensitive to survivors of sexual violence. This incongruity is not funny. Else the Supreme Court would not be directing the National Judicial Academy and the Bar Council of India to arrange for programmes and syllabi aimed at gender sensitization for judges and Bar Council examinees. The court reportedly directed judges to display sensitivity when hearing a sexual violence case, to ensure that the complainant experienced no further trauma during the proceedings and did not lose confidence in the court’s impartiality because of the judge’s words. The instructions expose the depths of prejudice against survivors of violence and show that the impulse — among some — to go easy on the perpetrators of sex crimes is still unchanged. The court referred to the Madhya Pradesh High Court order that granted bail to the accused on condition that he get a rakhi tied by the survivor, give cash presents to her and her son and sweets to the family. Such orders diminish the crime and can traumatize the survivor further. In an incisive list, the Supreme Court has prohibited bail conditions such as permission to the accused to meet or apologize to the survivor, go for mediation or marriage — which the Chief Justice of India did not suggest recently — or practise community service. Another list prohibits claims used to lighten the crime and trivialize the complainant’s pain. These are much-repeated requirements, indicating a deliberate refusal to acknowledge the meaning of sexual violence, a fact that demonstrates society’s misogyny. The complainant’s clothing, behaviour, charges of promiscuity, earlier consent cannot be used in assessing the seriousness of the assault, and that the complainant did not act like a ‘chaste’ Indian woman cannot be an argument for defence. Patriarchal notions about a woman’s place should not influence bail terminology, and the court should consider protection for the survivor in cases where it feels harassment is possible. This last is of particular importance in the country of Unnao and Hathras. Sexual violence is nurtured by predominant values in society and often by political patronage. Courts can neutralize much of their effects by responding to the Supreme Court’s directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Great game: India-Nepal ties||Seldom has a relationship between two nations been so deep and all-encompassing as that shared by India and Nepal, with a common culture, civilization and intimate contact between people marked by free movement across a porous border. But owing to geopolitics and power contestations both New Delhi and Kathmandu seemed to have forgotten their shared historicity and civilizational ethos. However, the present situation in Nepal is such that New Delhi has been vested with a golden opportunity to reinvigorate the ties between the two countries. The prime minister of Nepal, K.P. Sharma Oli, is having a hard time in office; he not only dissolved Parliament but also called for early elections in April. These decisions have alienated the Nepali people and led to a deterioration in Oli’s ties with Pushpa Kamal Dahal, former prime minister and a key member of the Nepali communist party, as well as the former deputy prime minister, Madhav Kumar Nepal. Oli has been expelled from the party and has been asked to resign, but he remains defiant. To make matters worse, Oli’s political legitimacy has been undermined by the massive pro-monarchy protests and the vociferous calls to declare Nepal a Hindu country. These led the beleaguered premier to shun his atheist image and embark on temple hopping. The political turbulence has rung alarm bells in Beijing, so much so that the Chinese ambassador to Nepal and the vice minister of the international branch of the communist party of China had to intervene to try and iron out the differences between the two factions of the communist party of Nepal and to consolidate the leadership ranks. Surprisingly, China was snubbed by the ruling Nepali elite, who subtly made it clear that on some extremely fragile internal matters, Nepal does not require advice from Beijing. Beijing was clearly taken aback by this volte-face, primarily because of the fact that the communist party of Nepal was firmly pro China. Beijing has invested billions in Nepal in areas of hydroelectricity, railways, intelligence and so on and has made the Himalayan nation an important part of its flagship Belt and Road Initiative. The idea that Nepal is another vassal state because of the debt trap that it has fallen into seems to have backfired on Beijing. The mandarins of foreign policy in China have been forced to revisit the drawing board to find out what went wrong with Beijing’s Nepal policy. The domestic unrest in Nepal has proven to be a blessing in disguise for New Delhi, providing it the golden opportunity to resuscitate old ties. New Delhi should shed the Panchsheel policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of a country and must proactively reach out to Nepal. The Indian dispensation should abandon its ideological rigidness and engage all stakeholders involved in the power politics of our Himalayan neighbour; this involves negotiating, first and foremost, with Oli because in spite of threats he appears to be firmly in control. Then New Delhi must engage with the top brass of the army leadership of Nepal as calls have been growing for the army to intervene to put an end to the anarchical situation in Nepal. India must also use the economic carrot-and-stick approach by forging a new trade agreement with Nepal, encouraging more Nepali imports and promoting the ‘Make in India’ scheme as ‘Encourage Investment in Nepal Scheme’. New Delhi must forgo the dues on Nepali economic loans and provide it with generous lines of credit. New Delhi can also send vaccines to Nepal to bolster its image as a benevolent neighbour. It must desist from using the ‘enlightened hegemon’ attitude to try and decouple Nepal from the Chinese influence. Time is running out for Delhi. It must let go of its Cold War era attitude and alter the status quo in Nepal because a pro-India Nepal will bring a lot of strategic and institutional benefits, giving India the upper hand in the great game in the Himalayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Bhagat Singh: That young, bright spark||Today is the 90th death anniversary of Bhagat Singh. He was one of the tallest revolutionary freedom fighters, sacrificing his life at the age of 23. Many other revolutionaries died even younger. But Bhagat Singh was different. He was not only a martyr, but also a political and social visionary. In the introduction to his book, Inquilab, the historian, S. Irfan Habib, explains why this is so: “We do great injustice to his memory when we extol him only as a martyr. Bhagat Singh left behind a corpus of political writings underlining his vision for an independent India.” Bhagat Singh lived a very short life but with a privilege that very few had. He was born into a family of nationalists. His father’s younger brother, Ajit Singh — he spent most of his life in exile — was a crusader against imperialism; another uncle, Swaran Singh, underwent many years in prison, defying the British; his father, Kishan Singh, was a Congressman who participated in the Non-cooperation and Civil Disobedience movements and swore by the Mahatma’s ideology and the objectives of the Indian National Congress. Given this political background, Bhagat Singh matured early as a great patriot and revolutionary thinker. He spent a great deal of time reading and writing. When he was only 17, he wrote an article on ‘Universal Brotherhood’ in which he says: “Vishvbandhuta! For me the greatest meaning of the word is equality and nothing else…” In 1926, at the age of 19, Bhagat Singh founded the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, an organization of a secret group of young revolutionaries. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had been founded in 1925 and the Muslim League two decades earlier. Despite the positive impact of the Khilafat and the Non-cooperation movements on Hindu-Muslim relations, polarization was on the rise, once again. To his credit, the young revolutionary took a completely secular approach. The members of the Sabha were asked to sign a pledge that they will “place the interest of their country above that of their community”. A part of its manifesto read: “Religious superstitions and bigotry are a great hindrance in our progress… and we must do away with them. The thing that cannot bear free thought must perish.” Bhagat Singh wrote regularly for Kirti, a journal founded by the communist leader, Sohan Singh Josh, who influenced his move away from anarchism towards socialism, a creed which Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose were propagating from the platforms of the Indian National Congress. Their charisma and popularity among the youth influenced Bhagat Singh and the other revolutionaries. The year, 1928, was eventful in the history of the Independence movement. It was the year of the Simon Commission, the Bardoli Satyagraha and the presentation of the Nehru Report prepared by Motilal Nehru, who presided over the 43rd session of the Congress in Calcutta. In a column written for Kirti in July 1928, Bhagat Singh talks of Nehru and Bose in glowing terms: “Many new leaders with modern thoughts are emerging... The most important young leaders in the present scenario are Bengal’s Subhas Chandra Bose and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. These two leaders are making their presence felt and are participating in the movements of the youth in a big way. Both are wise and true patriots. Still there are considerable differences between the views of these two leaders. One is called the worshipper of ancient Indian culture while the other is called a staunch disciple of the West.” He goes on to explain the differences and exhorts the youth to understand the true meaning of Inquilab: “Subhas favours complete independence because he says that the English are from the West and we are from the East. Nehru says that we have to change the entire social system by establishing our government. For that it is important to obtain complete independence, Subhas sympathises with the workers and he wants to improve their situation. Nehru wants to change the system itself by a revolution. Subhas is sentimental, for the heart... Nehru is a revolutionary who is giving a lot to the heart as well as the head... They... should aim at Swaraj for the masses based on Socialism...” Even though Bhagat Singh went to the gallows avenging the death of Lala Lajpat Rai following a brutal lathi charge, a few months earlier, he had castigated the ‘Lion of Punjab’ for his association with the Hindu Mahasabha. Lajpat Rai responded by calling Bhagat Singh a ‘Russian agent’. Despite this exchange, Bhagat Singh could not tolerate Punjab’s tallest national leader being beaten at the hands of an Englishman. Bhagat Singh’s most popular work, Why I am an Atheist, was written in October 1930 while he was in jail. In this long article, Bhagat Singh raises many questions: “I ask why your omnipotent God does not stop every person when he is committing any sin or offense?… Why did he not kill war overlords or kill the fury of war in them and thus avoid the catastrophe hurled down on the head of humanity by the Great War? Why does he not produce a sentiment in the minds of the British people to liberate India? Why does he not infuse altruistic enthusiasm in the hearts of all capitalists to forgo their rights of personal possessions... and redeem the whole society from the bondage of Capitalism?” Bhagat Singh had a message for the press that seems relevant today: “The real duty of the newspapers is to… cleanse the minds of the people, to save them from… sectarian divisiveness and to eradicate communal feelings to promote the idea of common nationalism.” How should we remember Bhagat Singh today? The best homage citizens can pay is by fighting fearlessly the forces that propagate communalism, hatred, superstition and economic disparity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
23-03-2021||Opinion||The Ides of March||Time is a slippery customer. You turn away for a minute and whole swathes of years get consumed. Turning back, you find you are simultaneously not that far away from when you last looked and, yet, in a completely different place. In 2003, we watched helplessly as the American president, George W. Bush, and his ‘team’ managed to force together a ‘coalition’ of countries willing to launch an invasion on Iraq. Just over a year and a half had passed since the attack on the World Trade Center in New York; the retaliatory war in Afghanistan — aiming to cleanse the country of al Qaida and Taliban — was very far from ‘finished’; it did not take a degree in international relations to see that an attack on Saddam Hussein’s Iraq would be a deadly distraction from resolving the mess of Afghanistan and adjacent areas (very much affecting us in India) as well as a long-term disaster that would keep pumping toxic radiation into the political atmosphere of what the United States of America and Europe call the Middle East. As large masses of people protested against the impending invasion in Europe, America and the world over, many opinion columns (including this one) railed against the monumental misstep from which the world still continues to suffer. The Bush administration’s chief arguments for attacking Iraq were specious and dishonest from the day they were trotted out: Saddam was a cruel dictator oppressing his people like no other in the world (no, there were others who were equally bad: in China, North Korea, Saudi Arabia); Saddam was a psychopath who possessed weapons of mass destruction which he was about to deploy at any moment against civilian populations in neighbouring countries (a complete lie — Iraq had no such weapons, and Saddam was far too logically fond of his own skin to launch such weapons and invite destruction, especially when everyone could see the firepower that had been unleashed upon nearby Afghanistan). Whether it was the lust for complete hegemony over a troublesome chunk of the world or the greed for Iraqi oil or both, George Bush and Tony Blair, the British prime minister, supported by Australia, Poland and Spain sent in their armies on March 20, 2003. What followed was predictable. The ‘war’ was over within a few weeks, the Iraqi military overwhelmed and dismantled in rapid time, with a smugly grinning Bush unfurling a banner on one of his aircraft carriers proclaiming ‘Mission Accomplished’. As one saw the coverage of this crude triumphalism, a replying banner unfurled in the minds of many viewers: ‘Hey pal? You’re so tempting fate.’ Upon inspection of suspected sites, it was revealed that Iraq never did possess any chemical or biological weapons of mass destruction. Further revelations showed how various American and British intelligence agencies had knowingly participated in perpetrating fraudulent scare-mongering among their politicians and the general public. The Coalition forces proved completely unequal to containing the various Iraqi factions. A bloody tapestry of civil wars broke out and spilled over the Iraqi borders into Syria and Turkey. Local Islamo-fascist forces metastasized into Daesh aka ISIS, a terrorist outfit that made al Qaida look mild in comparison. Iran’s ruling establishment benefited hugely from this exploded cesspit and strengthened its position domestically and in the region. Till date, a full 18 years after the launch of the so-called ‘shock and awe’ campaign, American troops are still mired in the quicksands of Afghanistan and Iraq. Among the roll call of the US generals who, one by one, took command of the failing operation in Iraq was one General Lloyd Austin who had won a Silver Star during the initial invasion. As to the name given to the invasion, ‘Operation Iraqi Freedom’, people are still arguing about how to define and put numbers to the body count of Iraqi civilians, with the contesting figures of death being in lakhs — hundreds of thousands — with one survey suggesting over one million violent deaths till the year 2007. History is a card-sharp, constantly bamboozling you with concurrent card-shuffling in different places. One of the immediate fall-outs of 9/11 was that it unleashed hate against Muslim populations the world over, also helping cold-eyed operators to put into motion long-desired pogroms against their Muslim minorities. In that sense, the allegedly planned killings of Gujarati Muslims between the late February and May of 2002 can be seen as a direct gift from Osama bin Laden to Hindutva forces in India. By the time the war-hungry politicians in Washington and London were readying the massive ordinance that would kill lakhs of innocents in Iraq and its environs, the first anniversary of Godhra and the violence that began with the torching of the train carriage there had just passed. As with the Bush cabal’s Iraq agenda, you did not need a doctorate in political science from Harvard to see the writing on the wall in Gujarat. The cases against the perpetrators of the 2002 violence against Muslims were either caught up in interminable blockages, the first information reports missing or mis-recorded, or they had been sabotaged by various investigative authorities. The Muslims who had been fire-bombed out of their houses and businesses were still trapped in camps or newly burgeoning ghettos labelled ‘mini-Pakistan’ with no hope of any redressal or compensation. Police officers and civil service officials who produced testimony critical of the state government had been punitively sidelined and disabled. The local media in Gujarat were now operating under a huge pall of fear. Businesses and factories that continued to employ Muslims received threatening calls: ‘We are watching. Why is that Muslim worker still coming to your office?’ The Gujarat Model was by now firmly in place. Looking back to that moment 18 years ago, the shock and awe come from remembering that there were actually apologists for the Iraq invasion among the liberal left commentariat. Conversely, there is no shock or doubt about this: after Gujarat, any political commentator outside the sanghi camp who had anything but deep dismay and trepidation about Narendra Modi becoming prime minister was either ludicrously naive or writing in some perverse bad faith, allowing the revulsion for the Congress to blind him/her to the much greater danger to the Republic and the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
