24-03-2021||Opinion||Out of options: Change in NOTA rules||Sir — A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking amendments to the rules regarding the ‘None of the above’ or Nota option in polls (“Just a button”, March 22). It proposed not only fresh elections if the Nota option receives more votes than a candidate but also that the candidates rejected by voters should not be fielded again in the fresh elections. But it must be remembered that Nota votes are usually cast by the electorate to express dissatisfaction with the political parties to which the candidates belong rather than against the candidates themselves. One seldom comes across instances where candidates of established political parties receive lesser number of votes than Nota. However, there are exceptions. In the 2017 bypolls in the R.K. Nagar constituency in Chennai, 2,373 Nota votes were cast. This far exceeded the 1,417 votes received by the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate, K. Nagarajan. But even in this case, it is likely that this was a vote against the BJP, which had and continues to draw the ire of the people of Tamil Nadu, and not against Nagarajan in particular, who was incidentally the party’s candidate. Under the circumstances, it would be better if the Election Commission maintained status quo as far as the Nota rules are concerned. It is surprising that the Supreme Court did not dismiss the petition at the admission stage itself. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — The Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Election Commission and the Centre to respond to a PIL demanding re-election if the number of Nota votes exceeds the number of votes cast in favour of the leading candidate in a constituency. If this is accepted, Nota would become a decisive factor in the polls. As such, it would be ironic for it to appear at the end of the list of candidates on electronic voting machines. Nota should be treated just like other candidates in the fray, and be placed in alphabetical order alongside them. In such a case, Nota would have to be renamed; instead of ‘None of the above’, the option should be changed to ‘None of the above or below’. Tapan Kumar Mukherjee,Burdwan Sir — If people cast more Nota votes than those for a candidate, it means that voters are seriously dissatisfied with the running candidates of all parties. So the Election Commission and the Centre would do well to introspect as to why a candidate who comes second should be awarded the responsibility of the constituency. Nota was brought into the electoral system with a purpose and that same purpose is defeated if its verdict is not honoured. Bal Govind,Noida New fight Sir — India is witnessing a second wave of coronavirus infections, which threatens to overturn the progress the country has made in containing the pandemic. Although the Centre has taken a number of initiatives in the fight against the virus for a year now, the fact remains that governments cutting across the political spectrum in India hardly considered it a priority to buttress defences against contagious diseases. While measures were taken to contain specific diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, there was little investment in public health infrastructure. The costs of such quiescence were already high even before the novel coronavirus landed on our shores. If a wrong public health strategy is one reason for India’s vulnerability in healthcare management, the lack of resources is another. Even the Health Management Information System, which was supposed to plug some of the data gaps, has been found wanting. Once this pandemic retreats and people’s lives get back to normal, will India seriously consider devising measures to promote a strategy of ‘health for all’? Our response to future pandemics will depend on the answer to this question. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It is not the responsibility of the government alone to fight against the coronavirus. Even though a second wave hits parts of the country, people in other states seem nonchalant about it. This is a shame. Ranjana Pal,Howrah  Go green Sir — This year, on the international forest day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation tweeted that 2,21,405 trees have been planted in Mumbai so far. This is a great response to a study published at the end of last year, which identified a 42 per cent decline in the forest cover of the city. Later, the Maharashtra government also announced a target of planting four crore saplings in the state before the arrival of monsoon. Taking such steady steps to protect the environment is indeed laudable. Citizens of poll-bound states should demand similar action from political parties seeking their votes. Mohit Verma,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
24-03-2021||Opinion||Link to life: Hunger and access to food||Food may be inaccessible for a large number of Indians, but fig leaves are abundant on government premises. Responding to a question in Parliament about India being ranked 94th among 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index in 2020, the minister of state for agriculture laughed it off by saying that India feeds stray dogs sweets when they give birth. The second fig leaf produced the answer that there is no question of food shortage as the government has double the required amount of food in buffer stocks. But the GHI is about hunger, not shortage — about access, not storage. The written reply of the agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, to the question argued that India had improved its position in the GHI from the previous year to 2020. The member of parliament who had posed the question showed the steady descent of India’s position in the GHI from 2014, making a year’s comparison irrelevant. The increase in the wasting of children between 2015 and 2019 compared to 2010 to 2014 made no sense either, since India was among the 10 top food producing countries in the world. The present government’s dismissal of all criticism, whether about failing democracy or suppression of data, was manifest in the case of the GHI too, although Mr Tomar’s reply said that the government had asked the producers of the GHI about the appropriateness and accuracy of their data. For data, the government merely has to acknowledge certain realities. The alleged starvation death of a child, described as malarial by the administration — a typical fig leaf — recently prompted the Supreme Court to question the government about the sudden cancellation of four crore ration cards because they were not linked to Aadhaar. The government’s eagerness to weed out false ration cards and love of technology have left numberless people without access to rations. The owners of the cancelled cards were not informed, and the fact that Aadhaar linking may not be possible in remote regions or by underprivileged families was ignored. The government is free to deride the report, The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World, 2020, that says that globally, India has the largest population of food insecure people. But can it also argue that an Aadhaar link is more important than a citizen’s right to food?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
24-03-2021||Opinion||Manipur and gender rights||Just like every other year, Manipur observed International Women’s Day in great earnest on March 8. Discussions and debates on gender issues began several weeks ahead and, in expected, worn-out, cliched statements, identified patriarchy as the culprit behind women’s misery. All this is very well, except that few seem to consider the other reality: that patriarchy, like insurgency, has now become a ‘state of mind’ first and then only a physical manifestation, and that not acknowledging this has amounted to addressing the symptoms rather than the disease. This dichotomy is taken cognizance of in the case of insurgency and the sane recommendation, although not always adhered to, is for a political rather than military approach for a lasting resolution. Unfortunately, such an outlook remains elusive in the case of the push for gender rights in Manipur, a state which boasts of a tradition of gender emancipation amongst its communities. Missed out therefore is the reality that patriarchy as a ‘state of mind’ has crossed boundaries, and its oppressive values have percolated to either side of the gender divide. Hence, a man can be a feminist at heart, believing truly in female emancipation, and, yet, be a defender of oppressive patriarchal values without realizing it. Literature, cinema and theatre have all spoken loudly on this. In some form or the other, they have indicated an archetypal tension between the mother-in-law and the daughter-in-law in which the former is always portrayed as the gatekeeper of the patriarchal order. This tension is resolved only if the daughter-in-law conforms volitionally to the patriarchal order or is forced to accept its norms. In most cases, the daughter-in-law, too, sees the patriarchal order as natural, having been raised by parents who have internalized patriarchal values to ultimately believe in its entrenched hegemonic structure as ‘common sense’. Today, patriarchy has also been distanced from any direct cause-effect dynamic. It remains as an abstract, an omnipresent force looming over society, unmistakably partisan in favour of the male gender, its values so deeply normalized that except for a conscientious few, nobody even sees the most atrocious social mores determined by it to be wrong. A recent viral video of a newly-married Meitei girl (Manipur’s majority community) on the evening of her wedding demonstrated this. This girl was required to eat leftover food from the soiled plate her husband had eaten from, with a horde of women watching the traumatized struggle of the girl to not throw up, as if this was an entertaining spectacle. None tried to intervene and stop the girl’s self-esteem from being crushed. It is obvious that the patriarchal order has created its own Gramscian “organic intellectuals” who see such rituals symbolizing the overlordship of the male to be perfectly natural. It is said that the oppressed are much more oppressive to their fellow oppressed. This probably explains the phenomenon of women themselves becoming watchdogs of the patriarchal order, which is their common oppressor. In his preface to Frantz Fanon’s The Wretched of the Earth, Jean Paul Sartre calls this a self-hate syndrome. The brutally colonized, he explains, detests his/her degraded self-image so much that he/she would inflict cruelty on anybody else who shares this hated self-image. Patriarchy has colonized and dehumanized the female gender to such an extent that instead of empathizing, the archetypal mother-in-law has often been the cruellest to the daughter-in-law, more so if the latter refuses to conform to the standards set by patriarchy. Many have hailed Manipur’s grassroots women’s movement as proof of gender emancipation. It may very well be so, but even this relative freedom is far from being free of the insidious influence of patriarchal hegemony. If women in Manipur are known for leading street agitations for social reforms, whenever it came to negotiating settlements with the establishment, men have always been given the responsibility. This is also partly because the elite amongst women generally stay aloof from these grassroots movements. In politics, not even women voters prefer women candidates. In the 60-member Manipur assembly, there are only two women MLAs; the representation has never been any better. There are other instances of female self-degradation in Manipur. In a trait that we are also now witnessing in Myanmar, women agitators are known for stringing up phaneks — traditional sarongs worn by women — on the roads during bandhs as they are supposed to be unclean and bring bad luck to men who pass under them. In Manipur’s gender struggle, the need now is for a reinvention of attitude and approach. The author is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
24-03-2021||Opinion||College, truncated||The great college dropout act is all set to lose its radical appeal. For generations now, dropping out of college has been the frontier to striking dares, be it incubating start-ups in Silicon Valley, running away to join movies, slouching towards Varanasi to seek hash and a guru. The list, infinitely expandable, is about to die the saddest death an iconoclast can get. It is about to become an icon itself, tamed and domesticated at the shrine. Is the traditional college about to die? The murmurs grow stronger each day. Lawrence Wong, the education minister of Singapore, has recently declared that the conventional model of “a fixed period of education and then a fixed period of work” is “no longer relevant today”. He sharpens a tune already in the air. The ‘open loop university’, developed in 2014 by Stanford’s design school as a way of reimagining the college experience, gave students admitted to college six years to use however and whenever they wished to. They could start college whenever they felt they were ready — be it eighteen or twenty-four, pull out after two years, work for a few years, and then loop back into college. No matter where they lived when they were looped out, the students could use the remainder of their six-year college period to re-matriculate in their thirties, forties, or fifties. College, fragmented, has now found its way to India. The National Education Policy 2020 has introduced its “multiple entry and exit” policy with which a student can enter and exit college at multiple points, with appropriate credits stored in the very instrumentally titled ABC, or Academic Bank of Credit. Even if they begin at the beginning, they can graduate college at the end of one year with a “certificate”, at the end of two years with a “diploma”, at the end of three years with a “Bachelor’s” — although the option best ‘recommended’ by the NEP remains the four-year multidisciplinary programme with a research component. One who might have just been a college dropout in a former life now looks well-positioned to hold a “certificate” or a “diploma”. In this world, Steve Jobs and Bill Gates would forego their iconoclasm, trade it for a certifying taxonomy based on the number of classes they might have waltzed in and out of. In this world, not finishing college will be a challenge — whatever you do, you get a brand. But if only Silicon Valley success were the default result of college attrition! School dropouts in India are among the most painful consequences of poverty, and, thanks to the vicious cycle, of lack of education. Early marriage for girls and premature entry into the labour force for both sexes keep our schools far emptier than they should be. But dropouts have been far more contained in higher education, perhaps not surprisingly so as getting access to college education itself requires the crossing of a significant privilege divide in this country. The dropout rate in Indian Institutes of Technology was just 1 per cent, according to figures released in Parliament by the minister of education. And it has been decreasing too — it fell from 2.25 per cent in 2015-16, while for the Indian Institutes of Management, the rate fell from 1.04 per cent in 2015-16 to 1 per cent in 2020. Likewise, the dropout rate in universities went from 7.49 per cent in 2015-16 to 2.82 per cent in 2020. ‘Dropouts’ in these statistics are defined by those who do not complete the full period of study — in the current formulation, three years for general stream courses and four years in some professional streams. This data will change once the ‘multiple exit options’ is adopted by institutions. Early exits won’t be called ‘dropouts’ anymore; they would leave with their various appellations. But in essence, the percentage of students leaving college after one or two years will inevitably shoot up. What we now call dropouts would, in effect, be legitimized, and a far larger section of students would have very good reasons, even incentives, to take early-exit options. So can we expect more Bangalore/Gurgaon start-ups, greater glory for incubators and angel investors, bolder actors who’ve escaped the confines of college, liberated sports stars, artists and writers who were choking on the walls of syllabi and lecture halls? No doubt we’ll see some of these. At first glance, it also makes economic sense for poorer students, who might find quicker, more strategized, paths to employment. There might also be students who will, through the ominously titled ABC, bank their credits and return to institutions later in life to add to their qualifications. But seriously? Don’t we know what will happen to the majority of students? The poorer ones will simply take the early exit options, perhaps the poorer the earlier, while students from more privileged backgrounds stay back and reap the longue durée college experience. Scholarships will be a paltry band-aid as, for students from disadvantaged families, they merely offset the cost of studying but offer no real substitutes to professional income, which students forego as long as they stay in school, funded or not. Multiple striations of lateral apartheid already lash the higher education landscape in India — from elite institutes of engineering and posh private colleges in metro cities to far-flung places in the country where teachers barely show up and academic sine die is the norm. The new system will institutionalize this apartheid along a new axis: those who’ve had some college, those who’ve had more, and those who’ve had the most. In a deeply stratified country like India, it’s anyone’s guess how the difference will play out, between richer students with a longer trajectory of college, and (often, invariably) poorer ones with shorter trajectories. Returning to college later in life as a non-traditional student — doesn’t that too, more often than not, depend on social and educational privileges already in the community? Barring a few dedicated professional tracks such as law and medicine, it is almost impossible to predict the relationship between learning acquired in college and the real expanse of one’s working life. What matters in the long run is the experience of college itself, irrespective of course content. A significant part of this experience is the web of social relations one develops while in college, which, in turn, become foundational for future relationships and, indeed, one’s eligibility for them. It’s an open secret that the real value of an Ivy-League education is the membership to an elite club — of a network of alumni that opens doors from the White House to Wall Street and beyond. IITs, IIMs and elite colleges have been serving the same function here in India ever since Independence. College, truncated — never mind how we credential the act — will segregate this essential social experience even further, entrenching the position of the ‘longer-educated’ over those who take early leave. The day is not too far away when a group of well-heeled alumni of the full college experience will forge networks and mergers over drinks, casting a moment to remember the name of their sharp but poor classmate from first year who left early to take a job. But the name will slip past all memory. Another round of drinks will be ordered. They will move on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
