25-03-2021||Opinion||No to lockdown: Covid second wave||The first ‘anniversary’ of the lockdown should be an occasion of sombre reflection. It is now generally agreed that the hastily planned lockdown imposed in March last year had crippled the economy. Job losses, the loss of demand, disruptions in supply chains, unprecedented sufferings of migrant workers, the limited reach of India’s social welfare mechanism — the lockdown bared many a wart. It is to be hoped that if a lockdown — national or local — were to be imposed again, these mistakes would be rectified. The lockdown, in spite of its debilitating impact, was deemed necessary to break the chain of infection. It was not conceived as a cure; merely a precaution. India then went on to unlock itself in phases, and near-normalcy was restored. Worryingly, there is some apprehension that the country could be locked up again. This speculation can be attributed to the anxiety over the rising number of Covid-19 infections — apparently, the second wave is here. India added nearly 50,000 new cases on Tuesday. This spike is the sharpest since November. Worryingly, contagious strains have been found. A significant number of the samples tested in Punjab were of the UK strain; poll-bound Bengal, too, has discovered some cases with the UK and South African variants. As many as 24 states and Union territories have witnessed a surge in cases with Maharashtra, once again, shouldering a disproportionately high burden. A national lockdown, unless absolutely necessary, must be avoided. The economic cost and the consequent social unrest would cripple the nation. Some essential steps must be taken to keep India away from another lockdown. The vaccination drive must be expedited with vulnerable constituencies prioritized on a war footing. The decision to permit all citizens above 45 to receive vaccination from April 1 is a welcome step. But India should not lose sight of other, relevant challenges. There has been some concern with vaccine wastage, with even the prime minister cautioning the states. India’s healthcare network must be prepared to meet a rush of not only patients but also a far greater number of citizens seeking the jab. The paucity of trained health workers — the number of active health workers, a study now says, could be half of the government’s estimate — is another concern. But the most formidable of challenges remains growing public apathy towards safety measures. A concerted drive must be launched by administrators to penalize those refusing to wear masks or maintaining social distance. The government must show the way by discouraging mass gatherings for social, religious and even political functions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||Grand promises: BJP Bengal manifesto||Sir — While releasing the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election manifesto, ‘Sonar Bangla-Sankalpa Patra’, in West Bengal, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, made a grand statement: “We have decided that not only human beings, even a bird will not be able to fly in from beyond the border, such will be the security arrangements at the border” (“CAA + intruder net + Aarti = Sonar Bangla”, March 22). And yet, in recent times, China has intruded into Indian territory in Ladakh and encroached upon more than 50 kilometres of land in Arunachal Pradesh, as claimed by the BJP member of parliament, Tapir Gao, in the Lok Sabha. It is strange that the government talks about strengthening the West Bengal-Bangladesh border to prevent immigration and departures when the India-China border still remains porous. Interestingly, a BJP win in the West Bengal assembly elections is touted as the sine qua non of making the planned security arrangements. This is nothing but targeted demagogy to boost the party’s electoral prospects. Haridasan Rajan,Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — The recently released BJP manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal once again places monetary benefits at the centre of the party’s promises. The declaration to transfer Rs 1,000 for five years to refugee families, possibly in reference to the Matuas, through the Chief Minister Refugee Welfare scheme, reeks of populism. It is reminiscent of Narendra Modi’s promise of depositing Rs 15 lakh into every Indian citizen’s bank account — this was later ‘clarified’ as being an idiomatic expression — for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Rather than making such empty promises, the BJP should focus on concrete actions pertaining to the welfare and development of Bengal. Raghunath Pramanik,Calcutta Sir — Before the elections, all political parties make numerous promises to entice the public. But few declarations are fulfilled when candidates come to power. The saffron party, in its West Bengal election manifesto, released on Sunday, vowed to increase the minimum wage of tea garden workers to Rs 350. It must be noted that the BJP made a similar promise in Assam for the 2016 assembly elections, but it is yet to be fulfilled. It is evident that the party is simply hoping to entice voters with its wide variety of claims. The Trinamul Congress, too, is guilty of breaking its promises post-election. The people of Bengal must introspect thoroughly before casting their vote. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The BJP’s manifesto for the upcoming Bengal polls, ironically, mirrors the promises made by the party in Tripura during the 2018 assembly polls. However, much of the vision, as drafted in the poll manifesto, never turned to reality in the state. For instance, the BJP declared that one youth from every household in Tripura would receive a job. The saffron party further promised that all temporary jobs in the government sector would be made permanent. The BJP has similarly promised employment for at least one member of each family in the Bengal manifesto. Three years down the line, the government in Tripura announced that not only are there no government jobs as promised, but it will be outsourcing departmental jobs from now on. Furthermore, the BJP had announced the setting up of the seventh pay commission for state government employees. This is yet to be implemented, and reportedly 17 per cent dearness allowance arrears have not been paid. These are only some of the inconsistencies observed between the BJP’s pre-election promises and post-election realities. Voters should keep the party’s track record in mind before being swayed by its declarations. Khokan Das,Calcutta Towards equality Sir — There is no doubt that navigating everyday life can be tremendously difficult for differently-abled people in India. It is, however, not their daily struggles but the hurdles they face in exercising the right to vote that were recently discussed by a panel at a club in Calcutta. Problems range from narrow entrances through which wheelchairs cannot fit to the absence of Braille guides and ramps at polling booths — all of which can be remedied easily. While the home-based postal ballot system can be used by voters with special needs, the polling booth itself must be democratized so that it is accessible to all. Rupa Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||Lesson for all: SC on reservation||The question of quotas has spun out into a history of unending debate. The constant uncovering of groups still marginalized may certainly prompt re-evaluations. But a passion for social justice is not the only reason for the reservations pot to keep boiling; political parties have a lot to do with that. Predictably, a number of points for discussion emerged from the Supreme Court hearings on the Maharashtra government’s decision to provide quotas for Marathas that would overtake the mandated 50 per cent limit. Percentages, categories of reservations and the respective rights of the states and the Centre to decide on these comprised the theme of the arguments in court. In this context, the court reportedly asked why affirmative action should be limited to quotas; ‘something more’ had to be done. There was a need to move forward from the ‘matrix’ of reservations: promoting education and establishing more institutes would take affirmative action further. By focusing on education, the court’s comment underlined a central feature of affirmative action. Ensuring an equal spread and quality of education would be a huge stride towards levelling the field. Although this would not immediately address the inadequacy of representation in jobs and administration, which quotas are expected to do, it would be a certain, if slower, route towards equality in the long run. Limiting affirmative action to reservations has reduced social justice to political competition, while the lack of timed review of reserved groups is causing deep divisions in society — between as well as within castes and classes. Besides, studies show that the most underprivileged still have little or no access to quota benefits. Education, independent of quotas, would cut through the tangle of competing interests. Each state has a different set of underprivileged and historically marginalized or oppressed people. Teaching programmes could be designed to meet the different needs of their children. Freed of constitutional and legal mandates for quotas, states could select educationally and socially backward groups too, without controversy. What such a vision assumes is, first and foremost, political will — not the will of political parties — for the programme to take off. Economic strength as well, of course, but ways would open up in the face of a hard push for equality and justice. India must wait for that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||Quad Summit: Four friends in need||“It is good to be among friends.” That’s how Prime Minister Narendra Modi started his address to the leaders of the United States of America, Japan and Australia at their first-ever summit (albeit virtual) earlier this month. At a time when Washington, Tokyo, Canberra and New Delhi all view Beijing as their biggest challenge, the meeting of the so-called Quad was indeed an important marker of priorities for four of the Indo-Pacific region’s largest democracies. But in an era where hyperbole is routine and social media amplification can make everything seem ‘unprecedented’, it’s important to remember that we’ve seen this script before. There’s a reason they say that talk is cheap. If America, India, Japan and Australia truly see the Quad as a pillar of their joint strategy to counter China’s ambitions, their real test will start now. Although China was never mentioned in any of the public statements made during the Quad summit, it was clear that the dragon in the room was the glue bringing the US, India, Japan and Australia together. The conclave was followed by visits by the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, and the secretary of defence, Lloyd Austin, to Tokyo and Seoul, both allies of Washington. Austin also visited New Delhi. In the midst of these frenetic diplomatic engagements, Blinken and the US national security advisor, Jake Sullivan, hosted their Chinese counterparts, Wang Yi and Yang Jiechi, in Anchorage, Alaska. There was never going to be any thaw in the sub-zero temperatures of Alaska, although both sets of diplomats blew off plenty of steam. And China has understandably read Washington’s frenetic diplomatic activity over the past two weeks as a thinly-veiled attempt at cornering Beijing. Since the Alaska talks, China has already sent three naval vessels near Japanese waters as a reminder of its maritime might. The US and Japan plan to hold military exercises off the disputed Senkaku Islands (which Japan holds but China also claims) in a counter show of strength. China is Australia’s biggest trade partner. Expect Beijing, which has been waging a tariff war against Canberra over the latter’s criticism of China’s human rights record, to tighten the screws further. And while India and China have pulled back from their stand-off at major spots along their disputed Ladakh border, other sores in their relationship still fester. It would be naïve to assume that the US under President Joe Biden will continue with an endless battle of diplomatic attrition with China if there’s nothing tangible to show for it. His predecessor, Donald Trump, tried it with his trade war, but American businesses suffered as much as their Chinese counterparts. History shows that America — justifiably from its perspective — will eventually seek a deal with China. Exactly a decade ago, in 2011, the then president, Barack Obama, (Biden was then vice-president) instituted a pivot to Asia. He committed to strengthening American naval presence in the Indo-Pacific region, publicly took on China over its aggressive behaviour, sought to strengthen ties with other Asian countries wary of China and joined the East Asia Summit — a collective of 18 nations spanning Southeast Asia, East Asia, India, Australia, New Zealand, Russia and the US. But the death of the then North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, in December 2011, a month after Obama visited Asia, made the US reassess its options. Washington needed to reach out to the new leader in Pyongyang and seek a détente between North and South Korea. For that, it needed to work with China, which wields influence over North Korea. Later, Obama worked with China again over the Iran nuclear deal and the Paris climate change agreement. While Biden is ready to play hardball at the moment, he too will ultimately know that the success of any major global project — whether it’s withdrawing from Afghanistan, resuscitating relations with Iran, negotiating with North Korea or truly combating climate change — will need America and China to cooperate. For the Quad to survive and thrive, it will need a much broader mandate than a focus on China to ride out the inevitable balance between cooperation and competition that each member will need to strike with Beijing. And there’s no better approach for the collective to adopt than to look back at its roots. First envisaged in the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami, the Quad would do well to systematically establish itself as the most reliable set of first responders to any crisis — natural or manmade — in the Indo-Pacific region. We’re seeing some signs of this approach, with Quad nations promising a joint Covid-19 vaccine donation campaign for Indo-Pacific nations. At the same time, Quad members must recognize that some of the countries taking the boldest positions against China — such as Vietnam — are outside the grouping. The Quad will benefit if it constantly looks to expand its horizons and find new partners. None of this will be easy. And the task will be particularly risky for India. Japan, South Korea and Australia are US treaty partners, and Washington is legally bound to defend them in the event of military tensions with China. India cannot count on the same level of support. How New Delhi and its friends walk this tightrope will determine whether the Quad has greater success than Obama’s pivot to Asia. Yes, being among friends is good — as long as it doesn’t lull you into a false sense of security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||The Other hand||A little over 20 years ago, two researchers affiliated to Oxford University produced a curious, but obscure, finding on PubMed. Using a rather small sample of university students, M. Martin and G.V. Jones argued that the month of March heralds the beginning of a period in the annual calendar that witnesses a greater number of births of left-handed children. If the paper were to fall in the hands of William S. Inman, the good doctor would have surely concurred with the Roman horror for the Ides of March. Nearly 100 years ago, Inman had written a book, The Mental Sorrows of Left-Handedness, in which he concluded that the birth of left-handed children could be attributed to ‘overbearing, authoritative parenting’ and that the preference for the left hand was, in fact, a symbol of defiance of authority. Inman’s denunciation of the left hand was not unique: 11 years later, J.W. Comway came up with probably the earliest known modern booklet on the subject — The Prevention And Correction of Left-Handedness In Children — which advocated that left-handedness, an ailment as deadly and debilitating as ‘rickets, pneumonia and colic’, had to be eradicated so that children could become productive citizens in an industrialized order. Even a cursory scrutiny of this embedded cultural antagonism towards left-handedness and, in effect, left-handers would reveal a fascinating complicity among philosophy, science, superstition and even linguistics in a targeted discrimination that binds the pre-industrial society with that of the industrialized world. In an engaging examination, “Historical Aspects of Left-Handedness”, which is available online as part of the Serbian Archives of Medicine, four academics have created a sort of a civilizational timeline, a chronology, of this prejudice. Ancient Mesopotamia construed sinistrality to be a divine curse; Egyptians believed all adversaries were left-handed; Pythagorus, a Greek, associated darkness and femininity with the left limb; the Romans would only accept a shake of the right hand; the Inquisition years saw a witch-hunt against left-handed women; even the Renaissance, supposedly the high hour of intellectual enlightenment and moral emancipation, could not quite stifle disapproving murmurs about Leonardo da Vinci’s artistic left hand. The left hand continued to be a chip on cultures’ shoulder in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries. The Italian criminologist, Cesare Lombroso — he brought criminality under the lens of science — believed that the left-handed had a natural disposition towards crime. As late as the 1940s, Abram Blau, an American psychoanalyst, was prescribing restraining, torture and even humiliation for left-handed children in his influential work, The Master Hand: A Study of the Origin and Meaning of Left and Right Sidedness. It would only be logical to expect that etymological history, political systems and economies, too, would be afflicted by this bias. The Anglo-Saxon lyft implies weak or broken; sinistra/sinistrum, in Latin, originally evoked left, as did gauche in French. German, Italian, Russian and Mandarin, apparently, are equally ill-disposed towards the left hand. In a delicate irony, the left hand has been especially persecuted by the political Left: among the Soviet blocs, Communist Albania took the extreme step of banning left-handedness, while in democratic Japan the hidarikiki no hito — the Japanese Southpaw — began to gain a degree of respectability as late as the 1980s. Seven years ago, Joshua Goodman of Harvard’s Kennedy School presented copious amounts of data sourced from the United States of America and Britain to show that the median earnings of left-handed citizens were approximately 10 per cent lower than those of their brethren who laboured with the right hand. The scientist, Carl Sagan — a ‘leftie’— has attributed this cultural condemnation to the left hand’s symbolic association with ‘unhygienic labour’ in non-industrialized societies. This signifies that the body, much like society, remains a site of segregation in deference to codes of purity and pollution. But a more compelling hypothesis of this stigma — the stain, arguably, faded a bit after Marian Annett presented the ‘Right Shift Theory’, proposing a genetic link with handedness — probably lies in the numerical preponderance of the right-hander. The Serbian researchers concluded that the number of left-handed humans has remained unchanged — roughly 10 per cent of the total population — since the Upper Palaeolithic Age 10,000 years ago. The fictional Arjuna or the flesh-and-blood Albert Einstein — members of the Ambidextrous Tribe — wouldn’t think much of all the fuss about the left limb being served a poor hand. Is the matter at hand then pedantic? Not so. Evolutionary Psychology is looking at ‘handedness’ — the human ease with and the consequent favourable inclination towards one particular hand — as a cipher of the majoritarian impulse that coats the building blocks and institutions of collectives and communities. Handedness, then, can be reimagined as a miniature  representation of the broader social and political endorsement of uniformity — and, eventually, unilateralism — that is unfolding across global politics today. The triumph of this homogeneity also necessitates the cloaking of the injustices perpetrated on the Other in the name of upholding similitude as the very embodiment of order. This leads to the clever excision from the public discourse of the horror and humiliation of the left-handed — adults and children — as they attempt to perform the most mundane of tasks: writing, signing a cheque, typing on a keyboard and so on. The impact of the taming of the left hand on young minds remains relatively under-researched. But the Southpaw has survived. That is perhaps because that which cannot be comprehended fully by either reason or faith survives not only as the illicit but also the exotic. The result is an interesting aestheticization of, a grudging admiration for — if not accommodation of — the oddity. In cricket, style and elegance are invariably associated with David Gower, Brian Lara, Gary Sobers — lefties all. Scholars like Michael C. Corballis have also attempted, albeit not with too much success, to link enhanced brain symmetry with ‘magical ideation’, something that, Corballis argues, makes the left-handed hypercreative and receptive to extrasensory perception. Can the atypical be a form of political capital? The Left, banished from Bengal — a state, some say, is now ripe for the Right — would be pinning its hopes on such a hypothesis. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
