26-03-2021||Opinion||Move forward: Vaccines for all above 45||Sir — Having vaccinated a number of citizens above the age of 60, the government is all set to start the next vaccination drill. It has recently announced that the vaccination program for all citizens above 45 will commence from April 1 (“Vaccines for all above 45 from April 1”, March 24). Given the renewed surge in infection, this is definitely an appreciable move. The Union ministry has given the assurance that enough vaccine doses are available so that people do not worry. Studies, too, are being constantly conducted on the effects and efficacy of the vaccines. Thankfully, no major problem has been detected. For now, people would do well to trust the vaccine and avoid spreading rumours about its effects. One single mistake on our part can turn the clock back by a year. Kavya Shah,Ujjain Sir — India has thus far managed the vaccination programme rather well. In spite of a massive population, the authorities seem to be steadily administering the vaccine doses, without major hiccups. India is now stepping into the second phase of its vaccination programme. Regardless of comorbidities, anyone above the age of 45 will be eligible to take the vaccine next month onwards. Yet, it is a great concern that the number of new active cases is growing at an alarming rate. Perhaps the government should consider speeding up its previous vaccination strategy — the authorities must come up with a concrete plan so that the entire population is inoculated at the earliest. While it is noble of India to engage in vaccine diplomacy — millions of doses have reportedly been exported — it is time for the government to focus on putting the health of its own citizens first. The second wave of the pandemic could be fatal. The authorities as well as the citizens should take all possible precautions to contain it. Aradhana Deb,Calcutta  Take care Sir — It is shocking that over 13,000 infants died in the sick newborn care units in government hospitals in Gujarat in the last two years. These facilities reportedly give free treatment. But this means nothing if these precious lives cannot be saved. Gujarat should focus on employing more medical professionals to look into this disturbing data and take measures to tackle the problem. Reshmi Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Erase the line: Rising crimes against Dalits||One step in favour of equality in India seems to be accompanied by two steps back. While there has been a heartening rise in the number of inter-caste marriages, India has also witnessed growing atrocities against Dalit communities. There was a rise in the number of weddings involving a Dalit spouse in 2020, but National Crime Records Bureau figures also show a corresponding spike in crimes against scheduled castes in recent years. The violence thus outweighs the progress made by these inter-caste alliances. Taking cognizance of this reality, a parliamentary panel has now suggested the adoption of schemes incentivizing inter-caste unions in a bid to curb caste-based violence. The suggestion has its merits. If society at large were to perceive inter-caste unions as having the support of Parliament, young people might feel emboldened to marry whom they choose, and their families — often the greatest source of opposition — might even bless the unions. In fact, the Central scheme, under which cash incentives are extended to couples in cases where one spouse belongs to a scheduled caste, witnessed claims going up to 23,355 in 2019-20 from 20,253 in 2017-18. Cash incentives could also be a boon for poor families unable to organize weddings. The parliamentary panel’s progressive outlook is also reassuring at a time when caste atrocities have witnessed a surge in Uttar Pradesh and the Bharatiya Janata Party, India’s ruling party, has unleashed a campaign against interfaith unions. Of course, the idea of incentives is not new: in 2020, Karnataka reported a three-fold increase in inter-caste unions in five years as a result of a similar policy. But it must be remembered that State paternalism can ultimately do little to address the underlying problems of entrenched caste prejudice. Caste remains a pervasive force in Indian politics, policymaking and justice delivery. Political patronage on the basis of caste constituencies, systemic discrimination against lower caste groups and a poor conviction rate — it fell from 19.3 per cent in 2018 to 18.1 per cent in 2019 — are some of the manifestations of this perversity. The real challenge lies in tackling the disease, not its symptoms. This is predicated upon widening the scope of affirmative action to ensure equality in rights and access to healthcare, education and public spaces, including places of worship, alongside prompt and impartial action on the part of law enforcement to check caste crimes. Inter-caste marriage as an acceptable norm is still a far cry in India, but imaginative policy and parliamentary endorsement could well ignite a momentum for change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Paper trail: New UGC history course||It is getting predictable — the intellectual, ethical and professional surrender of various institutions to the agenda of the party in power at the Centre. The University Grants Commission has produced a draft syllabus for the undergraduate history course. Echoing the ruling regime’s drive for control in all spheres, the UGC has, for the first time, graduated from issuing general guidelines to producing a paper-by-paper course. The changes in the history syllabus of Delhi University cause little surprise. Mythological concepts and ancient Indian texts with a religious slant — non-religious texts do not make the cut — have been given primacy over the study of pre-historic times and the early historic period. Together with these has been included the ‘idea of Bharat’ with one topic suggesting that it is ‘eternal’. What does fantasizing have to do with history? That this should be matched with a sidelining of lessons on the Mughal period — apparently caused by Babar’s ‘invasion’, a term rejected hitherto by the university — is hardly unexpected. Hindu and Muslim societies are to be studied under separate heads, suggesting division, not interaction, in the medieval period. These changes are enough to indicate that history teaching is to be turned on its head; the rest, such as using V.D. Savarkar’s label for the 1857 uprising while ignoring other rebellions, pretending there was no Dalit politics till 1950 or no partition of Bengal in 1905 and no resistance to it, or replacing books such as Irfan Habib’s with books by allegedly ‘pro-sangh’ writers, are just dangerous details. The intention is to disseminate ignorance. This is not the ignorance of not knowing, but that of belief in something false or non-existent. An example is the draft syllabus’s highly original identification of an Indus-Saraswati civilization when no one knows if the ancient Saraswati river existed. But juggling priorities and topics, or introducing unhistorical ideas, is not meant just to distort understanding. Fantasy replacing facts and disguised propaganda replacing historical accounts are evidence of a far-sighted goal. The UGC seems desirous of compelling students to dismantle their intellectual equipment which they will strengthen with study, analysis, independent reflection and research. The programme is to create brainlessness. Without that, it will not be possible to establish one dominant ideology and undisputed political control. Students are filling up the jails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Revival plan for multilateralism||One of the most discussed fallouts of the Covid-19 pandemic has been the apparent failure of multilateralism. Over the years, multilateral institutions, such as the United Nations, the World Health Organization or the World Trade Organization, have been falling short in fulfilling the needs and addressing the grievances of developing economies. Moreover, the post-World War II world, which was predominantly designed with a view to establish a rules-based global order for achieving integration, peace and prosperity, has been going downhill. This is combined with rising discontent over job insecurity, slow economic recovery, increasing inequalities, trade protectionism, climate change, mounting greenhouse gas emissions and so on. So why is multilateralism in a free-fall? Power structures have undergone massive changes in the post-war years, more so since the end of the Cold War. The rise of a belligerent Beijing accompanied with its economic advancements has tremendously changed the ebb and flow of global governance. India, too, is not keen on maintaining radio silence with such a neighbour in its backyard. New Delhi is gradually and actively increasing its visibility on the international scene. Take, for instance, Vaccine Maitri, India’s recent diplomatic-cum-development partnership endeavour to earn goodwill not only in the neighbouring region of South Asia but also in Latin America and even in Canada and Mexico. The feeble response of the WHO in the wake of the pandemic clearly reflected how it was busy kowtowing to its premier sponsors. In the case of the environment, the withdrawal of the United States of America from the Paris agreement or the Iran nuclear deal under Donald Trump have been cited as examples of a strong backlash against a multilateral order. With less than ten years left for Agenda 2030, the year 2020 was meant to be a landmark year in climate ambition. Instead, it turned out to be the year of Covid-19. International climate governance was stalled as several governments dived in announcing emergency stimulus packages to rescue their economies. Besides, the United Nations Climate Change Conference, which was supposed to give a practical shape to the Paris agreement, got deferred, putting climate policymaking in an indeterminate state. However, putting the entire blame on Trump’s ‘America First’ policy for the US’s exit from climate agreements or on China’s aggressive infrastructural expansion with ‘One Belt One Road’ does not explain the maladies encountered by multilateralism today. The problem lies in the absence of a changing narrative of multilateralism, one that equips it to face new world challenges. An updated version of multilateralism is what the international community must ponder. In fact, the pandemic has offered the latter an opportune moment to plan sustainable pathways in the run-up to Agenda 2030. At this juncture, the involvement of ‘sub-national agencies and sub-groups of multiple actors’ could reboot the current multilateral system. Minilaterals or small groupings of countries  — for instance, an India-France-Australia or an India-Japan-Australia axis in the Indo-Pacific — could help reform multilateralism. When it comes to environmental multilateralism, sustainability has to be given adequate spotlight. An ecological transition characterized by a shift from fossils to renewables holds the potential for a faster economic recovery. The recovery packages open up an avenue for mobilizing funds for sustainable pathways. However, this depends on how cohesively the countries prioritize their climate ambitions, especially in the light of Covid-19. In this context, the COP26, now scheduled to take place in November, is crucial. The sub-grouping of nation states and sub-national agencies can facilitate climate negotiations and revive multilateralism. Although the pandemic is still raging, making climate change mitigation and adaptation mainstream, both at the multilateral and minilateral level, is essential.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||A case for measuring governance||The prime minister’s uncharacteristic dismay at the higher bureaucratic system, not devoid of truth and made in a specific context, has met with mixed reaction. This is an occasion that calls for introspection of a broader malaise. How does one objectively assess the quality of public services or of governance in general, especially at the state level? The subjective view is often shaped by a priori assumptions, ideological preferences, and the opinions propagated by the media. Besides, there is often a hidden blame game between the bureaucrat and the minister and an open one between the ruling party and the Opposition. How can a citizen then gain a dispassionate, informed perspective? In 1970, the then home secretary, L.P. Singh, had observed that civil servants are too concerned with the political element in administration. “I know that thousands of civil servants spend a lot of time bemoaning political interference, complaining of unjust orders passed... I personally think that these preoccupations have done a great deal of harm to the civil service and to the administration of this country. For they have tended to deflect the civil service away from going more deeply into what I would describe broadly as its professional problems... let’s be honest, we have to blame ourselves, not ministers, not politicians, not legislators...” (David C. Potter in India’s Political Administrators). In the process, governance suffers, failing to satisfy basic needs and aspirations of the people. With greater resources and tools of modern management at our disposal, isn’t it time to examine the current state of public administration? A commendable effort in this direction has been made by the Public Affairs Centre in Bengaluru by a research team under the guidance of Gurucharan Gollerkeri, a former civil servant, in the recently published Public Affairs Index-Governance in the States of India-2020. Seeking to improve the quality of governance, and following a methodology that is innovative and technically sound, “PAI 2020 provides evidence-based insights on subnational governance, and in particular, drawing on government data, an assessment of the quality and adequacy of governance in the states.” In its fifth year of publication, the annual report is getting continuously refined but is yet to receive the attention it deserves. Any attempt at developing measurable and verifiable indices is bound to have limitations. Nevertheless, one should appreciate the ingenuity and hard work that have gone into ranking the states, categorized as large and small, based on population criterion, on a Composite Index, with “the three dimensions of sustainable development — growth, equity and sustainability” as the overarching goals of governance. Under each of these three, performance is circumscribed by five select themes of governance — the rule of law, government effectiveness, regulatory quality, control of corruption, voice and accountability. These themes, in turn, are mapped into 13 Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations for 2030. Below this SDG layer, there are 50 indicators used in generating the Composite Index. The process is rigorous. But the final outcomes offer a nuanced picture. For instance, across high and low performing states, high levels of inequality are noticed, corroborating the notion of a widening gap between the rich and the poor. The finding that female labour participation is insignificant in the poor performing states is also understandable. The authors conclude “there is a slow but steady convergence between states on growth and equity... that some states have deeply entrenched inequality that must be addressed with single-minded policy focus... ” Kerala tops the overall ranking, followed by Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh. Andhra Pradesh under the equity parameter and Kerala under growth and sustainability head the list of large states. At the bottom are Haryana, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh. How these findings correlate with the state rankings in terms of human development indices would be an interesting facet to analyse. While the methodology and the importance accorded to equity, growth and sustainability may be questioned, the report should have triggered a serious discussion on the subject. PAI 2020 has shown one valid way of ranking our states. By measuring inter-state disparities, the need for focused intervention has been highlighted so as to enable some states, marked by severe resource constraints and chronic backwardness, to meaningfully participate in ‘competitive federalism’. At the national level, a key to ranking various Central government departments may be found in the way civil service effectiveness is sought to be measured through the International Civil Service Effectiveness Index 2019 developed by the Blavatnik School of Government, Oxford University and the Institute for Government, supported by the UK civil service. We can study the methodology, modify it to meet our requirements and prepare our own ranking system. Select think-tanks and national academies may engage with these exercises, taking advantage of the best national and international expertise, under the supervision of the Niti Aayog. A combination of enlightened political will and administrative skill determines the quality of governance. This quality should also lend itself to measurement. It is time, therefore, to collect the ‘big data’ and use them systematically to assess and quantify the performances of offices and departments of the Central and state governments. A bureaucrat’s performance has to be judged against this overall context, not by his proximity to centres of power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Hope is hard||West Bengal recorded its first officially-confirmed coronavirus death a year and three days ago, on March 23, 2020, that of a 57-year-old man who had recently returned from Italy. A day later, Lockdown 1.0 was announced at four hours’ notice, coming into effect from midnight of March 24/25, and, as we all know (even if we can’t recall the exact dates), being extended in phases up to the end of May. By end-March last year, many of the positions we now associate with the ongoing pandemic had begun to be adopted by significant numbers of people — from a plethora of conspiracy theories to varieties of studied nonchalance; from the tom-tomming of traditional and/or natural cures to eco-outrage at the nemesis human beings had unleashed on themselves through their hubris; from firmly-held belief in supernatural intercession to the invocation of science as the only hope of overcoming the virus. Many commentators combined one or more of these positions to push forward their own understandings and interpretations of what seemed to be — at least at that point — a temporary lull in the normal rhythm of life. As the days stretched into weeks, and the weeks into months, most of the early predictions — whether based on faith or on analyses of multiplying piles of data — crumbled like so much dust before swirling whirlwinds. One year on, and despite the astonishing achievements of researchers and scientists (and unprecedented global cooperation) ensuring that several vaccines have made their way into our lives, the picture remains indecipherably blurry. The total number of deaths from Covid-19 in West Bengal on March 23, 2021 — exactly a year after that first mortality — stands at 10,310, according to government statistics; many think the real figure is significantly higher. Worries abound. Are we about to see a “second wave” of Covid-19 infections? Or is it already upon us? How virulent are the new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that have begun to make inroads in India? Will a fresh wave of restrictions on travel and gatherings have to be imposed in a few weeks’ time? Are the assembly elections in West Bengal to be followed by another phase of lockdowns? The questions multiply, even as coronavirus cases seem to be on an upswing after months of reduced infections. Our inability to judge how or when the virus can be brought under some kind of control (it now appears that the best we can hope for is to learn to live with it, instead of looking to eradicate it entirely) has also muddled our ability to compute the toll it has already taken on the lives of millions upon millions of our fellow citizens — from the most privileged to the poorest in the land — leave alone think of possible alleviative measures. Perhaps the major difficulty lies in the near-impossibility of calculating just how badly individuals, families and communities have been, and are being, affected by the pandemic — a difficulty compounded by the fact that Covid-19 has already had a ‘multiplier effect’ on existing inequities and inequalities, whether these are based on class, caste, religion, occupation, gender, geographical location, political affiliation or a combination of these. One is not speaking here only of the underclass, the poor migrant labourer forced to trudge hundreds of weary kilometres home, the petty salaried employee suddenly deprived of a job — many millions of others, some with seemingly secure livelihoods, are almost as badly affected. For many, if not the majority, this has to do with the psychological toll that the pandemic has taken. Among them, some of the worst-affected are students and teachers. Despite all our access to technology, all the Zoom meetings, the Google classrooms, online teaching tools, access to free resources and so on, what this last year has brought home in no uncertain terms is that learning and teaching are interactive, collaborative and crucially dependent on what is perhaps best expressed as the ‘embodied’ nature of education — whether at school, college or university. At a recent (virtual) interaction with college and university teachers, a participant recounted how students would come in to her college just to say “hello” to their teachers and their peers, and then go back home. This immediately led to others narrating that they had experienced the same phenomenon, and how many of them would go to their university or college not because they were duty-bound to do so, but because they craved human contact — even if separated by six feet of distance — with their colleagues and, perhaps more importantly, their students. There was near-unanimity about just how important such physical presence was to the teaching-learning process — something that seems not to be taken much into account as we rush into virtual digital lecture halls and laboratories. The ‘digital divide’ has, to a considerable extent, made education a function of a student’s economic status, and educational institutions are struggling to find ways and means to ensure that no student is left behind for want of a device or data plan; but even if every student had access to a device and data, the business of conducting online classes has something bizarrely inhuman about it. The inability to pick up the non-verbal cues that alert a teacher to the attentiveness, or otherwise, of a student, or indicate to students the interest, or lack thereof, on the part of a teacher in what she/he is supposed to be teaching, are fundamental components of the pedagogic process. Going digital may have its uses, but the absence of the living, breathing, thinking human being engaged in the process of questioning, debating, arguing, understanding, in short, learning, diminishes the entire process of education. The consequences can be devastating. Many of the teachers in that interaction confessed how they felt “useless” or “helpless” or “inadequate” in such a situation, and all looked forward to the time when they would be able to interact physically, not virtually, with pupils. A great deal (some would say “most”) of what we learn at school, college or university happens outside the structured confines of the classroom, without the supervision of a teacher. This too has been largely lost due to the pandemic. More questions. When will students and teachers once again interact in ways that are not mediated by digital means? When will campuses regain their rightful place as fertile seedbeds of fresh ideas? When will we be able to communicate with each other as whole human beings instead of disembodied voices screaming into the void? As SARS-CoV-2 mutates merrily into ever-newer forms, and the questions keep multiplying by the day, perhaps the hardest thing to do is not to seek answers, but simply to hold on to hope. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
