27-03-2021||Opinion||India-Bangladesh: Friends in deed||The former prime minister, Manmohan Singh, one of India’s most erudite and perceptive statesmen, had once said that the nation can choose its friends but not its neighbours. In a rare and happy occurrence, New Delhi has in Dhaka a reliable friend as well as an ideal neighbour. That the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, is the guest of honour at the celebrations to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the founding of Bangladesh — it also happens to be the centenary birth year of Bangladesh’s founder, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman — is a testament to the strength as well as the potential of this friendship. History, of course, has played its part in cementing the bond. India’s contribution to the creation of Bangladesh is truly historic. The political prudence of Indira Gandhi was matched by the valour of India’s armed forces that facilitated Bangladesh’s birth by fire. India has been a model of freedom and democracy for the smaller neighbour that has witnessed periods of turbulence. Present-day India, arguably, could learn a few things from Bangabandhu’s unfailing commitment to secularism as well as from Dhaka’s progress in the economy — that too, in a pandemic year — and in human development indicators. The two nations have marched forward with some of the most significant strides being taken in recent years. In 2015, the leadership of both countries signed the Land Boundary Agreement, facilitating the exchange of enclaves that not only enabled the resettlement of populations on the basis of their choice of residence but also resolved some border issues. Anti-Indian forces were neutralized effectively by the Bangladesh government under Sheikh Hasina Wajed, removing a contentious crease on the bilateral fabric. Communication and trade ties have bloomed, with Dhaka emerging as New Delhi’s biggest partner in South Asia and India extending lines of credit for development. Shared cultural and linguistic ties between the two Bengals could also be used as a productive asset to deepen the alliance. But there are irritants as well, largely from the Indian side. The sharing of river waters, primarily that of the Teesta, remains the principal bone of contention. Trade imbalances caused by non-tariff barriers on this side of the border as well as the tardy pace of the disbursement of India’s lines of credit must be looked into. Of equal concern are the warts on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bangladesh policy. The rhetoric of the infiltrator — ‘termites’ in India’s home minister’s lexicon — has been used to derive political capital by the BJP in domestic politics. The domesticization of diplomacy was equally evident in Mr Modi’s unprecedented decision to visit a shrine revered by the Matua community in an attempt to derive political brownie points in poll-bound West Bengal. Mr Modi and his party must be careful not to fritter away the gains made by India and Bangladesh over decades at the altar of provincial politics. An injury to this deepening association could have broader — pan-Asian — consequences at a time when China is busy scooping up many of New Delhi’s allies in a widening embrace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
27-03-2021||Opinion||Pressure point: Hindi imposition on IACS||Sir — It is an ominous sign when politics begins to dictate the language of science. India’s oldest science research institute, the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, has been told via a letter that it is not doing enough to meet the Hindi language targets set by the Centre (“Science hub told to cultivate Hindi”, March 24). The institute’s acting registrar has said that its circular on the matter stands superseded, but the developments are worrying. No imperial diktat prevented Isaac Newton from choosing Latin over English when he wrote Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica, one of the most celebrated volumes on science. Modern academia needs similar flexibility and freedom of expression to thrive. This is not asking for much. A task force, formed to study the feasibility of introducing regional languages as the medium of instruction in the Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, has made a few of its findings public. First, it reveals that Hindi is not a feasible option for premier institutes like the IITs and the NITs. This is mainly on account of the composition of student populations and faculties, many members of which come from all parts of the country, thus covering a much broader linguistic spectrum. Several academics have spoken in unison against the imposition of Hindi, an ill-conceived plan unleashed to divert the focus of academia away from scholarship. The task force also found that it is possible to introduce native languages in numerous local technical colleges which mainly attract the domicile students of the states concerned. The report says that only 5-10 per cent of students in IITs preferred to take their courses in a native language. Another study found that around 44 per cent of students in state technical colleges, which have a considerable presence of local students, wanted to study in the local language. In fact, it is already a practice in many state colleges to use the local language over Hindi or English. The study provides valuable insights into language preferences of institutions based on stature and student demographic. A premier institute like the IACS, where Nobel laureates like C.V. Raman once worked, is a poor candidate for the ‘cultivation’ of Hindi. The race to adopt Hindi for circulars or clerical correspondence in the IACS is also unnecessary. It is a wasteful exercise in terms of consumption of paper, time and resources. Tarun K. Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — It was heartening to read that scientists from several institutions expressed outrage at the Centre’s attempt to harass the IACS, one of Bengal’s most respected institutions, in the name of furthering the use of Hindi as the ‘official language’. On Wednesday, research scholars as well as undergraduate and postgraduate students assembled on campus and formed a human chain that went past the football field. On the field were written the words, “No Hindi Imposition”. After the protest, a new circular was issued that appeared to ‘supersede’ the earlier one, although a teacher at the institute wondered whether it was just the same circular couched in more placatory language. Even if that is the case, the students of the institute will continue to fight the imposition of Hindi. Ankita Poddar,Calcutta Close call Sir — A number of leaders around the world have tested positive for Covid-19. However, it was appalling to read that the prime minister of Pakistan, who was recently diagnosed with the disease, reportedly held an in-person meeting with his media team after he tested positive. Even ordinary citizens are expected to be responsible and isolate themselves after testing positive for the illness. As the leader of a nation, Khan has an even greater responsibility upon his shoulders to set a good example. Given the flagrant flouting of social distancing norms all over South Asia, such irresponsible behaviour from a head of state is shameful and should be condemned. Faiza Khalid,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
27-03-2021||Opinion||Real danger: Crimes against Asian Americans||A little over a week ago, the United States of America had to witness yet another hate crime. Eight people, six of them Asian women, were shot to death by a white gunman at three spas in Georgia. The former US president, Donald Trump, had openly referred to the coronavirus as the ‘China virus’ or the ‘kung flu’, perpetuating xenophobia. Ever since March 2020, when Covid-19 gripped the US, there has been a rise in crimes against Asian Americans. Early last year, the #IAmNotAVirus campaign was created to spread awareness. After the Atlanta attacks, hundreds of protesters took to the streets  with signs saying ‘Stop Asian Hate’. Activists once again called for stricter gun control. According to the Stop AAPI Hate National Report, 3,800 hate crimes against Asian Americans were reported in 2020 — much higher than the 2,600 cases in 2019. According to the data, women report hate incidents 2.3 times more than men do. Other research also indicates that hate crimes against Asians have gone up significantly alongside the rise in Covid-19 cases. Several other Conservatives followed Trump’s example and spewed hate on public broadcast networks, making people associate the coronavirus with Asian Americans. The Covid-19 Hate Crimes Act was introduced to address this discrimination. It increases oversight in Covid19-induced hate crimes and makes such information more accessible to Asian American communities. Land a punch While Donald Trump is enjoying post-presidency life in his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, thousands of miles away, in San Antonio, Texas, a wax statue of him had to be taken down after people kept punching it. The Louis Tussaud’s Waxworks in San Antonio had put up a wax statue of Trump in between the wax displays of Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un. However, museum visitors punched and scratched the wax statue so many times that the authorities  had to temporarily remove it from public view. The intentional destruction of a wax statue, especially that of a political figure, by museum goers is not unheard of. Wax statues of George W Bush and Barack Obama have also been attacked by members of the public in the San Antonio museum, including past incidents where the ears were ripped off Obama’s replica according to San Antonio Express-News. A Pew Research Center survey found that a total of 68 per cent of Americans said they did not want Trump to be a major political figure after he left the White House. It is unclear when, or if, the museum will re-display the Trump statue. On the other side of the world, Trump has also been cast not in wax but in ceramic, resembling the Buddha. A Chinese artist created a statue of the former president draped in robes, cross-legged, with his eyes gently closed as if in a meditative state. The statues are sold online, along with the description, “Make your company great again!” Do not forget The Speed Art Museum in Louisville, Kentucky is hosting an exhibition on April 7 in honour of Breonna Taylor, the 26-year-old ER technician who was shot to death by the police raiding her apartment last year. The show, called Promise, Witness, Remembrance, will feature a portrait by the painter, Amy Sherald, and work by several other painters and photographers who captured the protests that took place after Taylor’s death. The show will span five galleries and will also reflect the Black Lives Matter demonstrations that took place following the death of Taylor and other Black Americans at the hands of the police. The exhibition will explore “the dualities between a personal, local story and the nation’s reflection on the promise, witness, and remembrance of too many Black lives lost to gun violence”. Currently, there is an outdoor memorial with murals, posters and artwork in Taylor’s honour at Jefferson Square Park in Louisville. Life changes As people are getting vaccinated, businesses are starting to formulate the post-pandemic work situation. Last year saw many people transform their living rooms into offices, with no idea about when things would return to ‘normal’. Now, people are considering what life would look like in a world without Covid-19. Many prefer to continue remote working. While people miss out on the social work environment or popping into the boss’s office to ask a quick question, the pros outweigh the cons. Remotely, people can cut out the two-hour daily commute. They can run quick errands or pop in at the laundry in the middle of a workday. There is also the class divide to consider. Medium to higher income earners can afford to work from home. You need to be employed at a job that requires nothing more than a computer, steady WiFi, space and privacy. According to the Pew Research Center, “those in upper-income families and... with a bachelor’s degree or more education... are more likely than those with middle or lower incomes and... without a bachelor’s degree to say they have more flexibility to choose their hours and that they feel less connected to their co-workers”. At the same time, if you are working from home you are always working. Tech companies like Twitter, Square, Spotify, Shopify and Amazon are adopting extended WFH policies, including allowing employees to live in different geographic regions. Footnote The National Collegiate Athletic Association came under fire again for blatant sexism and discrimination evident in its weight room amenities for the women’s team as compared to the facilities for the men. Viral pictures showed the men’s fitness area resembling a commercial gym while the women’s room had a couple of weights and yoga mats. The women’s food, ‘swag’ bags and even Covid-19 antigen tests were subpar in comparison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
27-03-2021||Opinion||A shrinking space||“What am I? Asiatic, European, or American? I feel a curious medley of personalities in me.”
— Swami Vivekananda In 1873, the social reformer, Jyotirao Phule, published a searing critique of the caste system. Entitled Gulamgiri, the book was written in Marathi, yet it carried a dedication in English. This expressed the author’s admiration for “the good people of the United States” for their “sublime, disinterested and self-sacrificing devotion” to the abolition of slavery. Phule hoped that the passion for racial justice expressed by reformers in America would act as a “noble example” for Indians who sought “the emancipation of their Shudra Brethren from the trammels of Brahmin thraldom”. I was reminded of Phule’s dedication when reading reports of the prime minister’s speech in Parliament, warning Indians against what he damned as “foreign destructive ideology”. The capacious cosmopolitanism of the lonely, struggling reformer on the one side versus the paranoid xenophobia of the most powerful man in India, on the other. Clearly, the Hindu mind was far more open when we were still under colonial rule than at present, when we are a professedly proud and independent nation. Through the 19th century and well into the 20th, the leaders of Hindu society were entirely aware of its weaknesses. They knew that the disabilities that Hindus suffered from were in part, indeed in good part, self-inflicted. Our failures could not merely be blamed on the malevolent foreigners who had colonized us. In ridding ourselves of these disabilities, in preparing to meet the challenges of a complex, interdependent and ever-changing world, Hindus had to take counsel from, and listen to, critical voices both internal as well as external. The modern tradition of Hindu social reform begins with Rammohan Roy. Far from thinking (as our present Hindutvawadis do) that Hindus were pure, perfect, infallible, Roy faulted his compatriots on three grounds in particular — their treatment of women, their lack of interest in modern knowledge and their trust in scripture over reason. These three strands of social reform were deepened and furthered by activists who came in the wake of Roy, who pressed for, among other things, the raising of the age of marriage, the encouragement of the practice of widow remarriage, the promotion of modern education for men and for women, an end to caste discrimination and a culture of open debate through a free press. Rammohan Roy had travelled widely in the West, and interacted with many Western thinkers and activists. Yet, as Rabindranath Tagore once wrote, “with a wonderful breadth of heart and intellect [Roy] accepted the West without betraying the East”. As a scholar of Sanskrit, Bengali and Persian, Roy “had ground of his own on which he could take his stand and where he could secure his acquisitions. The true wealth of India was not hidden from him, for this he had already made his own. Consequently he had with him the touchstone by which he could test the wealth of others”. Like Rammohan Roy, Tagore was a Bengali deeply curious about other parts of India, and an Indian keenly interested in other parts of the world. Notably, his range of cosmopolitan reference was not (as is often the case with Indians) merely restricted to Europe and North America. His search for knowledge took him to Japan, China, Java, Iran and Latin America too. When, as a consequence of these travels, he established a university in rural Bengal, he named it ‘Visva-Bharati’, which we may translate as ‘The World in India’. The university’s memorandum of association described its objectives as the bringing together of “thinkers and scholars of both Eastern and Western countries, free from all antagonisms of race, nationality, creed or caste...”, and their realization “in a common fellowship of study [of] the meeting of East and West”. In 1920-21 Mahatma Gandhi launched the non-cooperation movement. While wishing for India’s liberation from colonial rule, Tagore worried about the xenophobic tendencies within the popular movement for freedom. Are “we alone to be content with telling the beads of negation”, asked Tagore of Gandhi’s followers, “harping on others’ faults and proceeding with the erection of Swaraj on a foundation of quarrelsomeness?” In a private meeting with the Mahatma, Tagore told him that “the whole world is suffering today from the cult of a selfish and short-sighted nationalism... I have come to believe that, as Indians, we not only have much to learn from the West but that we also have something to contribute. We dare not therefore shut the West out. But we still have to learn among ourselves how, through education, to collaborate and achieve a common understanding”. Rammohan Roy and Rabindranath Tagore were visionaries who saw in a fuller engagement with other cultures the enrichment of their own. So did the other Indian reformers of the day. Hence Phule’s invocation of the abolition of slavery in America as an inspirational example for his own lifelong struggle to abolish caste distinctions. Phule himself never travelled outside India; but his great successor, B.R. Ambedkar, did. Ambedkar’s education in the United States of America made a profound impression on him. Like Phule, he came to see the striking parallels between the treatment of Blacks in America and Dalits in India. Meanwhile, the teachings of the philosopher, John Dewey, alerted Ambedkar to the vital importance of education in nurturing a sense of common citizenship. From Roy to Ambedkar via Phule, Gokhale, Tagore, Gandhi, Periyar, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and many more, there was a long line of social reformers who worked assiduously to liberate their compatriots from the burdens of the past. For the Hindu society they knew and had experienced was at once unequal, uneducated and unfree. These reformers were determined to make their society more equal, by ending discrimination against women and low castes; more educated, by promoting modern secular learning in schools and colleges, and making such knowledge accessible to all; and more free, by cultivating a culture of public debate and discussion. The work of generations of reformers in opening the Hindu mind culminated in the framing and adoption of the Constitution of India. This drew on the best practices from across the world, incorporating laws and ideas from Europe and America as seemed fit. Notably, this open-minded engagement with other constitutional traditions drew the ire of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. In the last week of November 1949, after the final draft of the Constitution had been presented by B.R. Ambedkar, the RSS mouthpiece, Organiser, complained that “the worst [thing] about the new Constitution of Bharat is that there is nothing Bharatiya about it... [T]here is no trace of ancient Bharatiya constitutional laws, institutions, nomenclature and phraseology in it”. A letter in the Organiser expressed outrage at a writer who had praised Ambedkar as the “Manu of Modern India”. This, said the RSS ideologue, “is an instance of depicting a Lilliput as a Brobdingnag. It borders on ridicule to put Dr Ambedkar on par with the learned and god-like Manu...” This disparagement of Ambedkar by the RSS was in character. For, unlike the reformers I have praised in this column, the sangh thought there was nothing Hindus had to learn from other cultures or countries. On the other hand, they claimed that Hindus had been put on earth precisely to teach the world. This conceit that Hindus were destined to be some sort of ‘vishwa guru’ permeates the writings of prominent RSS ideologues from M.S. Golwalkar onwards. The worldview of the RSS is a peculiar mixture of triumphalism and paranoia. On the one hand, there is the fervent proclamation of global domination by Hindus. On the other hand, there is the continuing stigmatization of Indians of other faiths, and of Muslims particularly. And there is an absolute unwillingness to acknowledge that some, perhaps many, of the failings within Indian society may be attributable to the thoughts and actions of Hindus themselves. Over the decades, as the sangh parivar has grown in power and influence, the Hindu mind has shrunk — shrunk in its capacity for free thought, for self-critique and for self-reflection. Now, with the BJP and the RSS so dominant in our political and institutional life, this closing of the Hindu mind is manifest at the highest levels of government, as Union ministers and chief ministers exalt superstition over science, disparage the independence of women and issue periodic rants against the West. Lower down the sanghi hierarchy, this closing of the Hindu mind is displayed through the thuggish attacks on journalists, artists, writers and film-makers who dare present the truth about the continuing injustices in our society. Back in the 19th century, long before air travel and the internet had been invented, Jyotirao Phule could mentally reach out across the oceans to study the process of social emancipation in a country far distant from his own. Now, in the 21st century, when the world is so closely interwoven, the prime minister of India asks us to turn inwards into ourselves. We shall not listen. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
