28-03-2021||Opinion||The man who promised the moon||No one but Thulam Saravanan can say for sure what it is that he is trying to achieve with his tall promises. Does he merely want to draw attention to himself or is he critiquing a high-pitched no-holds-barred poll battle? But come to think of it no matter how outlandish they seem ‑ a mini-helicopter, one crore rupees, a car and a robot domestic help for every household, 100 gold sovereigns for women, a crore to those starting a business, several lakhs every month for the differently abled, a giant iceberg — the poll promises of this Independent candidate from Madurai South is in keeping with the tradition of Tamil Nadu electoral politics. It is believed that this shift to sops was first evident during MGR’s reign. Through the 1980s and 1990s, it was mostly to do with the increasing scope and reach of mid-day meals for children and subsidies. And then in 2006, rival DMK promised free colour TV sets and free gas stoves. That year, the DMDK’s Vijayakanth promised 15kg of free rice to those below poverty line and delivery of goods from ration shops to customers. The Salem-based One Rupee Party reportedly promised free cable connections, gas cylinders, tea and liquor. That election, the DMK, which had been written off in 2001, returned to power. It might be difficult to believe now, but only a decade ago, in the 2011 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, it was Jayalalithaa who shouted the loudest against freebies. She said, “The chief minister [Karunanidhi] is trying to make the people a society of parasites, dependent on freebies, doles and sops.” The DMK went ahead and promised either a mixie or a grinder to women. Not to be outdone, the AIADMK announced a mixer, a grinder and a table fan. “It is not ‘either/ or'; a beneficiary will get all the three,” the AIADMK general secretary, Jayalalithaa, clarified after releasing her party's manifesto. She also promised milch cattle and gold for marriage thalis. In the years that followed, laptops were issued to students, and goats and sheep were given away. Except for the animals, all gift items came with Amma’s face emblazoned, as did subsidised drinking water bottles. The debt burden of the state continued to rise, but what of it. Right now, while Bengal is in raptures over a musical counter to the warring political forces that says Ami onyo kothao jabo na, ami ei deshe tei thakbo… I am not going anywhere else, I am going to stay right here, Thulam - with Rs 10,000 in hand and another Rs 20,000 in the bank - has promised his constituency a space research centre, a rocket launch pad and a 100-day trip to the moon. Perhaps he knows of something the rest of us are yet to get wind of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Dhamma descending||Pratap Bhanu Mehta’s departure from Ashoka University was followed by a flurry of letters and statements by the concerned parties which had the effect of obscuring rather than clarifying the issues it raised. In his own letter of resignation, Mehta stated his reason for leaving plainly: “After a meeting with Founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the University may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens, is perceived to carry risks for the university. In the interests of the University I resign.” That last sentence is curious because Ashoka’s reason for being is that it’s modelled on the best liberal arts colleges and universities elsewhere. It cannot be in the interest of such a university to have one of its most distinguished professors resign because his public writings vigorously defend constitutional values and freedoms. If a professor of evolutionary biology were made to resign from a university because her robust critique of Creationism had annoyed powerful people (or annoyed wealthy donors acting as proxies for powerful people), would she declare that she was resigning in the best interest of the university? I don’t think so. Mehta might have meant that his resignation was in the material interest of the university administration. Not having him on Ashoka’s payroll might facilitate fund-raising, make it easier to acquire the necessary government permissions to expand, make sure that the university wasn’t suddenly found to have violated FCRA regulations, something that happens regularly to Indian institutions that inconvenience the State. These are important considerations if a university is to grow and flourish and as a former vice-chancellor, Mehta must have been familiar with the pragmatism needed to nurture a young university. Still, when Arvind Subramanian, the former chief economic advisor to the Government of India, resigned his professorship at the university in protest against Ashoka’s unwillingness to make room “… for academic expression and freedom…”, it seemed as if Mehta’s resignation was on its way to becoming a cause célèbre, the cause in question being the matter of institutional support for intellectual freedom. Mehta had already stepped down from Ashoka’s vice-chancellorship because his indictments of the government made the university’s founders and trustees anxious. He was, at the time of his resignation, a faculty member and the fact that an academic as famous and admired as him had been nudged into leaving was, as Subramanian put it, “ominously disturbing”. Raghuram Rajan, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, who is himself associated with Krea, an embryonic private university not unlike Ashoka, posted a withering indictment of Ashoka’s founders on a social media site. In a passage reminiscent of Mehta’s impassioned prose, he wrote: “Free speech is the soul of a great university. By compromising on it, the founders have bartered away its soul.” The role of a university was to “provide a protected space for its academicians and students to engage freely in open public debate…” Ashoka’s faculty and students rose to the occasion. The student newspaper, The Edict, linked the founders’ docility with the university’s need for real estate. It led with this sharp headline: “Pratap Bhanu Mehta Resigns, Paving The Way For A New Plot”. Ashoka’s faculty members wrote to the vice-chancellor raising, as good academics should, the general problem that Mehta’s specific case illustrated. They asked that the university “clarify its internal protocols of faculty appointment and dismissal, and reinforce its institutional commitment to the principles of academic freedom”. Then, in the middle of this, appeared a joint statement signed by the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor, the Chairman of the board of trustees, Mehta and Subramanian. In it, the first three expressed “deep regret” at unspecified “recent events surrounding the resignations” of the last two. There was boilerplate about acknowledging unspecified “lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders”. For their part, Subramanian and Mehta affirmed their faith in Ashoka University’s significance as an educational experiment and promised the institution lifelong friendship and goodwill. It isn’t difficult to see why Ashoka’s leaders wanted this joint statement; in the aftermath of the terrible press they had received in the wake of the resignations, this was damage control. To get Mehta and Subramanian to offer them a form of absolution in exchange for a faux apology and a bland reference to faulty processes was a coup. It’s harder to understand why Subramanian and Mehta signed it. One possible answer is the temptation of magnanimity. Mehta and Subramanian were genuinely committed to making a success of a private liberal arts university, funded by Indian philanthropists, free of the strings that come with State funding. Having made their free speech point, they wanted to tell the world that there were no hard feelings, that they wished their erstwhile university well. This is still puzzling because it doesn’t fit Subramanian’s initial reaction. How “ominously disturbing” could Ashoka’s free speech failure have been if a few days later it had shrunk to “lapses in institutional processes”? Universities like Ashoka are best understood as liberal arts universities with Indian characteristics. The philanthropists who fund and found these universities loom over them like colossi. The virtue of giving generously seems to purge them of self-awareness. In every official communication I’ve read, Ashoka’s founders capitalize their consequence: they are Founders. Ashoka’s board of trustees sent a statement to the faculty declaring that they had never interfered with the academic functioning of the university nor the freedom of faculty members to write about anything they wanted, in any forum that they wanted. That they could write this soon after seeing Mehta off the premises gives chutzpah a new meaning. They signalled their commitment to the autonomy of the university by endorsing the appointment of an Ombudsperson. A Lokpal. Fancy that. In a recent article, Gurcharan Das comes to the conclusion that both Mehta and Ashish Dhawan, Founder and Chairman of the board of trustees, are modern Indian heroes: Mehta for speaking his mind and Dhawan for trying to build a world-class university in India. According to Das, the contretemps was nobody’s fault. There was no political pressure to force Mehta to resign. Wealthy donors, understandably conservative, were alienated by Mehta’s relentless criticisms of the government. Mehta understood that this was the case and understandably resigned. This made the Chairman sad but committed as he was to Ashoka’s welfare he was understandably relieved to see Mehta go. Das’s exculpatory genius lies in transmuting deference to the prejudices of rich patrons into a Founder’s dharma. From Devanampiya to this, every epoch gets the Ashoka it deserves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Missed target||The prime minister, Narendra Modi, might have thought his Bangladesh visit at the time of elections in Bengal would help the Bharatiya Janata Party in the state. But every action has multiple effects in politics. While the BJP had made ‘illegal infiltration’ a big issue in the neighbouring, election-bound Assam, and the home minister, Amit Shah, built his entire campaign by attacking the All India United Democratic Front leader, Badruddin Ajmal, for supporting ‘infiltrators’, Modi’s sweet talk in Dhaka and the claim that he himself went to jail for Bangladesh’s freedom might have blunted the edge of this emotive plank. Shah’s fierce attacks on Ajmal also sounded hollow as the AIUDF leader tweeted, “I wish a pleasant stay of PM Modi ji in Bangladesh. I [would] like to request him to discuss with Sheikh Hasina... the issues of deportation of illegal immigrants and the Indo-Bangla border sealing to stop further infiltration.” Neither the BJP made any such demand from the prime minister, nor has Modi raised the issue of infiltration, given the sanctity of the occasion. The Congress, which was uncomfortable with the home minister’s focus on the AIUDF, now feels Shah’s blusters on Ajmal sound like a joke. In fact, the BJP’s plan for a long-drawn eight-phase polling schedule for Bengal also ended up helping the Congress. It has allowed the Congress to delink its Kerala strategy from that of Bengal, and effectively conceal the hypocrisy about its relations with the Left. Rahul Gandhi will now embark on the Bengal journey only after the Kerala elections are over. The Congress is quietly thanking the BJP. From @rammadhavbjp he is now @rammadhav_rss. Ram Madhav, formerly a high-profile leader of the BJP, swiftly changed his official Twitter handle after he was shunted to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Like many others, Madhav had come to the BJP from the RSS, the ideological parent of the sangh parivar, in 2014. It was widely felt that Amit Shah, who had taken over as BJP chief, had got him in his core team. Over the years, however, Madhav’s equations with Shah deteriorated. Many in the party said it was Madhav’s high profile and ambitious personality that did not go down well with Shah. Whispers in party corridors even had it that Madhav was aspiring to become party boss if not a key minister in the Central government. Leave aside these high hopes, Madhav could not even become a member of parliament. Now he is back to where he had come from. In spite of being edged out, however, Madhav continues to retain his high profile. He has a personal website rammadhav.in that describes him as an “author and thinker”. He is also a member of the governing board of India Foundation, an international think-tank. Now the RSS as an organization is faced with a personality cult. After the Bihar police attracted nationwide outrage for going on a rampage inside the legislative assembly, thrashing, kicking, and hurling out Opposition lawmakers, endangering their life, limbs and modesty, the officials put the onus on the Speaker, Vijay Kumar Sinha. Although the legislators protesting the tabling of the Bihar special armed police bill 2021 — it has now become an Act — apparently triggered the violence, what happened was unprecedented in the history of the House. As eyewitness accounts and video footage showing the police’s high-handedness emerged, they also brought forth questions whether the police personnel overstepped their brief, and if there would be a probe into it. The additional chief secretary of the home department, Chaitanya Prasad, had said that the police force entered the assembly to assist the marshals on the directions of the Speaker. He had added that it would be the Speaker’s prerogative to order an investigation into whether the police exceeded their brief on the occasion. Reportedly, Prasad also promised strict action if the police personnel were found to have committed a wrong. Now that the Speaker has ordered an enquiry, all eyes are on the pending report. The run-up to the three-phase assembly polls in Assam that began yesterday has been dominated by high-pitched campaigning by almost all senior BJP leaders led by Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda. The Congress, on the other hand, is relying on Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the Chhattisgarh chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, as vote-catchers. Baghel has been working at the grass roots like the state leaders, having made several trips since his appointment as the party’s observer in January. Congress insiders say that both the Congress general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, and Baghel have until now done a “good job” helping a “deeply divided” party mount a strong challenge. For most, Baghel has silently activated the grass roots by reportedly deploying his own team of around 400 people. He himself has held many small meetings, interactions and road shows to connect with voters, wooing them with the good things his government has done for the farmers and for income generation. Most importantly, he makes it a point to tell voters that whatever the BJP is “selling” today was “built” by the Congress, to counter the BJP’s claim that no development took place during the Congress rule. Win or lose, Baghel’s silent push to boost the party’s prospects have to be acknowledged, Congress insiders said. The first BJP member ever to get elected in Kerala assembly, O Rajagopal, has often put his party on the defensive with his statements that border on blasphemy in his party. Never hiding his admiration for the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, Rajagopal recently left BJP leaders squirming as he attributed the 90 per cent literacy in the state as the reason why his party was not growing there. The remark came just days after his admission of a Congress-BJP-Indian Union Muslim League understanding in the 1991 polls. By now Amit Shah has perhaps realized that there is only so much he can do in Kerala without a full grasp of the issues in the poll-bound state. Repeating what his state leaders have been saying for the last few years, Shah has hardly moved away from the Sabarimala or the more recent gold smuggling cases. Unlike Rahul Gandhi who makes it a point to address the state’s audience in English, jumps into sea waters and gives Aikido tips to students, Shah sticks to Hindi and harps on the same set of issues. The BJP’s ‘Chanakya’ seems out of his depth when stuck in unfamiliar political territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||So you did think you’ll never go||That time of the year; as a matter of fact, that day. Or thereabouts. We are that sort of people, a little here, a little there. We look at the moon and then we decide where we are. And even the moon is our sort of thing. You know, a bit lunatic, paglots that we are. A bit here and a bit there. It is different from different places on different days and at different times. It affords itself availability and deniability. We know the story about what happened this day, or thereabouts. Or the legend. Or myth. It has all become the same thing now — legend, myth, history, story, all of that is interchangeable and exchangeable. What is myth can become history, a story can become truth and truth can become a story. That is the magic wreaked upon us, we have been heckled to the precipice but we are being told to look down and applaud the AchchheDin we should all be able to see deep down below. And if we cannot for the lives of us see it, then we must be anti-nationals. Such are our times. Anyhow. Anyway. Let’s get back to the day, and the story of it. You know, don’t you? The story of Holi, which comes from the story of Holika and her dahan, or burning. Holika, daughter to the mighty Hiranyakasheepoo, the same one, the daitya king. The Hiranyakasheepoo blessed to immortality, the same. The one who was told to believe he would never die and the one who believed it to be so. Not during the day, not during the night. Not inside and not outside. Not on earth and not in the sky. Not by sword, nor by mace. Not by human, nor by beast. Not inside Parliament, nor outside. Not on home soil, nor away. Not before elections, nor after an election. Not before taking office, nor after. Not before pronouncing a disaster, nor after. Not before ordering an atrocity, nor after. Not before, nor after Never. But then there was Prahlad. And he thought Hiranyakasheepoo not immortal but only God. And he took the name of the God and swore by God and not by Hiranyakasheepoo. And that made Hiranyakasheepoo angry no end. And so he put Prahlad in the lap of Holika, who was blessed against any harm by fire and he set both aflame believing only Prahlad will burn and not Holika for she was fireproof. But Holika turned to cinders and not Prahlad. Prahlad was a bhakta, not a Bhakt. And Prahlad said humbly to Hiranyakasheepoo, there is God in everything, even in khadga and khambha, in inanimate swords and pillars. And is that so, asked Hiranyakasheepoo, enraged. And then he struck the khambha with a sword and, lo and behold, from the khambha emerged Narasingha. And Narasingha did to Hiranyakasheepoo what Hiranyakasheepoo had not been told could and would happen. Tore him with nails at twilight on his lap along the partition between inside and outside. Between day and night, between light and dark, between the realm of the sun and the realm of the moon, there lies a crevice, remember Hiranyakasheepoo, you who thought yourself blessed with immortality, you who believed I shall never go now that I am here. Hear, hear! There is a crevice. A far and deep one. There you can see it, etched between the likeness of the moon and the likeness of the sun, that blackness. That thin strip of it. Do not make light of it, it is a deep place. It is a place so deep that what falls into it can never be retrieved, it is a bottomless sort of strip. That’s where you go. One day, you who believe yourself immortally enthroned. Do not delude yourself; it will come like it will come to all of us, and to all things. The end. The end begins with the beginning, the beginnings are the ends. Never forget. So immortal you, oh my, oh my, I’ll shoot you and you’ll never die; Remember we all go, we have to Remember the Scriptures did not lie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Finger on the lips||The silent era of films has ended, but only for men. New research tracking speaking parts in Hindi films reveals that on an average, in the biggest pan-national box-office hits from the past five years, “women have less than a third of the dialogue”. In other words, men significantly out-talk women — portrayed to be the more voluble sex. This can seem surprising at a time when the star of Bollywood’s women seems to be in ascendance, with characters like Piku, Sulu, Shivani, Sehmat, Rani et al carrying films to box-office success squarely on their able shoulders. Yet, four of the biggest hits of the past five years had women speaking for an average of 25 minutes in a runtime of at least 2.5 hours. Take, for instance, Dangal, a biographical drama about two female wrestlers — the male narrator and the pontifical father, however, left little room for the ‘protagonists’ to voice their opinions. One reason for the skewed balance in talk time could be the increasing compartmentalization of genders in Hindi movies. Films foregrounding women are believed to deal with ‘women-specific issues’ and are — unsurprisingly — considered niche cinematic projects, while the overwhelming number of movies with male protagonists, Bollywood’s ecosystem of producers, directors and script-writers insist, are meant to cater to the general audience. But there is a double paradox. Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, a box-office success, had nine female speaking parts with women delivering 60 per cent of the dialogues. Yet, this chatter perpetuated the patriarchal stereotypes about the ideal Indian woman who dresses in salwar-kameez and sings tuneful bhajans. There has not been much noise about another discernible disparity. A Forbes report showed that even though ‘leading ladies’ like Deepika Padukone and Priyanka Chopra have proven that they can deliver box-office hits, they only earn two-fifths the amount that their male counterparts like Shah Rukh Khan earn. The fate is worse for Muslim women who bear the double burden of gender and faith and are mostly invisible from the screen or banished to its margins. This phenomenon has remained unchanged since Independence in a nation that is wedded to secularism. But the times, they are a-changin’. The arrival of streaming giants is rewriting the rules of dialogue and engagement in India’s entertainment industry. With Indian women increasingly willing to pay for content they can view on their phones or laptops, streaming platforms are pivoting to this under-tapped market. More than half of the Netflix films released in India in 2020 had a female producer or director, while all six of Amazon Prime originals released in India had women leading the charge as either creators, producers, writers or directors. The push for equality is gaining momentum driven by women seeking more choices in the content targeted at them. Watching movies and television shows is often a group activity in India, with the decision on what to watch typically taken by the men in the household. Streaming on handheld devices allows women a more personal choice in entertainment — at least in some segments of the population. With the audience changing, cinematic content is bound to transform. The ‘lambs’ — patriarchy’s favourite expression for women — may no longer remain silent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Popular impression||Sir — The Impressionists are perhaps the most widely appreciated artists in the world. At the heart of this popularity is a romanticized story of a group of young artists who fought against conservatism and embraced plein air painting, capturing nature with unprecedented freshness. But the real reason museums promote the Impressionists is that their works readily lend themselves to merchandizing in an array of mementos, including postcards, mugs, scarves, jigsaw puzzles and even umbrellas. For galleries, people’s willingness to spend on such items is a winning formula.

Srikanta Bhattacharjee,
Calcutta Sir — In the past we have often heard the governor of West Bengal lament that people of this state are living in fear. I would have to agree with him. We are living in fear that we might end up choosing a government whose state president cannot respect a woman and a chief minister, a government that embodies patriarchy to such an extent that its members cannot refrain from making lewd and cheap comments about someone who holds a constitutional position. What kind of a future or safety can we expect for women from such a government? Bengal has always given its women the highest respect; they have defined the very essence of our society. Be it Rani Rashmoni, Sarada Devi, Kadambini Ganguly or the likes of Konkona Sen Sharma, Mahua Moitra, Arundhati Bhattacharya, to name just a few, Bengal’s women have ripped the curtains of ignorance and patriarchy to shreds. The lack of ethics, moral principles and decency makes my heart bleed for my city, for my state and for my nation. The Bengal that the likes of Dilip Ghosh envisage is not the Bengal I know and all I can do is hope that we succeed in resisting the fascist forces looming at our door.Srijani Banerjee,
Calcutta Sir — Although vulgar comments from the Bharatiya Janata Party are not surprising anymore, what beggars belief is that none of these statements seems to have an effect on the electorate that remains in thrall to this deeply patriarchal, inequitable political party. Dilip Ghosh says that Mamata Banerjee should behave in a manner befitting Bengali culture, which according to him bars women from showing their legs. I would like to point out here that Bengali culture cares more about actions than what a woman wears or how she wears it. Moreover, since when is it part of Bengali culture to denigrate one’s opponent using misogynist statements? One is also forced to wonder why the BJP leaders seem so paranoid about bare legs when it comes to women. The answer is not as simple as it is being made out to be on the internet — although the ingenuity of some of the reasons doing the rounds on social media must be applauded. It is not the bare leg that scares the BJP, it is the woman’s agency over herself and her own body that has the party quaking in its boots.A.K. Sen,
Calcutta Sir — While Holi is a joyful time for people, it is important that animals — both pets and strays — are not harmed during the festivities. Stray dogs and cats are the victims of bullying with colours and water balloons. While humans can easily wash off the colours after the celebration, animals cannot do the same. The colours used during the festival are often made with synthetic dyes that contain toxic metals and can cause skin allergies, rashes or even blindness in both people and animals. If animals inhale the powder, it can cause nasal irritation and respiratory allergies or infections. Animals which ingest it while grooming themselves can suffer from stomach ailments or other illnesses, or even die. We need to educate people about the harmful effects of such colours on animals. More important, we should make people aware about how to take care of animals that do come in contact with colours — bathing them with mild shampoo and keeping an eye out for skin infections. If the situation gets worse, the animals should be taken to the vet immediately.

Pinaki Nandy,
Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
