29-03-2021||Opinion||India's gig economy||One major consequence of rapid economic growth driven by new technologies has been the informalization of the workforce across the world. India is no exception to the rise of what is referred to as the gig economy. Gig workers work outside the traditional employer-employee relationship. They work on platforms like e-commerce, food delivery, cab rides on piecemeal rates or short-term contracts. A survey report by Ernst & Young in 2017 had estimated that 24 per cent of the global gig force was from India. For people entering the workforce, this appears to be the new normal. This sector has been lauded for giving freedom to workers to choose when they work, the quantum of work, and its terms and conditions. However, the main economic benefit goes to business organizations that can increase their sales and reduce labour costs. Gig economy workers are not treated legally as ‘employees’ and, hence, do not have the right to seek certain kinds of compensations and rights. For instance, they are not covered under the minimum wages regulations; neither do they have the right to organize. They are at the mercy of the organization hiring them or, worse, the customers who might give them a poor rating. People on formal, short-term contracts can have some benefits guaranteed under the contract law of the country. However, even in these circumstances, the hired workers are often not granted their rights. The distinction made between a worker and an employee is used sweepingly to cover people with diverse earning potentials — for instance, from a top-end information technology consultant to an e-commerce delivery person. The former can afford to choose a work partner and demand high fees. The latter can afford neither. The labour code introduced by the Centre allows for some benefits to be guaranteed to gig workers, such as minimum wages and health cover under the Employees’ State Insurance Scheme. The workers at the bottom of the gig economy need much more than this. They need regulations that protect them from exploitative contracts or working terms and conditions; they need the right to organize as well as a transparent mechanism for grievance redressal. Workers in this sector require some kind of income protection too, and the right to own their personal data that reveal their performance, efficiency and experience. The gig economy is here to stay. The earlier the problems are addressed, the better for society and economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||Strong bond: Modi's Bangladesh visit||Sir — The Indian prime minister’s visit to Bangladesh to commemorate the 50th Independence Day of the country was timely. This trip was crucial to cement the bond between India and Bangladesh, which has, in recent times, bent towards China when it comes to bilateral trade. This, the Indian prime minister realized, was not good for the country’s interests. More so given the pandemic-induced dip in the economy. The revival of trade ties is a necessity at this juncture. India must address the bottlenecks in trade relations. In this context, the message delivered by the former prime minister, Manmohan Singh, should be heeded (“Friends in deed”, March 27). There are many practical obstacles in the path to better ties between India and Bangladesh that are seldom addressed in diplomatic missions. These need to be resolved if the approximately 9.5 billion dollar trade relations between India and Bangladesh is to be improved. Narendra Modi has the responsibility of increasing India’s market share in Bangladesh so that China cannot capture any more ground in Bangladesh than it already has. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — India and Bangladesh observed the anniversary of the defeat of Pakistani forces in the war of 1971. The first foreign visit of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, amid the Covid-19 pandemic to Bangladesh indicates India’s firm support for Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed. There is a very special significance to this visit as 2021 is the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence as well as the 50th year of diplomatic relations with India, besides the centenary celebrations of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s birth. An enormous reserve of goodwill for India exists in Bangladesh for both historical reasons and the strong cross-border linguistic and cultural links shared by the two countries. But New Delhi needs to stop taking this goodwill for granted. Controversial references to Bangladesh and its people in domestic discourse by senior members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, particularly during elections and after the introduction of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, have cast shadows on its ties with India. But last year’s Dhaka visit of the foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, and the participation of a Bangladesh army contingent in the Republic Day parade this year were the first signs of damage control after months of false steps. India also sent two million vaccine doses to Bangladesh, the largest consignment sent to any country abroad. But the Teesta water-sharing fiasco has certainly been a major foreign policy failure. Bangladesh is at present basking in a new self-confidence because of its spectacular economic performance even during the pandemic. Its social welfare indicators are better than even India’s on some counts. It does not bode well for India that the home ministry has chosen this moment to start rounding up Rohingya refugees for “deportation”. The government needs to be constantly mindful of the significance of this year to its relationship with Bangladesh. It is all too easy to lose track and pave the way for China to make serious inroads in the region. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Each neighbour is important for political, cultural, economic and security reasons. If there is one neighbour where all of these interests converge for India, it is Bangladesh. The future of India’s Act East policy, stability and development in the Northeast, economic integration in the larger region, climate crisis, cross-border migration of people, and peace and security are contingent on its ties with Dhaka.
Over the past decade, one of the undisputed successes of India’s neighbourhood policy is its relationship with Bangladesh. A lot of credit for this goes to the prime minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, and her clear strategic outlook — she has respected India’s security needs, and in turn, New Delhi has backed her, even at the cost of turning a blind eye to Bangladesh’s democratic backslide occasionally.
There has also been continuity in maintaining these ties from Manmohan Singh to Narendra Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Liberation War and 101th birth anniversary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Some niggling problems that mar this relationship are the inability to seal the Teesta water sharing deal and Beijing’s increased influence over Bangladesh. These must be resolved but the big picture remains one of enhanced cordiality and connectivity. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Double standards Sir — As per the directives of the West Bengal government, schools in the state have resumed classes for Classes IX to XII, keeping in mind the importance of students’ academic career. But why then are those pursuing higher education being given the liberty to continue their studies from the comfort of their homes while school students and teachers stand the risk of contracting Covid-19? The resurgence of Covid-19 cases has seen a number of states enforcing strict restrictions on the movement of people, with lockdowns being clamped down in certain states. Unfortunately the students of our state have become the victims of assembly elections. It is shocking to see some political leaders brazenly campaign for the ongoing assembly elections, violating Covid-19 protocols themselves while urging the common people to tow the line. This shows the value of the lives of ordinary citizens in the eyes of the political leadership. The state government must take urgent measures to save the lives of not just students but also teachers so that they do not fall victim to the virus for no fault of their own. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Man on a mission Sir — It is poll season in several states and, as is usual, it is raining freebies. But one independent candidate in Tamil Nadu is promising the moon — quite literally. R. Saravanan is making promises that one would ordinarily laugh at — he has assured to provide a 100-day free trip to the moon, a mini helicopter and even a snow-laden mountain to keep his constituency cool. But there is nothing funny about Saravanan’s intention — he wants to raise awareness about the pitfalls of the freebie culture prevalent in Tamil Nadu. If he achieves his purpose, it will indeed be a task as difficult as a 100-day trip to the moon. Rishi Ghatge,Pune||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||Lower depths: Targetting women politicians||Everyone does it. Political parties in India, whatever their promises about women’s empowerment, often demonstrate gender bias. The situation is much worse when women are political leaders. They are the first, often the only, targets of personal abuse from rival parties during a political contest. Sonia Gandhi, for example, was called a ‘foreigner’ to mark her as an unfit leader. Women politicians are usually perceived as having gone beyond accepted social roles or professional slots; abusing them has the silent — nowadays not-so-silent — support of many. But the Bharatiya Janata Party has taken personal abuse to a level of systematic virulence unknown before. To be fair to its leaders, they are almost gender-neutral in this — Rahul Gandhi as target is an example — but that is the best that can be said: almost. Personal abuse of opponents is an excellent method of rabble-rousing without the trouble of having to be logical, truthful or accountable. But to have a woman as opponent is best; the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, provides an opportunity for the BJP to raise the stakes in the vicious game of abuse. Ms Banerjee is no shy violet when verbally attacking rival parties, but belittling opponents by targeting their gender or person is unacceptable in political leaders in an absolute, black-and-white sense. Recently, the West Bengal BJP chief, who reserves the choicest insults for the chief minister of his state, wondered why Ms Banerjee did not wear Bermudas to show off her plastered leg. The mockery is visual and crass, deriding a woman leader campaigning with a visible injury. Equally fun-loving was the prime minister, repeatedly intoning ‘Didi’ as the taunting refrain of a campaign speech. It is startling when the prime minister of the country expresses contempt and the desire to humiliate by emulating roadside Lotharios. Perhaps he does not believe in the dignity of his chair or the meaning of the power he represents. With the prime minister enthusiastically joining the game of personal abuse, the BJP state chief would probably consider the Bermudas taunt quite tame. Unless people stand up against the overall annihilation of propriety and decency in language as well as the vicious rhetoric used to diminish women politicians, the crudest personal insults will become the most treasured political weapons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||New risks: Quad, successor to Nato||It has been quite pleasant living on a planet where most of the great powers were not locked up into two hostile nuclear-armed alliances, but nothing lasts forever. Creeping shyly onto the stage via Zoom, the successor to Nato emerged into public view this month. It’s called the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — the ‘Quad’, for short. It’s intended to be to China what Nato was to the old Soviet Union: an alliance to deter and contain the ‘evil regime’, now located in Beijing. The core four in the Quad are countries that have all fought China in the past: the United States of America and Australia (in the Korean War), Japan (before and during the Second World War), and India (sporadic border wars). Most of the ‘usual suspects’ (the other Nato members) also want to join the team as players, or at least as substitutes: a Canadian warship sailed through the Taiwan Strait earlier, and Britain, France, Germany and the Netherlands will all deploy warships to the Indo-Pacific region later in the year. Is ‘Nato in Asia’ really getting ready for another decades-long cold war and/or a possible hot war? Every nuclear weapons power except Israel and perhaps Russia would be part of this confrontation, and there are many more potential flash-points in the Asia-Pacific region than there ever were in Europe. There is absolutely no evidence that China plans to invade anywhere (except Taiwan, which all members of the Quad acknowledge is technically part of China). In fact, apart from minor border clashes, no Chinese regime, Communist or otherwise, has invaded anywhere at all for centuries. So why worry? There’s something older and deeper at work here. It’s the age-old ‘balance of power’ strategy that appeared among the Sumerian city-states in about 2500 BC, and has dominated international politics for most of the time since. All the major powers in a given region (Mesopotamia 3,500 years ago), or continent (Europe 350 years ago) or even the entire world (Nato versus the Soviet Union 35 years ago) see every other big power as a potential enemy. And history teaches that today’s friend can be tomorrow’s enemy, so you must always be stronger. In particular, countries worry about an emerging great power that might get big enough to upset the whole apple cart — Spain in the 17th century, France in the 18th, Britain in the 19th, Germany in the early 20th century, Russia in the later 20th — and make alliances against it. These arrangements have usually ended in great wars, but recently not so much: 40 years of Cold War against the Soviet Union ended without a ‘world war’. Now China’s growing strength is great enough to set the wheel in motion again, and its behaviour would have to be utterly saintly to stop the others from ganging up on it in the time-honoured way. There are aspects of the Chinese Communist regime that are indeed ‘evil’: its behaviour towards ethnic minorities in Xinjiang and Tibet, for example, and indeed towards dissenters among its own Chinese people. Treaty-breaking in Hong Kong and building military bases on disputed islands in the South China Sea in defiance of international law are hardly ‘confidence-building measures’ either. But there is no need for this Quad alliance. It’s as implausible to believe that China would invade some country beyond its borders now (except Taiwan, of course) as it was to think that the Soviet Union would ever have seriously considered invading West Germany. The Quad is a waste of time and resources, and (given nuclear weapons with many triggers) an unnecessary risk. One staircase thought, however. Are Joe Biden’s advisers cunning enough to realize (a) that China under current management will eventually invade Taiwan and is bound to win; (b) that it would be suicidally dangerous for the US to intervene; and (c) that all America’s current and prospective allies think the same? In which case their real aim might be to spread the blame: they’d rather be just one of the Quad crowd that abandons Taiwan than bearing the blame alone. But I suspect they’re not that clever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||Microphone season||A Zee News reporter descends upon a street in Hooghly and darts about buttonholing jhalmuri sellers, students on the road, a rickshaw-puller and sundry other citizens. “Didi ya Modi?” Some say Didi, others say Modi, and some dodge the question. He asks a follow-up “Kyun?” sometimes, not always. Then he’s off, wandering along, nabbing others. When they are not hollering in a studio about issues that are more national-political than civic-local, television journalists on the election beat — be they from Delhi or Calcutta — skim along uncovering so little that you begin to wonder if there is a method in this charade. Indeed there is. The advertiser is interested in eyeballs, but eyes around the country would glaze over if there was anything genuinely civic-local about the coverage of a state election. Narendra Modi sells, Didi sells, harping on the Bharatiya Janata Party expanding its footprint sells. Identity politics, a euphemism for casteism and communalism, sells, as do allegations of syndicates and ‘cut money’. What will not sell for TV audiences outside Bengal is anything that focuses on the quality of life of ordinary people. Jobs, healthcare, roads and wages, for instance. You have to hope that local editions of regional newspapers will take care of that. The polls in West Bengal, the most saleable of the state polls in advertisement-generating terms, can be used to test several hypotheses about the purpose the media in India has come to serve in an election. Does it further accountability by looking at the governance record of the incumbent, or does it privilege politics over governance every time? Who will win, and by how much, and what will that mean for national politics? It became the norm a very long time ago that elections were the only occasion when resources-starved media outlets in a crowded, advertising-dependent universe would send out reporters to actually cover the hinterland, talk to people and assess change. Because the election season is also when advertisers presume higher viewership and loosen their purse strings. So villages get visited, farmers, youth, women and shopkeepers spoken to, and assessments are made about winning and losing, but also about the progress of development in general. But when a state contest is framed as the BJP setting out to capture one more state in the Union, the ‘state of the state’ aspect is drowned out by the political noise. Tracking governance and hiring local reporters for beats are expensive. Telecasting political speeches and debating political developments in studios on a daily basis are not. A number of Hindi channels are scrambling to cover this election. They wouldn’t do that in a non-Hindi speaking state if this contest wasn’t seen as an out and out political winner in terms of audiences. Is the media a platform or an instrument? When a TV network uses an election to start up a new regional channel, is it responding to a business opportunity, which is fair enough, or is it parachuting in to give an edge to a particular political party? (In an earlier time, you could have asked that question about newspaper groups using an election to start a new edition, but for a while at least it seems most unlikely that any newspaper will think of further expansion.) TV9 and Republic TV have used these elections to launch a presence in West Bengal. The latter launched itself with an ‘Ami Arnab’ speech in which Arnab Goswami made an emotional pitch, promising to uphold citizens’ issues and hold politicians accountable. But you could ask what the chances are that Republic TV, given its pro-BJP track record, would launch just in time for the politically-charged West Bengal election and, yet, be thoroughly non-partisan in this high-decibel contest. Commercial TV channels apart, these elections have indeed seen a flowering of media platforms designed to be instruments, mostly for the BJP. The Wire reported last September that it tracked around 30 websites and video channels, the majority of which emerged since 2018, six in 2020, most of them biased towards the BJP. Barring two, all produce content in Bengali, some of it fake news. None of the news sites had ownership information, or dates of incorporation, the report said, nor did they carry reports with bylines. The few that did had only first names of the purported authors. Creating media to serve its purpose is part of the BJP’s strategy and it does the job assiduously. Do newspapers do better than television in assessing the overall governance record? They do, based on data. Several assessments of how this state ranks alongside other states on a host of parameters have been published; one business paper called it “Paribartan in bits and pieces” and detailed a mixed record in job creation, lagging behind some other states in per capita income but improving over the decade in both agriculture and rural infrastructure. Finally, can the media predict electoral outcomes successfully? Media houses commission polls to supplement their election reporting. However, the additional input this time is the emergence of a “Mood for Poriborton” report from a Telangana-based election analysis agency called Peoples Pulse. Its claim to credibility is that its author, the political scientist, Sajjan Kumar, surveyed all 294 constituencies in West Bengal between September and December 2020. His prediction of a clear edge for the BJP in 160 seats based on strong anti-incumbency is providing analytical grist for a range of leading media outlets. The assertion is that the BJP is not winning; it is the default beneficiary of an anti-TMC vote. The edge given to the Trinamul Congress in the polls done till now is countered by his theory that there is a silent voter who has made up his or her mind but will not reveal it. This could be the election then which will either make or break his reputation. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
