30-03-2021||Opinion||Bloodbath: Myanmar military coup||Symbols function as ciphers. The message need not be heartening always. The symbolism of eight countries — India was among them — sending their representatives to attend Myanmar’s Armed Forces Day — a day in which over 100 civilians protesting against the Tatmadaw’s coup fell to military violence this year — will not be lost. The world, at least for now, seems content to look the other way as Myanmar’s military unleashes a brutal crackdown on a civilian movement demanding the restoration of democracy. The global fraternity has, of course, made the usual benign noises. The chief of the United Nations has condemned the bloodshed as have the president of the United States of America and the European Union — but to little effect. After the carnage on Saturday — Armed Forces Day — that saw the death toll climb over 100, the military is reported to have fired upon mourners the following day. Conscience is not a force to reckon with among juntas: the manner in which the Tatmadaw has predated upon a fledgling democracy is a case in point. Worryingly, the conscientious global fraternity has been found wanting too when it comes to stopping the butchery in Myanmar. What makes this silence — a form of complicity — tragic is that the world order did have some options. The EU has announced sanctions against 11 members of the junta but there is a case to take the punitive steps further by expanding the scope of such sanctions so that they hurt the material interests of the generals. That might soften the blow on the people. These interventions must be accompanied by curbs on trade and development with Myanmar. Regional blocs — the newly-minted Quad can be one such alliance — could also be mobilized to put pressure on Myanmar. It is imperative that the global order uses its leverage on some of its partners — China and Russia are both heavily invested in the supply of arms to the Tatmadaw — so that they, in turn, force the generals back to the negotiating table. The principal reasons for the collective inertia lies in the conflicting relationship that binds the rights and lives of citizens in a distant country to strategic considerations. The world along with New Delhi — the latter has expended capital to smoothen its ties with the junta — must find a way around this difficult balancing act. Till then, it is unlikely for the blood to stop oozing on the roads of Mandalay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion||More control: Regulating civil society organisations||The Prime Minister’s Office cannot afford to rest. It has now instructed Niti Aayog to formulate a national policy to regulate civil society organizations so that, according to a member of its working group, a ‘healthy partnership’ between the government and CSOs is enabled. Since the government decides what is healthy, sceptics could suspect that compliance with it and its dominant party’s objectives and silence instead of criticism would mean health. Niti Aayog is professedly revising a 2007 policy regarding the regulation of voluntary organizations but the aim, according to the agency, is also to identify CSOs breaching the rules governing them, especially those deriving from the amended Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. In 2020, the International Commission of Jurists said that these amendments violated the country’s international legal obligations and the Constitutional rights of freedom of association and expression. However, the government is no doubt alert to embezzlement and duplication of funds by CSOs in spite of the restraints on accessing and using foreign funds for non-governmental organizations, mandatory registration of CSOs applying for tax exemption on the portal, Darpan, from which the government gathers data on funds, a 40 per cent drop in foreign financing and the shutting down of 13,000 NGOs between 2014-18. Bringing CSOs in line seems to be an unending battle. Registered voluntary organizations must abide by an array of laws, perhaps for very good reasons. Surely those violating laws can be identified by the ever vigilant agencies of the government? What would a national regulatory policy mean in this context? Are NGO projects going to be ‘regulated’ or will the actions a CSO can take be defined by the government? The insistence on transparency for NGOs — no transparency is required for electoral bonds — and the government’s reiterated belief in their tendency to dishonesty make up the case for ceaseless vigilance. Narendra Modi’s government — Darpan was reportedly Mr Modi’s idea — could be perceived as aiming at a complete assimilation of the non-governmental space. The alternative is dangerous, with the likes of Stan Swamy and Shoma Sen, for example, allegedly conspiring to assassinate the prime minister and overthrow democracy. It is only natural that Niti Aayog should include the joint secretary of the home ministry’s counter terrorism and counter radicalization division/combating of funding of terrorist cell in the working group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion||Corruption in an illiberal State||India’s ranking among 180 countries on the Corruption Perceptions Index 2020, compiled by the Transparency International, has slipped from 80 to 86. India’s score is worse than the global average and also the Asia-Pacific average. We are behind China, which has a rank of 78, but much above our bête noire, Pakistan, graded at 124. This news comes on the heels of another report — The Global Corruption Barometer — compiled by the Transparency International in November 2020. According to the GCB, India has the dubious distinction of the highest bribery rate (39 per cent) in Asia and the greatest number of people who use personal connections to access public services (46 per cent). Most of the respondents (89 per cent) felt that corruption in the government was the main problem. A large number (63 per cent) think that reporting corruption would invite retaliation. According to the report, “unnecessary red tape and unclear regulatory frameworks force citizens to seek out alternate solutions”; this assessment touches upon only a fragment of the government’s inimical role in exacerbating corruption. The report has also ignored the venality of the middle-class and the business elite — self-righteous, selfish, and conscienceless — that are the prime propagators of this nexus between bribe-taker and bribe-giver. These reports on corruption in India have not turned a hair because in the last few years, corruption as an issue of public concern has dropped off the nation’s radar. A decade ago, the India Against Corruption movement organized a nationwide stir against endemic political and bureaucratic corruption that brought a jittery, dishonest government to its knees and governance to a standstill. After two years of the Anna Hazare fraternity holding a gun to the government’s head, the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 was passed by parliament, paving the way for the establishment of a Lokpal. What on earth happened to the spirit of the Anna Hazare movement? Arguably, the cardinal reason for the dissipation of the anti-corruption movement is the towering persona of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. So imposing and clean is his public image that his devotees — bhakts, big business, the media — have amplified his personal integrity to the extent that it has subsumed criticism of corruption in his government. Ironically, the government that rode to power in 2014 on an anti-corruption wave and on its poll promise of a corruption-free India must take responsibility for undermining the Lokpal. Such is the stranglehold of the prime minister on the body politic that the government put off the setting up of the Lokpal by more than five years until March, 2019. In the interim, the statute was subverted with critical amendments that considerably diluted the powers and the reach of the Lokpal. An amendment passed in 2016 did away with the requirement for public servants to disclose the incomes of spouses and dependent children despite evidence that corrupt officials pass on their illegitimate booty to family members. Furthermore, the Prevention of Corruption Act was amended whereby the Lokpal was required to seek the government’s permission for prosecuting even a retired public servant against the earlier proviso that covered only serving officials. The manner in which the composition of the Lokpal Selection Committee was decided and the procedure adopted for selection of the chairperson and members of the Lokpal are stunning examples of the imperious ways of an illiberal State taking decisions unencumbered by democratic niceties. The Supreme Court passed a judgment on April 27, 2017 stating the appointment of a chairperson or a member of the Lokpal would not become invalid merely because of any vacancy in the Selection Committee, which was the opening that the government needed to make the appointments with a truncated committee and without the leader of the Opposition, whose role is to provide objectivity in the assessment of candidates. Expectedly, there are allegations that candidates well-disposed towards the government now occupy the top posts in the supreme body ordained to fight corruption in government, from the prime minister down to the Group ‘D’ recruit. The Lokpal is a pale shadow of the ombudsman envisaged by the Lokpal law enacted in 2013. The Lokpal Act envisaged the transfer of the powers of the Central Bureau of Investigation to the investigation and prosecution wings of the Lokpal. The rationale for this change was that freed from the shackles of government control, the investigating agency would be non-partisan and, thereby, effective in rooting out corruption. It is evident that the Modi government will not cede control of the CBI’s powers to the Lokpal. It is also clear that the Lokpal will accept this violation of the Act without demur. The ruling establishment has created an intimidatory environment that is potent. The bureaucracy cowers behind the steel frame in an ecosystem where loyalty to the ruling dispensation, not impartiality and probity, is of paramount importance. The prime minister has promised more governance and less government, but the decision-making is more opaque than ever. The pall of fear and distrust has made civil servants risk-averse and unwilling to take quick, bold decisions. But there are no holds barred when it comes to the ‘special interests’ of the government. Sadly, most institutions have become subordinate adjuncts of the executive. The latest reports by Transparency International have revealed only the tip of the iceberg. Corruption permeates many aspects of our social life and affects us all. But at present, our apprehensions have gone beyond bribing and other monetary depredations to a much darker place — the corruption of the nation’s soul. The greatest concern is the contagion of majoritarianism that threatens our very survival as a democracy. In such a fraught environment, whither the fight against corruption?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion||Breathing on campus||Two recent events have reopened the debate on academic freedom. One was the departure of two eminent scholars from Ashoka University; the other, an ongoing confrontation between the vice-chancellor and the faculty of Visva-Bharati. The cases are widely different in nature and impact. The Ashoka imbroglio exercised the nation’s intelligentsia; that at Tagore’s university hardly stirred even Bengal’s bhadralok. Our view of these matters is skewed by geography and social visibility. Jawaharlal Nehru University receives unfailing attention. The worse turmoil at Manipur University over many years goes unnoticed. In Bengal, Jadavpur and Calcutta Universities monopolize attention over 33 other establishments. This creates the false impression that academic intolerance in India chiefly affects prominent scholars and institutions. Of course that happens. In 2018, Ahmedabad University withdrew its offer of a chair to Ramachandra Guha after protests from the Far Right. But such dramatic instances are rare. The system functions to obviate them. More often than not, there is no political dissent. The Indian Council of Medical Research reportedly approved an article on Covid-19 only after excising some data at odds with the government’s pandemic strategy. The same syndrome appears in the doctoring or suppression of socio-economic surveys. The objection is not to the content but the resulting ‘embarrassment’, as the IIT service rules put it: it threatens some extraneous agenda of the institution or the State. An iconic scientific institute in Bengal faces a diktat to operate more in Hindi to avoid ‘any unpleasant situation’. The Central Civil Services rules now apply to teachers of Central universities. Many states have enacted or are mulling similar provisions. The cornerstone of these edicts is a ban on all protest and criticism. Equally ubiquitous is the micro-level regulation of routine activities: by literally mechanical means such as biometric attendance and classroom CCTV, or by monitoring private activities that do not affect one’s duties. These formal provisions can be embellished by petty tyrants. One vice-chancellor deployed uniformed policemen at meetings with senior faculty. (No, there was no history of earlier violence.) Another returned unread any correspondence that did not address him as ‘Honourable’. A third, today, makes his colleagues surrender their mobile phones before meetings. In several states, it is common practice to appoint an IAS, IPS or army officer as vice-chancellor; or in private universities, a corporate luminary. Visiting a college or university, I have often been appalled by the subservience exacted by the institutional head from his academic colleagues. In a word, the suppression of academic freedom in India is not a matter of beating back a tsunami of radical protest. For most part, it is small-minded, paranoiac authoritarianism that works precisely because the community is quiet and submissive. The basic harm is to collegiate morale and the spirit of participation. Teaching and research suffer as collateral damage. Two features specially impede academic work: first, the growing curbs on publication and even public expression of views. To organize a conference is to invite surveillance. ‘Technical’ subjects are notionally exempt; but the line is hard to draw, not only in the social sciences but also in science and technology, on issues concerning public works and health, industrial or agricultural policy. Most preposterously, educators are silenced from discussing educational matters. The other issue concerns research time. Scholars cannot find all their research material within the confines of the institution or on the internet. They need to visit libraries and archives, make field trips and do surveys, attend conferences. These activities are hampered by restrictions on leave, abolition of off-days, and the idle nine-to-five confinement in staff common rooms. The young teacher-scholar soon discovers that she can do little beyond routine teaching. Needless to say, teaching should not be a routine matter: rather, a creative adventure. To prevent this from happening, the exercise is prefabricated and mass-produced. The University Grants Commission imposes a uniform curriculum across the land. The pattern of evaluation is also pre-set: brief, standardized and devoid of conceptual content to allow computerized marking. Entrance tests follow the same pattern, as even the National Eligibility Test for teachers. In this robotic education system, virtually nothing is left to the actual educator. The teaching community is effectively disempowered. The same pre-imposed drill governs educational administration. Till the other day, teachers were selected by their Academic Performance Index, calculated not only mechanically but also with bizarrely skewed and volatile priorities. In such a milieu, institutional autonomy means little. It is often a euphemism for reducing funds, which the institution must then ‘freely’ seek elsewhere, usually by raising fees. The National Education Policy repeats the magic word, ‘autonomy’, like a refrain — while placing higher education under no less than four regulatory bodies plus a centralized Research Foundation. As it is, some institutions, entire states like Gujarat, and major funding programmes under the Union government confine scholars to a list of approved research topics. The wonder is that free thought and innovation still linger on our campuses, so irrepressible is the intellectual urge of a section of our youth and their mentors. Let us thank them for their hard-won productivity, not complain that there is no more. The Western universities by which we set our benchmarks would face revolt against a tenth of these curbs. It need not have been so. In the half-century since Independence, India developed a network of public universities with UGC support. Their bottom ranks were dismal (like today’s inferior private teaching-shops); but the top and even second tier achieved impressive gains we undervalue or ignore. They were bureaucratic but not authoritarian. Despite their cheapskate ways, they rustled up the infrastructure for productive research. Global rankings were then unknown, but there was intensive international exchange and collaboration: we could look the world in the eye. The public university was also the only space in our polity where young citizens of all classes and communities met on level ground: this did not endear them to the privileged orders. For reasons only tangentially related to its real deficiencies, this system has been dismantled in the new century, with no viable replacement. I have spent 30 years at a university that made inspired use of the earlier system. Jadavpur University has many failings. The state of its campus is a disgrace. Its students are adept at creating mayhem, not always for wrong reasons. Its assured grants scarcely meet the salary bill. But in its heyday, it earned enough from research funding for a flourishing international profile, with more scientists among the world’s ‘top 2%’ than any other Indian university. Its most improbable success was 21 interdisciplinary schools that attracted up to a crore of external funding for every lakh invested by the university. This was possible because the faculty had full freedom to forage and negotiate within certain broad parameters — and, of course, with rigorous scrutiny of accounts. Given that freedom, many faculty were happy to shoulder the extra responsibility pro bono, pursuing innovative research that the teaching departments could not accommodate; yet the departments, down to first-year undergraduates, profited from that enriched atmosphere. This productive freedom of operation was first threatened by the change of guard in Bengal. The ways of the present Union government make it virtually unthinkable today. In 2019, Jadavpur University received a substantial grant initiated by the Centre, though with 40 per cent state input. After a long lull, the campus started humming again. A year later, Delhi inexplicably shifted the goalposts to cut off funds mid-way, halting over 200 large and small projects and the careers of some 450 young researchers. That Pratap Bhanu Mehta had to leave his post is deplorable, but his voice will be heard through other channels. Let us also listen to the silence of voices never allowed to speak, and weigh the loss of the knowledge we did not cultivate. The author is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion|| Dreaded colours||Sir — Fewer people celebrated Holi this year than usual, but many who stepped out did so without masks. In a violation of Covid-19 norms, people gathered in close quarters, hugged and smeared each other with colour. The Calcutta police had to levy fines of Rs 100 on 110 people for not wearing masks, all before Sunday noon. It is unfortunate that people continue to prioritize momentary fun over their health and safety. There is only so much that the authorities can do to arrest infections unless people are mindful of their own activities.  Nupur Bapuly, Calcutta Sir — It is good news that the first phase of the elections in West Bengal and Assam was largely peaceful (“BJP lauds EC; TMC complains”, March 28). But it was also shocking to learn that at a polling booth in the Majra area of Kanthi in West Bengal, supporters of the Trinamul Congress complained that after pressing the electronic voting machine buttons in favour of their party candidate, the voter-verified electronic paper trail slips showed that the votes were recorded in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party. It seems the chief electoral officer there brushed aside this serious accusation as an “error” and said that it was addressed. Subsequently, voting was resumed. Even if it was an error, it is quite a wonder how it was only the BJP receiving the malfunctioning votes, and not any other party. One cannot forget that there were many such complaints reported in the last general elections as well. It is also to be remembered that people are not always alert when casting their ballots — few check the voter-verifiable paper audit trail — and presume that their votes have been registered correctly. If the Election Commission continues to trivialize such incidents as errors, then there is little doubt that the assembly election results will not reflect the real mandate of the people. This destroys the sanctity of free and fair elections. The people must not lose their faith in the functioning of the EC.Tharcius S. Fernando, Chennai Sir — Voters in 30 constituencies of West Bengal and in 47 constituencies of Assam turned out in huge numbers to exercise their right to vote as the first phase of polling began. According to the EC, Assam recorded a voter turnout of 76.89 per cent while West Bengal saw a turnout of 79.79 per cent till 5 pm on the first day of polling. Tight security arrangements were put in place across the 12 districts in Assam where voting took place. Meanwhile, in Bengal, tensions ran high in East Midnapore after two security personnel were injured in a firing incident. The BJP has claimed that the vehicle of Soumendu Adhikari — he is the brother of the former TMC leader, Suvendu Adhikari, who recently joined the BJP — was attacked. However, barring a few incidents, the first phase has been peaceful. With a high percentage of voting witnessed in both states, it is evident that the fight is going to be neck-and-neck.  M.R. Jayanthi, Calcutta Sir — The BJP has time and again accused the TMC of appeasement politics. It is, however, clear now that the prime minister’s recent visit to Orakandi in Bangladesh, the birthplace of the founder of the Matua sect, Harichand Thakur, was to woo the Matua voters — they are immigrants from Bangladesh — who have considerable clout in North 24 Parganas and Nadia. This is curious when considered against the backdrop of the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Several immigrant communities, including the Matuas, are deeply concerned about their safety and security in India. Their anxiety has deepened further as the BJP recently promised to take up the CAA issue at the first cabinet meeting if voted to office in Bengal. On the other hand, Mamata Banerjee has already announced the formation of a new development board for the Matuas. The TMC has also worked towards the development of the Thakurnagar railway station and Banerjee has shown her commitment towards the overall development of the community. Moreover, Banerjee has been a vocal opponent of the controversial CAA and even assured the Matua community in a recent rally that its rights will be protected by the TMC. The BJP’s eyeing of the Matua belt is evidence of the party trying to polarize voters along identity lines in Bengal. The Matua vote will be crucial in determining the outcome of the West Bengal assembly elections.Khokan Das, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
