31-03-2021||Opinion||Answer this: BJP’s allergy with questions||An allergy is a perfectly human frailty. But not all allergies can be acceptable to a democracy. Consider the cases of the proverbial rash that leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party are known to break into when journalists — the handful that remain true to the spirit of their vocation — ask searching questions. When a scribe asked for the Union home minister’s reaction to the charge that the prime minister had indirectly canvassed for votes for the Bengal elections during his visit to Bangladesh, Amit Shah responded with a counter-question: while it is understandable for the Trinamul Congress, he said, to raise such a query, what business did the journalist have to ask such a question? Mr Shah’s sentiments were echoed in another poll-bound state, Kerala, where E. Sreedharan, the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate, left in a huff blaming the media for asking “negative questions”. Mr Sreedharan’s response had been sought on such matters as ‘beef ban’ and ‘love jihad’, issues that have attained greater resonance in New India. Searching questions evidently get the BJP’s goat. Perhaps the BJP’s allergy can be blamed on its penchant for dodging tricky territory. Engaging with difficult enquiries — be they on demonetization, encroachment on the border, India’s steep economic challenges and so on — runs the risk of letting the cat out of the bag. It makes prudent sense to shoot the messenger instead. Sedition or anti-nationalism is the preferred weapon of choice in this context. Thus dissenters, critics, academics, journalists — constituencies and citizens with an independent mind — have increasingly found themselves under fire. Little wonder then that Parliament scrapped question hour and the prime minister — a loquacious leader — thinks nothing of evading interviews. What is even more worrying is that large segments of the Indian media have doffed their hats to this grey culture of silence. That could explain the irritation of BJP leaders: unlike other democracies, politicians in India are no longer in the habit of confronting the intelligent, inquisitive journalist. The consequences are ominous: the quality of India’s democracy and the freedom of the press are declining. It seems India has forgotten that the true responsibility of the wise man is not to give the correct answers but to pose the right questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||Step forward: New Zealand's miscarriage leave||Sir — In a path-breaking step, New Zealand’s Parliament has decided to grant mothers and their partners three days of bereavement leave following a miscarriage. The Labour parliamentarian, Ginny Andersen, who drafted the bill, must be lauded. This is reportedly the first law of its kind. Last year, the country decriminalized abortion. Such focus on issues affecting women highlights the need to include more women in the law-making process. In many countries, including India, it is still a taboo to talk about miscarriages or abortions. These nations should emulate New Zealand. Ayesha Chatterjee,Calcutta Noble act Sir — It was heart-warming to learn about the honesty of the lottery vendor, Smija K. Mohan, from Kerala, who handed over a jackpot ticket worth six crore rupees to a buyer who was yet to pay for it or clear his past dues (“A lottery vendor whose word is worth more than Rs 6cr”, March 27). She is now being extolled for her honesty across the state. It is a fact that honest people do not always find success, but the world goes around because of people like Mohan. She should be sincerely respected for her deed. One must never forget those who help or support others during their hard times. P.K. Chandran, the elderly gardener who won the jackpot, has shared the plans that he has for his family and himself with the money he won. He should also offer a reward to Mohan. At the same time, attention must be paid to the fact that buying a lottery ticket is like an addiction; many people waste their hard-earned money, banking on fate. Kiran Agarwal,Calcutta Sir — People in modern society should take a lesson in honesty from Smija K. Mohan. Clearly, her word is more important to her than money. Even though she had the golden opportunity to alleviate her own distress and be rich by claiming the jackpot for herself, she decided to hand it over to the person for whom she had reserved the ticket. One must thank the reporter for shedding light on this noble deed in a society marred by corruption and violence. One also expects P.K. Chandra, the winner of the jackpot, to help Mohan and her family in her time of need. Shyamal Thakur,East Burdwan Sir — The best part about the report on Smija K. Mohan was her humble response to the accolades being showered upon her. The fact that she did not even think about claiming the prize money for herself, in spite of struggling financially, speaks volumes about her character. Reading her story, one was reminded of the fable about the woodcutter who had lost his wooden axe in the river but refused to claim the gold axe and the silver axe that the river god retrieved for him to test his character. At the end of the fable, the honest woodcutter was rewarded with all three. Although such poetic justice cannot be expected in the real world, it would be an inspiration to many others if Mohan were rewarded for her honesty. Adrita Guha Neogi,Howrah Sir — It was wonderful to learn about Smija K. Mohan’s honesty. In today’s world, a virtue like honesty in people is hard to come by. So one is surprised when one comes across such reports. The story of Mohan’s deed is exemplary. Such people make the world a better place to live in. One wishes Mohan the best for her future. Sourish Misra,Calcutta By force Sir — It was a major setback for the chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, that on Sunday the president, Ram Nath Kovind, gave his assent to the government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, that says ‘government’ in the region would mean ‘lieutenant-governor’. According to the recently passed legislation, the Delhi government will now need to take the opinion of the lieutenant-governor before any executive action. The law also states that the legislative assembly shall not make any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the national capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. Any rule made in contravention of this proviso before the commencement of the Act shall be considered void. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress had opposed the bill — the latter even termed it retrograde, anti-democratic and an insult to the people of Delhi. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||Strictly equal: Women in armed forces||The appearance of equality is not enough. The Supreme Court reportedly expressed its displeasure at the defence ministry’s apparent evasion of the 2010 Delhi High Court directive and 2020 Supreme Court order that women in the armed forces should be given permanent service commissions at par with men if they met the required criteria. Eighty-six short service commission women officers had petitioned for equality in standards of evaluation for the granting of permanent commissions. The present practice of separate standards and selection boards violate gender parity. The government’s claim that women are allowed to serve the nation by joining the armed forces is, therefore, hollow; symbolic equality fails to meet the Constitutional requirement. This Supreme Court judgment saw this as a reflection of the patriarchal system. The three-judge bench went further and, for the first time, introduced the principle of ‘indirect discrimination’ to support the concepts of equality and discrimination. Although present in the jurisprudence of countries such as the United States of America, the United Kingdom and others, the criterion of indirect discrimination has seldom been applied in India. The judges expatiated on the concept in detail, presumably in order to ensure that the indirect discrimination test would be applied to relevant cases here as well. While direct discrimination can be perceived as a matter of intent irrespective of the circumstances, indirect discrimination is not so easily discernible. It can be uncovered through its effects, as in the denial of permanent commissions to women officers through differences in evaluation standards. Thus, indirect discrimination is structural, disguised by the dominant system of inbuilt beliefs and ways of doing things, so that what appears to be neutral — gender-neutral in this specific case — conceals the unjust effects of accepted provisions and practices. While direct discrimination is seldom, if ever, unintended, indirect discrimination may be unconscious and without malicious intent, arising from implicit biases that cannot recognize the unfairness in a given situation. The Supreme Court’s explanation underscored the importance of picking out indirect discrimination in cases concerned with equality, especially because it is neither obvious nor always intended. By prohibiting it even when it is unintended, the Supreme Court has given the legal and Constitutional principle of equality the breadth it desperately needs in a society constructed on implicit biases, and not of gender alone. Perhaps there is scope of further expansion of this criterion to test the principle of modernization of the armed forces. A truly modern army must have at its disposal not just cutting edge technology but also measures to ensure equality between serving men and women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||The time to fight is over: Pak Senate elections||The Senate elections took place in Pakistan earlier this month. As I wrote in these pages last month, the most interesting contest was going to be between the former prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani, and the ruling party’s now-former finance minister, Hafeez Sheikh, for a hotly contested seat. All eyes were on this one Senate seat in Islamabad on March 3. Gilani was the Opposition’s joint candidate. He did not have the numbers required to win the seat but he still managed to defeat Sheikh in the end. Gilani secured 169 votes while Sheikh got 164 votes. This surprising defeat created panic in the government ranks. As a result of this defeat, Prime Minister Imran Khan announced that he would take the vote of confidence. On March 6, Khan secured 178 votes; he required 172. Then came the elections for Senate chairman on March 12. Gilani was once again fielded as the joint Opposition candidate. On the morning of the Senate chairman polls, a comedy of sorts ensued. The Senator from the Pakistan Peoples Party, Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar, and the Senator from the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, Musadik Malik, found hidden cameras in and around the polling booth in the upper House, including a pinhole camera. Fawad Chaudhry from the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf joked with Senator Khokhar on Twitter that these were not spy cameras and shared a picture of a spy camera in a screw. Lo and behold, Senator Khokhar then went looking for it and a spy camera inside a screw was found! An investigation committee was then formed to look into the matter of hidden cameras. It seemed that the government was not very confident. But when the polling took place, the PTI-backed candidate, Sadiq Sanjrani, who was serving as Senate chairman already, defied the odds and managed to get 48 votes while Gilani got 42 votes. However, the catch was that seven of the votes that were rejected were all polled in favour of Gilani, which — if not rejected — would have made him win by one vote. All seven votes were rejected on the basis of a technicality by the presiding officer who said that the votes were stamped ‘on’ Gilani’s name instead of being stamped in the box ‘against’ his name. The Opposition, however, said the rules required that the stamp should be within the candidate’s name and it does not say where. These were the rules that were also written outside the polling booth in the upper House. But the presiding officer did not listen to these objections and declared Sanjrani the winner. Gilani challenged this decision in the Islamabad High Court but his petition was rejected. He may file another petition in the Supreme Court. From winning his Senate seat to almost winning the Senate chairman elections if those seven votes had been counted in his favour, the former prime minister has shaken the government to the core. Unfortunately, his win led to a falling out of the Opposition alliance as well later on. The Pakistan Democratic Movement, which had fielded Gilani as its joint candidate, had also decided that the post of Senate chairman would be contested by the PPP’s Gilani, the post of Senate deputy chairman would go to the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl and that of the leader of the Opposition in the Senate would go to the PML-N. When the Senate polls were lost, the PPP raised objections regarding the PML-N candidate, Azam Tarar, as he was representing two police officers accused in the Benazir Bhutto murder case. The PML-N, however, says that Tarar was just an excuse and the PPP wanted the slot for themselves. In the PDM meeting that took place on March 16, the former president, Asif Ali Zardari, asked the former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to return to Pakistan and be part of the ‘struggle together’. This led to a heated exchange in the meeting, which was also leaked to the media. The PDM’s long march, which was to take place on March 26, was postponed owing to the differences between the two largest parties in the Opposition alliance. The main bone of contention was the PML-N’s demand that they all resign from the assemblies while the PPP is against any such decision. The final decision by the PPP in this regard will be taken on April 4. As if embarrassing an ally were not enough, another war of words ensued indirectly between the PPP chairman, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, and the PML-N leader, Maryam Nawaz. The latter tweeted that the prime minister should be worried as his ‘substitute’ is being fostered, which some say was an obvious dig at the PPP. Not one to be left behind, Bhutto Zardari said that a family from Lahore has had a track record of being ‘selected’ and not the PPP. Another nail in the coffin was when most of the PDM signed in favour of the PML-N’s candidate but Gilani went on to become the Opposition leader in the Senate with the support of Sanjrani’s party, which is a government ally. Gilani was then called ‘selected’ by the PML-N. The PDM’s future now seems to be hanging in balance owing to all these acrobatics. Meanwhile, Khan has removed Sheikh as the finance minister. It seems that the month of March led to setbacks for both the government and the Opposition. The next few months will be interesting for sure, but many hope that instead of trying to get the government to fall, the Opposition will sit with it and work on reforms — election, accountability and judicial — and much more so as to strengthen the democratic system. Let us see if this could actually materialize. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||What lies beneath||There is a daily ugliness in our lives. We have grown accustomed to its face — its many faces — and to what lies beneath. How long, for example, did we linger over the image of a supine mahagathbandhan  legislator of the Bihar assembly being dragged by his arms over the ground by security personnel? Was there any shock or disbelief? The upending of norms implicit in the image could not have unsettled us too much either. We are bombarded every day by images of violence, criminal or administrative, to such a degree that such a small matter may slip our attention. The daily ugliness, therefore, is not limited to what we see or hear; it runs deep like a bubbling fissure in our minds, confusing perception, thought and judgment. The legislator was being pulled away from outside the Speaker’s chamber where he had been sitting with other Opposition members of the legislative assembly in protest against the passage of the Bihar special armed police bill, 2021. According to the government, the law would “develop the Bihar Military Police into a well-trained and fully equipped armed police force with multi-domain expertise to cater to the development needs and the larger interest of the state”. The Opposition was protesting against the powers of search and arrest without warrant that this force was being given; no court could take cognizance of offences under this law by any officer without government sanction. These immunities made the phrasing of the law seem threatening rather than reassuring. The Central Industrial Security Force, tasked with guarding assets and installations, has similar powers. But the Bihar Opposition found the tasks of the new force conveniently vague. They ranged from ensuring public order and fighting extremism to guarding installations and performing other such duties as notified. Going beyond the protests, we now have one more police force with the power to pick anyone up without accounting for it — whatever the process later. The spread of police forces immune to accountability suggests that governments like to make the people feel that they are criminals till proven innocent. The inversion of norms represented by the legislator’s picture lay, for one, in the reported refusal of Nitish Kumar’s government to engage with objections. But ramming through controversial laws has become a daily matter in the Lok Sabha, as though Parliament has vanished already. The protesting MLAs were marshalled out and, reportedly, beaten up by security personnel. Why not? Respect and decorum are foolish concepts in a political culture dominated by violence of word and deed. The police are free to drag an elected representative over the ground when the ‘site’ they are ‘securing’ has lost its sanctified status as a vessel of the people’s will. That is what the picture is saying. Or is it? In 2020, it was reported that 2,556 sitting members of parliament and MLAs had cases pending against them; 174 cases, if proven, would mean imprisonment for life. So maybe the legislator — about whom we may know nothing — is getting what he deserves? The confusion in the response — originating in a corruption of the system that long predates the present government — makes it easy for other, more dangerous, inversions to flow unresisted into our minds while offering us an excuse not to confront the life-altering changes taking place behind the daily ugliness. There is more. Can the Opposition complain about an empowered police force when one of its criticisms against Kumar’s governance is the rise in crime? Government data show that his earlier fame in establishing law and order had become rather tattered, although some crimes, murder and robbery for instance, had declined by 2019. But the overall situation is grave enough for the chief minister to have had three meetings with police chiefs after his return this time. Rising crime is an excellent ruse for a force with powers to arrest and search without warrant. The mischievous logic here has grown as familiar as our own skin in the last seven years through its varied application by Bharatiya Janata Party governments; all it demands is an overturning of democratic principles, processes, relationships and rights. The legislation in Bihar echoes the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force Act, 2020, which gives the same powers and immunities and has a similar declared purpose. The UPSSF protects not just installations but persons and residences as directed, and can, like the Bihar special armed police, arrest anyone whom it thinks is suspicious. That is truly convenient in a state where Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister, flourished by encouraging police ‘encounters’. That is outlawed, and a comment to this effect from the Centre could have clarified the rights and wrongs of extrajudicial killings by the State. Was it because most of the targets came from the poorer sections of the minority community, underprivileged classes and marginalized castes that these transgressions were flaunted, and accepted — by certain sections — as a chief minister’s success? This inversion was established some years ago; are we too confused to judge or just scared? Uttar Pradesh is one state that excels in crimes against Dalits. Can the UPSSF be expected to protect them? Women there are not just raped and frequently murdered, but survivors or members of the survivor’s family are also threatened or killed. Recently, a victim’s father was allegedly pushed under a bus, supposedly in front of policemen. Yet Mission Shakti came into operation last October to execute the chief minister’s promise of zero tolerance for crimes against women. Defining the relationship of laws, police and crime with one another has become difficult, for these have lost their familiar moorings in the last few years while we have been scrambling to pretend that they are in their usual places. Were we used to mob lynchings of people suspected of slaughtering cows, carrying or storing beef? We are now; we might even be mildly surprised that the accused in the 2015 killing of Mohammad Akhlaque are facing trial this year. Ugliness has entered our souls. Without our participation in the inversion of values it would not have been possible for UP and Madhya Pradesh to formulate laws against ‘love jihad’, a phenomenon acknowledged as non-existent by the police and even the ruling party in Parliament. Yet there is a law against it in two states; others may follow. The idea is to isolate the minority community and destroy inter-community amity, criminalize the relationship between men and women in particular circumstances, control women and attack the rights to autonomy and privacy. Will the law create the crime, or will it just pervert our understanding of a loving bond between two human beings? Perhaps, because Adityanath, the BJP’s star campaigner, reminded his audience in West Bengal with suitable condescension that the state needed this law in order to protect ‘our’ women. There is an unspeakable ugliness in the vortex of institutionalized lawlessness and hatred of freedom, diversity and democracy into which we are being — willingly? — drawn. We are living through changes that will alter in their totality what we knew to be our rights and wrongs when we were born in this country. Comparing this moment with similar phases in the history of other countries may be odious, so let us not do that. Instead we could reflect on the meanings of small, obvious things, such as the refusal to give an ill priest over 80 bail because he is supposed to be part of a banned group that is planning to overthrow democracy and even assassinate the prime minister. The priest is an activist for tribal rights, just as his alleged co-conspirators in prison are activists for Dalit or human rights. In its lightless heart, the vortex is not confusing at all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
