01-11-2021||---||ABHIM can plug gaps laid bare by pandemic||RECENTLY, the Union government launched the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission (ABHIM), aimed at strengthening crucial public health infrastructure in the country and the first such major initiative since the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) in 2005. The first announcement was made in the Union Budget in February 2021 by the name of the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasthya Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), with a corpus of Rs 64,180 crore assigned over six years until 2025-26. The central focus of the mission appears to be bolstering of the disease surveillance and epidemic preparedness infrastructure and systems, with reinforcement of medical care facilities being a strong adjunct.The pandemic has uncovered a plethora of gaps in Indian healthcare, ranging from inadequacies in basic healthcare to misalignments in medical education. We cannot address all of them on an immediate basis. Rather, what is needed is a sustained set of well balanced, well-timed, and well implemented priorities. While the horrors of Covid-19 don’t necessarily predispose us to another such catastrophe in the immediate future, the emphasis on disaster preparedness and disease surveillance is timely and opportune.There is evidence to indicate that settings with a stronger primary healthcare fared better during Covid-19 on many fronts, than those without. The mission will strengthen primary healthcare by supporting 17,788 rural health and wellness centres (HWC) in ten high-focus states and 11,024 urban HWCs across all states. Much needed critical care hospital blocks have been envisioned in 602 districts and 12 Central institutions. Provisions to strengthen disease surveillance, emergency response and research have been announced in the form of integrated public health labs in all districts; block public health units in 11 high focus states; an integrated health information portal; operationalising and strengthening public health units at points of entry; 15 health emergency operation centres and two mobile hospitals; and strengthening of the National Centre for Disease Control, setting up 4 regional National Institutes of Virology, 9 bio-safety level-3 laboratories, and a national institution for ‘one health’, among others. In addition, the mission also aims to address the prevailing mal-distribution of medical colleges and increase the availability of health manpower.While infrastructural gaps could be addressed in mission mode, sustained funding and attention are crucial for such structures to thrive and function optimally in the long run. The fresh infusion of structures, inputs and systems that the ABHIM envisions would entail the states and the Centre to consistently, commensurately and multi-dimensionally increase public health expenditure in the upcoming times. The current allocation for the mission is less than half a per cent of the GDP, spread over six years. There is a lot to learn from the past experiences of similar initiatives. For instance, when the NRHM was launched, public health expenditure was envisioned to increase to about 2-3 per cent of the GDP by 2012, which however remained at around 1 per cent. The Centre was supposed to increase funding by 30 per cent in the first two years after launch and 40 per cent thereafter until 2012. Similarly, states were to increase their own allocations by providing matching contributions. However, these were hardly realised, and evidence has demonstrated an undesirable ‘substitution effect’ of Central investments upon states’ own allocations for health. It will take us to live up to the National Health Policy’s (2017) commitment to increase public health spending to 2.5 per cent of GDP by 2025, as unrealistic as the target might seem today. The Centre has done the right thing by taking the first step and spearheading the mission, given particularly the prevailing inter-state disparities and the weak financial position of many states. Similarly, we need to learn from the several challenges that bogged down the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, which aims to reduce regional imbalances in tertiary healthcare by building new AIIMS and upgrading existing government medical colleges.Secondly, we must remember that a lot will be left to be desired in terms of holistic and horizontal strengthening of the Indian public health services, despite the ABHIM. Some observers have noted that one of the biggest weaknesses in our Covid-19 response has been the lack of a horizontally strong general health system, given the predominance of vertical health programmes that have traditionally fragmented the Indian public health services. Tertiary and critical care needs, though overwhelming, were conspicuously fewer during the Covid-19 pandemic, and much of the pandemic response rested on the continuum of general primary and secondary healthcare services which will only be limitedly addressed by the ABHIM. It will be necessary to ensure that much like the other vertically oriented programmes, the ABHIM doesn’t deprive other important areas of their rightful attention and investments. This is particularly important given our poor track record with things that cannot be addressed in mission mode.Finally, much of the success of the ABHIM will depend on its effective coordination with other programmes with which it shares multiple overlapping components. For example, the National Health Mission is the flagship programme in primary healthcare in the country; the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana aims to increase access to secondary and tertiary hospital care; the National Digital Health Mission aims to lay an all-embracing digital health infrastructure, and so on. A multiplicity of such programmes, if not functioning with sufficient coordination, can risk redundancies, duplication and wastefulness. Effective coordination between multiple departments and sectors will be crucial to ensure that the diverse inputs required to drive the newly laid infrastructure are in place, as also to effectively tap the many opportunities that may arise out of this mission, such as enhanced facilities to train public health manpower.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/abhim-can-plug-gaps-laid-bare-by-pandemic-332557
01-11-2021||---||Povertarian mindset stifles aspirations||A recent televised public exchange between Rakesh Tikait and a senior journalist would have gone unnoticed had it not been for Tikait clearly stating that the farmers of India have had their fill of people foisting poverty on them. Tikait’s aspiration to see farmers becoming rich has to be seen in its proper context. His rejection of the fetishised image of the farmer as a poverty-ridden group is all the more interesting because it comes in the wake of the promise made by the Prime Minister of doubling farm income in India. Critics, unversed in numeracy, have been quick to point out that this could be just another tall promise made by a popular leader. What they fail to realise is that doubling, or even tripling a microscopic number does not take much effort. Currently, farm incomes are quite minuscule — a typical Indian farming household earned about Rs 3,798 per month from farming according to the Situation Assessment Survey conducted in 2018-19.This translates to about Rs 125 per day for a farming family. To put things in perspective, this much money could buy a small cup of coffee at the local Starbucks or a simple masala dosa snack from a dhaba at Murthal where farmers are camping along the road in protest against the introduction of the three farm laws. Much of the income gets lost, we are told by farm experts, because of the humongous wastage that goes on in storing and marketing the produce. Doubling this income would be a cinch were the government to succeed in its ongoing efforts to stop these wastages.At the time when the senior journalist in UP was being ticked off by Tikait for calling him a ‘Designer Kisan Neta’ and questioning his use of an air-conditioner in the heat of north India, in Punjab many people were sniggering at the newly appointed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s use of an aircraft to reach Delhi to consult his party leaders, almost as if there was something blasphemous about a person from a Dalit background using a more comfortable means of transportation. That Channi, apart from being a successful self-made political figure, is also a successful self-made professional and businessman, was a bit of detail everyone seemed to forget.Tikait and Channi are just the latest among successful public figures in India who have clearly shown that they reject the povertarian mindset which imagines that the true destiny of Indians is to remain poor and fetishise this existence.We would suggest that the fetishisation of poverty in India has played a major role in alienating aspirational individuals from India. In the early years of independence, we explained away this alienation under the cloak of ‘brain drain’, the idea that the more intelligent of Indians were moving off to the West in order to acquire knowledge that was unavailable within the country. Since most of them never came back to live or work in India, we moaned about their ingratitude but did little to change the circumstances which impelled people to migrate in the first place. By the 1990s, in states like Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, the exodus was joined by people who came from a less privileged background. They too hoped to never return.The continuation of the povertarian mindset has ensured that those with any aspirations find out-migration to be a more attractive strategy than staying back in India and fighting the so-called system. Anycollege teacher from Punjab or Haryana will tell you that a large number of their students have joined college merely to earn enough educational credits to help them migrate.The latest census bureau data from the USA supports this contention that it is the aspirational Indians who have reached America. These Indians, the data suggests, are the richest group in the country, whites, blacks and minorities included. With a median income of roughly $123,000 per household, Indians in America earn double of what the average American whites do. They also earn 45% more than either the Chinese or the Japanese in the USA. That the aspirational Indians are moving out of the country should be a cause of great concern for us. This is not the old-fashioned brain drain. It is the drain of the very people who could have the spunk to transform this country.In Punjab, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh, we know how desperately young men and women seek to get out, often taking recourse to illegal means. Their families fully support such aspirational people, sell off bits of property to fund their exit from India, and seek out networks of friends and relatives abroad who could help. Simply put, the most ambitious among Indians are leaving India wholesale for other shores, which is why they are the richest group there.We suggest that povertarianism is a key reason for our failure to cater to the aspirations of those who are aspirational. The unfortunate perception, popular but baseless, that wealth is created mostly through sharp practices, puts pressure on those who are successful.Perhaps we can learn from Gandhi, not of Gandhi the povertarian of popular belief, but Gandhi the aspirational young man who also ran one of the most successful and profitable newspapers in India for over three decades and without any support from ads and charities. We already know that leaders like Rabindranath Tagore and Subhas Chandra Bose endorsed products and featured in ads. Gandhi too had no hesitation in selling his name. He even monetised it when he charged Rs 5 for every autograph that he gave to his admiring followers. Gold being priced then at about Rs 25 a tola, in today’s terms, Gandhi would be demanding the equivalent of a little over Rs 10,000 per autograph.Unfortunately in India, we have distorted Gandhi into a povertarian caricature. As it happens, things that are imagined to be real, have real consequences. In the case of independent India, we started creating rules and regulations that would stymie the creation of legitimate wealth. We justified this with the name ‘socialism’.Our historical research which we have presented elsewhere suggests that it is not the people in India who have been lacking. Rather, we have lacked stable institutional systems that support growth. Robust institutions make for knowledge exchange, for innovation and enable an increase in productivity. Successful societies in the modern world are societies with a robust learning eco-system that enables them to make systems work to the greater benefit of all. Equally, they are about providing an opportunity to everyone to participate in economic growth. For a variety of reasons, historically Indians have been unable to build that kind of ecosystem. A happy society is an aspirational society. But aspiring to be poor, to remain poor, is its opposite.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/povertarian-mindset-stifles-aspirations-332555
01-11-2021||---||India in a double bind||INDIA since Independence had a many-splendored foreign policy, but the present government has steadily navigated it toward a quasi-alliance with America in a highly consequential paradigm shift. In turn, it spawned a narrative that China has ‘driven’ India into the US camp.The Biden administration is clueless on China. The US binds India closer than ever militarily, but totally abandons it economically and leaves it to its fate.The current slide in relations with China began in 2017 in Doklam. We were triumphalist that the Indian Army entered Chinese territory for the first time, but then, the denouement turned out to be that the PLA established a permanent presence close to our Sikkim border, and secondly, Bhutan decided to take matters into its own hands and deal directly with Beijing.Triumphalism once again surged in 2019 in the full flush of election victory, when the new government in Delhi changed the status of Jammu and Kashmir and redrew India’s northern borders which now touch the Wakhan Corridor. In retrospect, the Valley bears the calm of a cemetery, but a prolonged military standoff has ensued in eastern Ladakh.However, the narratives over these self-inflicted wounds eventually engendered the hypothesis that bandwagoning with the US is the only way left to ‘settle scores’ with China. This is a specious argument because Delhi already had an a priori reasoning for India’s foreign policy trajectory aligning with the US’ Indo-Pacific strategy. The point is, paranoia can be dangerous, as the very assumption that a conflict is inevitable can create conditions for conflict. The late George Kennan, who scripted the containment strategy against the Soviet Union (and lived to regret it later when it morphed into Cold War) has written: ‘The assumption of the inevitability of a war is allowed to rest exclusively on the fact that ‘we’ and ‘they’ are both preparing so intensively for it. No other reason is needed for the acceptanceof its necessity.’Now, as if one provocative Quad were not enough, Washington just ushered India into a second one alongside Israel and the UAE. Quad-2 snubs West Asia’s powerhouses — Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Iran and Egypt — and is a ‘B’ team of America’s regional subalterns, as anyone who follows the geopolitics of Yemen and Sudan would know. How does India figure in it? In reality, Washington has created another vector of its anti-China front in the Red Sea and inducted India into it.How far Quad-2 intimidates the Chinese ships passing the Bab Al-Mandab Strait remains to be seen, but it complicates India’s ties with Iran. Israel is planning to open a new consulate in Chengdu, its third in China, which is Israel's third largest trading partner globally and its largest trading partner in East Asia. As for the UAE, it is China's second largest trading partner in the Persian Gulf and gains out of being a regional gateway for China.China has been a strong market for the UAE oil exports and the Emirates is set to play a major role in China’s Belt and Road projects regionally. The Emirati leaders hope to tap into Chinese technology and artificial intelligence for smart cities, armed drones, healthcare and renewable energy to modernise their nation. The indexes of markets, population projections, the global centre of gravity, economic gravity and so on are inexorably moving eastward.In India, too, while there is a general acceptance that the country’s partnership with the US is important, there is pervasive scepticism about the US intentions or authenticity. Yet, Nikki Haley, the Indian-American politician, and Mike Waltz, the Republican Congressman and vice chair of the India Caucus, co-authored an article in the Foreign Policy magazine last week titled ‘It’s Time to Formalize an Alliance With India’.They envisage India as a ‘swing state’ which could give the Pentagon access to strategic bases to protect American interests in Afghanistan and the broader region! When a Council on Foreign Relations news publication takes to kite-flying a fortnight after Blinken’s immaculate conception of Quad-2 — and in the run-up to the US-Indian ‘2+2’ ministerial in Washington in November — can it be coincidence?Post-Afghanistan, the US is desperate that its regional strategies have become rudderless. The ASEAN summits last week witnessed the unease among its members that the new AUKUS alliance erodes their centrality and may fuel arms race. AUKUS has also dented the credibility of the trans-Atlantic relationship.On the other hand, China is on track to exceed the US by 2025 in artificial intelligence, microprocessors, computers, electric vehicles, and other critical technologies. Technology provides munitions, and the war is fought in two theatres — defence and trade. China is building an impressive modern navy to claim dominance in the Pacific. The US fleet needs bolstering and reorientation toward smaller, more agile, and unmanned vessels, but this is unaffordable. The actual cost of Biden’s bipartisan infrastructure bill and American Family Plan would be closer to $5.5 trillion and with the annual federal deficit reaching $2 trillion, the US analysts anticipate that China’s industrial policy carrying that burden is becoming hard to beat. The less said the better about ‘defending’ Taiwan.Trump’s tariff war simply burdened the American consumer. In a caustic assessment recently, Washington Post’s Fareed Zakaria observed that the US is ‘now retreating to a cold, curdled view of international life, one that is dark and zero-sum, in which we search for villains to blame for our problems.’ America’s economic travails stem from systemic failures such as decades-long wage stagnation, crumbling infrastructure, and collapse of the manufacturing sector.The Biden administration is clueless on China. This is what ought to make Indians wary. Washington binds India closer than ever militarily, but totally abandons it economically and leaves it to its fate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-in-a-double-bind-332553
