02-11-2021||---||Gender-based violence a global challenge||ON October 21, the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), under the presidentship of Kenya’s Foreign Affairs Secretary Raychelle Omamo, held an open ministerial debate on women, peace and development (WPS). It was led by Secretary-General António Guterres. The UN Women Executive Director, Sima Sami Bahous, and Special Envoy of the Chairperson of the African Union WPS Commission Bineta Diop were in attendance.The October 13 concept note circulated by Kenya sought the open debate to focus on the theme ‘Investing in Women in Peacekeeping and Peacebuilding’. It has come after the 20th anniversary (October 2020) of the UNSC’s WPS resolution 1325.In the wake of violent conflicts raging around the world, the UNSC debate assumed significance since 100 million people now experience food insecurity and unprecedented 82.4 million people are forcibly displaced. Now a growing number of studies indicate a link between sex and gender inequality and violent outcomes.In his seminal report of September 27, 2021, the Secretary-General called on member states to implement measures to increase women’s equal participation in peace, political and other decision-making processes. There is a huge global gender gap wherein only 23 per cent of women delegates took part in the UN-led peace processes, 5.2 per cent women in military troops in peace operations, they held only 18.9 per cent of the parliamentary seats in conflict-ridden countries and the bilateral aid to women’s rights organisations in these countries has gone below 1 per cent.The August 15 takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban came in the aftermath of a record number of women killed, including civil society activists, journalists, academics, vaccinators and judges. No Afghan woman was included among the negotiators in the Doha talks with the Taliban in 2020 and the Moscow talks in March 2021.The goal of ensuring that peace agreements address the rights, concerns and perspectives of all women regardless of their ethnicity, race, sexual orientation, age or religion still remains elusive. None of the ceasefire agreements reached between 2018 and 2020 included gender provisions or the prohibition of sexual violence. It seems gender equality is a question of power and the Secretary-General’s 2021 report has clearly spelled out persistent gaps and stagnation in women’s participation in political leadership, peace and security, access to economic resources and decision-making.Sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) prevails from time immemorial. SGBV is still a taboo, spoken about in whispers and suffered in silence. It takes place during peacetime, conflicts and post-conflict situations. SGBV against women is historically rooted in patriarchal systems, stereotyped gender-based norms and harmful cultural practices (HCPs). As a corollary, the control over female sexuality is central to the social, cultural and State-driven global normative systems. For instance, in 2021 alone, 4.16 million girls around the world are at risk of undergoing FGM (female genital mutilation). In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and climatic change, there has been an exacerbation of SGBV against women. This presents a new regulatory challenge for international law, international institutions and scholars.The growing scholarly works and heightened multi-agency coordination show a healthy trend in addressing the SGBV challenge. Ironically, the existing corpus of international law is not adequate in specifically addressing SGBV against women and it requires global specialisation for bridging the ‘normative gap’ in the field. The absence of specific legally binding instruments has relevance for effectiveness and coordination in the roles of international institutions such as the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), UN Women, UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the UN Human Rights Council. The soft law instruments hitherto used by these agencies are not taken seriously by most of the States, which construe them as guiding principles.International institutions (IIs) have been playing a pivotal role in providing legal and institutional protection to women against SGBV. It is vital in the prevention and elimination of SGBV as a threat and reality against a sizeable part of the global population. Most of such IIs work under the UN umbrella.“Sexual and gender-based violence is a heinously prevalent scourge, too common in all societies. It is also exacerbated by conflict, as well as other humanitarian crises and the climate emergency,” Peter Maurer, president of the ICRC Geneva, has said.Notwithstanding the stated objectives of all legally binding agreements, soft instruments and concerted actions of international institutions, women continue to suffer SGBV, primarily because of their gender. SGBV remains globally prevalent with destructive consequences for women due to their status in societies, its use as a weapon of war and the perpetrators mostly going scot-free. In view of this and as international law is struggling to address the SGBV challenge, an important ideational issue needs to be grappled with. Is it possible to de-stigmatise and de-legitimise SGBV? This crucial question presents a big challenge for the future.In his fourth address to the UN General Assembly on September 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, referring to the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan, alluded to the problem of ‘regressive thinking’ that leads to the use of terrorism as ‘a political tool’. The PM urged the UN to speed up the reforms process that has been flagging for more than a decade, which would include an expanded Security Council.India needs to take the lead in gender equality with linkage between agendas of WPS and maintenance of international peace and security. It needs to go beyond the June 2 statement of First Secretary Vidisha Maitra wherein she said that “meaningful participation of women in decision-making substantially strengthens prevention efforts, deepens the effectiveness of peace-building and develops stability in society.”India needs to push for effective integration of WPS considerations, especially by including the list of “terrorist entities involved in violence against women in armed conflicts.” During the UNSC term till December 2022, India needs to rely upon cutting-edge, home-grown scholarly works to add greater value, urgency and shape to the UNSC agenda on WPS. It will yield rich dividends for India’s claims for the UNSC permanent seat and to be heard on the global high table.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/gender-based-violence-a-global-challenge-333024
02-11-2021||---||China’s coercive diplomacy targets Bhutan||CHINA and Bhutan recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to resolve their long-standing border dispute. This development was important as Bhutan is generally seen as a close ally of India. This has also raised an important question whether Bhutan was being coerced by China. The security of India and Bhutan is also closely linked. The way Bhutan sorts out its border issues with China is going to have implications for Indian security. It will also have its bearing on the bilateral relationships these countries are having with one another. The signing of the MoU takes place amidst a 17-month-long standoff between India and China in Ladakh, even as Indian efforts to defuse the situation have not been successful.Since June 2020, China has also been persistently making claim over the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary in eastern Bhutan. This is seen as an attempt by China to put additional pressure on Bhutan to come to the negotiating table. China is quite keen to establish diplomatic relationship with Bhutan. This is one country in South Asia where it has not been able to make major inroads.Bhutan and China started their talks in 1984 to resolve the border dispute. Since then, 24 rounds of talks have taken place, but there has been no major progress. To break the deadlock, China has now signed this MoU and hopes to resolve the dispute on its own terms. This MoU talks about a three-step roadmap, but so far no details have emerged. Some Chinese experts, however, believe that the roadmap might be similar to the principles of the China-India border talks. They will first establish basic political principles of boundary demarcation, and then solve specific disputes. They will finally sign an agreement and get down to the boundary demarcation.The Chinese, however, are also apprehensive that they may not succeed in their designs as Bhutan’s ceding of its disputed territory in the western part to China in exchange for Chinese claim on some territory in its northern part will have implications for India’s security. It thinks that India will try to scuttle the final agreement when it is reached.In the past year, there has been a change in the Chinese style of diplomacy. Now the tone of China’s foreign ministry against the US, Australia and other countries has become much more strident. The Chinese diplomacy is no longer conservative, passive and low key, but has become assertive, proactive and high profile. Chinese diplomats try to defend the ever-expanding national interests, often in confrontational ways.This change in Chinese diplomacy started since 2010 when China’s GDP overtook Japan’s as the world’s second largest. This has made China a nation much more confident and its foreign policy far more assertive. The ‘wolf-warrior diplomacy’ is also seen as a manifestation of the rising nationalism in China.Besides combative words, diplomacy has also resulted in aggressive actions. China has bullied Vietnam and on April 19 last year, it named 80 islands, reefs, seamounts, shoals and ridges in the South China Sea, triggering protests from other claimants.China is also indulging in various grey zone operations. These are those operations where the Chinese do not clearly violate international law but put pressure on the adversary and test its resolve to defend its claims. This has happened in the case of India, where the Chinese have frequently violated the disputed international border. This has also happened in the case of Japan and Taiwan. Recently, the Taiwan tensions flared up to such an extent that the country declared it might go to war if the Chinese encroachments of their air space continue. It also forced the United States to come out openly in support of Taiwan in case a war breaks out.The Chinese are also trying to bully Bhutan. In 2017, they were carrying out illegal infrastructure activity in the Doklam region when India was forced to come to the assistance of the Bhutanese. This led to a major standoff. Though the tension was defused later, it is believed that China is still trying to consolidate its position in the area. Since then, China has also started blaming India for intervening in its territorial dispute with Bhutan and calls India’s military assistance to Bhutan an infringement of its sovereignty.Bhutan is one of India’s strongest allies, but the bilateral relationship has been undergoing a perceptible change. Both countries re-negotiated their 1949 treaty and entered into a new treaty of friendship in 2007. The new treaty has replaced the provision which required Bhutan to take India’s guidance on foreign policy. Now, Bhutan also does not require India’s permission to import arms. Moreover, Bhutan has also seen a transition to multi-party democracy. This change in the polity of Bhutan has brought important changes in its foreign and economic policies. Bhutan wants to become a high income country by 2030. Initially, India was the only development partner of Bhutan, but the Himalayan nation now has 52 more such partners. China intends to become its 53rd development partner after establishing diplomatic relationship with the country.Bhutan still wants to make its economic progress largely with the help of India. At the same time, it does not want the India-China rivalry to create problems for it. As Bhutan can’t meet the growing military assertion of China on its border, it has signed the present MoU with the hope to buy temporary peace. India, however, has to be careful as the boundary claims of China have been ever-expanding in the region and no one knows what the Chinese would claim next as part of south Tibet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-coercive-diplomacy-targets-bhutan-333023
02-11-2021||---||Manufacturing fear||THESE days, I am not very sure whether it would ever be possible for me to appreciate — spontaneously and wholeheartedly — the creative skill of cricket: say, the magnificent performance of a Pakistani fast bowler, or a batsman. I am not very sure whether I can send a message of love to my Muslim friends when they celebrate Eid. Can I say with pride and confidence that Urdu poetry has truly enriched our literary heritage? Or would it ever be possible for me to love the ‘pedlar from Kabul’ as Tagore depicted in one of his path-breaking short stories? In fact, there are moments when I become afraid; I begin to fear that I might be accused of promoting ‘anti-national’ sentiments. I ask myself: How did we come to this stage?Is our patriotism so fragile that it can crumble if win and loss are not seen through the lens of militant nationalism? Well, throughout the world, sports carnivals arouse nationalist sentiments, and it is certainly not unnatural if you like the sportspersons from your country to win gold medals in the Olympics, or want your football team to win the match. However, there is something called the spirit of humility —the courage to accept defeat, and even appreciate the performance of the opponent team. But then, as the ugliness of cricket nationalism has poisoned our collective consciousness and severely damaged our ways of looking at the world, we seem to have reduced even this beautiful game into a war or a surgical strike.In the age of hyper-nationalism when you are asked to demonstrate your patriotism on every occasion through loud symbols, or hating the ‘enemy’ of the nation, and ‘patriotic’ television channels are never tired of stimulating the war instinct, a game no longer remains a game. And even a good gesture of appreciating the brilliant performance of the opponent team, as the message is conveyed to us through the bunch of self-proclaimed patriots, or toxic troll army, has to be considered as a conspiracy against the nation.Is it, therefore, surprising that the UP government can think of filing sedition charges against three Kashmiri students—arrested in Agra for allegedly supporting the Pakistan team, and raising ‘pro-Pakistan’ slogans? And even a private school in Udaipur chose to terminate a teacher after her alleged celebration of Pakistan cricket team’s victory over the Indian team. Even if you and I do not approve of their behaviour, is it altogether impossible to take it lightly? How can it be seen as a crime? Not solely that. The troll army did not forget to suspect and castigate Mohammed Shami — a brilliant Indian cricketer — as his religious identity is not in tune with the mental landscape of ‘Hindu nationalists’. It is pathetic to see this moral, political and cultural degeneration. Is our patriotism so fragile and insecure that it can crumble if with the lightness of being and a sense of humour, you love cricket, crack jokes, accept victory or defeat with a smile, and refuse to see it through the lens of militant nationalism?It is really sad to see that this bunch of hyper-nationalists is continually manufacturing the psychology of fear—the fear of ‘Muslim conspirators’. See its toxic character—its chronic intolerance. These days an organisation called ‘Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti’ seems determined to put a stop to offering Friday namaz in the open at public places in Gurugram. And the fear is so much that they see conspiracy even if you are fond of Urdu—a beautiful language symbolising our syncretic culture. Think of it. The clothing brand Fabindia had to delete an ad from social media because these ‘patriots’ didn’t like the use of Jashn-e-Riwaz in the ad. For them, the use of Urdu can pollute the purity of Diwali. Have these nationalists ever tasted the spirit of true religiosity — the religiosity of love and fusion of horizons?Possibly, militant nationalists cannot exist without manufacturing the fear of the stigmatised ‘other’? In a way, the cult of narcissism, authoritarianism and militarism become an integral component of militant religious nationalism. Through its cultural apparatus and propaganda machinery, it continually constructs the imagery of the ‘enemy’; the ‘enemy’, we are asked to believe, can pollute our culture, conspire against the nation, and become overwhelmingly powerful if we do not become alert and cautious. Hence, be aware of every move of your Muslim neighbours; observe carefully whether they are watching Pakistani television serials, or learning Urdu and Arabic; or calculate meticulously whether their population size is increasing and posing a threat to the ‘Hindu civilisation’! In other words, fear them; suspect them, hate them. No wonder, these days the majority Hindu community has been asked to feel ‘insecure’. Yes, this manufactured fear can legitimise all sorts of surveillance and punitive measures in the name of ‘national security’. They reduce everything into ‘either’ or ‘or’. If you love India, you have to hate Pakistan. Or, if you are a Hindu, you have to suspect or fear Muslims. The psychology of militant religious nationalism is incapable of comprehending the domain of pluralism, cross-religious conversations and cosmopolitanism. Instead, it is divisive and schizophrenic.Given the cultural and moral decay all around, will it ever be possible to restore the idea of religiosity that transcends boundaries, sees beyond temples and mosques, and activates the enchanting power of love? Will it ever be possible to reimagine a nation that seeks to become oceanic, cherishes the memory of Kabir, Nanak and Nizamuddin Auliya, and wants its children to internalise the ethics of love and care rather than the aggression of militarism and demonstrative patriotism? Or is it a utopian dream in the age of popularisation of Talibanisation of consciousness?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/manufacturing-fear-333022
