03-11-2021||---||Chasing mirage of net-zero carbon emissions||AT the annual climate meeting, formally known as the Conference of Parties (COP) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), headline-grabbing announcements are much sought after. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has provided this opportunity in the Glasgow COP26 that got under way this week. He announced that India would achieve the target of net-zero emissions by 2070. By 2030, the country’s non-fossil energy capacity would be raised to 500 GW and by then, half of its energy requirements would be met from renewable sources of energy.This translates into a reduction of the total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes between 2022 and 2030. Another key takeaway from the PM’s speech was a reduction in the carbon intensity of the economy by less than 45 per cent by 2030.Going by the implications of the carbon emission reduction and the new emission trajectory mentioned, the announcement amounts to a shift in India’s climate policy. This is the first time after signing the Paris Agreement that India has made an unconditional commitment of emission reduction. That’s why it is surprising that the shift has come without any public discussion domestically.Net zero is a relatively new addition to the climate jargon. The Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2013 had stated that “limiting global temperature change means limiting the cumulative or stock of carbon emissions in the atmosphere.” And to stop global warming, net anthropogenic or manmade additions of carbon into the atmosphere should reach zero.This concept found its way into the 2015 Paris Agreement which stipulated that countries should aim to reach “global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible” to achieve “a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of the century.”The 2018 report from the IPCC further refined its earlier projection by saying that the world would have to reach net-zero emissions of carbon by 2050 if it had to limit the temperature rise to 1.5°C and avoid catastrophic impacts of climate change.If a country is emitting ‘x’ amount of greenhouse gases, then it should take steps, such as promoting renewable energy, to reduce emissions and also take offsetting measures that absorb ‘x’ amount of carbon, with the net emissions becoming zero.The UN’s Sustainable Development Goal Seven on achieving “affordable and clean energy” focuses on reducing emissions and promoting renewables. Against this backdrop, several countries have announced their own net-zero pledges. Sweden has made its 2045 net-zero targets into law, while the UK has legislated that it will reach net zero by 2050. China has committed ‘carbon neutrality’ before 2060, and now India has announced 2070 as the target year to achieve net zero. Before India’s announcement, 49 countries and the European Union had pledged a net-zero target, covering more than 50 per cent of the global GDP and a third of the population.Net zero is a pledge that more and more countries are making to ward off criticism of climate inaction. How the countries operationalise or translate these pledges into concrete roadmaps and plans will determine if these pledges will have any impact on carbon emission trajectories. At present, as the analysis of the United Nations Environment Programme released last week found, these pledges are vague and not consistent with the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) of the respective countries. All signatories to the Paris Agreement are supposed to submit their NDCs and update them to reflect the pledges made by them.While making the net zero announcement in Glasgow, Modi specifically spoke about the transition to renewable energy. He said, “India’s non-fossil fuel energy has increased by more than 25 per cent in the last seven years” and that “now it has reached 40 per cent of our energy mix.”This statement is far from reality. About 80 per cent of India’s power supplies come from coal, gas and biomass. Renewables — solar and wind — account for a little over 20 per cent, not 40 per cent.The biggest stumbling block to India’s net zero ambition is coal. As of now, any roadmap for phasing out coal is absent. Another issue is finance and technology to fund this massive transition to clean energy. Committing to a transition year without a credible and fair system enshrined in the principle of “common but differentiated responsibility” is also a clear indicator of India’s shifting climate policy.The PM said that “India expects developed countries to provide climate finance of one trillion dollars at the earliest”, but did not link its emission trajectories with climate finance.To reach their targets, the industrialised West is seeking to develop a new carbon market as a part of the exercise to operationalise the Paris Agreement. The issue of working out a mechanism for carbon emission trading has been hanging fire since 2015. To move towards the goal of reducing emissions, two mechanisms were proposed. All countries agreed to prepare and implement the NDCs. The Paris Agreement also provided for a framework in which countries could “cooperatively use carbon markets” to achieve their targets while promoting climate adaptation measures. Article 6 allows countries to finance emission reduction projects in other countries and account those reductions towards their targets. It is a successor to the Clean Development Mechanism, which was introduced to implement the now-defunct Kyoto Protocol.Irrespective of the outcome of the Glasgow talks, India has committed to a carbon reduction pathway leading to net-zero emissions by 2070 and a substantial shift to green energy by 2030.This can’t be achieved without a clear roadmap of policies, programmes and actions, particularly when energy consumption is set to rise. Environmentally unfriendly policies will have to be rolled back. We need clear plans for sectors like infrastructure, transport, industrial production, building energy and forestry and a huge investment in R&D. The government must also ensure that that transition is just and equitable.Without all this, net zero will remain a mirage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chasing-mirage-of-net-zero-carbon-emissions-333478
03-11-2021||---||The way to horticulture cluster development||THE Ashapura Farms & Nursery is an entity in the Kutch region of Gujarat that has successfully pioneered the production and marketing of Kesar mangoes over 200 acres. Other than catering to the domestic market, the entity also exports these mangoes to the UK, Singapore, Oman and the UAE.At the heart of this success story is its commitment to nurturing quality root stock from mango seedlings in its nursery. In addition, organic farm practices have been followed for a balanced pest and nutrient management. Post-production, the mangoes are graded at the entity’s pack house where they are also pre-cooled to meet export quality requirements.The state government, along with the National Horticulture Board (NHB) and the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), have been partners in supporting this endeavour.Promoting and incentivising entities such as the above has been at the heart of the first ever Agricultural Export Policy announced by the Government of India. The aim is to double agricultural exports to $60 billion by 2022. One key strategy to achieving this target is the seeking of greater involvement of state governments by focusing on developing clusters having the potential for export-oriented production. Within these clusters, in addition, a greater thrust is to be given to value addition, promotion and branding of agri-produce.The Doubling Farmers Income Committee (DFI) Report 2017 highlights that today we face challenges such as stringent global sanitary standards. It further adds that due to small landholdings, the produce from even a single village has significant variations in terms of varieties cultivated, size, other physical parameters and stage of maturity at the time of harvest.As a result, it is difficult for exporters to source the requisite volume of a particular fruit or vegetable. Besides, lack of seamless initial aggregation at the farm gate, at times, limits the output to be pooled into exportable loads.The 2020-21 output of horticulture production, at 331 million tonnes, has outpaced the production of foodgrains in the country. More specifically, with a production of 103 and 197.2 million tonnes, fruits and vegetables account for 31.1 per cent and 59.56 per cent of the domestic production. Their share is 11.38 per cent and 11.78 per cent of the world production, respectively.While we are the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables in the world (largest producer of mango, banana, guava, papaya, lemon, lime and okra), our global share of horticulture exports stands at 1.7 per cent and 0.5 per cent for vegetables and fruits, respectively.In the above backdrop, a key concern, pointed out by experts, is the small and marginal farmers’inability individually to invest in primary processing infrastructure at the farm gate. This includes post-harvest activities through ‘pack houses’, such as drying, grading, sorting, ripening, waxing, packaging and quality control assessment. They also include crop-specific cold chain storage/warehousing with pre-cooling facilities, reefer vehicles and distribution hubs.Small and marginal farmers are also sometimes unaware of the crop quality specifications required by different types of buyers and intelligent information about near-farm or export markets. Besides, the weak market orientation of the small and marginal farmers stems from middlemen who bridge the gap between farmers and the market, earning margins at every stage of the distribution chain.They, therefore, contend that there is a need to create clusters that strengthen the horticulture supply as well as value chain between the Origin (farm source) and Destination (domestic or/and export market) — ‘OD pairs’. Such clusters will factor in seasonality as well as crop specificities for fruits and vegetables such as mango, banana, papaya, lemon, okra, onion, tomato, cabbage, cauliflower and brinjal that are abundantly grown for the domestic market and for mango, banana, grapes and pomegranate etc that are exported. The focus will also be on logistics by road, rail and air connectivity.For enabling such a cluster approach to achieve uniform crop quality and variety, collectives such as farmer producer organisations (FPOs) have been advocated. Therefore, a dedicated central sector scheme for the formation and promotion of 10,000 FPOs across the country was launched last year. This provides handholding and support to the FPOs through equity grants and credit guarantee up to five years.More significantly, the National Horticulture Board has launched a pilot of the Horticulture Cluster Development Programme (CDP) to leverage geographic specialisations and promote integrated market-led development. This includes pre-production, post-harvest, logistics, branding and marketing activities pertaining to both primary and processed agri-commodities. It also aims to address the gaps in information-sharing on myriad sanitary issues for export markets.The key institutional innovation herein is that a public sector cluster development authority (CDA) will join hands with an implementing agency that will raise a part of the eligible project cost as term loan and promoters’ contribution. The FPOs and cooperatives, among others, could be the implementing agencies. As many as 53 horticulture clusters have been identified across the country, of which the 12 selected for the pilot include crops of apple, mango, banana, grapes, pineapple, pomegranate and turmeric. This approach is expected to benefit approximately 10 lakh farmers.Thus, the effort of the programme is to identify niche markets, such as of the Kesar mango of the Kutch, and develop an ecosystem around the horticultural crop.A key last-mile building block for this ecosystem is also the need to further push digitisation of land records and geographic indicator registration in districts as units of administration.The Indian Council of Agricultural Research leads more than 700 Krishi Vigyan Kendras in districts. These need to be aggressively plugged into the CDP and FPO supply as well as value chains to advise on increasing productivity, yield and capacity-building to expand both the domestic and global market reach of horticulture crops.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-way-to-horticulture-cluster-development-333477
03-11-2021||---||Negotiating a perfect storm||THE Climate Change summit in Glasgow (October 31-November 12) is probably the last chance for the assembled leaders of the world to avoid catastrophic and irreversible climate change. They will have to negotiate a safe passage for our threatened planet through a perfect storm that is building up round the corner. These negotiations will have to be approached in a new spirit, where each leader comes as a maximalist, not displaying the minimalist mind-set that we are familiar with in international negotiations. The latter is guaranteed to deliver the least common denominator outcome and the time for that is long past. The outcome of the G20 summit at Rome held on the eve of the climate summit is mostly disappointing in this respect.We must create a world where a tree in the forest has more value than one which is cut down and sold as timber. What is at stake is the fundamental question of how humanity relates to nature. For many centuries, Indian sages and philosophers taught us to revere nature as a mother, as a source of nurture, never to take from her what she, even in her plenitude, could not replenish. But that message of harmony with nature has become a barely audible whisper in our own ravaged landscape. And yet it is in our own redemption that we could nudge the world on a different path from the dead-end that awaits it on its present trajectory.There has been virtually no coverage in national and international media of another major conference related to ecology, the 15th Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biodiversity, the first part of which was convened in the Chinese city of Kunming from October 11-15. But if we are talking about the relationship between humanity and nature as the very heart of the challenge that confronts us, then the outcome of the Kunming meeting should have demonstrated a modicum of the ambition that we all expect from Glasgow. We cannot be ambitious on climate change but remain indifferent to the relentless and growing loss of biodiversity which is taking place across the planet. Climate change and biodiversity loss are symptoms of the same ecological degradation that is taking place across our world. You cannot arrest climate change while ignoring the accelerating loss of biodiversity. Think of the growing clamour to sign on to net-zero emissions by 2050 as the key goal for the Glasgow summit. Net zero implies that emissions by that date will be offset by carbon sinks in the shape of forests, the oceans and technological fixes, as yet unviable, of carbon capture and storage. Forests of the world are getting depleted at historically unprecedented rates, so how much of this green sink will still be available to absorb emissions by 2050? The oceans are getting clogged with plastic waste and other hazardous material being dumped into them. There are several dead zones devoid of any marine life as a result of chemical runoff from chemical fertilisers and toxic pesticides being used in agriculture upstream of rivers. The oceans’ capacity to absorb carbon emissions is depleting. With increasing biodiversity loss, is there any credibility to the goal of net zero in 2050?The biodiversity story is as depressing as the climate change saga. In 2010, the Aichi Declaration listed 10 biodiversity targets to be achieved by 2020. The summit at Kunming acknowledged that not one of the 10 targets had been met. Let me just cite one of the targets: ‘By 2020, the rate of loss of all natural habitats, including forests, is at least halved and where feasible, brought close to zero and degradation and fragmentation is significantly reduced.’The ambition was not even to stop the loss of forests but to try and halve the rate of loss! And we are now putting our bets on there being enough forest cover by 2050 to serve as a massive carbon sink.There is a draft of a Framework Process for post-2020 goals which is expected to be finalised when the 15th COP meets again at Kunming from April 25 to May 22, 2022. It is likely to end up with vague but high sounding goals but with little focus on implementation and financing. The declared objective is to ensure that ‘biodiversity will be put on a path to recovery by 2030 at the latest.’ It will seek to bring about a ‘transformation in society’s relationship with biodiversity and ensure that by 2050, a shared vision of living in harmony with nature is fulfilled.’ Here is another goal for 2050. But if humanity really learnt to live in harmony with nature by mid-century, would there be need for a net-zero emission goal? The reality is that we need a broader ecology convention which incorporates commitments on both biodiversity and climate change, since both are enmeshed together.The Kunming Declaration is entitled somewhat grandly as ‘Ecological Civilisation: Building a Shared Future for All Life on Earth.’ But the label camouflages the lack of substantive action. It has been estimated that in order to implement the proposed post-2020 Framework Process, a $700 billion annual financing gap will have to be filled. When we are unable to get even $100 billion a year for climate change action by developing countries, how likely is this sum for biodiversity conservation will be raised?India has been right in advocating a global climate change regime which will advance, not diminish, its developmental prospects. But the time has come to define our developmental objectives aligned to our civilisational values of respect for nature. There is no space in the world for another China. We must reorient our development strategies towards an ecologically sustainable pathway. It must be based on a different concept of affluence, one which values fresh water to drink, clean air to breathe and a green earth to walk on. We need to help create a world where a tree growing in the forest has more value than one which is cut down and sold as timber. In this alone lies hope for future generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/negotiating-a-perfect-storm-333476
