04-11-2021||---||How China’s new border law can affect India||SHOULD we be satisfied with Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin’s statement on October 28 that the new land border law passed by the Standing Committee of the Chinese National People’s Congress on October 23 “will not affect China’s compliance with existing treaties related to national land boundary affairs China has already signed”?Should we conclude that the 1993 ‘Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas’ and the October 23, 2013, ‘Border Defence Cooperation Agreement between India and China’ would be considered as ‘existing’ treaties?There is no reason for this hope. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying had opposed our move to create a separate union territory of Ladakh on August 5, 2019, when the Lok Sabha passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019. She had said: “China is always opposed to India's inclusion of the Chinese territory in the western sector of the China-India boundary into its administrative jurisdiction.” This was repeated when we released fresh reprints of Jammu and Kashmir maps on November 3, 2019.A well-known China expert, the late Prof Franz Schurmann of the University of California, whom I used to know, would always emphasise on Mao’s ‘Contradiction’ theory that ‘antagonistic contradictions’ could only be resolved by violence, compared to ‘non-antagonistic’ ones, which could be solved by peaceful means.A book, Chinese at the Negotiating Table, published in 1994 by the US National Defence University, gives details of the Chinese strategy, which is based on Mao’s thoughts on relationships with other nations “after 100 years of suffering and humiliation due to Western imperialism.” China would uphold the principle of ‘equality and mutual benefit’, adding that the “door swings inward more than outward.”Mao used this strategy with success with the Soviet Union from 1954 when their bilateral relationship soured despite a 30-year ‘friendship’ treaty signed on February 14, 1950. That was when Nikita Khrushchev publicly declared, after a visit to Beijing, that conflict with China was inevitable (Mike Dash in Smithsonian Magazine on May 4, 2012).However, border negotiations resumed in 1964. Considerable progress was achieved on the ‘Thalweg’ delineation of the Amur and Ussuri river boundaries when Moscow showed an inclination to cede 400 river islands, including Zhenbao, to China. The Soviet Union only wanted China to agree over the islands near the Soviet city of Khabarovsk in return.However, China’s insistence that the Soviet Union accept, as a precondition, that the 1860 Treaty of Peking with Imperialist Russia was an ‘unequal treaty’ broke down the talks. Mao wanted Moscow to admit that it was foisted on a weak China which had lost 400,000 sq km of its territory. When refused, Mao abused Moscow as “a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie, a dictatorship of big capitalists, a Hitler-type Fascist dictatorship, they are all hooligans, they are worse than de Gaulle.”Mao upped the ante on July 10, 1964, by telling a Japanese Socialist Party delegation that a hundred years ago, Russia had occupied vast areas east of Lake Baikal, including Vladivostok, Khabarovsk and Kamchatka. He added that China had not “presented the list” to the Soviet Union. This shilly-shallying infuriated Moscow, which then called off the border negotiations.This did not prevent Mao, according to Russian journal Far Eastern Affairs, to admit privately to the North Korean and Albanian delegations that this was a ploy to “make (the Soviet Union) nervous” to “achieve a relatively rational border treaty.” He said he was “firing a few blank shots” to “take the offensive” in the negotiations.A furious Khrushchev told a Japanese delegation on September 15 that “if war was forced on the Soviet Union, we will fight with all our strength using all our means”, hinting the use of even nuclear weapons.Khrushchev’s removal from power in October 1964 did not improve the situation. Leonid Brezhnev continued the same belligerent policy and undertook a major build-up on the China border, increasing combat divisions from 14 in 1965 to 34 in 1969. In January 1966, Moscow concluded a defence treaty with Mongolia, allowing the stationing of Soviet troops there.China matched it by deploying 59 divisions on the border, while proclaiming that it had the military advantage, based on Mao’s 1949 ‘Man over Weapons’ principle. Mao repeated this in his speech on April 28, 1969, to the First Plenum of the Ninth Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party. China’s belligerence was also to oppose the Brezhnev doctrine on the Soviet ‘right’ of intervention in socialist countries, such as the Czechoslovakia invasion on August 20, 1968. China felt that it might be the next.According to the American Center for Naval Analyses (November 2010), Mao personally approved the Zhenbao Island Counter-insurgency Plan and put Premier Zhou Enlai in charge. The March 2, 1969, ambush was followed by another one on March 15. Although the Soviets suffered 31 casualties, they emerged stronger in the border standoff. Yet, China played down Soviet nuclear threats and rebuffed Moscow's efforts for diplomatic negotiations. The CNA said that on March 21, Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin attempted to call Mao on the hotline to defuse the situation. Under orders, the Chinese operator refused to connect the call and called Kosygin a ‘revisionist element’.A 1970 declassified CIA analysis had also concluded that the Soviets were wrong in assessing that Mao would agree to negotiate by ‘selective military punishment’ as he was “willing to accept more punishment… and was prepared to live with a tense border situation indefinitely.”Gradually, the Soviets started accepting the Chinese position of basing the border negotiations on the 1860 Treaty of Peking and that the ‘Thalweg’ principle should be accepted. In 1976, they lifted the Bear Island blockade. In July 1986, Mikhail Gorbachev made his historic speech at Vladivostok that the “Amur frontier should not be a frontier, but a means of uniting the Chinese and Soviet people.” He also said that the official border could pass along the mainstream, thus repealing the 1861 Russian-demarcated line.There is a lot for us to worry about on the border front if Xi Jinping follows Mao’s ‘Contradiction’ theory with regard to India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-chinas-new-border-law-can-affect-india-333943
04-11-2021||---||Shadow of poverty on India’s climate goals||INDIA’S commitment at COP26 to achieve net-zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2070 and anticipation of $1 trillion climate finance from developed countries are far removed from reality in the absence of timely transfer of technology and adequate international climate finance for mitigation and adaptation. The world has missed many targets in the past and India’s resolve to achieve the climate target entails a highly challenging proposition to reduce 2,533 million tonnes of CO2 emission to zero by 2070. In fact, India’s global share of CO2 emissions has increased from 3 per cent in 2000 to 7 per cent in 2016, with the annual average growth rate being 4.71 per cent. India is embroiled in one of the biggest public policy challenges of the 21st century to realise the twin goals which are virtually at loggerheads — economic development and climate change.India, being a lower-income country, is under tremendous pressure to lift millions of people out of poverty, whereas it is required to reduce dependence on greenhouse gas-emitting fossil fuels to address the challenge of climate change.India’s socio-economic and environmental indicators in comparison with other countries have been worsening in recent years. India’s per capita income, as per World Bank data, is $1,900.7, which is lower than the global average of $10,909.3, America’s $63,543.6 and China’s $10,500.4. India has slipped to the 131st rank out of 189 countries on the Human Development Index. The highest number of poor people are in India, with 37.2 per cent (50 crore) of the population below the poverty line. India is ranked 168th out of 180 countries on the Environment Performance Index. This data shows the stark reality of India’s worsened developmental status in the world. The recurrent natural disasters, specifically Covid-19 and climate-induced cyclones, have further impacted the livelihood of millions of people and the economy.High-carbon economic growth already poses a great threat to India’s development with the increase in the world’s average temperature by 1°C. It is projected by the UN IPCC-6 Report that if the present rate of increase in greenhouse gases continues, the world would obviously fail to limit the average temperature rise to less than 2°C. This trend spells a catastrophe for the economic development and wellbeing of the people in India. Climate change is a recipe for economic disaster due to the growth of a high-carbon economy, which is linked to the neo-liberal economic policy of capitalism of mass production and mass consumption that led to economic inequality in India. However, the carbon footprint varies with income inequality. The rich produce more carbon footprint than the poor. Already, many sectors of the economy, regions and millions of poor people are affected by the increasing number of cyclones, high precipitation, floods, severe droughts, forest fires, acute shortage of drinking water, and destruction of social and economic infrastructure. The economic cost of climate change is estimated to be around 5 to 10 per cent of India’s GDP annually. With about 60 per cent of the population in the country dependent on the agricultural sector, climate change affects agriculture and water resources. The scarcity of water is very high as the per capita water availability in India has drastically been reduced to 1,486 cubic metres. The scarcity of water limits economic growth and costs the economy in terms of pollution control, water recycling and drinking water purification. As a result, climate change imposes a high cost on society and impoverishes economic wellbeing.Further, there is a huge gap between understanding poverty from the perspective of the poor and understanding it from the developmental perspective of the State in India. This is reflected in India’s failure in realising the most prominent objectives of economic and environmental policies. Economic policies have created greater income inequality and poverty, whereas environmental policies have failed to conserve and enhance the resource base of the country. In India, policy-makers view the roles of economic and environmental policies as antagonistic or a trade-off — seemingly diverging and not converging. Of course, economic and environmental policies have quite different objectives to achieve, but their convergence or integration benefits each other in realising both economic development and environmental conservation that is succinctly called ‘sustainable development’.The pursuit of sustainable development is constrained by the challenge of mobilising financial resources for the mitigation of greenhouse gases and financing adaptation activities. However, a cohesive policy for sustainable development from both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change is glaringly absent. For example, the objective of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana is to help the environment and the health of the rural poor by distributing clean cooking fuel. However, acute poverty among the rural people has made them rely on fuelwood, compounded by the non-affordability of LPG due to ever-increasing prices in recent times. Therefore, both ministries need to work in tandem to achieve sustainable development goals by effective application of economic instruments as public policy instruments.Economic instruments such as pollution taxes, effluent tax, emission taxes, input taxes, product taxes, export and import tariffs and tax differentiation can help in enhancing the government’s capacity to mobilise financial resources to fight climate change. The economic instruments not only help in raising government revenue, but also influence consumption and production patterns, redistribute wealth and manage economy by discouraging undesirable industrial behaviour and promoting technological innovation. Economic instruments also provide market signals about resource scarcity and induce efficient use of natural resources. Therefore, economic instruments can act as a catalyst to achieve the twin goals: economic development vis-à-vis financing climate change mitigation and adaptation. However, India’s trajectory in development and climate change depends on its policy commitments towards realising Sustainable Development Goals, particularly Goal 1 — End poverty in all its forms everywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/shadow-of-poverty-on-indias-climate-goals-333942
04-11-2021||WE lost the World Cup matches against Pakistan and New Zealand||I doff my hat to Virat Kohli||The division that trolls strive for leaves a deeply divided society that does not bode well for the nation’s future. In the hate quotient that has risen exponentially in the presently surcharged political atmosphere, a Mohammed Shami becomes the selected target because of the religion into which he was born. Almost the entire team under-performed, but the exponents of hate chose Shami for their myopic attention. It suited their political agenda!And so it happened that Virat Kohli, our cricket captain, became dearer to me and people like me who think that despite the ignominy of losing the match, Virat today is a bigger hero than he ever was when he scored hundreds and brought home trophies. For, Virat proved himself to be greater than a great cricketer. He proved to be a great and good human being, a quality that transcends, in my eyes, great leaders or successful sportsmen!The trolls who had picked on Shami because he happened to be born in a religion other than theirs were soundly castigated by this remarkable human being named Virat Kohli. They should be ashamed of themselves, said Virat, in reply to a question on the issue, and added that they should stop injecting their narrow political discourse into an integrated body of men, like the nation’s cricket team.These same narrow-minded trolls have succeeded in saturating the political atmosphere in the Hindi-speaking belt with undisguised hate. Even established cosmopolitan societies like the city of Mumbai has always spawned, now flaunt two diametrically opposed opinions about the merits or demerits of prevailing government policies. That by itself should not cause any concern. The Argumentative Indian should be afforded his or her place in the sun! But if the argument descends to insinuations or innuendos based on religion or caste, it should be promptly rejected as “unacceptable”.Unfortunately, the present trend is for arguments to finally conclude on the binary of ‘us’ versus ‘them’, the ‘them’ being the religious minority or its representatives. The division that the trolls have strived for is then accomplished. We are left with a deeply divided society and that does not bode well for our future as a nation. Many of my old friends in the city complain that normal discourse in normally polite society has been marred because of the appearance of this binary that had not manifested itself earlier.Virat Kohli and great sportsmen of his ilk can form the best bulwark against the “Hate Brigade”. Their voices will be heard by their numerous fans all around the country. Most people, who feel like Virat obviously does, hesitate to speak up because of the fear that has gripped citizens of this democratic and secular polity. “Why take up arms against a sea of troubles,” asks the usually argumentative Indian? All the arguments he or she could muster at gentler times have frozen in his or her gullet. There are very few who dare! Virat has faced the consequences of daring — more vicious trolling, including threats to his little girl of nine months!Virat Kohli has risen in my estimation because he dared. And he did it without holding back any punches. He has the country’s youth on his side and that will certainly make the hate-mongers think twice before taking him on. If other cricketing greats and those who have won medals in the recently concluded Olympic Games come out openly and unitedly against “hate mongering”, a movement can be started against divisions based on religion and caste.Film stars can also be roped in for this noble cause. Bollywood has always been the flag-bearer of secularism. Religion or caste has never been a problem there. Nobody there ever asks or cares, only talent and acceptance of that talent by a discerning public matters.The amount of latent sympathy that Shah Rukh Khan attracted when his son was pilloried for a basically minor transgression must have come as an eye-opener to the ruling dispensation. The entire 25-day-long ordeal left a bitter taste in the mouth. The majority of citizens I have interacted with think that a set-up like the NCB would be better employed chasing big drug syndicates like those behind the import of 3,000 kilos of opium in the Gujarat port of Mundra than concentrating on spoiled rich brats of monied film stars.I am glad that some sane voices in the administration are now talking of treating drug users as sick people needing counselling. Aryan Khan and his friends should have been sent compulsorily to a detox centre like the one established in the Mumbai suburb of Bandra by the Padma Shri awardee, Fr Joe Pereira, who has spent his life saving such kids from the habit. Compulsory social work as a sort of punishment which doubles up as compassion is perhaps the real answer to eradicate the menace.In the meantime, the Aryan Khan matter has turned into a slanging match between an NCP minister in the MVA government in Maharashtra, Nawab Malik, and the NCB Zonal Director, Sameer Wankhede, on the officer’s religion, caste and marriage, all issues that do not concern young Aryan’s criminal case. What does it matter if Wankhede’s father changed his name from Dnyandeo to Dawood on entering into a ‘nikah’ marriage?The real issue to my mind is how the government treats this ‘nikah’. Is it a real conversion or only one for form’s sake to comply with Islamic requirement? If the government rules in favour of Wankhede to save him from being disqualified from his IRS job, then the identical principle should be applied to “love jihad” brides who can otherwise cite discrimination on basis of gender, a discrimination not permitted under the Indian Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/i-doff-my-hat-to-virat-kohli-333939
