06-11-2021||---||Good judgement needed to push privatisation||EVER since the nineties when under the new economic policies the government sought to withdraw from its earlier position of holding the commanding heights of the economy, the public has slowly been acquiring shares in public sector blue chips. This process has culminated in the present government’s avowed policy of disinvesting as much of its stake in the public sector as possible without seeking to retain control, that is going in for straightforward privatisation.But privatisation does not come easy and so long as the government remains a major shareholder, it has to mind what it does. The government’s recent experience with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) which gave it a bloody nose offers an abject lesson on minding investor sentiment even though it can theoretically do pretty much what it pleases by virtue of it holding a controlling stake in the company.In another recent development, the process of the government stepping back from the ownership of commercial entities has come full circle. In the heyday of privatisation, the government is back to floating and owning a development financial institution (DFI) by creating the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NBFID). This is when with the conversion of IDBI and ICICI into commercial banks, it was assumed that the DFI was a dead idea whose time had passed.The sum total of learning from these two instances is that while the government has no business to be in business, its whole approach towards privatisation has to be nuanced and it will be damaging its public image if it missteps under the illusion that one size fits all.Put in another way, we are back to that terrible idea, symbolising political interference in commercial decision-making, through adopting what is called ‘a case by case’ approach. In a broader policy sense, it can be said that there is only one rule which is never proved wrong — namely, all rules will have to be broken one time or another.Now, details of the two instances. The government owns 67 per cent of the shares of IRCTC, and so as the de facto owner, can do pretty much as it pleases. IRCTC also holds a kind of monopoly — in online booking of railway reservations and catering on the railways. This is a key source of income for the company, with the fee that it charges for the online reservation accounting for as much as 71 per cent of its surplus (PBIT or profit before interest and tax).So, one fine morning, in its constant search for revenue, it decided to ask IRCTC to share 50 per cent of what it earns from the reservation service. All hell immediately broke loose in the stock market with the IRCTC share plunging nearly 30 per cent. The government realised that it has goofed up things, and to its credit, without sitting on prestige, in less than 24 hours, rescinded its decision to pick IRCTC’s pocket.No prizes for guessing how the stock market reacted. The share price bounced back and in a sense all was forgiven and forgotten. The whole episode has to be seen in the context of the government’s initial sale of a part of its holding in the company to the public through what is called an ‘offer for sale’ which met with enormous success because the investing public knew that the IRCTC has an assured source of revenue without having to really do anything to sell the product (online reservations).Now, let us come to development financial institutions and NBFID. In the good old days, there were three DFIs — IDBI, ICICI and IFCI. Their job was to lend for setting up infrastructure projects whose fund requirements were so large and gestation period (the time it took to break even, if it ever came to that stage at all) so long that the commercial banks of the time which only dealt in short-term deposits and loans could not afford to fund them.The DFIs were able to lend to long gestation period projects as they had access to long-term funds which commercial banks did not. They could issue securities which gave them longer term funding and overall they operated under a special dispensation from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Then came the foreign exchange crisis of 1991 and the Narasimha Rao government with Manmohan Singh as Finance Minister. The government felt that the stock market and the banks could fund the long gestation projects and the DFIs were a headache as they made little money and gobbled up a lot of government cash.So, IDBI and ICICI converted themselves into banks (IFCI was deep in red and turned moribund). But in recent times, IDBI got into trouble because its overload of non-performing assets was declared a ‘weak bank’. The government had no desire to pour good money into it and so got LIC to take it over, thus technically making it privately owned. Now, the government has announced its desire to privatise IDBI in the true sense of the word. So of the trio, only ICICI manages to survive on its own feet.Simultaneously, the government whose primary agenda is to take forward the country’s infrastructure is seeing an acute need for a classical DFI. Hence, it has conceived of one and created the NBFID which will have both developmental and financial objectives.It will help develop a deep and liquid bond market of international standards for long-term infrastructure financing in India. Plus, it will develop markets for various types of derivatives (for interest rates and currencies). It will also try to bring into India equity from global institutional investors with an eye on attracting green financing. For example, financing of solar and wind power projects, as also capacity for manufacturing solar power modules, will be an area of focus.Thus it will both invest on its own and also play a role in creating an ecosystem which will facilitate investment in infrastructure, from both domestic and foreign sources. To facilitate investment in NBFID securities, the government has designated them ‘approved’ securities, thus giving them the status of treasury bills and longer-term government securities. The aim will be to support infrastructure projects across their lifecycle by promoting sustainable infrastructure financing.What the two examples tell us is that privatisation is a complex process in which at the end of the day, the government has to tailor its approach on a case-by-case basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/good-judgement-needed-to-push-privatisation-334407
06-11-2021||---||Tackling climate change also about equity||ADDRESSING COP26, David Attenborough, one of the world’s great authorities on nature, asked, “Is this how our story is due to end?” He went on to add, “A tale of the smartest species doomed by that all too human characteristic of failing to see the bigger picture in pursuit of short-term goals. If working apart, we are a force powerful enough to destabilise our planet, surely working together, we are powerful enough to save it.” The wisdom of Attenborough’s aspiration of humankind coming together to avoid the looming catastrophe of anthropogenic climate change is obvious. Not so clear is how the human ‘story’ will unfold in the decades and centuries to come.If the last three decades are a guide, only the incorrigibly optimistic will remain hopeful of the destiny of the Homo sapiens. None of the commitments given by the leaders of the advanced world on climate change have been fulfilled. Worse, they have been replaced by resiling from the basic principle of ‘common but differentiated responsibilities’. Is there, therefore, any reasonable hope that the brave declaration adopted by the G20 leaders in Rome on October 31 and the fine words and commitment of the leaders of developed countries at Glasgow at the beginning of COP26 will not prove to be worthless?This question may seem cynical but the fact is that the world continues to be guided by national interest and is therefore divided. That is obvious from the absence of the Chinese and Russian presidents from both meetings. Hence, for all the call for multilateral approaches to global problems, the truth is that there is little global appetite for serious and effective multilateral solutions. Certainly, there is no evidence of multilateral cooperation that requires a sacrifice of growth and power that the developed countries will necessarily have to undertake if climate change has to be controlled and other issues that require global cooperation effectively addressed.Without its annexures, the Rome Declaration of the G20 leaders is 15 pages long and contains 63 paragraphs of commitments to meet the challenges arising out of the full range of issues confronting it on the global economy and society. These stretch from the pandemic to climate change, and the stability of the financial markets to financial flows, from the developing world to digitisation, and from problems of cyber security to corruption and gender equality.The promises are many and are all encouraging. For instance, on the challenge of Covid-19, this is what the leaders said, “Reaffirming that immunisation is a global public good, we will enhance our efforts to ensure timely, equitable and universal access to safe, affordable quality and effective vaccines…” The fact is that many developed countries have till now hoarded vaccines far in excess of their needs. They have begun giving booster doses to what they believe are vulnerable sections of their population despite the World Health Organisation's (WHO) pleas that instead of booster doses, the global priority should be to cover all people as early as possible. Thus, can these high commitments be taken seriously in the absence of any consensus on as vital an issue as vaccine coverage of those who have been neglected so far?There is no doubt that the actions of the United States will determine the fate of the international response to climate change. It is the world’s largest per capita emitter of greenhouse gases. Yet, it has been reluctant to shoulder its responsibility to reduce emissions, transfer technologies and commit to financing green growth in the developing world. It has gone back on its commitments in the past to the extent that former president Donald Trump took the country out of the Paris Accords. Now, President Joe Biden is seeking to assure the world that his country will assume the leadership of global efforts to combat climate change. That was his basic message in Glasgow. He repeatedly spoke of limiting global warming to 1.5°C and of the ambitious steps that the US will take to make it a net-zero emission economy by 2050. His words were eloquent, but is there a firm and binding consensus in the US political, strategic and industrial classes to go on the path which Biden is showing his people and the world? There is no clear evidence that it is so. Hence, the US and the Western nations’ credibility on climate change control, adaptation and mitigation has necessarily to be woefully low.Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered India’s statement at COP26. He did well to forthrightly say, “We all know this truth that the promises made till date on climate finance have proved to be hollow.” He went on to add, “India expects developed countries to provide climate finance of US $1 trillion at the earliest.” He asked that pressure be exercised on countries that have not met their targets on climate finance. This was a clear reaction to the pressure on India to do more on climate change and commit to a net-zero target which Modi did, but deferred it to 2070. Modi also gave an account of the steps India has taken to reduce carbon intensity in its national life. And, all this when it has 17% of the world’s population and accounts for only 5% of global carbon emissions. This said, it is a vain hope that the affluent countries will transfer financial resources in any major way to the developing countries for transforming their economies.At the heart of combating climate change lies equity. Yet, the Western countries are focusing not on it, but raising issues of security and sustainability. Of course, growth should be sustainable and the species has to be made secure from the impact of climate change. However, so long as issues of equity are not effectively addressed and the advanced countries place emerging technologies within the matrix of preserving their power, it would be impossible to achieve the target of global temperatures rising below 1.5°C and the world will continue its downward slide into catastrophe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tackling-climate-change-also-about-equity-334406
06-11-2021||A DECENT bowler getting selectively trolled for his religion; the greatest entertainer of our times getting picked out for the same reason — something ought to be terribly wrong with our society to unleash so much venom on itself. Did we have it always or did we stir it up recently? Sure||Legitimising hatred||If Islamist Mullahs have shaped the Hindutva ‘other’, the latter will craft a worse monster among Muslims because this is a dynamic process of creation and recreation.Mohammed Shami and Shah Rukh Khan are patriotic Indians who have made every fan proud. All bowlers, particular in the T20 format, can get thrashed all over the ground at any point in their career, just as any great batsman can get bowled out for a duck. A bad performance, therefore, was only an excuse, not the reason, to target Shami. Similarly, how can a real Hindu society attack someone for consuming cannabis? In the most authentic dictionary and thesaurus of my mother tongue, ‘ganja’ is termed Shivamooli — ie, that which originates from Shiva. For a friend keeping 6 grams of charas in his shoes, Aryan Khan was made to spend 25 days in jail, while his father was relentlessly targeted not just by trolls but by toxic TV channels, too.In fact, the legitimisation of hatred has been made possible not merely by a change of regime, but also by TV channels spewing venom at the minorities, with or without smokescreens. This new national pastime started as a crusade against corruption during the Hazare agitation, when a TV channel became a participant. Unknown to the national viewership, what was getting played out on prime time was the personal agenda of anchors trying to discredit others rightly or wrongly in the context of the Radia tapes. This variety of vigilante news-casting triggered free-floating anger and hatred against the elite initially, and now it is getting focused on the minorities. These toxic TV channels — in English and Hindi and probably in regional languages, too — offer the legitimacy of public opinion for naked hatred. So, what was unspeakable a decade ago has now become part of the public discourse.The Hindutva Right blames all this on Muslim appeasement by Congress governments since Independence. However, the Congress was appeasing only the despicable Mullahs, thereby legitimising orthodoxy, regression and superstition. The banning of Salman Rushdie’s Satanic Verses and the overturning of the Shah Bano verdict were not aimed at helping hardworking, educated, progressive Muslims, but promoting orthodoxy of the worst kind, which could only have hurt the forward-looking Muslims. Unfortunately, this bolstered its own ‘other’, which we see in vigilante cow-lynching madness.Islamist orthodoxy or Kashmir Valley’s religious secessionist terrorism could create the Hindutva ‘other’ only because of the bankruptcy of the Centre-Left political formations. Jinnah’s Direct Action Day riots of August 1946, the Partition carnage, transfer of population and much else could not legitimise the Hindutva Right or hatred for the minorities because of Gandhi’s presence. Gandhi’s politics ensured that a Hindu ‘other’ was not created by the formation of Pakistan. So, instead of two hate-filled nations with religious bigotry, we had an Islamist Pakistan and a genuinely secular and welcoming India, which constitutionally ensured the protection of the minorities. Nothing even remotely similar to Partition has happened in recent times and there is no reason for an entire society to turn venomous, other than the exhortations of a few toxic TV channels and the social media handles of bigots. They obviously have no clue about what they are attempting.If the Islamist Mullahs have shaped the Hindutva ‘other’, the latter in turn will craft a worse monster among Muslims because this is a dynamic process of creation and recreation. The Sri Lankan civil war offers an excellent template for India to understand the dangers of provoking a minority community. The educated, progressive, pro-British Tamils of north and east Sri Lanka lost out when the Sinhala freedom fighters gained independence for the country. But the peaceable Tamil community was attacked in a series of riots that finally led to the peace-loving leadership of Eelam Gandhi SJV Chelvanayagam losing out to the ruthless killer Velupillai Prabhakaran, who did not bat an eyelid before blowing up buses and trains with innocent women and children in them.For nearly three decades, Prabhakaran’s terror tactics and battle plans prevailed against the army. But unknowingly, he was forcing the government to become an efficient military machine, solely focused on defeating the LTTE. Maj General Kamal Gunaratne (retd), whose 53rd division killed (or executed) the LTTE leadership, in his book, Road to Nandikadal, writes that ordinary people who used to call a soldier army ‘karaya’ (army man) began reverentially referring to him as ‘ranawira’ (war hero). LTTE should take complete credit for shaping this militaristic ‘other’ in Sri Lanka. After all, an army of about 20,000 soldiers was turned into a force of two lakh men and officers to combat the LTTE, whose biggest effort was to match Tamil suicide bombers with equally brave self-sacrificing Sinhala soldiers. And once the Sinhala soldiers refused to run away from the battlefield, Prabhakaran’s suicide squads became cannon fodder.Sri Lanka holds a great lesson for the road not to be taken. We have got used to peace for several generations because Gandhi had refused to allow first the British and then the Muslim League to create the Indian ‘other’. From the Khilafat Movement failing with the terrible Malabar killings and forced conversions to the Partition riots, Gandhi guarded against hatred gaining legitimacy. Charismatic leaders have always motivated their cadre to kill for a cause and, if need be, to die in the process, but Gandhi wanted his men to die for freedom without killing or hatred. And it is only this test of bravery that offers lasting peace without hatred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/legitimising-hatred-334405
