07-11-2021||In 1947||Memories & trauma of  ’47||Not too different is the story of Habib-ul-Rehman, an official in the administrative machinery of the PoK government, whom I met in the Mirpur area of PoK. His father was a Hindu and had converted to Islam during the 1947 riots. “Initially, it was difficult for my father to face the circumstances as his entire family had left, but then he developed new contacts. Anyhow, the longing still exists to meet our Hindu relatives,” Rehman summed up his family’s sentiments about the impact of 1947.The echoes of the multi-dimensional tragedy that had hit the areas to the south of Pir Panjal in J&K in 1947 continue to manifest in various forms even today. Every year, in the month of November, first-hand accounts of Hindus and Sikhs start surfacing in local newspapers of the tragedy that unfolded in Mirpur and other parts of PoK in 1947. The recurrent theme is the fall of Mirpur, an area on the other side of the Line of Control, that took place on November 25, 1947, a date on which the administrative apparatus of the princely ruler of J&K collapsed because of the Pashtun raid. There is often reluctance in discussing personal stories to avoid re-opening old wounds in the public domain.Across the border, the Partition trauma involving Muslim families is invoked. Last year, Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) leader Khawaja Asif, who is a member of Pakistan’s Legislative Assembly from Sialkot, where the maximum number of Muslims from J&K had settled, raked up memories of 1947 in the national Parliament.In this connection, the impact of institutionalised inter-generational Partition-related memories is to be understood beyond cliched narratives. It calls for an inter-disciplinary approach as has happened in some of the similar situations elsewhere.First of all, take the case of the one-sided propaganda material of Pakistani Punjab-based terrorist outfits that invokes the Partition riots, including the tragedy that impacted Muslims, to raise funds and boost recruitment. Within the context of counter-terrorism studies, internalisation of a unidimensional version of the 1947 events de facto becomes one of the societal drivers of violent extremism in the region. In the last 30 years, terrorist outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba has mostly drawn recruits from eastern and central areas of Pakistani Punjab, where the bulk of the 1947 migrants and their families are settled. The 2008 Mumbai attack terrorist Ajmal Kasab was from Okara district near the India-Pakistan border. Coincidentally, Ali Babar Patra, a recently arrested terrorist in Uri area of J&K who was part of the fresh group of infiltrators from across the Line of Control, too comes from Okara in Pakistan Punjab.Second, there is little discussion around the health impact of inter-generational Partition trauma though a large number of the subcontinent’s population, particularly of Punjabi ethnicity and people living in the areas near Punjab, was directly impacted. There are examples from other parts of the world that have a direct relevance to such potential studies that can be done in the area. In this context, New York-based Professor of psychiatry and neuroscience Dr Rachel Yehuda’s work is significant as she has identified the mechanisms by which traumatic stress may permanently alter the physiology of children of Holocaust survivors, and of pregnant women who survived the 9/11 attacks. Her work informs that descendants of Holocaust survivors may be more resilient in an adversarial situation. But it also makes them more vulnerable to higher levels of stress and anxiety or even depression. Such studies and the peer criticism of that work can be a good point of reference for relevant researchers to initiate similar kind of work which is customised to the subcontinental history and present-day reality.Meanwhile, the impact of some of the past policy decisions and the consequent impact on prevalent societal inter-generational institutionalised memories can also be studied, that could inform future responses. Without lowering the guard, promoting people-to-people connectivity is potentially also a strategy of realpolitik. For instance, one of the lesser discussed achievements of the short-lived 2004-07 India-Pakistan peace process was the softening of the Line of Control that enabled many people to meet their families and reconnect. In the short-lived process and liberal visa regime, there was a meeting of divided families as intended, but there were other surprises.In 2005, a delegation led by PoK jurist Abdul Majeed Malick visited Bakshi Nagar in Jammu and Lajpat Nagar in New Delhi, where a large number of senior citizens who came from Mirpur area of PoK in 1947 reside. This struck an emotional chord between the people speaking the same language in contrast to more formal encounters in the Valley. Another delegation of five PoK migrants living in J&K visited their places of birth in Kotli district across the Line of Control in March 2006. They described their trip as an unforgettable emotional experience and thanked the PoK Muslims for their warm hospitality, affection and respect. All of them were victims of riots in PoK. The two engagements on either side of the Line of Control demonstrated the importance of people-to-people contact that can potentially mitigate the impact of the inter-generational Partition memories and trauma within a limited context.— The writer is a journalist & author||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/memories-trauma-of-47-334894
07-11-2021||It’s wishful thinking that sport must become apolitical — it’s impossible||Waqar, Shami and the arena of bigotry||Progressive Pakistani writer and poetess Fahmida Riaz, who found refuge in India in the 1980s during the repressive Zia-ul-Haq era, realised later that the India she idolised was changing, and wrote a poem titled ‘Tum bilkul hum jaise nikle’ — ‘You turned out to be just like us’.There’s a difference, though, between Pakistani and Indian bigotry. Pakistani bigots don’t have to be particularly mindful about the feelings of the minorities — they’re just about 3.5 per cent of the population — and are, consequently, more likely to say something horribly shocking in public. Thus, it’s not unnatural for Younis to say what he did, for he believed he was among like-minded people. However, Indian bigots, especially if they’re well-known, face resistance and condemnation when they spout hatred. They’re most virulent online, when they’re under the cloak of anonymity.In early 2009, soon after the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, the Pakistan government refused permission to their cricketers to play in the second edition of the IPL, citing security concerns. Next year, not one IPL team bought a Pakistani player during the player auction. In response, Sohail Tanveer, who had done well in IPL-1 in 2008, said in a TV interview: “Kya keh sakte hain, Hinduon ki zeheniyat hi aisi hai”, ie “what can I say, this is the mindset of the Hindus”. Tanveer’s comment was followed up by a journalist, who said: “Bagal mein chhuri, moonh me Ram-Ram... Did you not know this about Hindu baniya?” A few months later, when I bumped into this Pakistani journalist at a tournament, he turned out to be a not-so unpleasant man in person. His explanation for his comments on TV about Hindus was less bigoted and calmly reasoned, going into historical events since the separation in 1947, including the division of Pakistan in 1971.Fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar — who, again, is quite a pleasant fellow in person — is a firm believer in the two-nation theory; he’s gone to the extent of talking about his expectations about Ghazwa-e-Hind — conquest of India — in the future. Akhtar is no religious scholar — he flaunted his irreligiosity during his playing days, chasing ungodly pleasures of all kinds in nightclubs when touring India — but now he pleasures in gloating over fantasies of bloody conquests.When India and Pakistan play, especially cricket but also hockey — contests between national teams are most evenly-matched in these two sports — many spectators see it as an ideological battle. I’ve experienced this in many India-Pakistan matches — in several cricket World Cup matches and hockey games at the Asian and Commonwealth Games — when, for many people, hatred and distrust lie just beneath the surface. It’s true that Indian and Pakistani journalists get along very well, often having meals together, even sharing news. But it’s easy to get along if all you discuss is the shared fondness for food, music, movies, poetry and sport — scratch beneath the surface and touch matters of belief, and irrationality would take over.Just as sport and politics are intertwined, so are belief and politics among us subcontinental cousins. Reason and science will prevail here too — as they did in Europe, ushering it out of the dark ages — but that will take time. Until then, a large number of people will continue to see sport as war.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/waqar-shami-and-the-arena-of-bigotry-334896
07-11-2021||The grey Sunbeam car entered the military hospital at Wellington and was being driven by a renowned personality. Field Marshal SHFJ Manekshaw||When Manekshaw drove to hospital||The Captain was ready with a wheelchair and an orderly. The Field Marshal had telephoned him from Stavka, his house near Conoor town, that his daughter was rather unwell and he would be getting her to the hospital. Stavka was around 8 km away. The Captain was the duty medical officer that day. He trotted off to the officers’ family ward to see that a good room was readied. The Field Marshal had also insisted that he should not inform his Commanding Officer. Sam was against making any fuss and disliked preferential treatment. He was called Sam by everybody.Sam had two daughters. The Captain had never seen them, nor Mrs Manekshaw. He wondered which one was this.A rational apprehension of consequences made it plain that he must give a good account of himself as a doctor. He got no time to inform his superiors. The grey Sunbeam Rapier was already here.The famous car had been bought by Sam in UK when he had gone for a training course at the Imperial Defence College in 1958. It cost him Rs15,000 and even after 24 years of journeys all over India, it still looked new.Around the time of Partition, Sam had purchased a James motorcycle from a departing British officer for Rs1,600. Yahya Khan was Sam’s friend and after seeing the beautiful James motorcycle, he said, “Sir, can you please give me your motorcycle? You will get everything in India but I won’t find anything in Pakistan.” Sam was large-hearted by nature and relented. Yahya Khan had no money to pay Sam. He said he would send the money to him once he reached Pakistan. He took the motorcycle but its payment never came. Yahya Khan went on to become Pakistan’s President and dictator from March 1969 to December 1971. After the Bangladesh liberation war was won, Sam used to joke, “Look at Yahya Khan, he had to forfeit half his country as my motorcycle’s payment.” He had such a refreshing sense of humour.The young lady was brought to the MI room. She was rather unwell. The Captain looked up at the fair-complexioned and long-nosed Parsi Field Marshal and then looked at the daughter. He fumbled with the stethoscope in his ears and again peered at Sam’s luminous countenance. “Is she too bad, Captain?” he asked.“No sir, she will be alright,” the Captain hurried forth with a reply.He asked the young lady some general questions in English. She looked back with blank eyes and stammered, “Khui, kooni, hui, hui.”The doctor suspected damage to her brain and the changed circumstances demanded a more thorough examination. He told the nurse to make her comfortable on the examination bed behind the screen. Sam and his Gorkha batman left the room.He gave the young lady an injection and was contemplating to call in the full arsenal of specialists. The batman came in and sat on the patient’s bed. He started petting the lady on her head and then even held her hand.“Hey, what are you doing? Leave her hand. Get away from her, you chap,” the Captain snapped at him. Sule Bahadur looked at him as if deeply hurt and said. “Sahib, am I not allowed to hold my ailing wife’s hand in your MI room?”The dense fog bank in his mind parted. So, she was the batman’s wife. How callow were his powers of observation. The Field Marshal treated his staff’s families like his own.The patient thankfully recovered in a matter of days and was discharged.After the 1971 war, Sam was the most popular figure in India. The government was contemplating to clip the Army’s soaring prestige. The rumour was that the armed forces’ pension would be reduced to 50 per cent from 70 per cent, and that of the Central government services increased to 50 per cent from 30, After some dilly dallying, the government made Sam a Field Marshal in January 1973 without any perks and privileges. His friends and family complained, “They have given him a gilded baton and five stars and nothing else. Not even the use of a staff car.” But he himself never uttered a word against the cold indifference.Once, at a Nursing Corps Day party, the Captain took the liberty of asking Sam why the government made him a Field Marshal so late, like an after-thought?Sam’s eyes glittered, as if he was surveying the old pathways of memory: “To keep my mouth shut, old boy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-manekshaw-drove-to-hospital-334903
07-11-2021||It must have been the third Diwali after our marriage. Ammi||Lessons & blessings from the many Diwalis of my life||Unlike me, who is somewhat unenthusiastic about the rituals associated with festivals, Afzal has a strong cultural and social bond with every north Indian festival. Having grown up in his village and other towns in east Uttar Pradesh, his lived experience of festivals as a time for bonding with the neighbourhood and its diverse communities is the map that guides him.That year, both Afzal and I were a little unsure about what to expect on the evening of Diwali, when both his mother and my parents were near us. Unusually for him, Afzal was at a bit of a loss about how best to ensure that all the elders in his life remained at ease.When in doubt about how to proceed, my intuitive strategy is to first decide what I will wear. Make yourself look good, that will make you feel good, and all the rest of the decisions will fall in place one by one. I decided to wear a saree, a choice that was also guided by the fact that Ammi loved to see me dressed up, in the same way that my daughters cheer me now. By the time I emerged from my room, I discovered that Ammi had taken the same decision and was wearing a saree too. She had dressed up for Diwali and she giggled when I complimented her on how good she looked.“Hurry up, we must go and greet your parents on Diwali now,” she said to us. On the way, she told me about Diwali evenings in Jaunpur, where she used to live with her parents when her children went to school in the city. I heard the names of Afzal’s teachers, his school friends and the doctors and other Hindu neighbours of the family. When we reached my parents’ home, Ammi led the way by taking a place near the pooja arrangements my father had made. She folded her hands in her lap. Shireen sat next to her grandmother and our toddler settled in Shireen’s lap.That year, the Diwali pooja in my family was led by my grandfather, who started the proceedings by singing ‘Om Jai Jagdish Hare, Swami Jai Jagdish Hare…’ Everyone closed their eyes and my brothers and I tried to keep up as best as we could since we only sing it once a year. As we moved to the second stanza, we all realised that the loudest, surest voice in the room belonged to Shireen. I opened one eye to confirm and then closed it again to allow my own memory to guide me with the rest of the aarti.“I sing it every year at Kapoor Aunty’s home on Diwali,” Shireen told us by way of explanation after the pooja was over. Shireen was growing up in Lucknow and was pleased with the admiration she was receiving from my family. She was as much at ease singing a bhajan, as she was singing hymns in her convent school and offering namaz as her mother had taught her.Just like that, Afzal and I discovered that we were safe with our families. We didn’t have to worry about inadvertently offending anyone, because everyone who mattered was already ahead of us to make sure that both of us were comfortable in the spaces we were trying to create together.Nearly 15 years later, it was Diwali again this year and I found myself out of sorts for other reasons. Afzal was travelling and could not be with us. After the incessant losses endured through the Covid-19 pandemic, I found myself with little energy on Diwali morning. I couldn’t stop thinking of Surekha, my friend who died in the second wave a few months ago. Surekha was a Diwali enthusiast and her preparations for the festival would inspire many of us.“I wish Papa was here,” our oldest daughter said in the middle of the day. “He would make it alright,” she said, referring to the gloom we seemed to be unable to shake off.The siblings decided to dress up and then decorate the house with the candles we had bought. I had already arranged flowers inside. My mother called in the evening and announced that they had taken an impromptu decision to come over to us, since we couldn’t visit them. I checked my phone as I announced the news to my daughters and found that Surekha’s husband had sent me a photo of a beautiful rangoli made by their daughter on this first Diwali without her mother.That’s all it took to change things for us. I thought of Ammi, my mother-in-law, who is no longer with us. I let Surekha’s child guide me. Diwali isn’t just about cleaning up homes and lighting diyas. It is also a time to dust off sorrow and allow the light of those who have loved us to guide us away from despair.— The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lessons-blessings-from-the-many-diwalis-of-my-life-334905
