08-11-2021||---||India struggling to stay relevant in Afghanistan||While India considers itself a contiguous neighbour and key influencer in Afghanistan, Russia and Pakistan do not and the US has been equivocal. Although India and China have collaborated on a joint project for Afghanistan, Beijing’s attitude towards New Delhi has changed dramatically after the confrontation in east Ladakh and the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.Still, India is struggling to keep itself relevant to a Talibanised Afghanistan by grudgingly accepting the ‘new reality’ there, engaging with the Taliban and organising the third meeting of regional National Security Advisers on November 10. Pakistan has rejected the invitation, calling India a ‘spoiler’ in Afghanistan, while China has not responded. Islamabad considers any engagement with New Delhi as legitimising the latter’s role there.But India’s historical strategic investment in Afghanistan cannot be ignored. India’s woes increased when friend Iran did not invite it for a conference on Afghanistan and its neighbouring countries in the last week of October because the atlas does not show it as one. A clear distinction is being made between immediate neighbours and regional players.In terms of direct engagement, delegations from several countries have met the Taliban. Lead player Pakistan, which is calling the shots, has met the Taliban twice in Kabul. Other countries which have reached out are Qatar, Turkey, Russia and Iran, while China has met the Taliban in Kabul and Doha.As Afghanistan’s humanitarian crisis mounts, Russia and China lead the appeals to the international community to help Afghanistan in development. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, at the Tehran meeting — the second among neighbouring countries — said the new Kabul leadership is keen to engage with the world.Russia, meanwhile, told Afghanistan’s neighbours not to host US and NATO bases in the region. Kremlin is worried that Islamic radicalisation could spill over into its backyard in the Central Asian Republics, where China has secured a military base in Tajikistan. This will create friction between the two allies.The third meeting of the regional neighbours is to be hosted by China next month. China's principal concern is about the ETIM crossing through Afghanistan's Badakshan province into Xinjiang to prevent Afghanistan-China joint steps which were initiated, like joint patrolling, and Chinese funding for Afghan mountain troops. But all that ended with the fall of Kabul and the disintegration of security forces. New instruments and methodologies are being worked out.Transactional Beijing is reluctant to loosen its purse strings and has given $31m in aid, but has made the most noise. It wants stability before it puts money in projects. Security of the CPEC is vital and preventing a spillover of security risks is essential. It wants the Taliban to make a clean break with terrorism and sever affiliation with terror groups, which will be most difficult as they helped it in seizing Kabul. China’s political cover at the UN is indispensable for the Taliban.The Iran conference was the first after the Moscow format's third meeting, also last month, which India attended. Excluding India from the neighbours' conference has led to speculation that India-Iran relations are getting frosty, especially after New Delhi's recent joining of the West Asia Quad: the US, India, Israel and the UAE, a grouping to prevent Russia-China securing strategic space in the region. India’s prospects of developing the Chabahar Port and the International North South Transit Corridor would be negatively affected.The jockeying for space in west and east Asia after the US withdrawal from Afghanistan has gained momentum with the birth of the new Quad and AUKUS. In addition, the EU’s revised Indo-Pacific strategy and Britain’s recent seven-month foray with the Queen Elizabeth carrier task force in Indo-Pacific waters make a formidable network of mechanisms for the containment of China.In Kabul, the spectre of state collapse is visible: banking and health systems barely functional, inability to pay electricity bills and civil society confused with reverse transformation from a liberal regime to a fundamentalist one. Suicide bombers were recently paraded and their families feted by Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani, who carries a $10-m bounty. Women have been recruited into Taliban ranks to counter propaganda about the persecution and segregation of women and minorities. The statement of the education minister — who is the expert on making sticky bombs — that degrees are not required vies with the edicts on Sharia issued by the Ministry of Vice and Virtue.Nearly three months on, no country has recognised the Taliban regime, as shipments of humanitarian aid make their way to Kabul. The WHO has released $66m for public health when $200 m is required annually. The EU has pledged $1,200 m and $144 m in humanitarian assistance. The method of distribution of aid is proving to be a hurdle.The Iran conference that excluded India categorically rejects New Delhi calling itself Afghanistan’s neighbour. New Delhi has repeatedly stated that the welfare of the Afghan people is its top priority and that Afghans reside in our hearts is often heard. India has prepared a consignment of 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat, fortified biscuits and medical assistance for dispatch. India’s contact Taliban Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Stanekzai (a graduate of the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun) has gone missing — he has probably slipped into the UAE — reflecting that internal conflict among the Taliban continues.With India now seen firmly in the American camp, it finds itself forlornly outside the Kabul tent. Tehran, under the new government, seems to be distancing itself from New Delhi, and Moscow will not play doubles with India.So, the combined challenge from China and Pakistan, aided by the Taliban, is on India’s radar, especially regarding J&K. The proposed NSA meet will focus on UNSC Resolution 2593, which emphasises no spillover of radicalisation and terror from Afghanistan and was passed under India’s presidency of UNSC. However, it will do little to salvage India’s credentials as a pivotal player in Afghanistan because it won’t change the geography.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-struggling-to-stay-relevant-in-afghanistan-335337
08-11-2021||---||Troubled notion of privacy in modern age||On October 27, a three-member Bench of the Supreme Court reiterated in the Pegasus case an earlier judgment on the right to privacy. On August 24, 2017, a nine-member Bench of the court had ruled that the right to privacy was a fundamental right. Privacy, the court held, is normative insofar as it forms a part of the eternal values of life, liberty and freedom. It is also a descriptive concept inasmuch as it signifies that every individual possesses a bundle of entitlements: the right to personal intimacy, the sanctity of family life, and the right to sexual orientation.Privacy, which draws boundaries between the public and the private, is, however, one of the most contested concepts in political theory. Originally, Greek thinker Aristotle had distinguished between the polis, or the public sphere of political deliberation, and the oikos, or the domestic sphere. Whereas Athenian-born propertied males were members of the polis, women, slaves and aliens were banished to the private sphere. By the seventeenth century, the right to privacy was seen as an integral part of the liberal philosophy of individualism.The modern individual possesses the right to life, to liberty and to private property. These three basic rights, which sought to limit the power of absolutist states, were buttressed by the right to privacy.In the public sphere, the government protects the right of the individual to liberty. But it cannot interfere in the private sphere of the household. The notion of privacy, which emerged as a sub-set of the right to liberty, acknowledges the competence of the individual to manage his life according to the principles of self-determining rationality. The right to be left alone is central to human dignity.Perceive the irony: privacy is integral to autonomy and human dignity. But what we term the private can be a dank, dark and claustrophobic space; the site of male domination, the space where women (who lack substantive rights) are subjected to degradation, unequal property rights and sexual and child abuse.Since the private sphere fell outside the provenance of state intervention, gender injustices were simply not catapulted to the centre-stage of politics, which was increasingly dominated by rights talk.This could have been foretold because till the first half of the twentieth century, women in many countries of Europe were not granted the right to franchise. In India, women got the right. They continue to suffer multiple injustices, rendered invisible by the belief that the household falls within the private sphere. Data, from the National Family Health Survey-2015-16, tells us that every third woman since the age of 15 has faced domestic violence. In most cases, the perpetrator of domestic violence is the husband or other male relatives. The average Indian woman is 17 times more likely to face sexual abuse from her husband than from others.What we call the private is not the binary opposite of the power-laden public sphere. It is not the domain of unreflective emotions. It is the site of oppression. This is not to brush away the idea of the private. We need to be protected from the intrusive gaze of the state. But we also need to comprehend that the private can provide a ready cover for unimagined brutalities inscribed upon the bodies of women and children.Moreover, the confidence that the private protects individuals from untrammelled state power has petered out. The Pegasus case provides us with yet another instance of relentless state control of thoughts, opinions and lives through surveillance technologies.We have the basic right to withhold information that might compromise us in the public eye. This is an essential part of our right to dignity. But it is precisely dignity that is massively violated by unwarranted searches, eavesdropping and phone-tapping.Where is the boundary that protects the private? An unguarded message to our friends on our mobile can land us in jail. Resourceful agents of the state can invent messages we never sent out.Finally, increased surveillance, facial-recognition techniques and data-mining are used by governments to name and shame citizens who dare protest against discriminatory policies. The boundary between the public and the private is further eroded.The foundation of Gandhi’s civil disobedience movement was the ability of human beings to make moral judgments on whether laws were legitimate. Today, whatever the government decides is ‘moral’.In early 2020, banners carrying photographs, names and addresses of persons who participated in the December 2019 protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Uttar Pradesh were put up at prominent road-crossings in Lucknow. The police had documented the personal details of every citizen who formed part of the protest, and presented these details for public consumption and vicarious thrills.The move was not only illegal, it was deeply humiliating. None of the protestors had been judged guilty of any offence. Still, they were named and shamed and held liable to pay compensation for damage to public property.In the process, our right to withhold information about ourselves to curious outsiders, or our basic right to privacy was rendered null and voidThe establishment of boundaries between different spheres of human interaction, systems of classification, and schemes of categorisation is specific to political modernity.Today, many lines between different sites of human action have been rendered irrelevant by modern technologies and ruthless governments. One of the casualties is the right to privacy, neutralised by invasive governments and malevolent vigilantes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/troubled-notion-of-privacy-in-modern-age-335335
08-11-2021||---||The rumble in Africa||When India decided three-and-a-half years ago to open 18 new diplomatic missions in Africa, the continent was full of promise. Democracy appeared to have acquired a firm footing, several internecine conflicts had been ended, Africa’s economy was at last being tapped and the Modi government was keen to expand and diversify its involvement on this new frontier.By last week, however, the promise appeared to have been laid waste. The African spring seemed to have given way to a harsh winter in many countries on the vast continent and any quick return to normalcy may be a pious hope. Of all the recent reversals of progress in Africa, the most serious is in Ethiopia, the ancient land of the Queen of Sheba, with which India has had relations since antiquity.Diplomatic discretion paid dividends for India. But unless constitutional order is restored, plans to enhance trade and investments will remain just that — plans. If Ethiopia’s capital of Addis Ababa falls to a rebel coalition of nine anti-government groups formed last week, Indians have much to lose. According to the Oakland Institute of California, which speaks for indigenous people and small farmers globally, Indian farming companies have acquired over 6,28,012 hectares of land in Ethiopia. They were planning more similar acquisitions. The government in Addis Ababa has set apart 11.5 million hectares of arable land for foreigners to invest in farming, according to the Ethiopian Investment Commission, which is mandated to take decisions in the matter.If the country falls apart in the violence which escalated in recent months, these large land deals could become unstuck. Future Indian investments, in which the Export-Import Bank of India’s involvement was envisaged, are not likely to materialise. Ethiopia is not the only African country where stability and peace are under renewed threats, although it is drawing maximum attention because of its history, profile and strategic location. The African Union headquarters is in Addis Ababa, for example.Sudan’s brittle experiment with democracy, which began in April 2019, ended a fortnight ago when the country’s entire Cabinet and political leaders were arrested by the military in a coup. The takeover appears to have dashed hopes that a popular uprising, which ousted Islamist President Omar Al-Bashir, who ruled Sudan with an iron fist for nearly three decades, would usher in a new dawn.Sudan was Africa’s largest country in land area until 2011, when a part of it seceded and became South Sudan. Five per cent of Sudan’s population, the pastoral Hamitic people, claims to be from India: they are believed to have migrated to what is now Sudan 5,000 years ago, when the Indus Valley Civilisation had links with Africa’s Nilotic Civilisation. India invested heavily in Sudan’s oil resources in the last decade, notwithstanding endemic conflicts there. ONGC Videsh, the international arm of the government-owned oil and gas exploration company, invested as much as $2.3 billion in productive blocks in undivided Sudan, making it one of India’s biggest overseas investments.India entered into a rare collaboration with China in hydrocarbons in South Sudan. Along with CNPC of China, Petronas of Malaysia and Sudapet of Sudan, ONGC Videsh created a consortium for energy exploration in three blocks in South Sudan. India’s participating interest in the consortium was 25 per cent. Like many conflicts in Africa, civil war in South Sudan was ended in 2018 through an agreement between the government and opposition rebels. It helped restore oil production to pre-war levels by last year and India’s hydrocarbon investments in South Sudan appear safe for the moment.Diplomatic discretion paid dividends for India. Not only did India not take sides in Sudan’s long civil wars, but also India was one of the first countries to recognise independent South Sudan. A consulate was opened in Juba, South Sudan’s capital, in 2007, four years before the region’s secession from the mother country. Such foresight enabled New Delhi to upgrade the facility into an embassy soon after South Sudan’s independence.Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan’s marathon visits to Africa can be interpreted in two ways. It enables South Block, seat of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), to make on-the-spot assessments of the situation on a continent, where India has lately made huge diplomatic and financial investments. A less charitable explanation could be that Muraleedharan was blind-sided into making these visits by those who advised him to undertake them without anticipating big changes in his host countries.He was in Khartoum only six days before Sudan’s military seized power. Almost everyone he met in Sudan is now in jail. ‘It was agreed to hold the fourth India-Sudan Joint Ministerial Committee at an early date to give further impetus to our bilateral relationship,’ the MEA said. ‘There is a mutual desire to further enhance bilateral trade and investments between India and Sudan.’ All such plans are now in a shambles unless last week’s intervention by the UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, succeeds in restoring constitutional order.Muraleedharan went to Juba from Khartoum. His visit to South Sudan earned India a lot of goodwill from soft power. In a country with sparse health facilities at the time of a pandemic, a hospital of the UN Mission in South Sudan is run by doctors from the Indian Army. It was only appropriate that a day after returning home from Juba, Muraleedharan addressed the India-Africa Higher Education and Skill Development Summit.Last week, US President Joe Biden initiated preliminary steps to demonstrate that Africa needs to return to universal norms of civility and constitutionalism if countries which violate them are to continue receiving US support. Biden cut off Ethiopia, Guinea and Mali from being beneficiaries under the US-African Growth and Opportunity Act. Guinea has been accused by the international community of suppressing political pluralism and Mali of gross violations of human rights.The UNHRC voted to appoint a UN monitor for Sudan and it has demonstrated that rights violations in Ethiopia will be acted upon. India will have to take note of the depressing changes in Africa and go slow on its earlier decisions to deepen engagement with troubled countries on the continent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-rumble-in-africa-335334
