09-11-2021||Senior Journalist||Climate change agenda stands on quicksand||The Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)’s Sixth Assessment Report (AR6), released this year, has some useful, scientific caveats. It would be good to keep them in mind when we heatedly debate the climate change crisis moving towards a climate change catastrophe. It is rightly titled ‘Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’.The first caveat is about what is meant by the pre-industrial levels. The report says, “…warming is expressed relative to the period 1850-1900…” There is also a shorter 30-year span used as a framework to measure the increase in temperatures. Going by the 1850-1900 timeframe, the report says that the human-induced warming reached approximately 1°C — and there is a caveat within the caveat that the increase ranged from 0.8°C to 1.2°C — above the pre-industrial levels in 2017, and the warming from the pre-industrial levels to the decade of 2006-15 is “assessed to be 0.87°C (likely between 0.75°C and 0.99°C).” The decimal placing is important because accuracy is the heart of the matter. It gives the perspective to understanding the challenge and find the right responses.Since 2000, the report says, the “estimated level of warming” is 20 per cent plus/minus, and this is necessary to account “for uncertainty due to contributions from solar and volcanic activity over the historical period...”This is, indeed, the cautionary note, acknowledging the fact that there are factors other than human-induced activity which could cause an increase in temperatures over a period. This is also an indirect acceptance that we do not, as yet, have the exact numbers to measure solar and volcanic activity.The other caveat is about the unevenness of global warming. Global warming is defined in this report as “an increase in combined air and sea surface temperatures averaged over the globe and over a 30-year period.”But it is conceded that the temperature rise over land surface was greater than that over the sea surface. “Most land regions are experiencing greater warming than the global average, while most ocean regions are warming at a slower rate.”Then, we come across an intriguing, and politically contentious caveat: “Past emissions are unlikely to raise global-mean temperature to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels (medium confidence), but past emissions do commit to other changes, such as further sea level rise (high confidence).”If the human-induced emissions are reduced to zero immediately, then the rise in temperature would most likely be less than 0.5°C over the next two or three decades, and it would likely be less than 0.5°C over the century.And the report draws the ambiguous conclusion: “1.5°C pathways are defined as those that, given current knowledge of climate response, provide a one-in-two to two-in-three chance of warming, either remaining below 1.5°C or returning to 1.5°C by 2100 following an overshoot.” The ‘overshoot’, of course, has serious implications, but it can return to the optimum of 1.5°C.It is also argued that there are two ways of limiting the impact of cumulative emissions. One is to take preventive action, and the other is remedial action. The report says, “There is no single answer to the question of whether it’s feasible to limit warming to 1.5°C and adapt to the consequences.”The report projects different climate scenarios for a 1.5°C rise and a 2°C rise. For example, about a ‘sea-ice-free Arctic Ocean’, the projection is: “Model simulations suggest that at least one sea-ice-free Arctic summer is expected every 10 years for global warming of 2°C, with the frequency decreasing to one sea-ice-free Arctic summer every 100 years under 1.5°C (medium confidence).”The new factor that has emerged in the discussions on climate change is the deleterious role of agriculture in climate and environmental degradation. The popular argument has been that it is the industrial revolution that began at the end of the 18th century in Europe that is the evil behind the climate crisis. That is why the talk has been about reducing carbon emissions and all that to the pre-industrial levels.But it has now become evident that large agriculture, including dairy farming, of the last hundred years and more, is contributing hugely greenhouse gas emissions. There is now the felt need to regulate and constrict agriculture to mend the climate situation.Of course, some activists would argue that it is the industrialisation of agriculture that is the problem, and not agriculture as such.Climate scientists have not yet spoken on this. But in the new scenario, the pastoral and the romantic pieties associated with it go out of the window. The decisions to be taken around mitigating measures to control carbon emissions become all the more politically contentious.The argument is in favour of limiting the rise in temperature to 1.5°C, and the promise made that 1.5°C is compatible with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and eradication of poverty. The report says, “Limiting global warming to 1.5°C rather than 2°C above pre-industrial levels would make it markedly easier to achieve many aspects of sustainable development, with greater potential to eradicate poverty and reduce inequalities (medium evidence, high agreement).”Much of the rest of the IPCC report is prescriptive, looking at drastic reductions in coal, gas and oil for energy, reducing the carbon intensity of electricity generation, and increasing the share of renewable sources to nearly 70 per cent.The more difficult is the target of reducing agriculture as we know it, decreasing pastureland and crop land, while increasing the forest cover. Perhaps, there is no alternative but to change the pattern of modern production, in both industry and agriculture.But the climate agenda stands on quicksand as it were because the caveat is that climate agenda must be compatible with SDGs. This is the impossible task of squaring the circle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/climate-change-agenda-stands-on-quicksand-335704
09-11-2021||President||Xi’s ‘common prosperity’ push stokes fears||SINCE Chinese President Xi Jinping mentioned “common prosperity” in a speech on August 17, it has become a buzzword in the People’s Republic of China. Jinping would have had in mind the resentment against China’s private billionaire entrepreneurs, steadily widening income disparities and growing urban-rural income divide, all of which could potentially undermine the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). It would also be part of Xi Jinping’s effort to reinforce his position prior to the 20th Party Congress scheduled for late next year. It has, however, generated adverse reactions.Forbes disclosed last month that mainland China has 626 dollar-billionaires, the second-highest number in the world, and that in 2020, the wealthiest 1 per cent of Chinese held 30.6 per cent of the country’s wealth! Official Chinese statistics reveal that China’s Gini coefficient (a measure of inequality that ranges from 0 to 1) reached 0.47. Accentuated by the rising cost of living, unemployment and the 9 am to 9 pm six days-a-week work culture, the inequalities have triggered the social phenomenon of tang ping, or “lying flat”, among China’s graduate youth, who say they are giving up as striving is futile since better opportunities are out of reach. CCP officials are concerned about the phenomenon’s deleterious effects on society, on the country’s labour force and manufacturing capacity, and additional strain on the already burdened state exchequer.The term “common prosperity” has evoked doubts and fear. Ordinary Chinese would have welcomed Xi Jinping’s announcement, but the CCP cadre, private entrepreneurs and academics fear harking back to Mao’s days.Leading Chinese economists like People’s University Vice-President Liu Yuanchun have warned that the new regulatory measures are not conducive to economic development. Zhang Weiying, Economics Professor at Peking University, bluntly remarked that the slogan “common prosperity” indicates loss of faith in the market and “introducing more and more market interventions, will only lead China towards common poverty.” Former adviser to the People’s Bank of China Li Daokui was equally critical. He told Nikkei Asia (September 29), “We must be vigilant against common prosperity becoming a great leap forward or something that blights development.” The ongoing crackdown against prominent Chinese billionaire private entrepreneurs has not helped.‘Ultra-Leftists’ and others, including Jinping’s supporters like Hu Xijin, the nationalist Editor-in-Chief of Global Times, have joined the debate around “common prosperity”. Li Guangman, a former Editor-in-Chief of the Central China Electric Power News, which was closed in 2013, posted articles on WeChat on August 28 and October 9, lauding “common prosperity”. Indicating apparent official approval, these were quickly reprinted by China’s leading official media. He asserted that a “profound transformation” was underway in China and “it’s changing our society, thoughts, concepts and lives and it will not be stopped by the will of some people or groups with vested interests.”He urged tougher policies against “unregulated” capitalism. Hu Xijin responded, warning against creating ‘confusion and panic’. A number of academics authored articles in national newspapers justifying “common prosperity”.On September 19, Cai Fang, a former Vice-President and professor at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, explained that “common prosperity” is not a new concept and is compatible with reform policies. He argued it had appeared in documents geared towards building “a socialist market economy” during Deng Xiaoping and Xi Jinping’s tenures. Pointing to the widening income inequality and rising Gini coefficient, he asserted that “common prosperity” comes at the right time. It would push the low-income group to the middle-income group and build a welfare society by 2020 and a modern socialist country by 2049.The vigorous debate within the CCP too has begun to impact policy. Wanting to reduce speculation and make life easier for middle-class families, Jinping had backed the proposal for a national property tax, saying “Housing is for living, not for speculation”. Sensitive to popular criticism, however, China’s National People’s Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) authorised the State Council on October 23 to carry out property tax pilots in selected regions for at least five years and Politburo Standing Committee member and Vice-Premier Han Zheng scaled back plans for the pilots from 30 to just10 cities.Vice-Premier Liu He, among Xi Jinping’s closest confidants and the principal economic adviser, also sought to assure China’s private sector. At a conference on September 6, he said “China’s policy of supporting the development of private economy remains unchanged. There is no change now, and there will be no change in the future.”Xi Jinping, too, sought to allay concerns and explain it is not to bring about “common poverty”. The CCP’s leading theoretical journal Qiu Shi (October 15) published an article by Xi Jinping titled ‘Solidly promoting common prosperity’, where he stressed that poverty is not socialism and that common prosperity and coordinated regional development have received greater attention since the 18th Party Congress in 2012.Noting the existence of urban-rural and income inequalities, he declared “common prosperity is the essential requirement of socialism and an important feature of Chinese-style modernisation”. He said it was the goal for the middle of this century!Intended to consolidate his position in the runup to the 20th Party Congress, Xi Jinping’s remarks on “common prosperity” have, instead, stoked fears of a return to the days of the Cultural Revolution. It has provoked an inner-party debate, which has spilled over into China’s official media. Xi Jinping still appears to have a firm grip on the CCP, but the debates confirm that sections of the party are discontented, thereby introducing a degree of political uncertainty until the Party Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xis-common-prosperity-push-stokes-fears-335706
09-11-2021||Former close aide to Ex-PM Vajpayee and Founder||COP26 & Hindu belief system||The ongoing UN COP26 summit in Glasgow will end on November 12. All world leaders, in their speeches, highlighted the gravity of the climate crisis but failed to reach a consensus on a time-bound action plan.The capitalist economic machine views nature as an entity that exists only to be exploited for man’s use. Even though the crisis affects every human being, the conference has not created much excitement among the common people. Does it mean they are indifferent to environmental issues? No. The message of COP26 does not energise them because it is not conveyed in a language that moves their hearts and minds. That language has to be rooted in people’s religious beliefs. Religion, after all, exerts the strongest influence on their lives. Common people, irrespective of their caste or creed, have a highly reverential attitude towards nature, believing that God nurtures life through the bounties of nature. Indeed, this attitude, and the attendant environment-friendly customs and practices, are more alive among ordinary Indians — farmers, village artisans, cowherds, shepherds, fisherfolk, and so on — than among the westernised elite.I learnt it through a personal experience. My daughter was born nearly three decades ago at Sangli in Maharashtra, on the banks of the Krishna. On my morning walks to the riverfront, my mind would be filled with the joy of welcoming a new life and with the mystery about the cycle of birth and death, and the purpose of existence in this infinite universe. I was convinced that there is a higher power, which we call God, governing the affairs of man, nature and the cosmos.Hinduism sees God everywhere, and in everything — in inanimate as much as in animate beings, in immanent forms as well as in transcendent realities. I had a startling realisation of this when I saw a group of women stone-cutters engaged in road repair work. Before breaking the first stone of the day, they would worship it with a small ceremony — wash it with water, smear it with haldi and kumkum (yellow and red turmeric powder), light an incense stick and do a reverential namaskar, which, etymologically, means: ‘That which is divine in me bows to that which is divine in you.’My conversation with these poor, and mostly unschooled women, belonging to the Waddar caste enlightened me about Hindu environmentalism. They said, ‘These are not mere stones. There is God in them. Our life and livelihood are a gift from this God. These stones make the road, which benefits all. Hence, God protects and takes care of all.’ These wise words shed light on the looming climate crisis the world is debating today. This crisis is on account of two serious follies. The first folly is that the concept of God is missing in the gigantic and insensitive capitalist machine the modern world has created. This economic machine views nature — forests, rivers, oceans, animals, etc, each of which is regarded as sacred in Hinduism — as an entity that exists only to be exploited for man’s use. The exploitation of nature is not for the benefit of all human beings. Rather, it is for the comfort, profit and greed of the national and global elite, which forms a small part of 7.8 billion people living on this planet.The second folly — because capitalism has disowned God, it sees no obligation to take care of the needs of all human beings. Its motto is not ‘Sarvajan hitaya, sarvajan sukhaya’, which is a lofty egalitarian principle rooted in Hinduism, but ‘Alpajan hitaya, alpajan sukhaya’ (for the benefit and happiness of the privileged minority). This machine has destroyed traditional community and family relations, has atomised society and cultivated the virus of individualism. Promotion of materialism, consumerism and self-centredness — and making human beings forget the higher purpose of their existence — are the in-built requirements of capitalism, because that is the only way it can maximise private profit at the cost of public good. Which is why, it will continue to ignore Mahatma Gandhi’s warning — ‘Mother Earth has enough to satisfy everyone’s need, but not everyone’s greed.’ Which is why, it will reject the wisdom of Isha Upanishad, which teaches us to take only that limited portion from the gifts of God that we need, and to renounce the rest for the use of others.It is a pity that Hindu scholars and religious leaders have not effectively intervened in the global discourse on climate change so far. In contrast, the Catholic Church, especially under the leadership of Pope Francis, has emerged as an influential voice. In June 2015, before the historic Paris agreement on climate action, the Pope issued a major document called Laudato si’ (Latin, meaning ‘on care for our common home’). This is what he said: ‘A true ecological approach must integrate questions of justice in debates on the environment, so as to hear both the cry of the earth and the cry of the poor.’ He also affirmed: ‘Not only has God given the earth to man, who must use it with respect for the original good purpose for which it was given, but, man too is God’s gift to man. He must therefore respect the natural and moral structure with which he has been endowed.’Last month, I participated in a global inter-religious conference for world peace in Rome, which was addressed by Pope Francis. In my speech I said, ‘The climate crisis cannot be overcome only with new technologies and investments in green development. These are necessary. But far more necessary is a completely new paradigm on harmonising ecology and economy for a new direction to human evolution based on justice and equality. Hence, there should be an “All-Religion Document on Climate Change” on the lines of Laudato si’. We all should strive to make the religious and spiritual perspective on man-nature-God relationship the guiding perspective of climate action globally.’For a part of this understanding, I remain grateful to the stone-cutter women at Sangli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cop26-hindu-belief-system-335708
