10-11-2021||---||Police should live up to professional ethics, ideals||The Indian police were never placed in such acute conflict with the nation’s Constitution. Their legacy, tradition and profile, all important markers of day-to-day policing, stand seriously compromised. Thrust into their working mixture of colonial legacy and corrupt traditions of the native rule is communal profiling, blurring the democratic horizon of administrative boundaries. Of late, the higher judiciary has started expressing its anguish and frustration over such a state of affairs in no uncertain terms, but a far more active role is definitely waiting to be played by them.An altogether unfamiliar criminal jurisprudence is unfolding in some of the BJP-ruled states. Going by the trend, it seemed to have invaded substantially the constitutional citadel belonging to the citizens. Reporters, commentators and fact-finders are being slapped with notices and charges under the non-bailable UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act); the stringent provisions of the National Security Act (NSA), a law meant to curb anti-national activities, is apparently reserved for subjugating Muslim voices. Democratic protests of politically dissenting classes and communities are threatened with arbitrary imposition of laws authorising disproportionately huge pecuniary damages. The fake encounter culture is routinely boasted of by the political executive as a lawful tool to control crimes and criminals. The operations of international drug cartels with national security ramifications are underplayed, but the ‘glamour’ of drug abuse is exploited through media leaks and selective incarcerations to settle political scores. What’s worse, the offending agents of the law are being defended by the State, while the court directions granting relief to the needy are being hotly contested or ignored.The Aryan Khan case, a journey of shifting perceptions for the investigating agency, floating from ‘control’ to ‘coercion’, cannot be termed just a misstep by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). But what would the hawks say to the unleashing of the communal carnage in Tripura on October 26 that continued in full administrative view, purportedly in retaliation to communal incidents in Bangladesh? It is said that a society which chooses to wage war against its police had better learn to make peace with its criminals. True, one might echo it, and how did society reach this point, a scenario where the police swearing allegiance to the law of the land are pitted against the Constitution? Bangladesh crushed its vandal gangs fast, but Tripura is looking for scapegoats to shield its own.The most undefendable images of policing, notwithstanding their stigmatised corruption and colonial authority, are the ones that stoke communal flames in society, first through inaction to safeguard the victims and then by implicating the critics of the inaction. It was most shocking to come across in the National Capital a convoluted contrast of this magnitude during the February 2020 Delhi riots. But the numerous forthright legal interventions since then in favour of free speech and rule of law by eminent jurists and judges have received a most severe beating in Tripura, reminiscent of the colonial days when the policing had only one purpose — to serve the cause of the Raj.The Tripura police came out with a letter (dated November 3), addressed to Twitter Inc. It was for blocking Twitter pages/accounts and providing information about the admin/user of the pages/accounts, in the case registered under various sections of the IPC and Section 13 of the UAPA in a West Agartala police station. It read, “It is to inform you that some persons/organisations are publishing/posting distorted and objectionable news items/statements in Twitter regarding the recent clash and alleged attack upon mosques of Muslim communities in the state. In publishing these news items/posts, the persons/organisations have been found using photographs/videos of some other incidents, fabricated statements/commentary for promoting enmity between religious groups/communities in presence of a criminal conspiracy. The posts have the potential to flare up communal tension in Tripura between people of different religious communities, which may result in communal riots.”They provided a list of 68 URL addresses in the letter and asked for details thereof for pursuing the case. How vague could it be? After more than a dozen mosques vandalised and arson and looting of Muslim properties for days, with more than 100 persons booked under UAPA, these are still ‘alleged’ attacks for the Tripura police? As per the letter itself, the violence was presumptuous and not an outcome of the tweets. The person named at serial number 60 on the list is Shyam Meera Singh, who works for a news portal. He had tweeted just three words, “Tripura is burning”.In today’s world, the words of Sardar Patel stand way taller than his tallest statue erected in Gujarat. PV Rajgopal, a well-respected police researcher and former Director of the National Police Academy, Hyderabad, recalled recently the memorable words of Patel uttered at the passing-out parade of the Punjab Police Training School, Phillaur, on March 3, 1949: “Do nothing that will bring dishonour to the uniform that you wear. Do nothing that may bring discredit to the flag that you salute, and it is upon your loyalty, upon your devotion to duty, upon your sincerity and upon your honesty that the reputation of the administration will depend.“You are, therefore, writing the first chapter of the history of India. So, you should write it in a manner that the future generation may remember you with respect and affection. May God, give you power and all that is required to build our country, our province in a manner which may bring honour and credit to you all.”The Tripura police have, to use the words of Sardar Patel, discredited the flag that they salute and betrayed the reputation of the administration. Will they be remembered for contributing to the last chapter in the history of constitutional policing? Or, will they be checked?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/police-should-live-up-to-professional-ethics-ideals-336124
10-11-2021||---||Rational tax policies needed for oil products||The recent cuts in excise duty on petrol and diesel are a welcome but long overdue measure. They have triggered a round of matching reductions in value-added tax (VAT) on oil products in states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party and even had a ripple effect on Opposition-ruled states. Punjab has also bit the bullet, while others are reported to be considering similar moves. In other words, the hackneyed method of extracting revenues from the golden goose of oil is partially being rolled back by both the Centre and the states.The heavy taxation on petroleum products may have been led by the Centre, but the states have not been far behind in levying onerous duties. It is, thus, no surprise that the proposal to bring petroleum products under the purview of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) is a non-starter. The GST Council recently considered the proposal owing to a directive from the Kerala High Court, but the response was a predictable negative.The reason is simple. Both the Centre and states stand to lose a huge amount of revenue if petroleum products are brought within the ambit of GST. Prior to the excise and VAT cuts, taxation of petrol and diesel comprised about 66 per cent of the pump prices. In contrast, the highest tax slab under GST is 28 per cent. Even at this level, the revenues will have to be shared between the Centre and states. This would be a body blow for their finances, as an estimated Rs 5 lakh crore is raised from oil products annually. About Rs 2 lakh crore goes to the states. Given the resources involved, neither the Centre nor the states are keen to cede this cash cow to the GST framework, though the government publicly maintains it would be desirable to do so.The net result is that India ranks among countries with the highest level of taxation on petroleum products in the entire world. It is on a par with the developed countries of Europe in this respect. In the UK, for instance, taxes on petrol comprise 71 per cent while duties on diesel comprise 68 per cent, respectively, of the retail rates, according to an EY India study. Even in the Netherlands, taxes constitute 69 per cent and 56 per cent of the retail prices for petrol and diesel, respectively.This data is quoted by government spokespersons to justify the inordinately high taxation of petroleum products. But this is not a developed economy where per capita incomes are sufficient to bear such costs. The existing pricing of fuels imposes a crippling burden on consumers, especially those belonging to the vulnerable segments of society. The recent repeated hikes in cooking gas prices have hit these segments hard in both urban and rural areas.In this regard, one must mention the Ujjwala scheme which has achieved commendable results in terms of shifting household fuel use from polluting wood and coal to the cleaner LPG. The lacuna has been that after the first free cylinder, the user often is not able to afford paying for fresh cylinders and regresses back to the traditional fuel system. By hiking the cylinder prices, the government is aggravating the problem. It would, indeed, be worthwhile to carry out studies to determine whether the higher cost of cooking gas cylinders has led to a decline in offtake by domestic users.In this context, one must mention the philosophy of enhancing taxes on transport fuels as a way of reducing consumption as well as harmful carbon emissions. Some developed countries feel this is the way to go, apart from the benefits of mopping up higher revenues from such taxes. But such an approach has little relevance for India where higher taxation is not likely to result in a shift to transport modes fired by renewable sources of energy. These, such as electric vehicles, are costly here and still far from becoming mass consumption items.It would be wiser, therefore, to gradually shift to a more benign taxation regime for petroleum products, especially as these will have to give way to more eco-friendly energy sources in the long run. The latest round of duty cuts, however, has little to do with any long-term strategies. The short-term focus is clearly to appease the electorate in poll-bound states. Consumers facing transport fuel prices of over Rs 100 per litre are likely to take their ire out at the ballot box.Apart from the surging fuel prices, there has been a cascading inflationary impact on all goods. Fortunately, a moderation in food prices has ensured that headline inflation was contained at 4.35 per cent in September compared to 5.30 per cent in the preceding month. But with global oil markets on fire and prices ranging around $83 dollars per barrel, there will be a continuing rise in fuel inflation.The sop for the polls would not have been possible, however, if there was not enough cushion on the revenue front. The faster-than-expected economic recovery has led to a spurt in direct taxes of about 74 per cent in the first half of the year. Even accounting for the low base, it reflects an overall revenue buoyancy. Similarly, GST collections surged to a record level of Rs 1.3 lakh crore in October. The exchequer is, thus, in a better shape than was expected at the beginning of the current fiscal when the second wave took a disastrous toll of lives and livelihoods.It is, thus, time for the Central government to make a few more sacrifices on the revenue front. The excise duty hikes during the pandemic period — Rs 13 and Rs 16 per litre for petrol and diesel, respectively — need to be rolled back fully rather than partially, as has been done by the Rs 5 and Rs 10 per litre cuts. The burden is growing on not just the consumer, but also the entire economy as inflationary pressures may force the central bank to shift its focus from growth to price rise.The excessive tax burden on the oil sector was a desperate measure born of desperate times. The economic scenario is clearly brighter now and the altered situation needs to be used to bring rationality into the petroleum taxation policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rational-tax-policies-needed-for-oil-products-336123
10-11-2021||---||Not on the same page||There has been a facile assumption in India that the western Quad, comprising of India, UAE, Israel and the US formed last month, is also aimed at China. Two of its external actors — the US and India — may see it that way, but the other two — the UAE and Israel — do not share the zero-sum assessment of relations with China that are increasingly being held by New Delhi, and to an extent the US. Incidentally, both ‘Abrahamic’ countries are closer military allies of the US than is India.China is not invulnerable. It faces demographic decline, massive debts, and a population that has growing expectations from the economy. A recent conversation with some Israeli scholars brought out their nuanced view of ties with China and Tel Aviv’s concerns about the deepening US-China rift. ‘We have to understand China,’ said one scholar, ‘it has to be reined in’ but that can’t be done unless there is a better understanding of the drivers of its conduct. This view would surprise many Indians who probably believe that given our close ties with Israel and the US, Tel Aviv would be strongly supporting New Delhi against Beijing.The point may have been missed in India, but China and Israel have had close strategic military ties since the 1980s when Tel Aviv used its prowess in military technology to get close to Beijing. The US eventually blocked these in 2004 and India was able to gain the Phalcon airborne early warning system which was originally made for China. Since then, economic rather than the military relationship has gained salience. Israel’s technology innovation prowess and China’s industrial capacity make for a thriving partnership. A major focus of the China-Israel relationship is Chinese investment in Israeli companies and startups. Their focus is life sciences, software and IT, Internet, communications, semiconductors and clean technology. More than 1,000 Israeli companies are operating in China, mainly in the Pearl River Delta area. The Chinese have also begun operations in a port terminal in Haifa that has been leased to them. Israelis believe that ties with China are a huge strategic opportunity for them, even as they battle US pressure to curb technology ties.Then take the UAE, India’s closest friend in the Arab world. Dubai serves as a hub for Indian overseas workers, businessmen and as an entrepot for Indian trade. In recent years, the two countries have had close counter-terrorism cooperation.But UAE’s relations with China are also excellent. There is, of course, the economic relationship, but there is a significant political one as well, manifested by the UAE being a signatory to a letter written by various Gulf countries to the UNHRC defending China’s treatment of Uighurs, as well as backing the Hong Kong national security law in the UN. The UAE has also bucked US pressure and installing the Huawei 5G network in the country. Unlike India, the UAE welcomes the Belt and Road Initiative and Beijing sees the UAE as a hub on which it is developing its commercial ties to the region, as well as Europe and Africa.The UAE houses the US air base outside Abu Dhabi and has close military ties with the US, and was also the lead country in the signing of the Abraham Accords to formalise relations with Israel. But in recent times, tensions have arisen leading to some rethinking in the US over a sale of F-35 fighters to the Emirate. The US now wants conditions on the sale, including one which says that China should not be allowed to open a base in the country. In the wake of the US fiasco in Afghanistan, Abu Dhabi seems to be hedging its bets by partnering both Washington and Beijing.The US, not unlike India, is flailing around for a sound China policy. The promised review of China ties by the Biden administration has yet to be revealed, even as hostility to China is being driven by the deeply divided domestic politics in the US.Biden had articulated a strategy of ‘extreme competition’ where care would be taken so as not to slide into unintended conflict.But the ability of the US to compete rests on a large-scale overhaul of the American system which is mired in deep political divisions, wage stagnation and a ‘red in tooth and claw’ approach towards the poor. Biden’s ambitious ‘build back better’ plan is stagnating.As for India, the gap in the comprehensive national power with China widening, New Delhi has become uncomfortably dependent on American support. The Ladakh events, where the Modi government dropped the ball in 2020, has further deepened New Delhi’s discomfort.Despite the tough talk on China, its trade with the US and India is booming. For India, it grew a spectacular 49 per cent in the first nine months of this. There must be benefits for all here, else this would not have happened. And that is what the dilemma on China relations is all about. Beijing possesses enormous destructive power and its behaviour crosses red lines in many areas. Yet, it also has enormous assets which can be of benefit to individual countries as well as the global community.The Biden strategy of coalition building to oppose Chinese misbehaviour is the right way to go. But this is a strategy that must be carefully unpacked, one where the US and its partners must be willing to swiftly impose costs on Beijing for unacceptable actions, yet keep open channels for diplomacy, trade and commerce.China is not invulnerable, it faces demographic decline, massive debts, and a population that has growing expectations from the economy. Well-designed incentives and disincentives can be made to work, with some degree of clear-headed thinking and leadership.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/not-on-the-same-page-336122
