11-11-2021||---||Reforms can sustain police as an institution||The phrase ‘the other side’ is generally meant to denote the darker and lesser known perspective of an issue. Peculiarly enough, the phrase has positive connotations in the case of the police in India. We have travelled very far with this negative understanding of the police. The recent movie Jai Bhim has emotively depicted the dark underbelly of the behemoth that is our law enforcement. Very few movies have managed to capture the imagination of the audiences in the way this artistic work based on real life events does. One can hardly watch the movie without feeling a sense of helplessness in the face of patent injustice meted out to Rajakannu by the State at every point of his life, especially at the end.The police in India are generally portrayed to be brutal, dishonest and a prime suspect of human rights violations. Jai Bhim also depicts the cruel side of the police, especially custodial torture.While custodial torture is a reality that can neither be wished away nor ignored, according to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), 100 deaths in police custody and 236 cases of torture in police custodywere reported in 2020-21. Given the total number of police personnel (2,091,488) in the country, the figures (like 0.004 and 0.011 per cent respectively) are negligible.It stands to reason that the police officials as individuals involved in wrongdoing do not represent the police as an institution in terms of justification to such type of wrongdoing. However, the police as an institution are forced to share the blame. Those who judge the police based on media-inspired narratives tend to generalise the issue to an irrational extent. Objectively speaking, the instances of police misbehaviour in this country are seldom ascertained by facts and figures. Rather, they are often deduced from the prevailing narratives.Such narratives seek to vilify the police as an institution. The misdeeds of individual police officers are rebranded as the tacit acceptance and encouragement of such atrocities by all personnel on the force. This narrative is spun with the objective to delegitimise their standing, and to stain their credibility as upholders of justice. The uniform and those who wear them, the narrative goes, are permanently stained in the blood of the innocent.I do not advocate to condone custodial violence or the use of extra-legal measures contrary to the rule of law for the purpose of securing real or perceived ‘justice’. At the same time, I believe that it is important to recognise the fact that custodial violence is well rooted in the colonial foundations of our criminal justice system. And it is often committed by the officials based on their behavioural profile and personalities under strong sub-cultural influences.In a recent interview, Justice Chandru, who filed the habeas corpus petition showcased in Jai Bhim, pointed out that our techniques of investigation had hardly advanced since Independence. Without the adoption of modern and scientific investigative techniques and adequate training of police officers in their use, the question as to how the police are supposed to efficiently and effectively discharge their investigative duties is begging to be asked. Moreover, in view of the fact that extra-judicial killings of rapists and gangsters are publicly celebrated, it is hardly surprising that a few errant officers overcome by greed would be willing to take the short road to success in the name of ‘justice’.The police often find themselves working on extremely sensitive cases in full gaze of the media and under immense political pressure. When read with a policy shift in the fundamental values underlining our criminal justice system towards a greater focus on crime control imperatives, it becomes obvious why it seems to be the case that due process values have taken a backseat. There seems to be scant regard for human rights in the face of ‘investigation’ and ‘interrogation’.It would be a folly, however, to label the entire police force as crooked murderers with ulterior motives. The police are often the only wall that we, as a society, have between order and disorder. They are the enforcers of our social contract. The police are tasked with a function to both prevent the commission of crime as well as to investigate and bring the perpetrators to book. The scope of this task, in the Indian context, is both unimaginable and unenviable. With a population of around 1.4 billion, we have only 156 policemen per lakh of population. A majority of the force consists of constables and the lower ranks while officers empowered under our Code of Criminal Procedure to investigate offences are only a fraction of the total.In the face of such odds, the police find themselves to be a soft target of any and every political opposition. The overall work of the police aimed at crime prevention and investigation goes unrecognised, while specific incidents are amplified far and wide, whether for political reasons or otherwise. The good deeds of the police are suppressed while the misdeeds are counted and recounted. The Indian police is also in the grip of a ‘Dirty Harry syndrome’ which is characterised from a movie detective who used unconstitutional means with the belief that a clearly ‘good’ end can be achieved only by using ‘dirty’(unconstitutional) means.It is not my case that errant officers should not be brought to book. Not even the slightest of their atrocities should be brushed under the carpet by the police department or taken lightly by the judiciary. They deserve only the strictest of punitive and disciplinary actions. The institution of police, however, should not be judged en masse on the basis of actions of such errant officers alone.Police and policing are necessities. Despite being a condemned agency, the police as an institution cannot be abolished. Inadvertently, the burden of criticism of the police is making it more non-functional. Destructive criticism to the extent of undue condemnation of the police in India has not been enough to herald reforms in this institution. Let’s not forget that it takes aeons to build an institution, but very little to bring it down.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforms-can-sustain-police-as-an-institution-336601
11-11-2021||---||Tailor tax regime for socio-economic change||Among all the heads of state that made headlines at the COP26 negotiations in Glasgow, chances are you wouldn’t have been told what the Prime Minister of Barbados, Mia Mottley, said in her eight-minute address. The mainline media didn’t talk of it, and what she said was uncomfortable for big business as well as for the global leadership to even acknowledge. Each line of her powerful address brought out the bitter truth that the world tries so hard to push under the carpet.Mia Mottley talked of quantitative easing, an instrument of monetary policy that has remained outside the purview of TV discussions, and in fact is not even deliberated much in the economics classrooms. As an economic expression, it means buying bonds to lower the interest rates on savings and loans, but in simple terms, it means printing surplus money. She talked of $25 trillion of surplus money printed by central banks of the wealthy countries in the past 13 years: “Had we used those $25 trillion to purchase bonds to finance the energy transition, of how we eat, of how we move around in transport, we would have today reached that 1.5 degree limit that is so vital to us,” she stated.As I had explained in one of my earlier articles (The Tribune, May 22, 2021), $9 trillion of surplus money that the central banks had printed in 2020 alone had actually gone into the pockets of the rich via the financial markets. While the wealth of the super-rich increased by a whopping $5 trillion to $13 trillion during the pandemic, imagine how gigantic the $25 trillion quantitative easing booster dose must have been for the soaring wealth of the ultra-rich. Nevertheless, if the surplus money was instead routed to provide for the global climate finance requirement of $100 billion a year that the Paris Agreement had promised for, the world would have been a much safer place to live. As the Barbados Prime Minister had worked out, quantitative easing could have been easily utilised to create a $500 billion fund, which would hardly be 2 per cent of the surplus money printed.In fact, if I were to add another $100 billion that is required to fight extreme global poverty, a fraction of the surplus money that is printed, could have been more than sufficient to make the world move towards a utopian stage where poverty becomes history, where no one sleeps hungry, and where the world gets over the nightmare of an impending climate catastrophe. The massive amounts of quantitative easing drives growth, economists would say, but what is not told is whose growth. Why the same instruments cannot be suitably transformed to ensure that quantitative easing works for the people and the planet? That’s a question that economic thought leaders as well as G-7 leadership has conveniently ducked.Not only quantitative easing, the rich are routinely provided with economic stimulus, bailouts and tax cuts besides other incentives. In the US, effective corporate income tax has come down from 50 per cent in 1950 to 13 per cent in 2020. In India, corporate tax has been lowered from 30 per cent to 22 per cent, and the demand is to bring it still further down. Not investing the amount saved in creating employment, these tax cuts have often helped companies to buy back shares. In last five years, Indian companies have gone in for stock buyback to the tune of Rs 2 lakh crore.The rich don’t become ultra-rich because they did something extraordinary but it is simply because macro-economic policies are so designed to help transfer wealth to them. So much so that in America, the top 1 per cent holds 15 times more wealth than the bottom 50 per cent. In India, the top 1 per cent holds four times more wealth than the bottom 70 per cent. Despite this generosity, the top 1 per cent globally has safely hidden an estimated $7.6 trillion in tax havens.At a time when 55 corporations in the US haven’t paid any tax, US President Joe Biden has publicly accepted the implicit bias in the tax regime. In a tweet last week, he wrote: “Those at the top have gotten a free ride — at the expense of the middle class — for far too long. My Build Back Better Framework will make the super-wealthy and big corporations pay their fair share, and then invest that money in the middle class.” The Build Back Better Programme is the $3.5 trillion package that he recently unveiled to reduce poverty, expand healthcare and address the crisis emanating from climate aberrations.Considering that at a time when wealth inequality is increasing, and corporate tax is being systematically lowered, what Joe Biden says makes terrific economic sense. It is well known that billionaires’ wealth increased by a whopping 70 per cent during the pandemic. To give you an idea, the wealth of America’s billionaires increased by $2.1 trillion in the first 19 months of the pandemic, of which Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s wealth surpassed $209 billion, and former co-founder of Amazon Jeff Bezos is now worth $192 billion. But they didn’t pay their share of taxes. As perProPublica, an investigative website, Musk didn’t pay any tax in 2018 and Bezos didn’t pay in 2007 and 2011. Reports also show that the top 400 richest in the US paid a lower tax than an average American worker.This brings me back to the question that Mia Mottley had raised. After all, adequate public finance and investment is required to secure the future economic and social well-being of people. Decades of corporate tax avoidance, austerity and economic liberalisation have brought the world to a stage where it is awash with money, but the tragedy is that much of it is locked in corporate safe vaults. The bigger challenge, therefore, is how to reform the tax regime to make the super-rich pay, and redesign economic policies that work for people and the planet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tailor-tax-regime-for-socio-economic-change-336599
11-11-2021||---||Taking stock of security||The significant structural changes recently introduced in the functioning of the Defence Ministry and in the Armed Forces Headquarters were evident in a recent three-day conference in Bengaluru, at the Headquarters of the Air Force’s Training Command. The conference was held to mark the 50th year of the 1971 India-Pakistan conflict, and the birth of Bangladesh. The event was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The main speakers were Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar.India and its Quad partners need to concentrate on expanding cooperation with key organisations like the Gulf Cooperation Council and ASEAN.It is evident that the three Services — Army, Navy and Air Force — are now functioning in a more integrated and institutionalised structure, where responsibilities and powers are well defined, and structurally integrated. This has been a crucial development, as the earlier defence structure, developed in the colonial times, needed substantive changes to meet the strategic imperatives of the 21st century.Rajnath Singh asserted that the 1971 War was not fought for conquest, or territory. ‘The congruence of our politico-military thought and actions led to the birth of a new nation (Bangladesh) in Asia, ending injustice and atrocities.’ He added: ‘It was the synergy and cooperation between the three Services and the government that ensured our country’s success in such a huge campaign. The congruence of our country’s politico-military thoughts gave birth to a new nation in Asia, defeating exploitation and injustice, and proving once again that where there is righteousness, there is victory.’ Shunning scoring a political point, he paid tribute to the armed forces, and the country’s political leadership in 1971.While there were references to Pakistan, the focus of attention was primarily on the challenges now posed by an aggressive and assertive China.General Rawat, who is also Secretary, Department of Military Affairs, referred to the ‘grey zone warfare’, which covered Pakistan’s resort to terrorism. The emphasis presently is, however, on the security threats posed by China. A worrisome development for India is China’s technological advancement in the cyber and space domains. Aggressive posturing will remain a cornerstone of China’s expansionist policy, which we have to be wary about, General Rawat noted.A comprehensive account of challenges posed by China came from Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar. He said: ‘We cannot ignore what China has aimed for itself. It wants to be merely a regional power no more, but aims to be a world-class military power by 2049. It has increased capabilities in land, space and cyber domains in the last decade, especially in electro-magnetic spectrum and drones, among other things.’Presentations by former military officials and diplomats, who included Lt Gen Ata Hasnain (retd) and this writer, which followed the views expressed by the minister and serving officials, were largely focused on China’s role in the Indo-Pacific, including in the subcontinent. They also focused substantive attention on China’s role in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and across the Indian Ocean. It was clear that China has adopted a long-term policy of ‘strategic containment’ of India, backed by its unprecedented long-term role in assisting Pakistan to develop and deploy nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles capable of hitting targets ranging from New Delhi to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. China has also followed a policy of backing political parties and individuals in India’s neighbouring South Asian countries, who are to be used to undermine relations with India.India is strategically located and is in a position to exercise maritime influence across the sea lanes of the Indian Ocean, from the oil-rich Straits of Hormuz to the Straits of Malacca, through which 36 million barrels of oil traverse daily. This maritime route accounts for 64% of global oil trade. China’s major worries about Quad arise from the grouping’s ability to control the flows of its vital energy needs through the Indian Ocean. India and its Quad partners need to concentrate on expanding cooperation in a coordinated manner with key organisations like the Gulf Cooperation Council and ASEAN. China is seen as an acquisitive power that has maritime and land boundary disputes with no less than 16 countries across the Indo-Pacific Region. Moreover, China’s policies have also been aimed at becoming the pre-eminent power across South Asia, whether in Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, the Maldives, or Bhutan, located at India’s doorstep. Beijing conducts its policies in South Asia and beyond, in close cooperation and coordination with its partners in Rawalpindi.While Pakistan will seek to not permit SAARC to play any constructive role in South Asia, India needs to activate groupings like BIMSTEC, which includes its Southeast Asian neighbours, to promote regional connectivity within South Asia and with its ASEAN partners. According to plans drawn up two decades ago, South Asia should now have been a thriving, economically integrated region that has sadly, not happened, primarily because Pakistan constantly undermined moves for greater economic integration in South Asia. Pakistan, meanwhile, believes that its interests are better served by increasing linkages and economic integration with Afghanistan, and in Central Asia. That is easier said than done. India has, in the past, demonstrated the importance of its close relations with Iran, the Gulf Arab countries, and Tajikistan in Central Asia, even as its relations with Russia remain on a firm footing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/taking-stock-of-security-336597
