12-11-2021||---||India and ASEAN look to deepen partnership||The 18th India-ASEAN Summit was held virtually on October 28. It followed the ASEAN Summit of October 26 and the East Asia Summit on October 27. Prime Minister Modi participated in the summit, which he has been doing since 2014.The summit focused on the gamut of activity, covering 30 mechanisms. The main emphasis was on the sturdy nature of Indo-ASEAN cooperation which was raised to a strategic partnership in 2012.Strengthening this association remains the goal of the dialogue partnership between India and ASEAN. This is spelt out in the chairman’s statement by the Sultan of Brunei. Among various ideas which were discussed, some significant ones merit attention.It was agreed to designate 2022 as the year of ASEAN-India Friendship. It will mark the completion of 30 years of the partnership and coincide with India’s 75th anniversary of Independence, which PM Modi drew attention to in his remarks.Details will be worked out and a plethora of activity is anticipated. India is fortunate to have Singapore, among the most organised of ASEAN countries, as its country coordinator. The ASEAN chairman in 2022 will be Cambodia, whose president Hun Sen is well known to India ever since he assumed power. It is imperative that this landmark year is celebrated with imagination and contemporary domains so that repetition of past celebrations of anniversaries is avoided. It would be useful to focus on new areas.Expansion of education, collaboration among universities, green economies, achieving the sustainable development goals (SDGs), start-ups and impact investment should be among the ideas to guide the expansion of the Indo-ASEAN partnership.The Nalanda University, an EAS project, would welcome a collaboration with ASEAN. The offer of 1,000 PhD scholarships at IITs needs modulation to master’s level to allow greater utilisation.There are adequate fora and meetings already in place. They need to be result- oriented and show achievements. All India-ASEAN activity is normally funded by the Indian contribution to the ASEAN and related funds. It would be a good occasion for the ASEAN to step up and contribute to the emerging programmes.India-ASEAN projects need closer attention. The welcome establishment of a project monitoring unit within the ASEAN secretariat shows the intent to focus on implementation and achieving the goals set when these projects were undertaken.Another area of focus is the pandemic and post-pandemic recovery. India has been working with ASEAN to support their facilities and provide material and monetary support. India’s contribution of $1 million to the Covid-19 ASEAN Response Fund was appreciated but the requirements are huge. With the reopening of vaccine exports, ASEAN countries would benefit. They would also benefit from the Quad vaccine initiative in a big way. It remains unclear whether ASEAN seeks a partnership or expects preferential treatment or donations to its public health arrangements.The economic dimension of the partnership requires a review of the free trade agreement (FTA). The chairman’s statement mentioned the review of the ASEAN-India Trade in Goods Agreement (AITIGA) and ASEAN prefers to see ‘enhanced utilisation and effective implementation of the ASEAN-India Free Trade Area (AIFTA)’. This is important since India is not in the RCEP. It needs the FTA to be updated, balanced and contribute to the development of resilient supply chains between India and ASEAN.India-ASEAN trade has been falling over the last 3 years from $97 billion in 2018, to $87 billion in 2019 and $79 billion in 2020. In the first half of 2021, it is only $42 billion. Its true potential is yet to be realised. ASEAN runs an average surplus of $20 billion. A reordering of the FTA and a better utilisation of it by the Indian companies could lead to expanded Indian exports, particularly through supply chains.The context and current focus of the India-ASEAN Summit are the Indo-Pacific. PM Modi noted the special role of ASEAN in India’s Act East Policy and the Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR) as also in the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI). Along with the ASEAN’s Outlook for the Indo-Pacific (AOIP), these are the framework for the vision and mutual cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. ASEAN is aware that India was a protagonist of the Quad’s focus on ASEAN centrality and its functional collaboration with Quad countries, all of whom are dialogue partners (DPs) of ASEAN. Though the Quad is not mentioned in the documents, the collaboration is not restrained in any manner.Significantly, a joint statement on cooperation on the AOIP for peace, stability and prosperity in the region was adopted. It builds on the Delhi Declaration of January 2018. This reaffirms that ASEAN centrality, openness, transparency, inclusivity and UNCLOS would all remain important aspects of partnership. All ASEAN members supported this.The statement mentions four areas from the AOIP: Maritime cooperation, connectivity, SDGs and economic cooperation. As many as 21 paragraphs identify the areas of cooperation, including sub-regional cooperation, human capital development, green infrastructure, agriculture and the utilisation of complementarities.The International Solar Alliance (ISA) is not mentioned among these 21 areas. Nor is the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Initiative (CDRI), with which no ASEAN member is associated. Only Myanmar and Cambodia are ISA members. Most ideas are promoted by the ASEAN. For a true partnership, ASEAN needs to participate in Indian initiatives which are wider in scope.There is recognition of India’s contribution to narrowing the development gaps within ASEAN countries. India extended support to the CLMV (Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Vietnam) countries. ASEAN, in the spirit of partnership, could provide sustainable finance for the continuation of the centres which India has established. It is not necessary for India to consistently be like a donor. A transition to a fulsome partnership after 30 years is extremely important.India announced support to ASEAN’s Cultural Heritage List. This is a nascent idea building on the Declaration on Cultural Heritage. ASEAN will create its own list of such assets. India’s prompt support will see officials’ meet soon to discuss collaboration. India has contributed to the restoration work in temples in Siem Reap and Yogyakarta. Given the shared histories and cultural roots of many South-East Asian civilisations, this could be impactful.India and ASEAN have shared values and ideas. This relationship needs more substantive collaboration. The 30th anniversary is a good time to deepen the partnership.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-and-asean-look-to-deepen-partnership-336908
12-11-2021||---||In UP, BJP’s welfare model, Hindutva go in tandem||Indira Gandhi’s ‘Garibi hatao’ (eliminate poverty) slogan always haunted the BJP like a twisted shadow. It could never decide how to deal with the penumbra — ignore, disown or tweak it. Ultimately, Prime Minister Narendra Modi uttered the catchphrase when the 16th anniversary of Chhattisgarh’s statehood was celebrated at Raipur on November 2, 2016. Modi stated that unless poverty was eradicated, “everything else will be ineffective”. It marked the BJP’s acknowledgment of the potency contained in the Congress’s slogan that never translated into reality.The raft of “poverty alleviation” schemes, largely christened after the Nehru-Gandhi family, which the Congress had unveiled since Indira Gandhi’s time were allurements and incitements to vote the party without tangibly empowering the less empowered. It was as though ‘Garibi hatao’ was crafted to keep the poor in a state of perpetual poverty and coax their gratitude and loyalty for eternity.As Gujarat Chief Minister, Modi took a distant view of the state-induced patronage of the less well-off. Gujarat, after all, is a state that sets great store by individual entrepreneurship, apparently attained without overt political and official interventions. When Modi coined the slogan, ‘maximum governance, minimum government’, it made sense in Gujarat’s context.In the 2012 Uttar Pradesh elections, when Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav promised free laptops to students and doles for the jobless, it seems Modi wondered why Akhilesh would not charge a token sum for the computer so that the recipient had a sense of ownership instead of treating it like charity.Seven years in Delhi, Modi figured out that the Gujarat template cannot be applied nationally. There’s a no one-size-fits-all model to define and implement welfare. Under him, the BJP embraced the Congress’s top-down welfare archetype with a vengeance. Not deploying it as a means to invest in the poor based on the principles of social equity and justice, but as an opiate to mitigate their straitened circumstances.Uttar Pradesh, one of India’s poorest and most feudal states that regards any sarkar as its mai-baap (a nanny state or benevolent dictatorship), is the perfect fit for the BJP to use its welfare prototype that claims to incorporate elements of the Jan Sangh ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya’s ‘antyodaya’ (uplifting the last person) world-view.It’s raining goodies in rural UP. The horrors brought about by the pandemic, especially in the second brutal attack, are barely remembered by the villagers unless the memories of deaths from oxygen shortages and denial of access to medicare and the bodies thrown in the rivers are forced out. There’s a sense of fatalism about the pandemic among people who hold the view that it’s pointless blaming the UP establishment for the casualties.The agrarian protests against the Centre’s farm laws — that began in west UP and spread southward to parts of Avadh after the gruesome killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri — impacted the districts close to the epicentre, but the empathy people displayed was transient and is unlikely to convert into lasting anger.A recent visit to parts of central UP showed that the issue that dominated the people’s headspace three months before the Assembly elections was the loads of populist schemes announced and implemented by the state government, with the Centre’s back-up. Apportioning sops and freebies is not novel. Other poll-bound states have done it time and again, but some were unable to neutralise the anger that had bubbled over against an incumbent.In UP, it works ostensibly because the welfare model goes hand in hand with the RSS-BJP’s ideology. The sops come with a strong underpinning and a heavy overlay of Hindutva, as if to reassure the majority community that even if the giveaways are uniformly distributed (at least on paper), the government’s heart lies with the Hindus.The polar opposite combination of welfare state and religion as a political tool triggered a churn among hardcore Opposition supporters.While most backward castes accepted this unusual mix, the Yadavs, who form the core support base of the SP, were confused but not agnostic. In the 1990s, when the cycle of Mandal-Mandir politics ran its course in UP, the Yadavs had distinctly distanced themselves from the BJP unlike the other backward castes and some Dalits too because the Yadavs saw that their salvation lay in backing the Mandalised socialist formations. Several years down the line, as Mandalisation exhausted its newness and set off other problems for the backward caste spectrum by creating a set of haves and have-nots among them, the Yadavs seemed inclined to assert their Hindu — as opposed to the backward caste — identity. We are Hindus first and foremost, was the refrain heard among them, and, therefore, we are very proud of the BJP for constructing the Ram temple.What do such social complexities mean for the SP where the Yadavs form the bedrock? Akhilesh Yadav has pussyfooted around the communally polarising subjects, realising how susceptible the Yadavs were to the BJP’s propaganda. Indeed, some Yadavs resented being coupled with Muslims as the M-Y duo sustaining the SP. The SP has fallen between two stools. On the one hand, Muslims sounded upset with Akhilesh for not articulating the SP’s standpoint on issues that hit them hard, such as the UP government’s incarceration of veteran Muslim leader Azam Khan, and warned that they would look at Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM as an alternative even if that divided their votes. On the other hand, an overreach to pacify the Muslims might push the Yadavs towards the BJP. The SP is skidding on thin ice.The BJP, and more so, Yogi Adityanath’s expansion of the Ayodhya temple, whose construction was facilitated by a legal order more than anything else, gave Hindutva a focal point which was endorsed by every caste: upper, backward and Dalits. The BJP’s success in UP lies in its persistence to forge a pan-Hindu political order, that began with the Ram temple agitation and reached its fruition before the 2022 polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-up-bjps-welfare-model-hindutva-go-in-tandem-336900
12-11-2021||It is almost impossible to sift fact from fiction in today’s India. Lies were bandied about even in earlier days||Get around to the truth||Our integrity at home and abroad will not improve by denying facts but by speaking the truth at all times, or, at least, most times.Surely, there is a need for wisdom and restraint in the pronouncements of our leaders. In their anxiety to claim credit and win elections, they often skip the need for common decency. What prompted the recent decision (now reversed) of the British government to not recognise our Certificate of Vaccination, though Covishield formulation was supplied to the Serum Institute of India under the AstraZeneca masthead?We accused the British of racism. But, was that the real reason? Britain’s PM was once married to an Indian woman. The second-most important Cabinet post, that of Chancellor of the Exchequer, has been entrusted to an MP of Indian origin. Another important post, that of Home Secretary (Home Minister Amit Shah’s counterpart), is held by Preeti Patel, a woman of Indian origin.How then can we make allegations of racism? Could it be the low levels of credibility our data and our assertions inspire that is the real culprit?Our ruling party must rein in the numerous mini-Goebbels it boasts of and reduce to the barest minimum the number of untruths it circulates so that the credibility of our leaders is restored to pre-2014 levels, if not higher.There was no need to deny that India experienced many Covid-19 deaths due to oxygen shortage (Uttar Pradesh alone sanctioned 555 new plants during the second wave to correct this), the hit to the economy due to demonetisation (a genuine miscalculation and certainly not intended) and boasts like the two I mentioned.Our credibility at home and abroad will not improve by denying facts but by speaking the truth at all times, or, at least, most times. The use of Pegasus spyware to snoop on opposition politicians, activists and journalists would be difficult for the government to admit to. But the use of malware to keep the Bhima Koregaon accused in jail by planting evidence on them, as alleged by lawyers of the imprisoned people, would be highly immoral and condemnable if proven true.The problem of credibility afflicts leaders of other parties, too. Recently, in Mumbai, a minister in the MVA government indicted NCB zonal head Sameer Wankhede on various counts of deceit, including on the faith he professes, his earlier marriage, his date of birth and his caste. The minister, Nawab Malik, says that Wankhede was actually a Muslim whose father’s name was Dawood. The officer asserts his father was a Hindu named Dnyandev. Reading between the lines it appears that his father may have been given the Muslim name of Dawood at a ‘nikah’ ceremony when Wankhede married a Muslim.Wankhede was married to a Muslim doctor earlier. After 10 years, the marriage ended in divorce. A year later, he married a Hindu actress prominent in the Marathi cinema and theatre. How his matrimonial capers affect his conduct, especially in the Aryan Khan case, is not understood. It does appear to me that he is not coming out with all the facts when answering the allegations on his personal life. If he has lied, it could be concluded that he has a tendency to lie and that would be fatal for the case.A much bigger issue is whether he fudged documents to get the benefit of reservation in government jobs. Only Hindus and Sikhs can claim such benefits, Muslims cannot. So, that charge will have to be examined in greater detail since it was the basis on which he was recruited in the Customs department.But all these considerations are of minor import when the conduct of the NCB in associating a BJP worker and his friend, who is facing charges of cheating in four different cases, three in Thane and one in Pune, is considered. Informers are usually criminals themselves. I have never come across an informer who wants to be publicly acknowledged as an informer. So, who are these two worthies who have taken selfies with Aryan after his arrest and boasted to the media that it was their information that led to the arrest of the eight young merrymakers!BJP worker Manish Bhanushali seems to be a compulsive publicity hound. He flaunts his individual photographs with Devendra Fadnavis, Amit Shah, Narendra Modi and now with superstar SRK’s son. After the Aryan case, Wankhede has come to be known to the general public. It is not an achievement to be particularly proud of.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/get-around-to-the-truth-336893
