13-11-2021||---||The era of openness in the BJP is over||The BJP had the strangest national executive meeting last week where it discussed no pressing national issue. It just praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and did not even debate the recent bypoll results wherein the party faced some bad defeats.The party president, JP Nadda, presided over a meet that did not bother to analyse why the electorate of his home state Himachal Pradesh, where the party is in power, comprehensively defeated the BJP in the bypolls to one Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats. There was no discussion either on why the BJP lost all four seats in the West Bengal bypolls, with candidates losing their deposits on three seats.There was, in fact, no mention of anything which raised questions about the party’s performance. It was devoted entirely to creating a “feel good” mood and praising the PM.The nation’s pre-eminent party was having a national executive meeting after nearly three years, with the last meet having taken place in January 2019. The party’s constitution lays down that this important cog in the organisation structure should meet every three months. Perhaps, the delay was due to the pandemic, combined with the realisation that with all authority in the party now centralised, such meetings are meaningless, as indeed, the latest turned out to be.Either way, it’s a pity as the BJP did have a culture of healthy intra-party debate and dissent, with national executives also becoming platforms for some fireworks and ideological tussles in the past. Since the BJP’s foundation in 1980, national executive meets were important events and once the party came to power under Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 1998, these meetings were thoroughly covered by the press, with media contingents travelling to whichever city they took place in. There would be entire hotels booked for the media, with regular briefings about the debates and the attendees would mingle with the press and often agree to disagree.Needless to say, that era of openness is over since 2014.Traditionally, two resolutions would be adopted at national executives: a political resolution and an economic one. Economic resolutions were a subject of debate, with the original draft often being amended after some discussants made specific points.What is extraordinary is that even after the terrible hit of Covid lockdowns on the economy and the prevalent hunger and unemployment, the party chose not to adopt an economic resolution at the November 7 meet held in Delhi’s Talkatora Stadium. This lapse is actually a shocking insight into how the inner structure of the BJP has been rendered meaningless since it is now micro-managed from the top.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath moved the political resolution that made a point about political violence in West Bengal, although the party did not mention its electoral performance in the state.The byelection results actually show a worrying trend for the BJP from the perspective of national politics as the party had swept the entire Hindi belt in the 2019 General Election and won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal. Simultaneously, it had won 23 seats from Maharashtra, where it was then in alliance with the Shiv Sena, an arrangement now broken. In total, the BJP had 41 seats from West Bengal and Maharashtra in its national tally of 303 seats and the current circumstances suggest it is unlikely to repeat that.The party should, therefore, currently worry even about the losses in the tiny state of Himachal Pradesh that has four Lok Sabha seats because the margins of defeat in the byelections were huge.Since the BJP is an effective electoral machine, one presumes that the leadership is working on multiple counter-strategies. Although the executive did not discuss the electoral losses, it did have presentations on the states where elections will take place next year.In his address, Nadda said that a party committee should be set up for every polling booth where arrangements would be made for citizens to listen to the PM’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address. Later, the press was told that there are 10.4 lakh polling booths in the country and the BJP estimates it has set up booth committees in 85 per cent of them. So, basically, the message is the PM and the PM is the message.As it heads to the next round of state polls, it’s clear that Uttar Pradesh remains the backbone of the BJP’s parliamentary numbers. It is here that a curious schism exists in the party that can, at the national level, now be described as a cult around the Leader. For, the nation’s most populous state is led by the BJP’s most autonomous Chief Minister who is controversial, but very much his own man, who does not kowtow to the high command.While the BJP has in recent months replaced chief ministers in Gujarat and Karnataka with the flick of a high command diktat, it has been unable to even make appointments in Lucknow as CM Yogi did not wish to accommodate a Central nominee.Yet, the CM and PM have the same goal of retaining power in Uttar Pradesh in the February 2022 polls. The Amit Shah team that originally made the conquest of UP in the 2014 parliamentary polls is no longer there, but Yogi, who was chosen after the BJP’s win in the 2017 Assembly polls, has a point to prove. He has the advantage of being in power, besides the backing of the entire cadre of the RSS and every help from the Centre.It’s also clear that the PM intends to campaign vigorously in the state and before the election notification kicks in, he will announce more welfare measures. The CM will also do so, even as he will continue to highlight the ideological issues. This has worked for the BJP in UP and the two Hindutva icons, Modi & Yogi, would be giving it their all in the state.Yet, the national leadership has made an estimate that free rations and welfare measures are also needed to retain support and offset the misery of the last two years. The PM’s popularity in UP in 2019 was, in any case, estimated to have been built not just on muscular nationalism and Hindutva but also on the delivery of specific schemes. The emphasis is, therefore, on last mile delivery in UP.The PM’s closing speech to the national executive was fundamentally about the party being an instrument of service to the people. He said that the BJP should be “a bridge of faith” between the party and the common man. It was an open-ended statement that can bring us to the conclusion that Hindutva in UP now comes with a generous bag of ration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-era-of-openness-in-the-bjp-is-over-337372
13-11-2021||---||Trade deficit with China has lessons for India||India wisely decided to avoid the China-led Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) owing to the possibility of being overwhelmed by most of the 15 nations with whom India had a deficit bilateral trade balance. Similarly, India rightly refused to play second fiddle to Communist Party of China (CPC) general secretary Xi Jinping, who masterminded the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a sub-unit of which is the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The latter is a malicious project of Xi, epitomising the CPC-Pakistan Army-ISI collusion to violate Indian sovereignty. Since India astutely saw through the CPC malware game of turning every “small and economically weak ally” a vassal state under the “multilateral” cloak of RCEP, BRI and CPEC, the Delhi rebuff to the Dragon is understandable and justifiable.So, let’s go to the worsening India-China bilateral commerce and trade balance figure which is inexorably leading to a point of no return. Lack of foresight, plan and anticipation are writ large in Indian policy. And that could be the recipe for irretrievable, irreversible and irreparable long-term damage. It’s India’s time to “perform or perish”.That things aren’t in good shape were reiterated by none other than the Foreign Secretary’s public wailing: “India’s trade deficit with China is widening continuously.” Ironically, the data of India-China bilateral trade originated “from China General Administration of Customs” as reportedly “India’s official statistics on bilateral trade with China are updated only till July 2021”. So, even in the uploading of normal info into a public domain website, India lags behind? How will then the State plan and formulate policy without on-time, not to speak of real-time info?The matter is serious, to say the least. The total India-China bilateral in the first 10 months (January 1 to October 31, 2021) has already crossed $100 billion which is bound to go further up by year-end. However, what’s more serious is that India’s trade deficit (in 10 months) already stands at a whopping $54.37 billion, up from $29.86 billion in 2020 and $42.96 billion in 2019.One had said before too, on India-China bilateral trade figures from 1999-2000 onwards, that unless and until India’s Ministry of Commerce and Foreign Trade Division seriously study and revisit the entire gamut of policy, India will continue to lag behind as one of the Third World importing countries, thereby losing its potential stature and status in the comity of nations. To do so, if India takes a hard look and emulates its adversary also, so be it. There’s no harm learning from an adversary if the State achieves its professed goal. Else, the media report of October 17, 2021, will continue to embarrass the establishment no end: “Chinese imports defy self-reliance push, border issues” and “despite tension, India-China trade crosses $100 billion” (November 10, 2021). Can that be music to the ears of the policy-makers in India’s Ministry of Commerce and Foreign Trade?A sample re-visit to Delhi’s trade deficit through two decades may be in order. Thus, from minus $1.282 billion in 1999-2000, the deficit graph skyrocketed to $52.697 billion (2015-16); $57.869 billion (2017-18) and now $ 54.37 billion in the first 10 months of 2021, the break-up being China’s $78.33 billion, to India’s$23.96 billion. Chinese export value is 3.269 times that of Indian goods to China.It’s, therefore, time for the Government of India to take an ‘action stations’ position, without any ifs and buts. Learn from the numero uno adversary CPC! The Chinese path to success was dictated by the State, not by fancied free market economics or laissez faire. India simply cannot be handed over wholesale to private entrepreneurs because it has got to plan for 1.4 billion people, which under no stretch of imagination can be handled by a few ‘mega’ profit-seeking investors, industrialists and importers. India’s population is way above that of the US (330 million) or Russia (130-140 million). Fifty-plus European nations account for less than 600 million people. They too follow the traditional concept of an inclusive “welfare state”.Today’s world undoubtedly faces the most challenging of times. All the more, because contemporary world demography is already over 7 billion with massive asymmetric growth of sectoral poverty and declining prosperity across Asia, Africa and Latin America. Whereas the West’s manpower is on the wane, Third World citizens are searching for jobs, money and migration.Regarding the Chinese growth story, it is a case of “national self-interest”; “inclusive growth and development of China”, not for foreigner, however, friendly one posed or professed. Thus, it revolved around “needs, problems, demand”. There is a list of sectors meant only for State-owned enterprise (SOE), like India’s public sector undertaking (PSU), some of which are now on sale.Defence, electricity, oil, petrochemicals, telecommunication, coal, aviation and shipping couldn’t be with a foreigner or in private hand. Aside, there are the “pillar industries” wherein strong State presence is a sine qua non or indispensable: “Equipment manufacturing, auto-making, electronics, construction, steel, non-ferrous metal, chemicals, surveying and scientific research.”Things, however, went haywire for China owing to trade deficit. A “1984 consumer goods spending spree” caused the “government to lose control over imports” as the 1985 deficit shot up to $15 billion and the 1984 foreign exchange reserves plummeted from $14.42 billion to $11.19 billion in 1986. China ‘sucked’ imports, thereby becoming a compulsive borrower of foreign fund “to finance trade deficit”, averaging $1 billion to $1.5 billion a month.Understandably, the CPC hammer fell hard on reckless import, with a follow up of manifestly deliberate devaluation of its currency: yuan/renminbi. Thus, whereas in 1980, 100 yuan was worth $65, in 14 years (1994), it fetched $11.5, thereby making cheaper export and expensive import for the Chinese. Import meant loss, export was profit. Nevertheless, the devalued Chinese currency remained remarkably stable for more than a decade, without fluctuating. Hadn’t it been so, the devalued (plus fluctuating) currency would have played a spoilsport in the retrieval of the balance of payment. ‘Currency confidence’ plays a major part in transactional world.Soon, China exported more goods than it imported. In 1990, China achieved $8.74 billion trade surplus for the first time and its foreign exchange reserves shot up to $28.6 billion, “more than twice the level of the mid-1980s.” Thereafter, it was timely intervention of the State when required.Thus, despite initial hiccup of the 2008 financial crisis, the CPC economy came out relatively unscathed, focusing on currency stability and interfacing material, manufacture, market and money in broad canvas; constantly searching for loopholes of rivals, competitors and adversaries to establish its dominating presence. Shouldn’t India try to come out of its macro morass?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trade-deficit-with-china-has-lessons-for-india-337371
13-11-2021||---||Why the poor backed DeMo||Exactly five years ago, I stood in a serpentine queue outside my local bank branch to exchange Rs 4,000 worth of demonetised Rs 500 notes. The note-ban was a great leveller. Rich and poor waited behind each other, alternatively grumbling and cracking jokes. Ahead of me, a dapper young man was announcing loudly, to whoever was willing to listen, that PM Modi was finished politically. He claimed that he was a Modi bhakt and had campaigned for the BJP in 2014. But this one move had convinced him that he had made a mistake. On that day, on the kerb outside the bank, most people agreed with him.The ‘economy’ that we talk about deals with only 70% of Indians. The poorest 30 per cent at the bottom operate in a sphere that is outside our imagination.Logically, Modi’s BJP should have taken a body-blow in the Assembly elections that followed demonetisation. If 86 per cent of the value of money in circulation had been junked overnight, every Indian citizen was likely to have been scarred by it. Most people were taken by surprise when the BJP not only won UP, but also got its highest-ever vote share in the Assembly polls in the state. Explanations ranged from communal polarisation of the electorate, infighting within the opposition, and conspiracy theories that blamed EVMs.Very few saw demonetisation as a key reason for the BJP’s victory; that the move might have convinced the state’s poorest people that PM Modi’s heart beats for them. Those who grudgingly admitted that they might have been wrong about the political fallout of the note-ban argued that this was a case of schadenfreude; the poor had been hit by demonetisation, but they were happy that the rich had lost even more.But what if a large proportion of India’s poor faced no ill-effect whatsoever of demonetisation? This seems absurd, given how deeply it affected India’s economy. But it is absurd only if we assume that what we call the ‘economy’ encompasses everyone living in India. In reality, the ‘economy’ that we talk about – whether visible or invisible, organised or unorganised, measurable or not – deals with only 70 per cent of Indians. The poorest 30 per cent at the bottom operate in a sphere that is outside our imagination.How many people in India were likely to have regularly come across Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 currency notes before demonetisation removed them from circulation? Everyone who was getting a monthly salary or a regular weekly wage was likely to have ‘circulated’ – received, spent or deposited – these high-denomination notes. Everyone who employed others would also have used these notes. Finally, there were ‘own-account’ traders and vendors, with high turnover but low income, who would have come across the high-value notes on a regular basis. Think of roadside vegetable vendors, for instance, who buy vegetables worth lakhs of rupees every month, but they are still very poor.The Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) of 2017-18 contains some clues to make a rough estimate about the percentage of Indians who would have been directly affected by demonetisation. Those who got regular salaries and wages accounted for about 23 per cent of the employed. Another 2 per cent ran businesses where they employed others. Roughly 10 per cent would have been in non-agricultural employment that required them to buy expensive inputs, even though they earned very little. That adds up to 35 per cent. We are now left with farmers (31 per cent), casual labourers (25 per cent) and ‘own-account’ workers with low input costs and low income (9 per cent).The PLFS tells us that casual labourers who got paid daily earned about Rs 268 in rural areas and Rs 356 in urban areas in July-September 2017, almost one year after demonetisation. In UP, the wages were even lower – Rs 224 in villages and Rs 259 in towns and cities. These casual labourers would have rarely come across Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 notes. And that’s a quarter of the electorate.About 20 per cent of the electorate were ‘own-account’, self-employed people, in non-agricultural occupations. Out of these, about half earned less than Rs 8,000 per month (Rs 267 per day) in 2017-18, and one-fifth earned less than Rs 5,000 per month (Rs 167 per day). If one assumes that a little over half of these people with low earnings did not need to buy high-value inputs, we can say that another 5 per cent of the electorate had virtually no interaction with high-denomination notes.We now come to farmers who accounted for about 31 per cent of the employed work force in 2017-18. NABARD’s Financial Inclusion Survey (NAFIS), conducted around the same time as PLFS 2017-18, tells us that 6 per cent of those who are categorised as farming households, had less than 0.01 hectares of land. These people would have had very low input costs and are unlikely to have needed Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 notes. Another 31 per cent had less than 0.4 hectares (1.0 acre). We can safely assume that at least one-third of them had very low input costs, and rarely saw high-value notes. That means that at least 16 per cent of farmers, accounting for 5 per cent of all workers, had no need for high-denomination currency notes.Let us add the three groups that we have identified, who would have largely been unaffected by demonetisation: casual labourers who accounted for 25 per cent, own-account workers with low turnover and low income, who constituted 5 per cent of the employed, and very small and marginal farmers who made up another 5 per cent of the employed work force. That’s about 35 per cent of the electorate who would have faced almost no ill-effects of demonetisation.This was fertile ground for the BJP, of people who had genuine reason to believe that the Modi government had acted against the rich, on their behalf, much like Indira Gandhi’s ban on privy purses and her nationalisation drive had done five decades ago. The BJP sensed this on the ground. That is why Uma Bharti compared Modi with Marx and Lenin, at election rallies in 2017. It was an unexpected side-effect of a disastrous economic move. It also revealed how poor India really is.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-the-poor-backed-demo-337370
