14-11-2021||IN 1999||Bundelkhand files||Let me give you a brief idea of how this area, a forgotten relic of what was once called United Provinces, fell off the map. Many decades ago, my grandfather was the Dewan of Orchha and my parents were married in Tikamgarh, after my grandfather passed on. In the generous manner of those feudal times, my mamu was employed as the secretary to the Maharaja of Orchha and my mother’s kanyadaan was performed by the ruler himself. For all these reasons, our family held Bundelkhand very close to its heart and the bond, as I discovered while reading ‘Baramasa’, is as strong even now.As a child, I heard wonderful stories about the dacoits (who were venerated like Robin Hood) because they stole from the rich to help the poor. They had huge moustaches, and walked about fearlessly with their guns slung from their shoulders in the ravines of the Chambal until a few decades ago. Those who have seen ‘Paan Singh Tomar’, a biopic with the brilliant Irrfan Khan as the lead character, may recall the concept of the ‘baghi’, a man who spurns the sarkari establishment to dish out his own brand of public justice. In fact, it was believed that the rulers of Orchha were themselves descendants of the rebels and ‘baghis’ who troubled the Mughal empire and that Jahangir Mahal (their palace now run as a heritage hotel) was built to provide sanctuary to Prince Salim (later Jahangir) when he rebelled against his father, Akbar. Legends abound here and troubadours sing the glories of these braves in a form of ballad called the ‘Alah-Udal’, in memory of two legendary ‘baghi’ brothers. Teejan Bai, another folk artiste, performed the Pandav-vani, where she enacted the valour of the Pandavas in a folk version of the great epic. Most of Habib Tanvir’s actors in his Naya Natak company, that shook the mannered plays of the 1960s and 1970s, were from Chhattisgarh (from the MP side of Bundelkhand).Uma Bharati, the firebrand sadhvi who was once very visible and active on the national political scene, came from there. The Bundelkhandi dialect is both a sweet and rough version of Hindi and colourfully peppered with swear words and scatological terms. It has a rhythm and style that is compelling in a way that the softer tones of the official languages lack. It asks to be heard.The focus in ‘Baramasa’ is the family of a widow who has five sons and a daughter she is desperate to get married. However, it is actually a portrait of life in a village that time forgot. From the opening chapter, where he conveys the mood of his ‘Baramasa’ through the sights and smells of a village waking up to a new day, the reader is drawn into the intimate lives of the characters to establish a rhythm of life that has not changed for millennia. I cannot describe in a few words what I felt as I read about the five brothers (perhaps the epic Pandava story in a lower key), the filth and squalor of the open drains (this was written in 1999, long before Swachh Bharat) and the lack of any avenue of employment except watching Dharmendra films and aspiring to pass school somehow to get a sarkari naukri. Or the pathetic life of the unmarried daughter, who is plain and dark and has no dowry to offer. Chaturvedi manages to draw the reader into a world that lies so near and yet is so far from urban India.This is an India that we do not see on our television channels, nor one that has any attraction that draws tourists hither. Its dusty landscape, its rough life and harsh consonants can never appeal to the millennials, who prefer to travel to those parts to seek rural bliss that have been combed and carded into picture-book destinations. In the saga of the glorious nation that is now being created, there is little space left for legends and stories that have never been acknowledged in our urbane accounts of official history. Perhaps, they were left out because they are folk legends, not verifiable facts, or perhaps, they were the story of an India that we all chose to overlook. Whatever the reason, it would be worthwhile for our woke millennials — who take the knee for all those who have been exploited, spurned and denied their share of human dignity — to widen their horizon to ensure such lives matter as well.There is a splendid English translation of the novel now, available as ‘Alipura’, which carries the mood of the original well. However, if you really want to understand what our liberals and secularists are unable to see, read Gyan Chaturvedi in Hindi.This is the India that fell into the lap of our radical Hindutva champions like a ripe fruit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bundelkhand-files-337726
14-11-2021||BEGGARS are common to virtually all Indian cities and towns. They are an irritant for most of us||Why begging remains a permanent fixture in the country||Beggars target foreigners at tourist spots, pestering them continuously. Indians are hardened to beggars. Foreigners, who generally have few beggars in their own countries, aren’t. They cringe when a deformed person, or a child, stretches out his or her hand for a few coins. The more sensitive find the experience so disturbing that they don’t want to come again to India. These beggars who make a beeline for foreigners are an embarrassment, certainly for me.We probably have more beggars than any other country in the world, an equally shameful statistic. The issue of mendicancy has been debated many times. Attempts have been made to banish it. During Indira Gandhi’s Emergency rule, her son, Sanjay Gandhi, ordered the demolition of the slums in the Muslim-dominated Turkman Gate area of Old Delhi. Several people who protested were killed in police firing, and those who lost houses were relocated far away across the Yamuna river. They were mostly impoverished, and many must have been beggars. Like his other ham-handed, though well-intentioned, initiatives, the move backfired badly, and contributed to Indira Gandhi’s defeat.The Supreme Court has been quite categorical on the subject. It recently refused to ban begging and observed that “it is a socio-economic problem, and people are forced to beg to eke out their livelihood due to the absence of education and employment”. This is in line with similar other judgments. In 2018, the Delhi High Court struck down a law that made begging in the Capital a crime, saying that criminalising begging “violates the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable people”.With an eye on the foreign tourists who visit the city and the diplomats who live there, the Delhi government has made a novel move to make the National Capital Region beggar-free. It has embarked on a three-month “rehabilitation programme”. Batches of beggars are to be trained in skills that can provide them a livelihood, such as painting walls. During the training, they will get a daily stipend of Rs100.It’s a laudable idea, but at best it will only make a marginal difference. Begging is too deep-rooted in Indian society, and the main causes must first be addressed. Most religions unfortunately sanction it. Giving alms to beggars is considered a noble act, which is why one sees so many beggars at places of worship. Buddhist monks and nuns traditionally live by seeking alms, since Gautama Buddha himself did this at one stage of his life. Theoretically, Islam forbids begging, and has laid down ways to prevent it, such as “zakat”, which is basically the levying of a tax to benefit the poor. “Give gifts, as it will grow love between you,” declared the Prophet. Charity is ingrained in Islam, as it is in Christianity. However, the reality is entirely different: Pakistan and Bangladesh have plenty of beggars.Sikhs take great — and justifiable — pride in pointing out that there are very few beggars in their community. Once, many years ago, when I went out with my grandmother, she saw a Sikh beggar. After scolding him, she took him home and fed him, all the while admonishing him, pointing out that he was a disgrace to Sikhism and must make an honest living. I am sure the chastened man did not return to begging.Though poverty, or disability, drives many to mendicancy, it is also a well-organised racket in many cities. These organised beggars regard begging as their livelihood, as they earn much more than they would in regular jobs. Sometimes, children are deliberately maimed to make them more sympathetic to the public. The babies you see in their mother’s arms are often drugged. Look at it this way: how would a shoe-shine boy, trying to earn an honest living, feel if he sees another boy at a traffic light begging and getting much more? So, don’t give alms, no matter how sorry you may feel. Give some food instead, or keep some biscuits for those who tap at your car window.Ultimately, however, the answer lies in removing poverty, as China has done so dramatically. Education, and the jobs that it brings, has empowered the Chinese. There is another equally important factor: healthcare and sanitation.The western world once had plenty of beggars, and Christianity as well as Judaism sanctioned it. Beggars formed a large class in the Gospel age. But economic progress and better livelihoods steadily removed poverty. The Protestant ethic, stressing work, also helped. You still see beggars in USA and in Europe, but most of them are homeless people, often illiterate migrants unable to find a job.The Supreme Court is right in saying begging cannot be banned. But poverty, the root cause and the biggest challenge that faces us, can certainly be lessened by better education and healthcare.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-begging-remains-a-permanent-fixture-in-the-country-337725
14-11-2021||I was delighted to learn that the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS)||Indian Army’s little-known heritage||“The men who discovered India came as amateurs: by profession, they were soldiers and administrators. But they returned home as giants of scholarship.”Allow me to explain the intrinsic, umbilical connection between the Army and the BNHS. Of the eight gentlemen residents of Bombay who in 1883 founded the BNHS, there was also one serving Army officer, Col Charles Swinhoe of the Bombay Presidency Army. Swinhoe had already attained international status in the study of moths, both for the breadth of his knowledge and the sheer size of his collection of 40,000 specimens of 7,000 different species. And of these, 400 species were described for the first time by Swinhoe and he went on to publish the first ever “Catalogue of the Moths of India” in 1887.Col Swinhoe had also served in the Army of the Indus which was employed in the 2nd and 3rd Anglo-Afghan Wars and in the process collected 70 skins of rare birds; he gifted the lot to the BNHS, which gave a start to the Society’s monumental collection. Swinhoe also gifted to the British Museum of Natural History skins of the coronated/crowned sandgrouse from the Kandahar region, which are preserved to this day.But the flame of the “giants of scholarship” was lit a hundred years earlier by the arrival of Thomas Hardwicke in 1778 as a 19-year-old cadet-officer of the Bengal Presidency Artillery. Like any other schoolboy, Hardwick would have collected bird’s eggs and nests in England’s countryside but beyond that, he had had no special education in natural history. In time, he rose to command the Bengal Artillery as a Major General (1820), had been rewarded twice for gallantry, had set up a considerable personal menagerie of denizens of the Indian jungles at Barrackpore, and employed on his domestic staff gifted local artists to paint the species in his collection.On retirement, Gen Hardwicke gifted this entire collection of specimens (birds, mammals, reptiles, butterflies, etc) and 32 folios of paintings to the British Museum, which was perhaps the first comprehensive display of Indian natural history in the world. The curator, JE Gray, used that collection to publish “Illustrations of Indian Zoology: Chiefly Selected from The Collection of Maj Gen Hardwicke” (1830-35) in two volumes. And his name (Hardwickii) is tagged to a bird, a mammal, a butterfly, two lizards and even a tree!Briefly stated, the pioneering role of those “soldiers” in the exploration and documentation of India’s fauna and flora simply has no parallel anywhere in the world. For instance, of the 1,361 universally classified species of Indian birds today, 1,008 were enumerated by Maj TC Jerdon alone (a surgeon of the Madras Presidency Army) way back in 1864 and tabulated in “The Birds of India: Being a Natural History of all the Birds Known to Inhabit Continental India”, in two volumes.For the sheer excellence in bird art, Jerdon’s “Illustrations of Indian Ornithology” simply takes your breath away. Each of those over 400 species was painted in water colours by artists from in and around Madras. Delivering the Salim Ali Memorial Lecture in 1996, JC Daniel said of Jerdon: “As a field naturalist, he was not to be equalled till Salim Ali came on the scene.” Finally, there is a footnote to “The Roll of Indian Medical Service”, which sums up Jerdon thus: “He lived and served before the days of decorations.”This incredible story of the “giants of scholarship” from among the Indian Army was carried forward with the publication of the first definitive books on the snakes of India by Lt Col Frank Wall, mammals of India by Maj TC Jerdon, freshwater fishes by Lt Col Arthur MacDonald, bird photography by Col RSP Bates and butterflies of India by Brig WH Evans, DSO.And there were others who were “giants of scholarship” in individual species, namely Lt Col LL Fenton on the Gir lion, Lt Col AHE Moss on the panther, Lt Col SR Tickell on the hornbills, Lt Col FB Scott on the hawkmoths, Maj TC Jerdon on the Indian cheetah, Lt Col RW Burton on the Indian wild dog and Brig Gen RG Burton on the tiger.Who wouldn’t be proud of such an incredible and diverse heritage, so let’s raise a salute to them!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indian-armys-little-known-heritage-337724
14-11-2021||One had written earlier about the requirements of the people (the voters) and the priorities of politicians — there is a huge gulf||Polls: Same hunters, bait, prey||The only agenda motivating the parties and their leadership, it appears, is one of personal gain, but no focus on national or even state-level policies. The politician does not look at things from the viewpoint of the common man and his needs. He looks at them as vote banks to be exploited, whenever needed. Let us take the coming Assembly elections in five states. It is a race among parties (in power and out of power) to announce freebies or give relaxations to ‘win’ votes at any cost. Electricity fares are being slashed, yatra trains are being promised, petrol and diesel prices are being brought down and states have changed rules to ensure that 60 or 70 per cent of recruitment is from sons of the soil. Is this nation-building? Where is the idea of India? Or for that matter, what is the idea of India as perceived by these parties?The BJP’s idea of India is distinct, with religion as a core guiding principle. The Congress has its own muddled version and there is no one to explain it lucidly. The state parties’ version keeps changing depending on whether they are in or out of power. Then there are regional parties founded by individuals who broke away from the Congress, like TMC, NCP, YSR. The South is a different ballgame and it has its own priorities. If religion, caste, regionalism are the basis of most parties, then where is the idea of India? Leaders like Mamata Banerjee, Patnaik, Pawar, Stalin, KCR, Nitish and Lalu are strong individuals and their parties function on their whims and fancies. Mainstream parties have also graduated to virtually one-man or one-family parties. Collective leadership and the role of the Cabinet with joint responsibility and decision-making are no longer there. The fundamental basis of our democracy is the role played by MPs/MLAs in not only electing their leaders, but also in the formation of the Cabinet, the government and the body politic. The distribution of power and decision-making as opposed to a unipolar polity is essential not only for democracy, but for effective and efficient administration. Today’s leaders do not encourage second-rung leadership or a Cabinet of peers. Nehru had Sardar Patel, Maulana Azad and a host of other brilliant leaders. Atalji had Advani, Yashwant Sinha, Arun Shourie, Jaswant Singh, Sushma Swaraj, etc, brilliant men and women who were the PM’s equals. PV Narasimha Rao had Manmohan Singh as Finance Minister. Manmohan Singh had Chidambaram, Pranab Mukherjee, Montek Singh in the Planning Commission, Raghuram Rajan in the RBI. These were Cabinets of peers, who spoke their mind on important issues.The states had Chief Ministers like Kamaraj in Tamil Nadu, Dr BC Roy in Bengal, YB Chavan in Maharashtra, Kairon and Darbara Singh in Punjab, Bansi Lal and Devi Lal in Haryana. I could go on and on, but the basic point is that today’s leaders and men in power do not encourage brilliance; to the contrary, they are afraid of it. Hence, there are no major well-thought-out long-term policy initiatives. The absence of balanced Cabinets leads to poor governance, poor performance of the economy and the delivery of justice. We have reactive Central and state governments which move from one emergency to another. After all the problems with Covid, migration, GST code, demonetisation, etc, have we drawn up a detailed, long-term national plan with the consultation of states? Whether in health, education, natural disasters, internal security — of course not. We will wait for the next disaster and deal with it. It is said that when Henry Ford launched his car, a journalist sarcastically asked how he would progress given that he was not well educated and had no experience of industry. His brief answer was that he aimed to hire the best brains from all over and that is what he did. The rest is history. Most of our current leaders in government try to gather dwarfs around them, people who do not have the brains or the brawn to challenge their leadership. This is why people only recognise the leader and not the mediocrities surrounding him. As individuals by themselves cannot formulate short-term or long-term policies for the entire country, they therefore cannot deliver on governance and justice.The millions who live in abject poverty cannot be brought out of it by sloganeering during election times. We have to educate them, make them healthy and provide jobs. This will only be possible through well-thought-out policies and motivated leadership. It will not help if only during election times sops are given — a small amount of cash, liquor, food for a few days in exchange for votes. This cycle of elections throughout the year makes one feel that winning elections is the sole purpose of parties and there is no time for policies or governance. Elections are only a means to power and power is not for the sake of power — it is what the voter gives you to improve his living conditions. Even during elections, empty slogans should be avoided. It is here that the other pillars of democracy need to come forward and ensure that the entire political dialogue for electioneering is not hijacked by mischievous and devious elements bent upon misleading the voter. The media should play its role in keeping the discussion focused on the core issues of development, health, education and security, whereas the judiciary needs to actively monitor the criminal justice system and keep the criminals out of politics. The Election Commission should not be a mere facilitator of election processes, but should ensure that there is a level and fair playing field for all parties, before, during and after the elections.Now let us compare the election campaigns of our parties with those of the older democracies. The Conservatives and Labour in the UK, the Democrats and Republicans in USA clearly spell out ideologies and vision. In the US, most citizens have affiliations to one of the two parties and are quite clear about their position. Party agendas mainly cater to the economic needs of people and their overall development. Other important issues such as climate change and pollution are also regularly analysed by parties and positions well advertised. The thing to note is that there is a policy and agenda. President Biden and the Democrats recently spelt out a plan for development of infrastructure and put it before the people and in the Congress. It was debated for months and ultimately passed in a bipartisan vote. There was significant cross-voting suggestive of a vibrant democracy, not limited by partisan positions. It’s important to mention that cross-voting was on the issue at hand and by no means does it imply that the members defect or change parties on the turn of the coin. In fact, mass defections are unheard of. Propriety in politics is considered paramount and non-negotiable.Even this type of democracy can throw up a Trump but, it is for the American people to deal with him and his politics. We, on the other hand, depend on symbols. Competitive symbols around the same theme of religion and caste, and on handouts before the elections. We must learn that there are no shortcuts to becoming a developed society. National policies, agendas and committed leaders do matter. An entirely new generation is coming up and it is not constrained by old ideas. The nation needs to harness their power, their youth and give them an environment to flourish. We should not lose them to foreign shores.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/polls-same-hunters-bait-prey-337681
