15-11-2021||---||Covid-19 vaccine drive faces real test now||THREE weeks since India achieved a cumulative 100 crore shots of Covid-19 vaccines, the daily vaccination rate has witnessed a downward trajectory. In the first 10 days of November, the daily vaccination average was 40 lakh shots, the lowest for any 10-day period since July 2021. Only 38% of the eligible adult population has received both shots and an additional 42% just one shot. One-fifth of the adult population, around 18.7 crore, have not received any shot. There are around 12 crore adults who received the first shot and are now eligible, but did not return for their second shot. A silver lining is that India has more vaccine supply than demand and in the second week of November, nearly 13 crore doses were available with the states.With not even 60% of the target 188 crore vaccine doses administered, there is a long way to go for the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India. However, with the daily new Covid cases coming down to the pre-second wave level in February, vaccine hesitancy (among those yet to be vaccinated) and complacency (among those who should return for the second shot) appear to be the biggest challenges. At this juncture, Covid-19 vaccination drive in India can benefit from expert technical inputs and guidance and a robust operational strategy.To start with, for a country of the size of India, the achievements in terms of absolute numbers could be misleading. As an example, only half of India’s 60-plus population has received both shots in spite of vaccination for this age-group being opened nine months ago in March 2021. The situation for the 45 to 59 years age-group is also very similar. The vaccination for pregnant women has remained in the range of 15% to 20%. These three population sub-groups are at the highest risk of adverse Covid-19 outcome and would get maximum benefit by the vaccination. Clearly, the vaccine shots are not reaching the priority population groups it should.There is an urgent need that the Covid-19 vaccination data is analysed by various stratifiers to identify the population sub-groups being missed. The CoWin dashboard and data should be effectively used to identify who and where are the people left behind and targeted strategies need to be implemented to achieve a higher coverage. The pockets with unvaccinated high-risk populations could fuel the next wave and should be prioritised rather than merely focusing upon increasing the overall number of vaccine doses. The drive in states and districts which have low vaccination coverage has to be prioritised. The Covid-19 vaccination data should be linked to clinical conditions and outcomes of beneficiaries to find answers to the epidemiological and programmatic questions of waning immunity and breakthrough infections etc.Recognising some of these emerging challenges, the government has announced initiatives such as ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ and ‘Vaccination toli’ etc. However, there is a lot from the past efforts such as polio elimination in India. Every round of the polio programme had achieved close to 99% coverage of target beneficiaries, such as effective micro-planning and community mobilisation, and those approaches should be used.India needs to be prepared for the time ahead, where a decision and planning for Covid-19 vaccination of children as well as on the need for booster dose has to be taken. To facilitate the process, key policy questions in these areas should be identified and the process to generate evidence to answer policy questions initiated. The policy makers and technical experts also need to deliberate upon questions such as whether the available vaccination data is being sufficiently analysed and utilised? Have operational research studies to answer policy questions for the future been initiated? Are Indian states collecting data on the safety of vaccines in pregnant women and lactating mothers and on the vaccine effectiveness over a period? Are studies in progress on the possibility of mix-and-match of Covid-19 vaccines?The immediate focus has to be on increasing coverage with both shots in the adult population. The time at hand should be used to put institutional mechanisms in place to generate epidemiological data and evidence. The decisions on Covid-19 vaccination of children as well as booster shots should be determined entirely by the scientific evidence and not influenced by external factors such as perceived demand. The Covid-19 vaccination has also brought attention to the role and importance of adult vaccination and the technical expert groups should start deliberating on the future of adult vaccination in India, beyond Covid-19.There are policies and regulatory issues, which also need calm assessment before the situation turns into crises. The government should take a call on granting (or not) indemnity to foreign-made Covid-19 vaccines and arrive at suitable solutions, else, in the months ahead, Indian manufacturers might be producing the vaccines, which can only be exported and not used in India. The vaccine production and supply in India has stabilised. The Vaccine Maitri can be resumed in an incremental and sustainable manner. With two vaccines from India having WHO Emergency Use Listing, it is an opportunity for the country to show global leadership.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has reached a vital juncture. It is time to take urgent actions to tackle vaccine hesitancy and complacency, ensure that data is effectively utilised for targeted increase in coverage and technical experts use evidence to develop a roadmap for Covid-19 vaccination in India. The health policy makers in India should also consider commissioning an independent assessment of Covid-19 vaccination drive in the last nine months, to derive learnings for the period ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-19-vaccine-drive-faces-real-test-now-338192
15-11-2021||---||Stick to the basics of nuclear deterrence||CHINA continues to make strides towards new military capabilities. The latest strategic technology to reportedly have been tested in August 2021 was a nuclear-capable hypersonic missile. China apparently used a rocket to propel a nuclear weapon into the low-earth orbit, which glided at five times the speed of sound, conducted evasive manoeuvres, and routed itself over the South Pole to hit the target. This combination of tactics was planned to evade the US early warning architecture designed to detect threats from the Northern Hemisphere. China claims though that it actually tested a reusable space plane, not a menacing missile.Irrespective of what was tested, it is clear that China is amassing a formidable array of new capabilities. The US reacted to this test with shock and alarm. The American intelligence community expressed surprise at China’s ability to pull this off, while Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen Milley, described this as the ‘Sputnik moment’. In response, the US has reportedly conducted three tests of its own hypersonic missiles. Evidently, the US-China nuclear equation is heading deeper into the abyss of arms race.How should India perceive the demonstrated Chinese capability? To start with, New Delhi should neither be surprised nor unduly alarmed at the development. From the time that the US headed towards ballistic missile defence (BMD) development and deployment, Beijing too had started developing capabilities that would deceive, overwhelm, penetrate and defeat the BMD. Building hypersonic delivery systems is one of these efforts and it should, therefore, not be surprised that new capabilities are being tested each time. Russia too is doing the same to build an ‘invincible arsenal’ against the US BMD.Neither is there reason for India to be overly alarmed by this technology. The hypersonic missile is a new way of delivering nuclear weapons reliably into a heavily defended environment. Such a missile can go fast, which matters in the case of US-China, given their distance; it can manoeuvre, which is necessary for China to evade the US missile defences; it can hit the target after orbiting the earth, which is needed by China to avoid detection by the US radars. So, the missile is relevant for China to signal credible deterrence against the US.None of these considerations, however, necessarily apply to India. China is geographically close to India, so missile travel time is anyway short. China does not have a BMD of the US kind, nor an early warning system to threaten Indian missiles. In any case, ballistic missiles are hypersonic on re-entry into the atmosphere as they speed towards the target. If the re-entry warheads were multiple and manoeuvrable, they could anyway overwhelm a BMD.Given that India’s threat environment is so different from what China faces vis-a-vis the US, there is no need for a panic response. Nevertheless, India must continue with its own research and development on hypersonics, which it has been engaged in for some time now. It is likely that China will enhance its own BMD in the years ahead. Being able to develop and deploy hypersonic missiles might make sense then. Meanwhile, this technology also offers civilian benefits such as reusable space planes that might revolutionise travel. Therefore, the important thing is to keep all options open, without necessarily rushing all investment in this direction. Building technological capability but staying short of overt deployment can have its own security benefits.Would it matter if China had nuclear capable hypersonic delivery systems and India did not? No. This would not degrade India’s nuclear deterrence as long as China remained vulnerable to Indian nuclear delivery, whatever the mode be. Fortunately, India’s delivery options have progressed well. Air delivery of nuclear weapons was the first option available to the country. Initially, given the limited reach of the aircraft’s area of operations, it was assumed that using aircraft for delivery of nuclear weapons over targets in China would have to be one-way missions. With aerial refuelling now possible, this is no longer the case. Meanwhile, land-based missiles of varied ranges and improved accuracies have steadily been developed and deployed. The need of the hour now, from the point of the threat from China, is to quickly induct and deploy Agni-V in requisite numbers. Meanwhile, the sea leg of the triad has been demonstrated with INS Arihant and the K-15 submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBM) on it. However, effort must be towards quickly operationalising more nuclear submarines with longer range SLBMs so that the triad can signal greater deterrence credibility. Together, the triadic delivery options would give India the ability to signal assured retaliation capability. So, irrespective of the mode of delivery used by the adversary, it cannot hope to get away without suffering nuclear retaliation.China’s recent test is not such a game-changer from the nuclear deterrence point of view. India should keep a cool head and focus on the basics of nuclear deterrence. Some capabilities are absolutely essential for it, and some are accessories. The latter can be avoided to save money and to lessen the chances of creating future security dilemmas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/stick-to-the-basics-of-nuclear-deterrence-338191
15-11-2021||---||India on a sticky wicket||THE regional conference of top security officials regarding Afghanistan, held in New Delhi on November 10, was a noteworthy event. It signified an audacious Indian bid to remain relevant as regards Afghanistan’s future, the region’s response to it and its efficacy in the current circumstances.Our foreign policy and diplomacy are showing signs of pedantry and resembling post-doctoral research work on international relations and the world order.The collapse of the Afghan policies has been most unexpected for the Indian establishment. The networking with a clutch of individuals in Kabul inevitably led to tunnel vision. Last week, the Russian ambassador in Kabul, Dmitry Zhirnov, said, ‘We knew that he (President Ghani) would not be supported by the army because he did not pay wages to soldiers. We learned it from Afghan soldiers.… And most importantly, we had information from various sources, including the Taliban camp, that the Taliban’s entrance to Kabul would be peaceful, with no bloodshed and threats to the Russian diplomatic mission and other diplomatic missions, too.’ Zhirnov mocked at countries that closed their embassies and ‘fled’ Kabul.Evidently, there has been an intelligence failure. Gen Sir Nick Carter, Britain’s chief of general staff, also admitted to the House of Commons Defence Committee last week that he knew a collapse of the Afghan army was on the cards. Again, in a stunning interview with BBC last week, Afghanistan’s ex-finance minister Khalid Payenda blamed the government’s fall on corrupt officials who invented ‘ghost soldiers’ and took payments from the Taliban.Payenda said the numbers of the army’s strength were inflated by more than six times and the actual fighting force was only around 50,000 soldiers, but included ‘desertions (and) martyrs who were never accounted for because some of the commanders would keep their bank cards’ and withdraw their salaries. Delhi probably realises by now that a clutch of operatives in Ghani’s circle played India and compromised Indian interests. Those fellows fled Afghanistan and are spent forces today.Alas, in our country, foreign policy and diplomacy are showing signs of pedantry and resembling more and more like post-doctoral research work on international relations and the world order. Fundamentally, the geopolitics of Afghanistan is that the US is desperate to have local partners, since it is poorly supported by nominal Asian or European allies and senses that the confluence of Chinese and Russian regional influence is poised to grow and the surge of Iran is a new reality. India made an awful mistake to join yet another US-led ‘bloc’ in West Asia at this juncture — a recipe for further marginalisation.India’s bandwagoning with the American project is out of sync with the regional thinking. Yet, the paradox is that there is still a groundswell of goodwill towards India, as the attendance at the Delhi conference testified. Arguably, the regional states would encourage Delhi to reassert its independent foreign policies. China and Pakistan were the only two countries that spurned the Indian invitation. Given the backdrop of the bloody turf war between India and Pakistan as well as the current history of their bilateral tensions, unsurprisingly, Islamabad remains highly sceptical about Delhi’s intentions in holding the meeting. Nonetheless, PM Imran Khan has shown envious pragmatism that Pakistan will ‘favourably consider’ Kabul’s request for transportation of wheat offered by India via the Attari-Wagah border.As for Beijing, it takes cognisance of the hostile trajectory of India’s regional strategies devolving upon Quad and the zest to not only speak, but also act as America’s junior partner to contain China, including in derailing CPEC. The US is bent upon using Afghanistan as a springboard to destabilise Xinjiang. Strategic communication between Beijing and Delhi is nonexistent today, which leaves no scope for cooperation or coordination over Afghan developments, although the two countries would have common concerns and interests.Even those regional states who participated in the Delhi meet remain unsure about India’s Afghan policies. Looking ahead, the close relationship between Russia, China and Iran creates the possibility of joint action, if not coordination of independent activities, regarding Afghan developments and the trio must be watching closely the frantic Anglo-American moves to ‘return’ to Kabul.The US narrative is transforming rapidly from an open-ended standoff with the Taliban toward negotiating a deal with them so as to open the pathway for according diplomatic recognition to the interim government in Kabul and build a new relationship to advance American interests. No doubt, there is bound to be unease in the region, justifiably so, that Delhi might be called upon to smoothen the pathway.Suffice to say that the challenge for Delhi is to strategise India’s role. Where India can be singular is by reorienting its strategy to make it ‘Afghanistan-centric’ rather than geopolitical. But then, as former foreign secretary K Srinivasan wrote last week, ‘Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party, by ideology, inclination and threat perception, is inclined to greater alignment with the United States whether under the nebulous rubric of the Indo-Pacific or otherwise.’ Although the bandwagoning with the US in Afghanistan turned out to be sterile, India finds itself in a predicament like that of Sisyphus in Greek mythology. The US is openly talking about a ‘road map’ leading to recognition of the Taliban government. General Carter refused to accept that the western powers suffered a ‘defeat’ in Afghanistan. The drift of events is predictable.Thus, the cautionary word at the Delhi meet from the top Kremlin official, Nikolai Patrushev, against replicating newer regional formats regarding Afghanistan must be noted carefully. India just doesn’t have the standing today to rally the region, having forfeited its strategic autonomy. Its motivations are ambiguous. Yet, Delhi ventured to separate those in the kingdom of God and those outside the kingdom of God.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-on-a-sticky-wicket-338190
