16-11-2021||---||Hindutva vs Hinduism||Rahul gandhi’s recent speech on the occasion of the AICC orientation programme organised at the Sevagram Ashram in Wardha seems to suggest that he is trying to inspire the Congress cadres, and urging them to think ideologically, understand the distinction between the subtlety of Hinduism and the grossness of Hindutva, and provide a rigorous politico-cultural critique of the Sangh Parivar. In a way, this is like recalling our turbulent history, and remembering the qualitative difference between, say, Mahatma Gandhi’s experimental and creatively nuanced engagement with Hinduism and what the likes of Savarkar and Golwalkar propagated 0— Hindutva as an exclusivist and totalitarian doctrine of nationalism.In this vicious and toxic game of majority communalism vs minority communalism, there is no winner.At this moment of our political history when we witness a meticulously thought-out design to consolidate the hegemony of Hindutva, and anybody who critiques this project is necessarily seen with suspicion, it is important to realise that the enchanting music of religiosity (it is always liberatory) cannot be in tune with the kind of politics that spreads hatred and violence in the name of religion. For instance, I love to be enchanted time and again by the Upanishadic quest for the transcendental; Mira’s bhajan enters my soul; Sri Aurobindo’s classic The Life Divine whispers in my ears. Yet, this ‘Hindu smell’ has never prevented me from walking with Freudo-Marxist psychoanalyst Erich Fromm, Sufi mystic Jalaluddin Rumi, Vietnamese Buddhist monk Thich Nhat Hanh, or Christian existentialist philosopher Paul Tillich. In a way, the music of religiosity teaches us the art of dialogue and practice of compassionate listening — the way Mahatma Gandhi, for instance, conversed with Leo Tolstoy and Sermon on the Mount; or walked with Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians with the imagination of a compassionate and oceanic idea of India, at a time when the followers of Savarkar and Jinnah — intoxicated with the divisive ideology of the ‘two-nation theory’ — were sowing the seeds of division and hatred. Hence, Rahul Gandhi’s ideological critique of Hindutva — its implicit violence, narcissism and totalitarianism — arouses our attention.However, there are two issues which Rahul Gandhi — if he is sincere in his proposed mission to fight Hindutva — ought to think about. To begin with, it has to be realised that what blocks the creative flow of emancipatory ideas is not just political Hindutva; it is also the way Hinduism — with its heavy burden of ritualism, dictates of the priestcraft, and oppressive/hierarchical/patriarchal caste practices — manifests itself in everyday life. In modern times, Nehru with his discourse of ‘scientific temper’, and Ambedkar with his critique of ‘patriarchal Brahminism’ sought to remind us of the danger of this dead weight of past. And yet, even now know these practices are so deeply ingrained in our lives that it is not easy — particularly, for a politician — to acquire the courage to question, and imagine a refreshingly new way of looking at the world, both outer and inner. Is it the reason that even when our ‘secular’ politicians critique Hindutva, they do not want to hurt ‘Hindu sentiments’, and through diverse forms of dramaturgical practices, assure the audience that they, too, can visit temples and recall their gotras? This is like falling into the trap of the same discourse (you must show your Hindu card to succeed politically) through which the proponents of Hindutva politics have already poisoned our collective psyche. Emancipatory politics requires a kind of education that sensitises us, and gives us the confidence to realise that true religiosity is not the loud demonstration of the markers of an organised religion: mandir darshan or celebrating the iftar party in front of the television camera. Instead, it is about love, connectedness, spiritual cleansing and fusion of horizons. As politics is becoming instrumentally instrumental, and winning the elections at any cost seems to have become its primary objective, will it be possible for Rahul Gandhi to retain his patience, work hard, initiate a rigorous debate, and orient the party cadres in a way Mahatma Gandhi and Nehru would have imagined?Second, it is also important to acknowledge that the assertion or popularisation of a totalitarian doctrine like Hindutva cannot be seen in isolation; it is deeply related to the rise of fundamentalism all over the world, be it Islamic or Christian fundamentalism. And in this subcontinent with its traumatic history of Hindu-Muslim conflict, the divisive forces are never tired of exploiting the memory of the wound, erecting the walls of separation, ghettoising our consciousness and nurturing the politics of revenge and blame game. In this vicious and toxic game of majority communalism vs minority communalism, there is no winner. Instead, we move towards collective suicide. Who understands it better than a Muslim woman in Kashmir who has to see the dead body of her young son killed in an ‘encounter’, or a Hindu father whose daughter was raped in a riot? In fact, the psychology of fundamentalism, or the politics centred on a fixed religious identity abhors civility; it is terribly patriarchal; it is inherently against women, critical thinking, spiritual practice and cosmopolitanism. It robs us of our shared concerns, like education, employment, health and social security. Hence, for our collective redemption, the communalism or fundamentalism of any kind or colour ought to be resisted with equal intensity and conviction. This requires immense courage because this is like being condemned by both the orthodox priests of mandir politics as well as the bunch of non-reflexive mullahs inclined to the Talibanisation of consciousness.Will the Machiavellian statistics of vote-bank politics enable Rahul Gandhi to think of this transparent, honest and bold step?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hindutva-vs-hinduism-338529
16-11-2021||---||Promises and compromises at COP26||THE Glasgow session of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) came to a dramatic end late last week. After much jostling and lobbying, the meeting had to be extended by a day to arrive at the consensual Glasgow Climate Pact (GCP) desired by the host country, the UK.It seems hard lobbying for slowing the phaseout of coal and fossil fuels was done by Russia, Saudi Arabia, China, India and others. The European Union and Switzerland made a strong pitch for ‘the exit of coal’. The GCP that was finally adopted contains the last-minute Indian amendment that watered down the text as “including escalating efforts to phase down unabated coal power, and phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies”. This compromise on the phaseout of fossil fuels gives latitude to these countries as it indicates the beginning of the end of the sordid carbon era.A grim-faced COP president Alok Sharma expressed hope that the final deal had “kept 1.5°C within reach, but the pulse is weak”. He added that the deal drives “progress on coal, cars, cash and trees” and is “something meaningful for our people and our planet”. “The COP26 outcome is a compromise, reflecting the interests, contradictions and state of political will in the world today,” the UN Secretary-General (UNSG) Antonio Guterres tweeted.As usual, thousands of delegateshad assembled in Glasgow to desperately limit the catastrophic effects of global warming. The delegates and activists used different means to draw attention to the feared climate doomsday scenario. In a remote video address, Tuvalu Foreign Minister Simon Kofe chose to stand in knee-deep seawater to show extinction faced by small island states.No big miracles were expected in the divided assembly of 197 sovereign countries. They came together amidst hard core economic and political interests to save the earth from the brink of apocalyptic climate disaster. It amply showed huge disparity in scientific warnings, aspirations in public posturing and desired actions. The draft text of the Glasgow outcome had expressed an “alarm and utmost concern that human activities have caused around 1.1°C of global warming to date and those impacts are already being felt in every region”.In a signed article on October 29, the UNSG had expressed hope that countries will show seriousness in addressing the climate change induced “planetary emergency”. There is a grim scenario wherein the UN reports show that actions of the governments so far simply do not add up to what the situation urgently requires. “Increasing temperatures will make vast stretches of our planet dead zones for humanity by this century’s end,” he said. The UNSG has also called for the developed countries to “urgently meet its commitment of at least $100 billion in annual climate finance for developing countries”.COP26 started with an ambitious goal of global greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) reductions to limit global heating to 1.5°C as well as to have net-zero emissions by 2050. This necessitates reduction of global emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. Hence, the climate negotiations revolved around pushing these targets. Premised upon equity and climate justice, the Indian Prime Minister’s address on November 2 promised net-zero emissions only by 2070.The COP meeting is an annual ritual that has been played out since the UNFCCC was adopted at the UN headquarters on May 9, 1992. It opened for signatures during the Earth Summit at Rio de Janeiro on June 4, 1992, and finally came into force on March 21, 1994. In June 2022, the UNFCCC will attain the age of 30 years.The seeds for global action on climate change were sown by the General Assembly resolution 43/53 of December 6, 1988, that regarded it as a “common concern of humankind” since climate is an “essential condition which sustains life on planet earth”. Hence, in order to protect the climate system for present and future generations, the 1992 UNFCCC has the primary objective (Article 2) of “stabilisation of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system”.The UNFCCC has been designed as a ‘framework convention’ and the first global instrument that designated climate change as a common concern of humankind. With subsequent two instruments, 1997 Kyoto Protocol and 2015 Paris Agreement, the climate change regime now uniquely comprises three legal instruments that seek to address the global climate problematique. Climate change is a predominantly global crisis. It is just one component of the larger environmental crisis endangering our planet.There has been grudging acceptance that humans have become the single biggest factor in decisively influencing changing climate. Geologists are the guardians of the earth’s timeline and work with rocks that are hundreds of millions of years old. For them, it seemed absurd that the humans who have been around for the ‘blink of an eye’ have now become a genuine geological force to decide the fate of the earth. However, this finally came to be accepted on May 21, 2019, by the Anthropocene Working Group.As a corollary, the IPCC’s 2021 sixth scientific assessment report (AR6) has underscored an unmistakable human imprint on changing the global climate. “It is unequivocal that human influence has warmed the atmosphere, ocean and land. Widespread and rapid changes in the atmosphere, oceans, cryosphere and biosphere have occurred,” the AR6 said. The completion of three decades (1992-2022) of the UNFCCC now provides a decisive opportunity to attain the 1.5°C global warming threshold by 2050.The UN General Assembly’s modalities resolution 75/326 of September 10, 2021, has decided to hold the Stockholm+50 event on June 2-3, 2022. The UNFCCC’s 30th anniversary will fall immediately after this event. It will be another defining moment to address the perennial “predicament of mankind” by devising effective global responses for the simmering climate crisis. It calls for an honest assessment of what we have attained in the last 50 years of regulatory processes, use of innovative tools and techniques, and the art and craft of environmental statecraft. How do we define our needs by jettisoning human greed?In June 2022, the 50th anniversary of the 1972 Stockholm Conference will provide a pertinent occasion for a decisive course correction. “We all have our part to play as we face this existential threat,” Peter Maurer, president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, Geneva, has said. As time is running out, humans need to mend their ways to salvage the earth’s future imperilled by their own actions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/promises-and-compromises-at-cop26-338530
16-11-2021||---||Challenges weighing down Chinese ambitions||ENCRoACHING upon Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh, the Chinese military has built a large village along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as per a Pentagon report. The military dialogues with India have so far only resulted in limited disengagement. A just-released annual Pentagon assessment report to the US Congress highlights China’s military preparedness and expected defence force accretions. The document sets forth “strategic, military and ideological views” on the global balance of power. The ongoing LAC standoff with India could also be seen as an exercise to rehearse some of these new doctrines, such as plans for Tibet, Xinjiang and its Western Theatre Command. Chinese President Xi Jinping targets overtaking US military and political power by 2049, the centenary of the 1949 Chinese Revolution. The Chinese revisionist policies revolve around ‘dual circulation’ of generating increased domestic demand for goods to drive its national economy. The backbone of this is to be the One Belt One Road (OBOR) venture to link up globally to all its allies.The Chinese Communist Party (CCP)-affiliated armed forces are expected to assume an increased role in foreign policy too. The policy document expects a much more integrated civilian and defence industrial complex, including R&D, to seamlessly make substantial capabilities available to either sector. Also envisaged is the interchangeable use of civilian and military infrastructure (such as the use of national highways for air operations) as also for defence logistics and production, besides fast military mobilisation and joint operations revolving around ‘intelligentisation’, involving technological, electronic, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and cyber warfare capabilities. Chemical and biological research and employment are other dangerous portents of the PLA’s new-found defence doctrine. Despite having signed the Chemical Warfare Convention (CWC) and ratified it in 1997, China now claims that its adherence to CWC norms would not be verifiable. This needs to be seen in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and China’s alleged role in having let the virus escape a defence laboratory. Another focus area for China is intelligence as many of its state-of-the-art military technologies are said to be stolen from the West, specifically the US, via espionage. This, however, can be expected to be drastically curtailed as the CIA is specifically targeting Chinese agents to prevent loss of information from its industrial complex.The Pentagon report further mentions the planned accelerated development of the PLA which, willy-nilly, had lagged behind its Air Force and Navy in recent times. The PLA Navy is already the largest global entity in terms of seaborne combat assets. Now whilst the new Chinese military aspirations would seem menacing to its neighbours and rivals, this is akin to a ‘white paper’ seeking to guide her to long-term aspirations, and there would be many a slip between the cup and the lip. India’s defence spending is just a third of China’s, and we need to see what are the hurdles in the way of Chinese ‘big power’ dreams. The biggest worry would be its leadership model. Xi Jinping is now a ‘triple barrel’ Chief, leading the Party as its General Secretary , the country as its President and the Central Military Commission as its Chairman. With a leadership tussle being talked of, the CCP-orchestrated system is highly vulnerable to being upstaged by another autocratic ruler. Social media is rife with comparisons of the Chinese strongman with Adolf Hitler in his leadership style and ambitions.The other serious challenge is the downturn expected in the Chinese economy, what with the recent collapse of real estate giants such as Evergrande. Several more small and medium corporates are expected to come crumbling down, thanks to their unmanageable debt structures, should the Evergrande fiasco be repeated. Besides, the government’s attempts to slow down real estate growth post this collapse could lead to markedly low GDP in the coming years. Speculative real estate deals have been the main reason for China’s dramatic growth story over the past decade, thanks to increased employment and revenue collection, contributing to nearly a quarter of the country’s GDP, considerably larger than of the US. The challenges posed by the project delays in OBOR in countries such as Maldives, Indonesia and Pakistan would ultimately take their toll on the Chinese economy. Progressive entrepreneurs such as Jack Ma of Ali Baba are said to be running foul with the CCP and the establishment due to conflict of interest. High-handed methods of a strong communist system may alone be insufficient to keep corporate discipline intact. The so-called successful Chinese communistic ‘democracy’ could well do a humpty dumpty sooner than expected.Other issues currently weighing down Chinese ambitions are the tensions with the US over Taiwan and tensions in the Indo-Pacific with the Quad countries. The possibility of hostilities over the Taiwan standoff has led to panic buying in China as the government has asked its citizens to stock up on essential supplies.Regardless of its A2AD (Anti-Access Area Denial) defensive doctrine, an amphibious assault against Taipei is not a possibility as of now, considering China’s limited military amphibious landing capabilities and an expected riposte from the US. Sino-US ties would be critical over the next two decades. A modus vivendi setting boundaries for competition and cooperation may be the way ahead. The nation that best manages domestic challenges whilst showing global leadership would enjoy success. This policy paper on China may remain wishful thinking of a belligerent autarchy. Frustrations on this score could mean continued border incidents along the LAC with India and constant game-playing on other Indo-Pak issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/challenges-weighing-down-chinese-ambitions-338531
