18-11-2021||---||Just how poor are we||Is India winning the battle against poverty? The simplest way of looking at the issue is to determine how many people fall below the poverty line, that is earn less than what is considered necessary to live with a minimum amount of dignity and take care of basic needs like essential healthcare and a minimum, say, middle school level of education for children.First it was DeMo, and then, the pandemic. Now that India is under international pressure to cut down its emission of greenhouse gases, a question mark hangs over its ability to pursue high growth.But things get a bit complicated when we find that the total number of people below the poverty line is increasing (the battle is being lost), even as the percentage of people below the poverty line is falling (the battle is being won). This is because as the total population increases, even a falling percentage of the poor translates into a higher absolute number. But even this is not all. Over time, as the economy grows and the income and lifestyle of those who are relatively better off improves, in comparison to them more people seem to be poor. So, our perception of poverty changes — the idea of what is considered to be the minimum quality of life rises.This is best illustrated by noting that what is considered to be poverty in the US, or even in China, makes for a standard of living way above Indian perceptions of poverty. To capture this, the poverty line (the minimum needed not to be considered to be poor) has to rise. Today, many poor people, who may not even have a roof over their heads, own a cellphone, but, say, two decades ago, many poor families did not even own a radio.Going by these two measures, India is both beating poverty and being beaten by it. Between 1973 and 2019, the percentage of people below the poverty line fell from 55 to 21, that is by more than half, but over the same period, the total number of people below the poverty line rose from 321 million to 346 million. This is partly because over the same period, the total population more than doubled, from 568 million to 1.3 billion. The same percentage of a total that has doubled will yield double the initial absolute figure.On bumping up the poverty line, this is what the Tendulkar committee did in 2012. Earlier, the poverty line indicated the income needed to meet a minimum calorific requirement. But the revised poverty line took into consideration the income needed to meet expenditure on healthcare and education as well.The current problem is that the poverty line has not been redefined for over a decade now. Typically, the poverty line is revised on the basis of the Consumer Expenditure Survey by the NSO conducted every five years. The findings of the last such survey, conducted in 2017-18, have, however, been rejected by the government on the ground that the survey suffers from data inadequacy. It reportedly indicated that for the first time in four decades, consumer expenditure has fallen. The next survey is to be done in the current year.But two academics, Santosh Mehrotra and Jajati Keshari Parida, have tried to get round the problem by looking at a proxy — the consumption related questions in the Periodic Labour Force Survey. According to their calculations, and in keeping with the earlier pattern, Mehrotra said the percentage below the poverty line had gone down marginally from 21.9 in 2012 to 20.8 in 2020, but the absolute number of the poor had gone up, with 76 million people falling below the poverty line during 2012-20 as against 140 million getting out of poverty during 2004-11.Several reasons are attributed to this. One is that in the last few years, India’s growth rate has gone down. This is particularly so since demonetisation in 2016. If the economy as a whole grows at a slower rate, then with the same income distribution profile as before, the number of people getting out of poverty will be smaller.The second reason for the number of people falling below the poverty line is a sharp rise in unemployment. According to CMIE, 7 million jobs were lost during February 2020-February 2021. If people without jobs and looking for them do not get them, then the chances are that they will fall below the poverty line. The consumer expenditure and PLFS surveys both point to joblessness in 2017-18 running at a 45-year high.The third reason for a relapse into poverty is poor performance on the wages front during the last several years when they have either stagnated or actually fallen behind. This is the opposite of what happened to non-farm wages during the earlier period.What is more, we do not have the complete picture of the impact of the Covid pandemic on poverty, particularly as a result of hundreds of thousands who lost their non-farm jobs in urban areas trudging back to their villages where they have had to take up MGNREGA work. The initial budgetary allocation for the scheme is already exhausted halfway through the year and many states are in deficit as a result of having to meet these wage payments. Additional allocations will now have to be made by the Centre for the scheme to offer work to all those who seek it.Data from Pew Research Center gives a partial glimpse. In the first year of the pandemic, the number of poor (those living on less than $2 per day) has more than doubled from 60 million to 134 million. The final figure, when the full impact of the second wave is taken into account, will in all likelihood be worse.By all accounts, the poverty picture in India has gotten worse in the last several years, both on account of misguided policy initiative (demonetisation) and bad luck (pandemic). Plus, now that under tremendous international pressure, India will have to cut down its emission of greenhouse gases, a question mark hangs over its ability to pursue high growth. A gloomy picture — both when you look back and forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/just-how-poor-are-we-339468
18-11-2021||---||Discord in accord at Glasgow climate meet||The much-touted Glasgow climate conference came to an end with a watered-down deal, the Glasgow Climate Pact. After months of preparations and a fortnight of hectic negotiations, it would have been a pity if the conference was to end in a logjam or no-deal situation. The negotiators and environment ministers could deliver a deal in the extended hours, but it is weak and diluted to an extent that many have found it disappointing.Ironically, India — which at the start of the conference was hailed for announcing a bold emission reduction plan and 2070 as the target year for achieving ‘net zero’ status — is being blamed for the below expectation outcome at Glasgow. India, along with China, South Africa and others, forced a critical change in the final agreement on the coal question. The Indian negotiators insisted on replacing ‘phase out’ with ‘phase down’ for coal in the draft. Since the intervention for change in the language was made by India’s Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, on behalf of coal dependent countries, India is being portrayed as the villain for the weak deal. Irrespective of the merits of the decision, it is an embarrassing and rapid transformation from being a climate hero to a climate villain for a government so conscious of its image in the international media and diplomatic circles.In the Paris Agreement six years ago, countries had agreed to make efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degree above pre-industrial levels. Glasgow has somehow kept the hopes of doing so alive, taking a tiny step towards that objective by mentioning the need to move away from coal as well as subsidies to dirty fuels. The pact cautiously calls for a transition to low-emission energy systems by “accelerating efforts towards the phase-down of unabated coal power and phase-out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies” while providing targeted support to the poor to ensure a just transition. The word ‘coal power’ has been prefixed with ‘unabated’ and the word ‘fossil fuel subsidies’ with ‘inefficient’. And everything has to be balanced with ‘just transition’. Every word in this paragraph on coal is conditional and open to interpretation. On top of it all, there is no target year fixed for ‘phase down’ of coal or getting rid of subsidies, and of course, no mention of oil and gas at all. This part of the deal is an unapologetic compromise to safeguard the interests of both the developing and developed countries.At the same time, the very mention of coal in a climate change declaration is considered to be progress because it is the first time since negotiations began a quarter century ago that coal has been named. Following the Glasgow pact, coal stocks on global markets have tumbled a bit. The markets perhaps see the talk of ‘phase down’ as the beginning of the end of coal.The second most important issue on agenda was climate finance — an issue flagged by India and other developing countries repeatedly. Accepting the responsibility for their historical greenhouse gas emissions, industrialised countries had pledged more than a decade ago to provide $100 billion annually to the global climate fund by 2020. This was to help developing countries in their transition to low-carbon scenario. The pledges have remained on paper. The Glasgow Pact reiterates the need for climate finance and has urged ‘developed country parties to fully deliver on the $100-billion goal urgently and through to 2025’ with transparency in the implementation of their pledges. On additional funding for climate adaptation, the pact urges developed country parties to ‘at least double their collective provision of climate finance’ from 2019 levels by 2025. For long-term finance, it has been decided to hold three high-level ministerial dialogues every two years, starting 2022. In sum, no tangible progress has been made on helping developing countries to move towards a low-carbon pathway or adapting to climate change already happening.Article 6 of the Paris Agreement provided for conversion of emission reduction into tradable units which could be used for offsetting emissions through purchase. This was supposed to replace the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) that resulted from the now expired Kyoto Protocol. The issue of finalising rules relating to the new mechanism on carbon credits has been hanging fire since 2015. A set of complex rules has been finally adapted at Glasgow though doubts remain if the elaborate credit accounting and trading framework would lead to any real emission reduction at all. A huge unsettled block of credits from the CDM period also needs to be addressed. Another vexed issue that evaded a solution was compensating the poor countries for the loss and the damage they are suffering due to the impacts of climate change such as extreme weather events.The Modi government has taken a position on key climate related issues at Glasgow. It has promised a massive one billion tonnes’ reduction in emissions by 2030, a radical shift to renewables, a net-zero target for 2070 and a coal phase-down. It has, however, remained non-committal on two other key issues that cropped up on the sidelines of COP26 — methane emission reduction and deforestation. The global methane pledge, a voluntary plan initiated by the European Union, seeks to slash methane emissions by 30 per cent compared with the 2020 levels. Over 100 countries signed this pledge. Another pledge that India stayed away from is the ‘Glasgow Leaders’ Declaration on Forests and Land Use’ that seeks to ‘halt deforestation’ by 2030. About 130 countries have signed this.It is high time the government takes steps to walk the talk on the domestic front. It should initiate dialogue to prepare a comprehensive climate change policy, national and sectoral roadmaps for ‘net zero’ and a new climate action plan. The existing National Action Plan on Climate Change was unveiled in 2008. Following this, states were asked to prepare state climate action plans. Both national and state plans need a thorough review in the light of new realities and commitments made by the present government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/discord-in-accord-at-glasgow-climate-meet-339469
18-11-2021||---||Stability remains elusive for Afghanistan||Three months since the Taliban took over Kabul, they have nothing much to show except public hangings, denial of women’s rights and a worsening terror situation. Control of the ISI is still rumoured, but there are several signs of independence the Taliban are already showing. Dissonance in public statements of Pakistan versus those of the Taliban were evident after the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP) truce talks in Nangarhar on mediation; and on veracity of the statement purported to have been made by Amir ul-Momineen, said to be based in Kandahar.Ingress and interest of the foreign media in Kabul have waned significantly. Except for stories on possible starvation and deprivation, given the onset of winter, public exposure of the wranglings of the cabinet is few and far between.Contrary to immediate doomsday scenarios, the Taliban have managed to keep their cabinet intact, using the ‘interim’ word to keep dissent at low levels, having recently made its first big appointments, announcing 44 leaders as provincial governors and police chiefs. Reuters reported Qari Baryal as Governor of Kabul, and Wali Jan Hamza as Kabul’s police chief, making no mention of the incumbent acting Governor and police chief — a mystery that is bound to deepen.The former head of Kabul’s military corps, also head of Haqqani’s elite 313 Brigade, Mawlawi Hamdullah Mukhlis, was killed in early November in a complex attack on the biggest military hospital in Afghanistan, much in the same style and with the same ferocity as was effected by the Haqqani network during the NATO occupation.The Taliban have also suffered the ignominy of having to countenance a large number of attacks, several suicide bombings by the ISK, many targeting of the Taliban and Shias. The sudden change of targeting by ISK from the Afghan government and forces to the Taliban and Shias, is inexplicable. Both declarations were made on social media, leaving open the question whether the ISK had a change of heart, or change of leadership or just that the operator of the set of ISK social media channels had changed. What does bother thinking minds is the sudden focus on areas where the ISK was not present, as in Kandahar and the overly focused bombing of Shia gatherings, indicating the interest of ISK in keeping Afghanistan on the boil, while ignoring contiguous areas in Pakistan or the northern Stans.The appearance of head of The Resistance Front (TRF) Masood Junior in Iran, his meeting with Herat’s strongman, Ismail Khan, Masood’s affinity to Tajikistan and his announcement of a global presence along with pockets of control in the Panjshir Valley, are ominous for the Taliban and Pakistan.The suddenness with which Pakistan was able to garner support of the TTA and TTP for a peace agreement was also a surprise, though much remains to be seen as to how Pakistan will agree for amnesty to TTP terrorists, open a TTP office in Islamabad and manage a ceasefire that holds. The backroom assistance Pakistan received from the Haqqani network in resolving its TTP issues puts paid to years of ISI-speak, blaming India for the depredations of the TTP, including the Peshawar school attack in 2014.In continued efforts to project an image of a clean administration, around 200 Taliban members were reported to be expelled in mid-October and the Interior Ministry announced a commission to remove corrupt and undeserving individuals from its ranks. The commission comprises officials from the country’s defence and interior ministries as well as the National Security Directorate. Foreign intelligence agencies would find this interesting given that one of the key silent demands at the Doha talks were to allow Haqqanis to whiten their laundered funds, mostly collected out of trafficking in narcotics. This is a noose that the FATF is a past master at exploiting, as it has done with Pakistan — pressing for demonstration of effectiveness in implementation of rules and laws by such commissions.The Taliban leadership, despite its increasing concern about Afghanistan’s economic woes, lacks adequate fiscal or monetary plans or expertise to address the country’s liquidity crisis. Kate Clark of the Afghanistan Analysts Network (AAN) is writing the best current research on Afghanistan, that wonderland of beauty, ravaged by humans over the past 40 years. In her latest piece on November 11, she writes that even if some humanitarian aid reaches Afghanistan this winter, the country is on its way to becoming one of the poorest and most isolated, with an immiserated middle class. The most wicked twist for the Afghan people is the overnight dashing of hopes, built on two decades of steady improvement in parameters of health, education, mortality and equality of opportunity that its youth experienced in the past two decades. With much reduced opportunities for work and even lower for emigration, not much can be said of how this country will be brought back to life.In all these years, Afghanistan received three-fourths of its public expenditure as grants from overseas, all of which is now reduced to nil. Nearly half the population is estimated to be on the verge of starvation, with the Taliban unable to collect enough taxes, given that internal revenue generation, about 16% of annual budgets, is now largely restricted to customs. Transmission losses from the custom check-posts are rising as local commanders are holding back some for use, as will cadres soon enough. Extortion and trafficking in narcotics are expected to pick up as key revenue earnings for local commanders.The Western world is tiring of Afghanistan, given that it doesn’t present a clear and present danger as yet. As it did with communism, post-Second World War, and with jihadi terrorism, post 9-11, the West has convincingly moved on to tackle China. For India, the threat is growing and larger than ever. With a currently peaceful western border, inimical foreign powers ousted from Afghanistan and key terrorist organisation TTP engaged in peace talks, the ISI headquarters will be re-arranging desks and facing eastwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/stability-remains-elusive-for-afghanistan-339470
18-11-2021||---||Standing tall, and apart||The 132nd birth anniversary of India’s first PM, Jawaharlal Nehru, was observed on November 14. I say ‘observed’ because it was not celebrated as it should have been. His contributions to nation-building, to planting deep the roots of democracy and to ensuring that India’s voice was heard with respect in the councils of the world, all these are part of a precious legacy that deserves to be cherished and nurtured for future generations. There were flaws in his leadership, some of which left enduring and negative consequences. I would fault his handling of the Kashmir issue, just as I would his misreading of Chinese intentions in 1962. But one should try to analyse the context in which decisions were taken. We sometimes fail to appreciate the immense odds that India faced at the moment of its ‘tryst with destiny’ on August 15, 1947.Nehru’s expansive spirit of India should shape the nationalism of its people, not the small-minded, vulgar and bigoted version we see on display today.The country had been partitioned on the basis of religion and was soon engulfed by the violent exchange of populations across newly etched borders. There was the challenge of consolidating over 500 princely states, which could technically claim independent status. Then came the war with Pakistan and the near loss of J&K. The post war world was already moving from the promise of enduring peace to a prolonged confrontation between two powerful ideological and military blocs, with the constant threat of a nuclear holocaust. Nehru navigated this dangerous geopolitical terrain to retain for India space for independent action and leadership. He put in place an enduring template for foreign policy and diplomacy which has evolved and adjusted to a changing international landscape but underlying principles have remained consistent over the decades. He was a nationalist but also an internationalist and a humanist. He was ahead of many political leaders of his time in his understanding that the dawn of the atomic age was making national boundaries irrelevant; that most of the challenges facing humanity would be cross-national and global in dimension and would need to be tackled in a spirit of internationalism. That is why India became a strong champion of the UN and participated in the negotiation of a series of international instruments, such as the Partial Test Ban Treaty and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. India led the struggle for decolonisation, the movement against apartheid in South Africa and promotion of nuclear disarmament. He wrote extensively on the concept of ‘One World’ which would ideally have overarching institutions of global governance. He was of the view that given the growing salience of challenges that transcend national and regional borders, there was no alternative to a world government and that countries would have to surrender some of their sovereignty to such an institution. In our globalised world of today, his ideas have acquired contemporary relevance.One of his greatest contributions was to put India firmly on the path of modernity. It was his vision which inspired the launch of the nuclear and space programmes, the setting up of centres of excellence, such as the institutes of technology, expanding the network of scientific laboratories under the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the building up of the infrastructure for a modern economy. He emphasised the importance of inculcating a scientific temper. But primary and secondary education was neglected and this remains a serious weakness in our quest for modernity.It is said that Nehru was more an Englishman and less an Indian. Yet his Discovery of India testifies to his deep understanding of Indian history, of the philosophical and intellectual currents across ages that have shaped Indian world views and the rich cultural tapestry. He was fascinated by India’s rich heritage of arts and crafts and the aesthetic sensibilities of our people and promoted their revival.He celebrated India’s diversity, its multi-cultural personality and understood the need to reconcile multiple identities with a sense of national unity. That is why the Constitution does not suppress different identities that Indians cherish but seeks to transcend them in a shared and equal citizenship based on individual rights and freedoms. This also lies at the heart of secularism, of the state avoiding its association with religious rituals and practices. A multi-cultural and multi-religious country could not be anything but a secular state. Being aware of the sectarian and communal demons which always lurked under the surface, Nehru understood the importance of secularism and lived it in spirit and practice. We see the ugly consequences of the state departing from the secular norm. No over-arching national unity can be built upon a Hindu-Muslim binary and this lesson from India’s past is discarded at our peril.Nehru was a modern leader but fully immersed in India’s civilisational heritage. In Discovery of India, he paid eloquent tribute to his beloved country and displayed profound understanding of its civilisational attributes: ‘Yet India with all her poverty and degradation had enough of nobility and greatness about her and though she was over-burdened with ancient tradition and present misery and her eyelids were a little weary, she had a beauty wrought from within upon the flesh, the deposit, little cell by cell, of strange thoughts and fantastic reveries and exquisite passions. Behind and within her battered body one could glimpse a majesty of soul. Through long ages she had travelled and gathered much wisdom on the way, and trafficked with strangers and added them to her own big family and witnessed days of glory and of decay and suffered humiliations and terrible sorrow, and seen many a strange sight, but throughout her long journey, she had clung to her immemorial culture, drawn strength and vitality from it and shared it with other lands.’I cannot think of any Indian leader who so truly understood the soul of India and committed his whole life in its service. This is the expansive spirit of India which should shape the nationalism of its people, not the small-minded, vulgar and bigoted version we see on display today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/standing-tall-and-apart-339078
18-11-2021||---||Manipur ambush sets alarm bells ringing||THE killing of Col Viplav Tripathi, Commanding Officer (CO) of the 46th Battalion of Assam Rifles, along with his wife, six-year-old son and four jawans in an ambush by the outlawed People’s Liberation Army (PLA), an insurgent group of Manipur, and a newly formed outfit, Manipur Naga People’s Front (MNPF), came as a shock to the nation. There had been no incident of this magnitude in the state during the past few years. The last major incident happened on June 6, 2015, when 18 personnel of the Dogra Regiment were killed in an ambush in Chandel district, leading to a stealth attack on insurgent hideouts by Indian Army commandos across the Myanmar border.A prolonged lull in violence by insurgent groups naturally lulls the security forces into letting their guard down. And it appears that no intelligence input regarding the presence of insurgents in the area had been fed to the battalion for the CO to take any precautionary measure. A study of ambushes carried out in Manipur reveals that the insurgents usually lay an ambush in a strength of 15-20 men covering a stretch of 50-100 yards. Positioning themselves at a vantage point, they rehearse for a few days before carrying out the attack on the forces.In the attack on the CO’s convoy, the insurgents would have expected him to return by the same route by which he had gone to Behiang to inspect his battalion’s forward base. The road passing through the forested area afforded several vantage points to choose and plan the ambush.Having activated improvised explosive devices (IEDs), they followed them up with heavy firing on the target. The IED blasts usually stun the personnel in the convoy and before they regain their composure, there is a barrage of bullets, leading to heavy casualties, while the insurgents escape through pre-designated routes. Cadres of the PLA were trained some years ago by Maoists, who in turn were trained by explosives experts of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).Of the two insurgent outfits — the PLA and the MNPF — that have claimed responsibility for the attack, the former is one of the oldest militant groups, while not much has been heard of the latter in the Manipur valley. An offshoot of the United National Liberation Front (UNLF), the armed wing of the erstwhile Revolutionary Government of Manipur (RGM) which was led by Sudhir Kumar, the PLA was founded by N Bishesore Singh in September 1978 and soon came to be recognised as a force to reckon with. It was corruption that led him to the path of insurgency. Having been trained by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in China, an indoctrinated Bishesore returned with a batch of insurgents to Manipur, well equipped with weapons, and launched the PLA. The early 1980s saw a series of attacks on the security forces and even non-Manipur people, known as Mayangs or foreigners in the state.The arrest of Bishesore in July 1981 after an encounter in Tekcham in which seven of his companions were killed came as a huge setback to the organisation. Second Lieutenant Cyrus A Pithawala (who retired as Major General) was awarded the highest peacetime gallantry award — Ashok Chakra — for his derring-do in the encounter. Bishesore contested the Assembly elections from jail and won. He was later shot dead by PLA personnel.With other PLA leaders taking up the mantle of leadership, this outfit has survived many a setback and is regarded as the most dreaded one, though there have been a few others such as the UNLF, Peoples Republic of Kangleipak (PREPAK), Kangleipak Communist Party (KCP) and Kanglei Yawol Kanna Lup (KYKL) among the 50-odd insurgent outfits in the state.The PLA-MNPF combine has stated that it was not aware of the presence of the CO’s family in the convoy, but this claim does not sound credible. Usually, informers keep the attackers apprised of the strength of the personnel and the number of vehicles. They would have known of the CO’s visit to Behiang with his family and that he would return by that route. Insurgent outfits are known to have lobbed grenades on school buses carrying children of security forces in the Manipur valley.In the normal course, the insurgents could not have stayed in Churachandpur district as the PLA comprises Hindus and even Muslims and the district predominantly has Christians. The MNPF insurgents are Christians, but the district is dominated by Kukis and other Zomi tribes who have a running feud with the Nagas, often resulting in clashes. Hence, it can be safely conjectured that the attackers must have intruded from across the Myanmar border, carried out the attack and safely retreated to their base.While the Naga peace talks are still hanging fire after the Framework Agreement of August 2015, there is a need to begin serious talks with numerous outfits that operate in Manipur, lest they make their presence felt like they did through the recent attack. Senior officers of security forces are specifically targeted as that draws countrywide attention. Kuki outfits such as the Kuki National Army have been in the SOO (suspension of operations) mode for the past several years, but there has been no progress in any peace talks so as to bring them into the mainstream and utilise their services.Paresh Baruah, the head of the United Liberation Front of Assam (Independent), can play a vital role in restoring peace in the Northeast if he is roped in by the government for talks, along with Naga leader Niki Sumi. Baruah is also the leader of the United National Liberation Front of Western South East Asia, a conglomeration of 11 insurgent outfits, including the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang). The Centre has to extend its hand to the insurgents to lay down arms and come to the negotiating table. A series of surrenders by Bodo militants in recent months augurs well and also the surrender of 46 Dimasa National Liberation Front cadres on November 13. The trend should continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/manipur-ambush-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-339079
18-11-2021||---||Exalted status will spur Xi’s adventurism||AS expected, the Sixth Plenum of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) meeting held in Beijing from November 7 to 11 exalted the status of its General Secretary Xi Jinping by including him in a historic resolution which features its two titans, former Chairman Mao Zedong and senior leader Deng Xiaoping. It eulogised Xi for propounding “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era” which embodies the “essence of the Chinese culture and represents a new breakthrough in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context”.Xi was praised for his anti-corruption campaign, abolition of extreme poverty, attaining a “moderately prosperous society” and an improvement in China’s global status. He was described as a great leader who could solve China’s problems his predecessors could not such as ensuring that Hong Kong and Macau were governed by the “patriots” — a reference to the national security law imposed by him in June 2020 (abrogating the “one country two systems” principle under which Hong Kong had re-joined China in 1997).Xi was applauded for “turning a crisis into opportunity”— a reference to China’s unprovoked aggression against India in Ladakh, occupation of the disputed territories claimed by the Philippines, Vietnam, Japan and others, and threatening Taiwan after April 2020 when these countries were busy fighting Covid-19, for whose origin and global spread many hold China responsible.The party’s first historical resolution, passed in 1945, “examined the missteps during the first 34 years of the revolution, mainly by Mao’s former opponents, who it was believed were influenced by Moscow or were too radical”. The resolution was used to correct their mistakes and unify the thoughts among the party members.The 1981 resolution tried to end the bitter debate about how to view Mao’s legacy and struck a balance by denouncing Mao’s Cultural Revolution as a “disaster” while appreciating his role as the founding father of modern China. The resolution extolled the process of reform and opening up initiated by Deng Xiaoping in 1979 that laid the foundation for much of China’s economic progress later.The present resolution for Xi did not examine any of the party’s mistakes which, according to several critics in China and abroad, are many, such as large-scale violation of human rights in Xinjiang and Tibet, suppression of dissent and criticism within and outside the CCP, reversal of several political and economic reforms, and doing away with presidential term limits introduced under Deng Xiaoping.The party’s claim of an improvement in China’s global status under Xi is also dubious. China may have boosted its relations with some countries by making large investments (which in many cases have turned unproductive, adding to their debt liability) but her global image today is at an all-time low following the aggressive and hostile posturing and unfair economic policies adopted by Xi.Xi’s critics are saying that he has used his control of the party to build his personality cult and propagate his own rule indefinitely. He has usurped the powers of his colleagues in the Politburo Standing Committee and the State Council to control the entire security apparatus, i.e. the armed forces and the armed police. Nicknamed the ‘Chairman of Everything’, Xi has amassed all powers relating to decisions on economic and other important issues.China is vying with the US to seek global dominance and refashion the present international order to its advantage. To realise this objective, Xi has embarked China on the biggest military build-up in peacetime in human history by building the largest navy of about 350 ships and submarines. Under his direction, China is sharply increasing its nuclear arsenal and could accumulate about 1,000 deliverable warheads by 2030, according to a US Defence Department report (2021).China has assembled the third biggest air force with over 2,800 aircraft, including fighters, strategic bombers and multi-mission tactical and attack aircraft. It is building a large inventory of inter-continental ballistic missiles and road-mobile intermediate-range ballistic missiles capable of delivering both conventional and nuclear warheads. In 2020, it began fielding its first operational hypersonic weapons system, the DF-17 hypersonic glide vehicle capable of delivering medium-range ballistic missiles. China continues to develop counter-space capabilities, including direct ascent, co-orbital, electronic warfare and directed energy capabilities, which can contest and deny an adversary’s access to and operations in space during a conflict.The asseveration of Xi’s political supremacy will give him added clout in placing his favourites in important echelons of power at the party congress in 2022 when he is expected to seek a third term as President. The historic resolution will make it more difficult for his critics to challenge his policies as that would amount to contesting the party’s narrative of history.Since Xi’s ascent to power, China has taken an aggressive and expansionary turn, reasserting its claim on the disputed territories as “sovereignty issues” where “it would not concede an inch” (instead of negotiations earlier). Its confrontation with the US over Taiwan is escalating after the latter made it known that she and her allies would come to Taiwan’s defence. China has increased militarisation of its borders with India, ASEAN countries, Japan and Taiwan by constructing new airfields, missile silos, highways, railways, deploying latest weaponry, undertaking provocative military drills and setting up civilian villages to fortify and defend its claims.Xi’s exalted status will make him more prone to undertaking adventurous initiatives to constantly prove at home that he is delivering on the commitments he had promised to the party. Given that the US, its allies and partners have started pushing back Xi’s aggressive policies, the rivalries, confrontation and arms build-up in South and East Asia would intensify. Past experience has shown that Chinese rulers are not averse to initiating an armed conflict to buttress their domestic standing; the latest resolution would push this region even more in that direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/exalted-status-will-spur-xis-adventurism-339080
