19-11-2021||Ajit DOVAL||Targeting civil society||That is a serious accusation. The epithet ‘anti-national’ is commonly hurled at critics of the present government. Public intellectuals, writers, journalists, activists and conscientious objectors to the proliferation of hate and divisiveness based on religious identity will now be on the NSA’s radar! And that is a most disconcerting thought. What can members of civil society expect to face in this new type of warfare?NGOs are an essential requirement in a land like ours where people wallowing in misery and want abound. The Modi-Shah regime that rules the country had fired its first salvo against this new enemy much earlier without any prior warning. Foreign-funded NGOs were the first casualty. Greenpeace has left with its tail between its legs. The most respected human rights NGO in the world, Amnesty International, has also packed up and left. The Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative has been forced to discontinue most of its research projects. Its country head, Maja Daruwala, daughter of the much-loved Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw, has to ask other likeminded NGOs to provide platforms from where she can continue her life’s commitment to justice by reforming the police and the prison administrations.The subtle manner in which CSR funding by corporates of NGOs working on governance issues is being diverted to the PM Cares fund is another example of the regime’s hostility to even ‘desi’ NGOs whose work exposes unwittingly the many chinks in the government’s armour. No regime in power at the Centre or in the states likes criticism, but the present one has taken its hostility beyond reasonable limits. It is now openly proclaiming, if we are to interpret Doval, in the only language the government uses against its critics, that NGOs are under siege. The government would like us to disappear!Modi and Shah both hail from Gujarat. I consider Gujarat among all the states to be the cradle of philanthropy and concern for other human beings less favoured by the gods. I met Ela Bhatt during my brief sojourn in Gujarat as the DGP in 1985. Her work for the disadvantaged women impressed upon me the importance of NGOs in a country where poverty is the real enemy. The work done by Kailash Satyarthi’s Justice for Every Child is a living testimony to the necessity of NGOs doing what governments, even with the best of intentions, cannot do.NGOs are an essential requirement in a land like ours where people wallowing in misery and want abound. Modi and Shah, and now my friend, Doval, should reconsider the opening of the new front. Surely, they are not going to ‘fix’ every critic of the government in the manner in which the Bhima-Koregaon 16 (now 15) were put away! That would reduce India to a near-pariah status in the world, like Pakistan.I am inclined to pick on the positive things the NSA taught the probationers. He impressed on them that laws enacted by the people’s elected representatives must be enforced in letter and spirit by the police forces that they would soon lead. But what if the same lawmakers ‘request’ these police leaders not to enforce the laws they themselves have put on the statute book, like the prohibition laws, or enforce them selectively only against their opponents and let off their supporters?This happens all the time and under different regimes. But in this regime, the partiality with which laws are enforced has been flagged at a level never witnessed before. The Delhi riots of 2020, for example. The three main instigators of violence who were party hacks were exempted from culpability and the conscientious objectors, mainly students of JNU and Jamia Millia, protesting against the CAA/NRC were roped in, instead. The Delhi High Court has taken note of this injustice. I can well appreciate Doval’s inability to tell the IPS leaders of tomorrow to steer clear of such choppy waters.Even an apolitical, retired IPS officer like me would not make such a direct suggestion to the young officers, for fear of embarrassing the National Police Academy’s Director and his staff. But it is possible to convey the message in subtle terms that are sure to be understood. Our young officers must learn to stick to the truth. It is only then that justice can be administered and the rule of law can be upheld. It is only then that the political neutrality expected of public servants can be experienced by the common man. And it is only then that IPS officers, who have taken an oath to uphold the Constitution, can proudly aver that they have honoured their oath.The police are duty-bound to implement the laws of the land without fear or favour. They cannot keep their eyes shut when proponents of the regime take the law into their own hands and set out to murder, burn and loot. They were guilty of this in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the Gujarat riots of 2002. They should not unfairly rope in opponents of the regime like they are alleged to have done in the Bhima-Koregaon case.Doval is respected by Modi. This is obvious to viewers of TV news. This respect shown to an old colleague warms the cockles of my heart. But when Doval talked to young probationers, it would have made me much prouder if he had quoted to them what the BJP’s acknowledged icon, and mine, too, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, told the first batch of emergency recruits to the IAS: ‘A civil servant cannot afford to, and must not, take part in politics. Nor must he involve himself in communal wrangles. To depart from the path of rectitude in either of these respects is to debase public service and to lower its dignity.’ Doval should din these words into the conscience of every police leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/targeting-civil-society-339960
19-11-2021||---||Time to view Hinduism as collage of traditions||The combative debate in political circles on the distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva gives us a reason to reflect. These are two discrete categories. Hinduism is faith, the relationship I have with my God. Hindutva is politics in search of power that appeared in the early 20th century.Both establish sets of social relationships: among the believers in the case of faith, and among the political supporters in the case of ideology. The relationships between them are constituted by identity. Hindutva claims to speak for the Hindus. It speaks of the right of Hindus to monopolise power in a nation-state. It believes in the politically primitive axiom that numbers, or the lack thereof, govern the distribution of power in India. We shall not go into the thorny question of how many Hindus subscribe to this ideology. That requires several large surveys.The issue at hand is different. The category of Hinduism that Hindutva has appropriated is complex and contradictory. Some Hindus are upper-caste, male, propertied, oppressive. Others are low castes, women, the landless and the oppressed. Is it not impossible to speak of, or write of Hinduism in the 21st century without speaking of caste? Caste within Hinduism forms a complex connection between domination, subordination and resistance.There is no duality to be found here. The rich are rich and the poor are poor because the society is complicit in the creation of poverty. Both classes are the products of an integrated process of appropriation. Poverty breeds unfortunate consequences and suffering that strips human beings of dignity.Therefore, an unequal society is wracked by discontent and revolt even if both classes belong to the same religion. Struggles against unjustly accumulated power have revealed the many inequalities in the life chances of fellow religionists. And this issue has not been resolved by Hindutva in the last seven years. In whose name do the votaries of Hindutva speak when they speak?We can add a host of other hierarchies within the category of Hindu: gender and sexuality. Not everyone benefits from the power and privilege that Hindutva has brought, some do. It is little wonder that the ideology of Hindutva promises to deliver to the community and its many divisions homogeneity. No caste? Seriously?Perhaps, it is time that we begin to remember what caste has done to women, men and children. The political utopia that Hindus will govern in the interests of their fellow religionists has been exposed as an illusion. What exactly does Hindutva speak of when it speaks of Hinduism? Of a metaphysical, abstract and upper-caste religion?Since the 19th century, philosophers, public intellectuals and, subsequently, leaders of the national movement have tried to discover the lost ‘soul of India’ through the rediscovery of the Vedanta. This had already been discovered by German Romantics, Indologists, Orientalists, administrative officials and missionaries in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Surprisingly, Indian intellectuals joined the western acclaims of a rich and sophisticated Vedic tradition without acknowledging its adverse impact upon society: the consolidation of Brahmanical superiority. Nor did they take into account the debates and the many traditions that exist within and outside the Vedanta.This was made clear by philosopher Dharmendra Goel in 1984 in a special issue of The Philosophical Quarterly in which scholars engaged with the lecture ‘Swaraj in Ideas’ delivered by philosopher Krishna Chandra Bhattacharya in 1929. Bhattacharya had argued that we can only achieve Swaraj when we interpret western ideas through the prism of our own culture.Which culture is Bhattacharya speaking of, asked Goel. India’s past cannot be articulated within the limited perspective of Sanskrit traditions, even if we add to the Vedas the dharma shastras, epics, poetic classics, theatre, dramaturgy and niti shastras. The ahimsa of the medieval Brahmanic Vaishnavism is from Buddhist and other non-Aryan sources. Sexuality in Tantric Shaktism is derived from primitive oral beliefs and rituals. Tribals carry Brahmanical texts in their oral myths. Kautilya’s Arthashastra is incompatible with the Purushartha and Varnashrama principles in the epics. The great grammarian, philosopher and yogi, Bhartrihari, of the classical period wrote erotic and evocative lyrics, and also advocated purity of desire and penance.The tantras and eroticism of the medieval Indian life, writes Goel, challenged the austere paradigm of the Indian civilisation. Which is representative of the Indian spirit? Jagannatha Panditaraja dwelling on old poetic conventions in Sanskrit at the Mughal court? Or, the bani of Guru Gobind Singh in Punjab and of Rahim in Avadhi-speaking areas? Or, Ghalib’s Urdu? Ghalib and Guru Gobind Singh are as much a part of our lives as Ramayana.Goel’s argument allows us to think of fusions. Our language, Urdu, is a product of the spiritual traditions of mystics and saints. The language of love and compassion, Urdu embodies the heritage of great poets from Khusrau to Ghalib. Hindus worship in temples as well as at the mazaar of Sadr-ud-din at Malerkotla in Punjab. The Malerkotla Gazetteer of 1904 remarked: ‘It is strange that these fairs are mostly attended by Hindus though Sadr-ud-Din was a Muslim Saint.’ Hindus offer flowers and fruits to Goddess Kali at a temple in South Delhi and red meat and country liquor to Lord Shiva (in his Kaal Bhairav avatar) at another temple down the road.It is time we acknowledge that Hinduism is a collage of our dialogical, spiritual, intellectual and poetic traditions. Which tradition of Hinduism does Hindutva speak for?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-view-hinduism-as-collage-of-traditions-339961
19-11-2021||---||Constitution is our gateway to freedom, growth||As another Constitution Day (November 26) approaches, we need to remind ourselves that the Indian Constitution liberates us all, individually and collectively. But only if we choose to! We also need to remember that the Constitution was made by people like us to ensure civility in public and private life. It carries no sanction of any religion or tradition. The only thing which holds it together is our desire to be civilised and do good for all. It is very fragile. It needs constant nurturing and protection from those who seek to destroy it in the name of promoting some social tradition or religious requirement. It also needs to be protected from those who through their inactions — or adverse actions — refuse to implement the framework of rules and laws which comes out of the Constitution.Since the implementation of the Constitution, there has been no compulsion to be under the thrall of any social panchayat, personal law board, religious grouping or leader exercising inherited authority. Religions, traditions and inheritors of power thrive on subjugating the individual. It is reason and good faith in one’s abilities which liberates. But only if the State underpins liberty by creating systems which empower the individual and also provide protection to the individual from bullies. Being lackadaisical on these counts is inimical to all.The Constitution guarantees to all citizens the right to exist, to believe or not to believe, to earn a living without being part of any primordial group. And yet, despite all evidence to the contrary, since Independence, we have made desperate efforts to convince ourselves that jobs and opportunities can only be had if you are of a particular family, caste, religion, region and similar primordial groupings. So much so that today, many amongst us are fully seduced by the idea that Indian society is a collection of discriminated groups. Any individual who achieves anything in any sphere of life is either presumed to be an exception or extremely well-connected.In pre-Independence times, the colonial government gave us a taste for an existence free of parochial networks. The Indians loved it. They made extensive use of the new opportunities that emerged. Historians like to call this phenomenon, the emergence of the Indian Middle Class. It wasn’t as if the bullies who derived their power from primordial groupings ceased their heinous ways. The promising young lad, Mohandas Gandhi, was bullied by his caste elders to undertake rituals of purification on his return from Vilayat. Motilal Nehru, Gandhi’s contemporary but a more successful self-made man, refused to be thus bullied and asserted his individuality. He performed no so-called cleansing rituals on the return of his son after an English education. He also violated all presumed norms of eating vegetarian food, not drinking alcohol and not smoking. Gandhi too, once successful enough, was never compelled by caste bullies to undertake any purification after his numerous trips across the seas. If anything, Gandhi’s peculiar food habits, his practise of eating and cohabiting with those of the Panchama groups earned him praise. But therein lay the problem. An individual had to be strong and powerful, and frequently obstreperous, to ensure freedom from bullies who derived their power and authority from primordial groupings.What we need to notice is that the liberation from primordial groupings that began in the 19th century was rooted in the creation of rules and laws that were consciously designed for the purpose. They derived their legitimacy from the power of reason focused on doing good for the individual. Religion and traditions were not instrumental in making these laws. The possibility of liberating the individual was so attractive that Indians of the 19th century, noticing the absence of similarly rooted rules and practices in their own society, began censuring the society for not being enlightened enough. Such excoriation came to be called ‘The Indian Renaissance’. Liberationist writings from those times, such as that of Jyotiba Phule, consciously linked themselves to the European tradition of freedom of the individual. Vivekananda, Gandhi and Tagore found in it ideas of liberation which they could not locate within Indian traditions. Ambedkar rejected the traditional life of India’s village for being oppressive and iniquitous. The leaders of India, almost all coming from a very small elitist segment of our diverse society, when they got a chance to craft a Constitution, ensured that it was entirely based on the liberationist, enlightened ideas of Europe.The drift away from those enlightened ideas has far too frequently happened when the authorities of the State encourage forces which are inimical to the Constitution and individual freedom; as for instance, when Indira Gandhi chose to set up the All India Muslim Personal Law Board in an attempt to provide a counter to the rise of the Jana Sangh in Mumbai, or Rajiv Gandhi used the Parliament to push away the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Shah Bano case in the hope of garnering some votes.Underpinning the Constitution is the modern State system. The growth of a more equitable State system has had a lot to do with weaning away the individual from traditional authorities.The greater weakening of the Constitution happened when after Independence, the State forgot to simplify its systems and procedures, forcing individuals to subjugate themselves to some extra-constitutional authority. Many readers would recall that till just a few years ago, simple things of everyday living like getting a gas connection, a telephone connection, an identity certificate, property registration or healthcare depended on knowing the right person. Godmen, as also the dons emerging out of India’s slums, flourished in India mostly because they were able to provide real-time services around such issues to those not powerful enough. It is only in recent years when the State started systematising its services and made them available more easily that such people have become irrelevant. The entire Aadhaar programme has been liberating for millions of people who could not prove their identity easily. Ujjwala 2.0 programme today offers migrant workers a cooking gas connection merely on the basis of a self-declaration and without needing any proof of address.It is not just public spaces that are dominated by administrative rules framed by the State in accordance with the Constitution. They impinge on private spaces too. It is not alright anymore, for example, to beat your wife within the confines of your home. It is not alright to use casteist and religion-based slurs. It is also not all right any more to use violence to settle your private disputes. And it certainly is not alright for parents to coerce their children to marry against their wishes.The simple fact is that we need to understand the importance of nurturing our Constitution in order to ensure civility in our public and private lives. The Constitution provides us a way out of the old world and the dilemmas woven into that world. Provided, we are willing to abide by it without surrendering to parochial demands or networks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/constitution-is-our-gateway-to-freedom-growth-339962
