20-11-2021||---||Time to firm up legalities of cryptocurrency||INDIA is in the midst of a new age. More and more Indians today are investing their money in crypto assets and currencies. The recent spate of television advertisements asking viewers to invest in crypto assets has further propelled this trend. While there is so much of excitement and emphasis on crypto assets and cryptocurrencies, it is important to appreciate that the crypto ecosystem brings across various legal, policy and regulatory issues which need to be appropriately addressed.India has not yet made up its mind on what it really wants to do on the issue of legality of crypto ecosystem. A couple of years back, the RBI had come up with a notification stating that legal entities engaging in cryptocurrencies would not be provided banking services. Ultimately, the notification was set aside by the Supreme Court, but in a landmark judgment, the court recognised the RBI as the nodal authority to take all decisions on crypto assets and cryptocurrencies and connected aspects. There are announcements that the RBI is coming up with its own cryptocurrency/digital currency. Having said that, India still has to firm up the legalities pertaining to crypto assets and cryptocurrencies.Most of the Indians who are investing in cryptocurrencies are doing it under the impression that these are currencies and they will ultimately end up making piles of money. There is no doubt that some people will make a lot of money, but there is a huge chance that a large chunk of investors may end up losing it, thereby entering a new phase of economic decline. Hence, today in the absence of enabling legal frameworks, we are virtually in a grey zone.The Indian Information Technology Act, 2000, is completely out of sync with the crypto ecosystem, since it does not either have any provisions to deal with crypto assets and currencies, nor has it been drafted about keeping in mind the crypto ecosystem. Further, the IT Act was last amended in 2008. Since then, a lot of water has flown under the bridge and more significantly, most developments in the crypto ecosystem have taken place in the past decade.Today, there is increasing clarity that India cannot adopt an ostrich-like approach. India has to take a cogent policy stand on crypto assets. There was some talk of banning crypto assets and crypto currencies. Banning does not appear to be a successful phenomenon primarily because the world today is a ubiquitously connected world. Most of these crypto assets and currencies are working on international platforms and blockchain technologies. As such, banning is definitely not going to be the answer for addressing India’s concerns.Hence, a better approach would be that India needs to appropriately legally recognise and enable crypto assets and cryptocurrencies. The only way going forward will be to ensure that India comes with minimal enabling regulation pertaining to crypto assets and crypto currencies. We need to learn from the experiences of other jurisdictions who have already legislated in this regard.We need to specifically learn from the experience of countries like Belarus and Malta. Malta has got the distinction of being the Blockchain Island of the world which has already enacted three distinct legislations on blockchains. Further, we need to analyse the practical experiences of other countries in the direction of regulating crypto assets and cryptocurrencies. At the end of the day, no one solution can be used on a cut-and-paste basis in the Indian subcontinent. India will have to customise its own approaches on how it wants to go ahead and legally enable and also regulate crypto currencies.India has great reservations on the currency aspect of the crypto ecosystem. The said reservations are understandable, given that there are no bank authorities behind such crypto currencies. India can just adopt the more conservative approach of targeting the low-hanging fruit, which could be a good starting point.Ultimately, the important thing is that the people who are investing in the blockchain/crypto ecosystem must be appropriately protected and they must have access to legal remedies which are effective in nature. Further, there is also need for stipulating the rules, regulations and guidelines for the service providers in the crypto ecosystem. There is no denying the fact that the volatility and the speculative nature of crypto assets will continue to keep on increasing with the passage of time and this is one area where legislation will not be of any help. However, the government can definitely step in and try to provide for protection of the rights of Indian consumers and investors, as they go ahead and invest in crypto assets and crypto currencies. This is a very grey zone currently. The time has come when the government must confer with the subject experts and also try not to reinvent the wheel.It also needs to be noted that whatever decision India takes in the direction of regulating the crypto assets would be very significant as a large number of countries are keeping their eyes on the Indian approach. A holistic, futuristic approach is the need of the hour. We have to realise that crypto assets and cryptocurrencies are the present and represent the future. Hence, we should not, as a nation, try to adopt any approach which hinders the expected growth of the crypto ecosystem.The Indian policy and regulatory approach to the crypto ecosystem must be evolved in such a manner so as to protect not just the business and legal interests of Indian users and investors, but also the interests of the nation and the sovereignty, security and integrity of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-firm-up-legalities-of-cryptocurrency-340318
20-11-2021||---||Northeast needs holistic approach for peace||ON November 13, tragic news came from Manipur about the death of Colonel Viplav Tripathi and four soldiers of the 46 Assam Rifles in an ambush in Churachandpur district. What was extremely horrific was that along with the Army personnel, Colonel Tripathi’s wife and six-year-old son were also killed in the attack. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA), a Meitei insurgent group, and Manipur Naga People’s Front (MNPF), claimed responsibility for the attack.The political leadership has justifiably condemned the attack and promised that the perpetrators would be brought to justice. Such acts of terrorism must not go unpunished, and we could, in the next few days, hear about some action taken against the insurgent groups, on our side or across the border. Alongside planning a retribution strike, it is also perhaps the time to assess our long-term strategy to resolve the protracted conflicts in the Northeast.Insurgency-related violence in the Northeastern states has significantly declined since its peak in the 2008-09 period. According to data from the South Asian Terrorism Portal, insurgency-related deaths in Assam, Nagaland and Manipur have decreased from 1,070 in 2008 to 17 in 2020. However, as is often the case in internal conflicts, the absence of violence is not an automatic indicator of normalcy. Therefore, it is essential to consider the underlying causes of the problem so that appropriate solutions can be found.Ethnic identity has been critical in sustaining armed movements in the region and even within individual states. There are different demands of the local Assamese, the Bodos, the Dimasas, and the Karbis, all of whom formed insurgent groups in Assam. In Manipur, the Meitei, Naga, and Kuki armed groups are in conflict with each other. Even within a larger ethnic group, sub-identities matter. The Zeliangrong Naga tribes have their armed group that is fighting the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (IM) in Manipur. The local population often supports militant groups because they are seen as protectors of the ethnic identity.There are many pathways to the resolution of ethnic conflicts. There could be attempts at assimilation by stressing that an emphasis on ethnic identity weakens the idea of a cohesive nation that should serve as the primary ideological beacon. There could also be accommodation of diversity by meeting the aspirations of different groups through political empowerment, reconciliation and grant of autonomy.While there is a yearning among the people in the North-East for an end to violence, there is also a determination to protect their identity. Therefore, an understanding of cultures and identity and their role in promoting conflicts in the region must be at the heart of finding ways to bring lasting peace.In his speech after the 2015 Framework Agreement was signed with the NSCN (IM), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Today’s agreement is a shining example of what we can achieve when we deal with each other in a spirit of equality and respect, trust and confidence; when we seek to understand concerns and try to address aspirations.” Although the agreement is yet to be finalised, the principles of resolution outlined by the Prime Minister are the most appropriate.While addressing identity concerns becomes the primary element of our strategy, two additional issues need urgent attention. First, a large number of armed groups are now in ceasefire agreements with the government. This has helped reduce violence, but there has also been a downside because of the very generous terms of some of the agreements. As an example, the NSCN (IM) has been permitted to establish camps in Nagaland and Manipur where they carry arms and almost run a parallel government. The Suspension of Operations (SoO) agreement with the Kuki groups in Manipur, now 16 years old, has created exclusive camps for them, and the government pays a stipend for each member of the group.Some groups under ceasefire have taken advantage of the agreements to continue with fundraising and extortion, often with greater impunity because they feel they are now shielded from government actions. In May 2017, the Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh expressed concern over the frequent violation of agreements by militants and termed the SoO a failure. In June this year, when the Nagaland Governor, RN Ravi, opposed the ‘tax’ collection by the NSCN (IM), the outfit stated that “the Naga nation does not require permission from the Government of India for taxation.”The intelligence agencies and the Army have also sometimes sought to play one ethnic group against the other, even utilising those who were in ceasefire agreements. This has resulted in some short-term gains but carries the risk of sharpening the ethnic divide instead of healing it. Gradually, all the surrendered cadre must be moved out of their camps and rehabilitated in society.Finally, border management with Myanmar must improve. For decades, we have known that the India-Myanmar border is porous and that insurgent camps exist across the border. Recent reports also indicate that the Myanmar army is utilising Indian insurgent groups to fight those who are in opposition to the junta regime. Therefore, there are limits to the cooperation that can be expected from the Myanmar army. There is also apprehension that China could step up assistance to the Northeast insurgents, given the tensions along the Line of Actual Control.There have been recent calls for merging the Assam Rifles with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, which will take over the responsibility of the India-Myanmar border. Having two separate forces under two different ministries operating along the border is certainly not the ideal solution. A change in the organisation manning the border will not help unless there is a significant improvement in infrastructure and roads to support efficient border management.Setbacks happen in conflicts, just as the death of Colonel Tripathi and his family reminds us. While we mourn this tragedy, the incident should trigger an introspection about what can be done to find a lasting solution to our ongoing internal conflicts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/northeast-needs-holistic-approach-for-peace-340317
20-11-2021||---||It had to be done — for UP||BY announcing to repeal the three controversial farm laws, the Prime Minister has stooped to conquer. His reason for backtracking, something Narendra Modi is not given to do, is political. It can be summed up in two words — Uttar Pradesh. Winning UP in 2022 is a must for the BJP, or else 2024 becomes dicey. The party can live with defeats in smaller states, but it can take no chances in UP.The BJP can live with defeats in smaller states, but winning Uttar Pradesh in 2022 is essential for the party, or else 2024 becomes dicey.The BJP has been nervous about UP, notwithstanding the high-decibel campaign CM Yogi Adityanath has already launched in the state, showcasing his many ‘achievements’, and the PM’s high-profile inaugural event for the Purvanchal Expressway which really sounded the poll bugle.It is thanks to the farmers’ movement that the Jats moved away from the BJP in western UP. Their support to the BJP in 2014 helped it sweep the region and ensured the party’s victory in the General Election.From the beginning, UP has been critical to Modi’s rise. Had the BJP not got 71 seats in 2014 from UP, it would have been a coalition government at the Centre. It was Amit Shah who, between July 2013 and May 2014, took a stagnant and faction-ridden BJP from a tally of 10 Lok Sabha MPs to 71, rebuilding the organisation which he had been tasked to do. He did it when the BJP was not even in power at the Centre.Of late, the Gujjars in western UP have been increasingly unhappy, not finding representation in the state government. After the mowing down of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri, the Sikhs, too, now nurse a grudge against the party. The Muslims will not look at the BJP anyway. This virtually covers the entire lank of western UP. Western UP, going up to the Terai region, accounts for around 100 seats, and could be decisive. Unlike 2014, and its effect was felt even in 2017, Hindu-Muslim (the Jat-Muslim divide) polarisation had helped the BJP mop up a rich crop.In the past year or so, many Jats — they are mostly farmers and have felt that the farm laws would dispossess them of their lands — have been heard saying that ‘this time we are not going to be taken in by the Hindu-Muslim rhetoric’.Modi must have calculated that at the end of the day, he will be able to mollify the Jats. Even that ‘little bit’ will help. The BJP brass must have also been worried about the enthusiasm evident at the meetings addressed by Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav. His in-principle ally, Jayant Chaudhary of the RLD, has also encountered an exciting response in western UP, not accorded to his party in the past 20 years. The BJP was happy with Priyanka Vadra getting some traction — and it may even be aiding the process — for it would create confusion amongst the Muslims. But that does not seem to be happening at the ground level.The backtracking by the PM came on Gurpurb. It gave the impression that Punjab was a factor in the PM’s change of heart. The PM’s decision could open up the political scenario in Punjab. It is not as if it will put the BJP in the winning seat. The party was being completely written off. The upper-caste urban voter was looking at the Aam Aadmi Party as an alternative to the BJP. Since the farm laws were the reason why the Akali Dal, the BJP’s old ally, broke ranks with it, could the repeal of the laws bring them together again?Former CM Captain Amarinder Singh has already indicated that he is open to joining hands with the BJP. This will become easier for him to justify, with the farm law story becoming a thing of the past. It’s possible that the government will try and re-enact the law under another garb in future as part of ‘agricultural reforms’. But it is unlikely to do so before 2024 and risk singeing itself, or the Modi brand.The repeal is a victory for the farmers who sat on dharna for almost a year. It will give new heart to other agitating groups fighting for their rights. But the bottom line is clear: protests are effective when they influence votes.Of course the farmers see this as their victory and there is no reason why they should give the credit to the PM or to any other party. Some of the farmers’ leaders may well decide to contest in the forthcoming Assembly elections in Punjab as Independents.The Opposition will flay the government for the hardships caused to the farmers and the needless deaths that took place during the past more than 11 months.Endowed with sharp political instincts, which few other contemporary leaders possess today, the Prime Minister has made a move to control damage. It is not a poll-winning ploy. But much will depend on how the BJP resets the narrative in the coming days. Modi is bound to talk about deferring to the people’s wishes. The PM’s address to the nation gave a foretaste of it, when he said despite tapasya, he was unable to convince a section of the farmers.The PM has obviously calculated that the balance of advantage lies in taking a step back, and then, to give the narrative a new pitch. Managing perceptions is something Modi and the ‘new BJP’ are so adept at.It would not be surprising if in the coming days, Modi starts to publicly distance himself from Adani and Ambani in a visible — maybe not substantive — way. If there is something that the farmers’ movement has done, it is to club him with the corporate duo. It is an image he would like to do without, of being seen to be helping the richest in the country, when life is becoming harder for the ordinary folk, with price rise spiralling and loss of livelihoods going unaddressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/it-had-to-be-done-%E2%80%94-for-up-340316
