21-11-2021||IT is often not realised that there was not one partition in 1947||The unusual story of Bengal||It may be argued that it was somehow Bengal’s destiny to live through multiple partitions. The region actually experienced four partitions in the 20th century. It had its first partition in 1905 when the British government partitioned Bengal to carve out a separate province combining East Bengal and Assam. This partition was fiercely resisted by the Bengalis, who led the famous Swadeshi Movement against the British. The second partition happened in 1911 when the earlier partition was annulled and Bengal’s linguistic unity was restored. But Bihar and Orissa, till then part of Bengal presidency, were separated from Bengal. The third partition happened in 1947 when parts of Bengal were integrated into India and Pakistan. And the final partition of Bengal happened in 1971 when a separate nation-state of Bangladesh was created out of erstwhile East Pakistan.Bengal was similar to Punjab in some respects, but very dissimilar in some others. Like Punjab, it was a Muslim majority province. Like Punjab, the Muslim majority was very slender. Muslims constituted nearly 54 per cent of the population of Bengal, much like Punjab. But the similarities ended here. A large majority of Bengali Muslims consisted of poor peasants. This was quite unlike Punjab, where there was a substantial presence of rich and prominent Muslim landlords, particularly in the western pockets.This fact, of a different class profile of Muslim population, had some very important consequences. The All India Muslim League, the main representative organisation of Indian Muslims, was formed in Bengal in 1906. But it was much more interested and invested in the Muslims of Punjab, UP and Bombay, than in Bengali Muslims. When the Congress and Muslim League signed a pact in 1916, the Muslim League agreed to surrender the Muslim majority in the proposed Bengal Assembly, in return for various other concessions. In 1930, Mohammad Iqbal, as the president of Muslim League, proposed the formation of a separate and autonomous Muslim zone, a “Muslim India within India” as he called it. In this “Muslim India”, he included Punjab, Sindh and North-West Frontier provinces, but happily excluded Bengal. That was not all. In 1933, Rahmat Ali, the young student in Cambridge, made an appeal to the Muslim leaders, “on behalf of the Muslims of North West”. In his appeal, he coined the word ‘Pakistan’ as the template for a Muslim homeland, with each letter representing a zone: ‘P’ for Punjab, ‘A’ for Afghan region, ‘K’ for Kashmir, ‘S’ for Sindh, and ‘Tan’ for Baluchistan. Again, Bengal was completely left out in his imagination of ‘Pakistan’, both real and metaphorical. Did it occur to him, or to Iqbal before him, that they had excluded the largest Muslim zone with more Muslims than anywhere else in the sub-continent, from their conception of an exclusive Muslim homeland? This is an extremely curious and unusual fact of the story of Indian partition.When did it dawn upon the leadership of Muslim League that the poor Bengali Muslims ought to have been included in the Muslim League’s imagination of a Muslim homeland? It was only as late as in 1937 that the League leadership woke up to the importance of Bengali Muslims. The British had by this time introduced provincial autonomy. Under this constitutional arrangement, any party that won a majority of seats in the provincial Legislative Assembly could form a government in that province. In Bengal, the government was actually formed by Fazlul Huq of the Praja Krishak Party, representing the Muslim peasants of Bengal.It was also after 1937 that Jinnah’s politics acquired greater coherence and clarity. His new priority was to create a common all-India political platform for Indian Muslims. The main obstacle in this project was that the energies of ‘Muslim politics’ in the minority and the majority provinces were flowing in very different directions. The Muslim politics in the majority provinces such as Punjab and Bengal was not very interested in politics outside the regions. But without their cooperation, there could be no pan-India platform of Muslim politics. The Pakistan demand, declared in 1940, was one way of bringing together Muslim politics of majority and minority provinces.In pursuing his Pakistan goal, it was necessary for Jinnah to capture Bengal. He was able to do it with the help of the British in 1941, when Fazlul Huq, the leader of Bengali Muslims, was expelled from the Muslim League, and soon a Muslim League government was installed in Bengal. By 1945, Muslim League was able to form governments in all the provinces that were being claimed for Pakistan.However, the prospect of Pakistan presented a region like Bengal with a huge dilemma. It was not easy to make a clear choice between the religious and regional loyalties. Many Bengali Muslims discovered that they were equally committed to their religious identity as Muslims and to their regional identity as Bengalis. The trouble was that the Pakistan issue did not allow combining of the two solidarities. A support for Pakistan threatened to tear apart the old regional solidarity. A cementing of the regional solidarity with other non-Muslim fellow Bengalis would obviously nip the Pakistan scheme in the bud. This was the real dilemma before the Muslims of Bengal.Interestingly, in Bengal, the strong communal solidarities had not been able to completely destroy the centuries old Bengali solidarity. And so, when the prospect of Pakistan loomed large, which also entailed the partition of the region, some leaders in Bengal — Shaheed Suhrawardy and Sarat Bose in the main — came up with a novel proposal. In the eventuality of India being partitioned, they proposed the creation of a separate sovereign united Bengal, outside both India and Pakistan. However, by the time this proposal was mooted in April 1947, Calcutta and Noakhali had already witnessed unprecedented communal violence in 1946. The Calcutta violence, in which nearly 5,000 people died in four days, may well have been the final nail on the idea of Bengali Hindus and Muslims living together in harmony. In the end, India was partitioned into two nation-states. And so was Bengal, along with Punjab.The partition of Bengal, like its Punjab counterpart, led to more violence, trauma, forced migration and displacement of people. There was one difference though. In Punjab, the forced migration and displacements were episodic, sudden and dramatic. In Bengal, however, they were slow, diffused and prolonged. If the story of partition is really the story of forced migrations and displacements, then it can be easily concluded that Bengal still lives in the shadows of its own partition.— The writer teaches history at Ambedkar University, Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-unusual-story-of-bengal-340782
21-11-2021||The Azeem Rafiq case brings to sharp relief tensions caused in an individual and in disparate groups due to displacement. Rafiq||Racism at Yorkshire, where Pujara was Steve||Playing for Yorkshire, Rafiq suffered horrible abuse over his South Asian origins and his religion — at the hands of his fellow cricketers, ‘native’ white men. Much of it was passed off as ‘banter’, but the underlying animus and contempt would be obvious if you consider insults such as ‘Raffa the Kaffir’, ‘Paki’ and ‘there’s too many of you lot, we need to do something about it’. The last of these was thrown at Rafiq and other Pakistan-origin players allegedly by former England and Yorkshire captain Michael Vaughan. Players of colour were all referred to as ‘Kevin’, and one cricketer went ahead and got a black dog and named it Kevin, Rafiq said. India’s Cheteshwar Pujara was called ‘Steve’ when he played for Yorkshire — the players did not deem it fit to address him by his real name.Rafiq’s complaints were disregarded until, finally, the scandal exploded and sponsors started pulling out of commercial deals with the Yorkshire County and Cricket Club (YCCC). This hurt real bad and, woken up from slumber, the England and Wales Cricket Board acted, banning Yorkshire from hosting international matches.A lot of apologising occurred, the chairman of YCCC resigned and a Kenya-born first generation immigrant, Kamlesh Patel — Baron Patel of Bradford! — took over. Patel is a social worker and has done important work on mental health and drug addiction. He has the qualifications to rid YCCC of institutional racism.Rafiq won praise and sympathy, for he was a victim of bigotry. But those who suffer from bigotry could be bigoted, too. Following the scandal, it emerged that Rafiq had sent anti-Semitic messages about an unnamed Jewish person to a fellow Muslim cricketer, Ateeq Javid, in the past. Now it was the turn of Rafiq to apologise: “I have absolutely no excuses. I am ashamed of this exchange...”Severe labour shortage in the industrialised midlands and north led to Britain becoming multicultural almost overnight since the late 1940s. The immigrants — from Jamaica and Pakistan and India and other places — brought along prejudices rooted in race, religion and language. Mixing with local prejudices, this created a terrible blend. People such as Rafiq are both victims and perpetrators of bigotry taught by society and religion.Dravid on the jobIt’s sweet irony that Rahul Dravid’s assignment as India’s head coach started with a Twenty20 series. Dravid, a classical Test batsman, could hit big shots when he willed, but he was never comfortable with T20 cricket. In 2008, when the IPL was about to be launched, he told a journalist he was glad that this form of cricket came at a time when he was done with the better part of his career. Dravid, captain of the Indian team in 2007, had skipped the inaugural Twenty20 World Cup that year, along with Sourav Ganguly and Sachin Tendulkar.T20 cricket is like a discredited son who suddenly becomes the family’s breadwinner — the money it brings in has earned respect for T20 cricket.The first of our greats to get involved full-time in mentoring youngsters (India A and India U-19), Dravid is aware of all this as he played several seasons of the IPL. But he will judge his success by what he makes of India’s Test team.Goodbye, NovyThe journey of the gentle Novy Kapadia has ended at age 68. A teacher by training, Kapadia was a lover of sport — specifically, football — by vocation. A much-loved professor of English at Delhi’s Khalsa College, Kapadia was a writer and commentator in his second avatar, a friend to many families hit by the anti-Sikh riots in 1984. He was an authority on football, and you’d struggle to find a reporter who had not sought out Kapadia to drink at this amazing fount of knowledge.Death destroys knowledge and wisdom gathered over decades. Goodbye, Novy — you were kind and generous in sharing your knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/racism-at-yorkshire-where-pujara-was-steve-340820
21-11-2021||The war had just ended in 1971 and the Pakistan army was preparing to surrender. Tasked to reconnoiter the venue of the surrender ceremony at Khulna in East Pakistan||Upholding soldier’s credo, despite odds||“My parents had migrated from Hoshiarpur in 1947,” the youngster spoke in chaste Punjabi in order to establish an emotional connect. It was conveyed to the subaltern that irrespective of his Punjab connection, he would be helped being a soldier. “Be kind on the enemy, for all you know, their fathers may have fought alongside me in the Great War against the Germans” — the Captain, an Adjutant in 14 Field Regiment, remembered the parting words of his veteran father when he left for the imminent war.He made his radio operator stand on the open Willys jeep, hoping that their olive green uniforms, along with his turban, would dissuade the local militia from firing at them. However, by the time they reached, the Pakistani platoon had been surrounded by a mob armed with swords and sticks, giving surly stares.Judging the mood of the moment and sensing trouble, he had to think and act fast. “Joi Bangla;” he shouted the greeting of the Mukti Bahini freedom fighters at the loudest he had ever done. The return greetings from the other side came as great relief in those anxious moments.“We will not spare them, come what may,” the mob leader said as he narrated the stories of the Pakistan army’s alleged atrocities. Being outnumbered, any attempt to dissuade people baying for blood could invite trouble, but then leaving the hapless khaki-clad Pakistani soldiers at the mercy of the mob was not an option.“Before going after them, wouldn’t it be better to humiliate them and let the entire world see how they lay down their arms and beg for mercy in front of TV cameras?” the Captain suggested. The pause and murmur that followed gave a glimmer of hope.The mob leader deliberated upon the proposal for some time, which felt like aeons. After a while came a nod of approval, much to the relief of the Pakistanis, who stood there like plagued sinners unsure of their fate. The platoon “marched off” with weapons to the surrender venue, guarded by Indian troops. The gamble had paid off as the Captain’s diplomatic skills saved many a life.“I quickly vanished amongst the milling troops, hoodwinking the locals, and quite contrary to the picture I had painted,” he would reminiscence in later years. “My disappearing act would have been construed as un-soldierly perhaps, for I did utter a lie,” he would take a deep breath, looking back at the momentous events 50 years ago.“You may not have kept your word, but you certainly upheld a soldier’s dharma;” I would tell him, holding his hand. With every anecdote of life he narrates, I am awestruck. Brig Harwant Singh, in addition to being a role model, is also my father.Having retired in 1997, and aged 79, as he prepares to attend the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the victory next month, here’s wishing him and the rank and file of the Indian armed forces heartfelt gratitude.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/upholding-soldiers-credo-despite-odds-340821
21-11-2021||After a long gap||Of endings already revolving towards another beginning||The sandy banks of the Ganges in the districts of Ghazipur and Buxar, where floating bodies were first reported in June this year, is a few kilometres from our village. We often go there to leisurely witness the sunrise and sunset and cross the river by boat. We buy fresh fish, and sometimes swim in the river.After we had been here for two days, I asked Islam Bo about the second wave as she had experienced it. Islam Bo is an energetic, elderly woman who seems to be everywhere and visits everyone. She is called upon when there are births and deaths and her contribution to village weddings and other functions is taken for granted. Islam Bo is my window to life in rural Uttar Pradesh.Islam Bo spoke to me about the number of women’s bodies she had been called to perform the last rites of, before they were buried. She lowered her voice as she remembered the number of doctors who have died since the first lockdown in March 2020 had brought life to a standstill here.“It was all so tense and fearful, we had no time to grieve,” she said. In my presence, she allowed her memories to return, even if that meant that tears flowed without restraint.On the day we drove here via Lucknow, there was much excitement and action on the newly constructed Purvanchal Expressway that connects districts like Sultanpur, Azamgarh and Ghazipur to the capital city of the state. After six years of being under construction, the 340-km-long expressway was inaugurated by the Prime Minister this week. The hectic preparations for the event forced us to get off the expressway and drive on mud roads at various points that were being cordoned off to regulate traffic. “These inconveniences were a regular part of our childhood,” I shared with our children, who were bewildered by the roadblocks.A day after the official inauguration, Akhilesh Yadav, president of the Samajwadi Party, led a rally on the same expressway. In the village, we heard stories from excited young men as they returned from there. Many wallets and mobile phones had been stolen in the crush of the rally. After we had empathised, we all laughed at the idea of how organised petty criminals seem to be in our country.Over the years of being a daughter-in-law in this village, I have been taking photos of the extended family, our children growing up and the unmistakable changes taking place around us. I have an added identity here — I am Mirza Sahib ki bahu. Some images from my albums are embedded in my mind. Our youngest getting her curly hair combed when she was just as tall as the centre table in the inner courtyard, the children dressed up for a function but busy with their crayons away from the noise, playing with fallen flowers, examining spiders in the farm and other moments of peace, connection and discovery. Now I watch them, tall enough to wear my clothes, balancing their laptop on a corner of the roof, trying to pick up the wi-fi signal from a digital centre that is newly established by the Digital Empowerment Foundation in the centre of the village.The most piercing visual change for me has been in my father-in-law over the last two decades. Papa was a somewhat distant figure in the early years — always smiling when he met me, but most often busy with others and organising district-level events. After he was diagnosed with Parkinsonism and my mother-in-law passed away, he has battled on valiantly, fully invested in events around him and continuing to encourage everyone else in their projects.We start our morning with reading the news together. Papa reads the Urdu, Hindi and English newspapers, while I make do with browsing headlines and being distracted by my smartphone. In the evening, I take another series of photos of Papa sitting out in the verandah, silhouetted between pillars, waiting for his friends and village folk to join him.Papa was a young man in 1947. He was here when India became Independent. His older brother stayed back in East Pakistan with his government job. Papa was the Gram Pradhan of this village for decades after that. He retired as the principal of the local inter-college here. He has known victories and crushing defeats. His presence gives me the strength to hope. The human spirit is resilient, it is designed to survive. The most authentic endings are the ones which are already revolving towards another beginning, wrote Sam Shepard. Evenings with Papa always remind me of this.— The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/of-endings-already-revolving-towards-another-beginning-340828
