22-11-2021||---||Restructure economy to bring down pollution||THE Supreme Court’s observation on Delhi’s alarming levels of air pollution and advice to initiate long-term measures to address the air quality of National Capital Region (NCR) is a precise analysis of the policy and institutional failures. The affidavit by the Centre admits that the worsening air pollution is caused by sources such as construction, industry, transport, power, vehicular traffic and stubble-burning. The admission is a candid reflection of ineffective implementation of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, in letter and spirit. The policy and action depend on close monitoring and regulating of ambient air quality. However, the fact is that environmental policies are overtaken by economic policies and lack of coordination among governmental agencies has created a big vacuum.The National Ambient Air Quality standards reflect the state of environment and economic development that the country is transiting through. In this context, the basic questions that arise about air quality management are: Has the Central government maintained reliable and historical time series data on air pollutants in the NCR? How many polluting industries are operating in the NCR? Does the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) have the required human and technological resources at its disposal to deal with the situation? Are the source apportionments of air pollutants by different economic activities well-established? What are the source characteristics and variability of air pollutants over a time period? This credible data on air pollutants could have guided the government to take long-term policy initiatives to control and regulate pollution from different sources of economic activities.The WHO has observed that the NCR is one of the most polluted regions in the world. Air pollution has already blighted the quality of life in New Delhi. The dust particles represent a complex mixture of organic and inorganic substances that slowly but surely imperil the respiratory system if exposed for more than eight hours per day.Regular exposure to ozone, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide poses serious health risks. WHO estimates show that 1.2 million premature deaths are linked to ambient air pollution in NCR. Worldwide, ambient air pollution is the biggest slow poison with 29% of all deaths and disease from lung cancer, 17% of all deaths and disease from acute lower respiratory infection, 24% of all deaths from stroke, 25% of all deaths and disease from ischaemic heart disease, and 43% of all deaths and disease from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The economic and environmental burden of diseases attributed to ambient air quality is very high as the average ambient air quality index for New Delhi has reached 500 parts per million.New Delhi is surrounded by industrial hubs such as Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad, which are poorly monitored on sources of power and emission standards. Further, a burgeoning vehicular population (1.19 crore in New Delhi) is another major cause of air pollution. The rampant real estate boom and civil construction are also contributing to the poor air quality in NCR. Unscientific urban planning has resulted in haphazard growth and co-existence of residential and industrial areas making air pollution monitoring difficult. All these developments have a negative impact on the ambient air quality standards. The government and society are dangerously weighing present economic benefits over future health and economic costs. The pollution inferno has already reached a chaotic condition; it has become nobody’s responsibility and the government agencies and society at large are responsible for their contribution towards the emission footprint.The government has given overriding importance to economic growth over environment and society has preferred present over the future. This clearly shows that the economic structure and people’s aspirations are built on shifting sands. Therefore, long-term policy measures are needed to restructure the economy and energy sources in and around the NCR on the principles and practices of sustainable development. Bengaluru has set a good example by relocating all polluting industries to the outskirts of municipal areas. Economic restructuring requires a gradual and permanent change in the production and consumption system towards a green economy despite high transition costs at present. A green economy demands restructuring of industry around NCR and energy resources with pollution or low-carbon emissions, achieving of energy and resource efficiency by reducing waste generation, enhancing green cover, dispersing industries and decommissioning dirty industries such as chemicals, fertilisers and thermal power plants.The transition blueprint for vehicular emissions reduction in NCR with the promotion of electric vehicles needs to be prepared for 2025-30. Promotion of public transport and imposing of congestion tax would curb traffic and air pollution. The construction-and-demolition method of civil works needs a revamp with technological innovation to reduce the dust. Scientific methods need to be developed for safe disposal and management of solid waste in and round NCR.Therefore, restructuring of the economy should integrate under the framework of the System of Environmental-Economic Accounting (SEEA). The SEEA guides the policy-makers to understand the changes in the stock of economic and environmental assets. India’s fortune depends on how quickly we adapt and mitigate environmental issues through sustainable patterns of development. The Constitution has provisions for the fundamental human right to live in a pollution-free environment, and at the same time, the fundamental duty of every individual to maintain purity of the environment. The state needs to plan a long-term strategy to act and ensure the restructuring of economy and enhance the environmental resource base.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/restructure-economy-to-bring-down-pollution-341198
22-11-2021||---||Make pragmatism basis of ties with Belarus||LAST week, with remarkable aplomb, India avoided being inveigled into Europe’s rapidly escalating crisis on the Belarus-Poland border over migrants from Iraq and Syria trying to cross into the European Union. The EU wants India on its side in isolating and ostracising Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, whom it accuses of having falsified national election results last year. New Delhi’s stand matters because it is now in the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) and is an influential member of the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC).In a telephone conversation with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, the Secretary General of the European External Action Service of the EU, Stefano Sannino, went to great lengths to stress that Europe was facing a grave threat from Lukashenko. Sannino accused Belarus of cynically trying to flood the EU with vulnerable migrants by pushing them in through its border with Poland. The West has accused Russia of supporting Belarus in this plot.Polish and Belarusian troops have not directly clashed yet, at the time of writing, but hundreds of migrants, including children, are proxies for both countries in this evolving human tragedy with strategic ramifications. Polish troops have suffered casualties from rock-pelting by migrants, Palestinian-style, across barbed wire fences and steel gates for refusing to let them into EU territory. Belarusian soldiers have endured collateral damage from Poles tasering the migrants who have torn down some of the Polish barriers.Shringla refused to bite the bullet and was non-committal on the phone with Sannino. A Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) readout of their conversation said between the lines that all the EU could get out of its telephonic outreach was that “both sides agreed on the need to de-escalate the situation and arrive at an early resolution”. India is not about to join any crusade against Lukashenko or encourage any colour revolution in Minsk of the kind, which the West has orchestrated in many capitals around the world.On the contrary, the MEA recently approved the opening of a Belarusian Consulate General in Mumbai. Swiftly, within a month of that approval, Lukashenko’s cabinet approved necessary measures for setting up the diplomatic post, which is expected to open before December 31. India’s permission for a new Belarusian Consulate is evidence that India values its strategic autonomy, notwithstanding frequent charges that the Narendra Modi government is rushing headlong into the Western camp.An India-Belarus Foreign Office consultation, planned for November 1 in Minsk after a hiatus of three years, has not, however, taken place yet. Poland has very strong historic and commercial links with Gujarat, which may have been a factor in not overtly demonstrating any bonhomie with Belarus now. Any Indian team going to Minsk for consultations would have been given an audience by Lukashenko, who would gain diplomatic mileage from engagement with a UNSC and UNHRC member. This would not have been viewed favourably by the EU. India is hoping that by the time the Belarusian Consulate opens in Mumbai, the crisis with Poland would have been defused.As an old Communist apparatchik with keen interest in Indo-Soviet relations, and a veteran of the Soviet Army earlier, Lukashenko wished to make India his second destination — after Moscow — for a foreign visit soon after he became President of Belarus in 1994. Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s government was one of the first in the world to recognise Minsk as an independent capital in 1991 as part of his policy of retaining relations with successor states of the Soviet Union. An Indian diplomatic mission opened in Minsk a year later.Lukashenko’s wish was not immediately realised because then External Affairs Minister Dinesh Singh had a stroke and became incapacitated. Singh was replaced by Pranab Mukherjee a year later. A priority for Indian foreign policy at that time was improved relations with Europe, especially with Germany and the UK. A cautious man by instinct, Mukherjee felt that the sight of Lukashenko inspecting a Guard of Honour on the Rashtrapati Bhavan forecourt during a state visit will slow down improved relations with the EU. Right from the start, West European governments viewed Lukashenko as a Soviet holdover: neither a democrat nor a reformer, plus a proxy for Moscow.Therefore, nothing happened with Belarus as long as Mukherjee headed South Block, the headquarters of the MEA. When IK Gujral became External Affairs Minister in mid-1996, the Russians put in a word to Gujral at Lukashenko’s behest. There was no Belarusian embassy in New Delhi at that time. Gujral was Ambassador in Moscow for four years. Soon enough, Lukashenko’s wish of visiting India was realised. A productive trip, it led to the opening of a Belarusian embassy in New Delhi the following year and signing of commercial deals including sale of much-needed potash, which forms the basis of Belarusian exports to India.With controversy erupting at the climate talks in Glasgow on whether coal should be “phased out” or “phased down”, and India’s role in changing the formulation, neither side would like to highlight imminent collaboration between state-owned mining companies in Belarus and Coal India Limited. Belarusian oil companies with advanced technology are helping India to increase output in domestic oil fields.All such economic cooperation pales into insignificance when South Block looks at its balance sheet with Minsk and realises that Belarus supports India on every issue: a permanent seat in a reformed UNSC, the recent election for a non-permanent seat at the UN high table, membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), of which Belarus is a member. These are issues over which some European countries have reservations about backing India. Support for India from Minsk is on the same level as what India gets from Thimpu, Male or Port Louis. Going with the EU on the conflagration over migrants does not, therefore, make for pragmatism in the Modi government’s external affairs.If the past is any guide, Lukashenko’s next visit to India will only be in 2027. He has visited India in every tenth year during his long presidency: in 1997, 2007 and 2017. Unless the West foments a successful colour revolution, Lukashenko is likely to remain President in 2027. Only one Indian head of state has been to Belarus, when Modi asked Mukherjee to go to Minsk six years ago||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/make-pragmatism-basis-of-ties-with-belarus-341194
22-11-2021||---||A battle only half won||THE sudden decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws provides a historic opportunity to rethink, reinvent and redesign the future of Indian agriculture, laying the foundations for an evergreen revolution. Once the celebrations are over, it is imperative for the political leadership to recast the economic design with the underlying objective of making agriculture a powerhouse of economic growth.Withdrawing the contentious farm laws means a return to status quo — there will be no respite from the severe farm crisis that farmers were living with. Neoliberal economists will cry hoarse, but making agriculture profitable, economically viable and environmentally sustainable is the need of the times. At a time when the world is waking up to the urgency of transforming the unhealthy and unsustainable food systems, India has the ability to provide a roadmap that is ecologically safe as well as healthy for the people and the planet. With PM Modi’s bold, but belated initiative in withdrawing the proposed market reforms in agriculture, the first step towards a reformative agriculture has already been taken.Why I say reformative is because the proposed market reforms in agriculture have failed across countries and continents. From the US to Australia, from Chile to the Philippines, markets have only added to the prevailing agrarian distress. If in the US, Canada and elsewhere markets have only increased farm indebtedness, succeeded in pushing small farmers out of agriculture, and turned farming into a major contributor of greenhouse gas emissions, to believe that the same markets would perform a miracle in India was a fallacy. In North America, despite higher investments, technological innovations, high productivity and the evolution of sophisticated international value chains, farm incomes had been on a steady decline for over 150 years. In 2018, the US Department of Agriculture had worked out that the farmers’ share in every dollar of end consumer price had dropped to just 8 cents, pushing them increasingly towards extinction.Whether the decision to withdraw the farm laws was taken in view of the impending elections or for economic reasons, knowing that markets have failed to enhance farm incomes anywhere in the world is a subject of public debate, but the fact that the so-called reforms have been set aside paves the way for revitalising agriculture, bringing back the pride in farming. The perseverance demonstrated by the protesting farmers, who had braved weather extremes for a year, while staying put at the borders of New Delhi, had drawn the nation’s attention to the plight of the farming community. It is time to build on the policy space so created, and redesign a healthy and vibrant farming system that is everlasting.The decision to take back the laws is a battle half won. Withdrawing the laws means a return to status quo, which means no respite from the severe farm crisis that the farmers were living with. It is certainly a victory in the first lap for the farmers, but the race is still not complete. Unless the farmers are assured of a living income, the supply-demand principles that many economists believe lead to price discovery will only end up further exploiting them. Food systems transformation cannot take place without first guaranteeing farm income. That is the reform that agriculture, not only in India, but also globally is desperately looking for.Considering that on an average the farmers get nearly 40 per cent less in market price compared to the MSP that the government announces for 23 crops, they do not even recover the production cost. When the farmers undertake cultivation they do not even realise they are actually cultivating losses. Except in areas where MSP regime is implemented for wheat and paddy, the farmers in the rest of the country do not even know what they have been deprived of. That is what the Economic Survey 2016 had acknowledged, stating that the average farm income in 17 states, which means roughly half the country, was only Rs 20,000 a year. The Situational Assessment Survey 2019 has worked out the average farm income from crop cultivation at a paltry Rs 27 a day.Making MSP a legal right for the farmers, meaning that no trading be allowed below the benchmark price, is the real reform that Indian agriculture needs. This is the second step of reformative agriculture. With more money in the hands of the farmers, agriculture will not only become economically viable, but also the country’s GDP will gallop. This will strengthen rural livelihoods, thereby reducing the employment pressure on the cities, and create a huge rural demand that will revitalise the rural economy. It is time to reverse the flawed economic design that was built on sacrificing agriculture for the sake of industry. Replace it with an economics that works for the people, needing investment on the human capital.Guaranteeing MSP will still leave a sizeable farming population out. For those small and marginal farmers who have no marketable surplus, but are significant players in ensuring household food security, the entitlements under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme will have to be accordingly raised.The farmers’ movement in India, perhaps the largest and the longest in the world, has drawn global attention. The farmers have managed to challenge an outdated economic thinking that relied on keeping agriculture impoverished. This is no less an achievement, and if followed with an honest appraisal, it has the potential to sow the seeds of an evergreen revolution. This term was coined by agricultural scientist, Dr MS Swaminathan, and entails a production system that utilises traditional knowledge, available biodiversity, and farm practices that do not destroy the environment.Redesigning the farming systems, bringing markets closer to the farmers, and developing a food distribution system that provides for household nutritional security is essential. But this cannot be achieved by people who created the crisis. It needs a fresh approach. To make this possible, let us begin by first providing the farmers with a living income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-battle-only-half-won-341193
