23-11-2021||---||Devastating effect of climate change on nomads||Mukhtar, a 21-year-old nomad of the Bakerwal community, has, along with his parents and four brothers, just completed the seasonal migration trek from the picturesque South Kashmir’s Kokernag area, at over 6,000 feet from sea level, to the Ramnagar Wildlife Sanctuary, adjacent to the Jammu plains, which is nearly 1,000 feet above sea level.Mukhtar and his clan members are worried that their flock of 80 sheep and goats would not have sufficient supply of fodder for the next four months. The Ramnagar forest area, located on the Jammu-Srinagar highway, which was once the hunting ground of the monarchs that ruled J&K, is at present devoid of lush-green leaves because of the unexpected precipitation, which included three bouts of hail in the third week of October this year.The rains were reported as a result of a unique weather phenomenon that developed over north-west India due to a low-pressure area created in the Bay of Bengal. The unexpected weather coincided with the much-publicised negotiations on climate change at the 26th United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) in Glasgow, Scotland, held from October 31 to November 12.In the negotiations, India, which is the third largest carbon emitter, after the US and China, promised that it would ensure that 50 per cent of its energy is sourced from renewable energy sources by 2030. It also announced that it would reduce its carbon emissions until 2030 by a billion tonnes. It also committed to net-zero emissions latest by 2070.At present, the debate on the effects of global climate change is monopolised by the narrative that rising sea levels will drown the coastal cities and island countries. On October 17, 2009, Maldivian President Mohammad Nasheed held the world’s first underwater cabinet meeting to draw attention over the rising sea levels that threaten the island country’s existence. Within India, coastal cities like Mumbai are also under the spotlight. Coastal regional countries like Bangladesh and Myanmar are also considered vulnerable due to the effects of climate change.Like other global problems, the consequences of climate change are often limited by the global north’s interests and understanding. It, thus, eclipses the granular and multi-dimensional reality in the global south which is outside the immediate purview and scope of funding by the global north.For instance, the effects of climate change on the nomadic communities, such as the Bakerwals, whose population is at least 5 lakh in north India — an approximate extrapolation from the 2011 Census — and, perhaps, the same number in the neighbouring Pakistan, find little mention in the discussions on climate change. At present, the community finds itself in the middle of a multi-dimensional adversarial situation — triggered by climate change and other global events — that is going unnoticed.The unexpected precipitation this October in parts of north India, including the several feet of snow in the Pir Panjal mountains that divide the Kashmir province from Jammu, coincided with the seasonal march of the Bakerwal community to the low-lying areas. This journey has defined their way of living for centuries. Around the same time, Mukhtar’s family was caught in the snow when they reached Nathatop, at a height of over 6,500 feet in the Patnitop-Sanasar belt of J&K’s Ramban district. Nineteen of their goats, who are less acclimatised to the cold weather as compared to sheep, couldn’t cope with the cold. The veterinary hospital was far off and the goats died.The trail of bad luck chased Mukhtar’s family as they reached the Ramnagar forest area, their destination point for the winter season. As per their initial assessment, the fodder for Bakerwal’s sheep and goat will last just a month. The family is getting nervous as the available grazing areas in their winter abode have shrunk due to urbanisation. The unregulated use of the forest area for building dwellings has also led to a rise in wild animal-man encounters. Across the valley, particularly in South Kashmir, attacks by bears have gone up, leading to several human fatalities. The same is the case in the winter capital of Jammu city as on April 6 this year, a leopard was sighted in the posh Gandhi Nagar area. Two persons were critically injured.Earlier, the Bakerwals, who lived in the nearby forests, acted as a human wall to such attacks by wild predators in urban congested settlements. Their dogs are capable of deterring the leopards to some extent.Coupled with the effects of climate change, Covid-19 has left the community devastated. Covid-19 has depressed the global price of raw wool from countries like India in contrast to the available processed wool from Australia and New Zealand. Apart from selling goat and sheep for mutton, the sheared sheep raw wool yielded an additional source of income to the Bakerwals. In normal times, the sheared high-quality raw wool fetched them around Rs 90 per kg and one of the destination points was Ludhiana, one of the heartlands of South Asia’s export-oriented woollen industry. The shearing of wool is done thrice a year.One of the sources of wool procurements was the J&K Wool Board, which was shut down in March 2021. The reasons are obvious. The board was established as a derivative of the comprehensive legislation (J&K Sheep and Sheep Products Development Board Act, 1979) to procure wool from the Bakerwals and sell it in the market. In the absence of cutting-edge technology that can add value to the raw wool, the wool board lost out to processed wool from countries like Australia and was faced with surpluses in its own storage facilities from earlier unsold raw wool stocks.0000Unsurprisingly, the Bakerwals have no option except to sell the raw wool to private middlemen at a low price of Rs 20 per kg for high-quality raw wool.The situation of the Bakerwals only reinforces the point that the understanding of the effects of climate change on human population requires a framework that is customised to the local realities in the global south. Only then would the fuller scale of the effects of climate change on communities in the global south, living away from public glare, and an understanding of the global north be known more comprehensively, prominently and accurately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/devastating-effect-of-climate-change-on-nomads-341569
23-11-2021||---||Why Mountbatten Diaries are back in focus||The Mountbatten Diaries have again emerged with a focus on India. They came up during a recent appeal hearing by a tribunal on British author Andrew Lownie’s petition demanding the full release of the Diaries, held by Southampton University among the Broadlands Archives.Lownie, who had published The Mountbattens: Their Lives and Loves in 2019, had alleged a colossal wastage of public funds (£6,00,000) by the Cabinet Office in court battles to resist the release of the Mountbatten Diaries. His own legal costs had come to £300,000.This may not match the mammoth figure — estimated at £3-10 million — spent by the Cabinet Office in 1986-87 during its unsuccessful efforts to prevent the publication of MI-5 spy Peter Wright’s Spycatcher in Australia. This costly venture, however, had made that book, which otherwise had no great merit, a global bestseller.Southampton University has clarified that only a small percentage of the records was held back ‘as advised’ in 2011 while 99.8 per cent of the ‘Broadlands Archives,’ totalling about 4,500 boxes, were available for public scrutiny. These were originally kept in Mountbatten’s Hampshire Estate and later transferred to Southampton University.A report in the Express (UK) on November 15, 2021, said that the Queen had expressed her fear that her ‘dignity’ could be compromised if secrets from the diaries of Lord Louis Mountbatten were revealed. It also said that Professor Chris Woolgar, who was the chief archivist of the Mountbatten Archive, wrote to the Cabinet Office 10 years ago, proposing to censor the sections of the diaries referring to the royal family and the partitioning of India.Was it because of Mountbatten’s habit of using “insensitive turn of phrases” while dealing with the most sensitive period of the India-Pakistan Partition, as Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre had stated in their highly successful book Freedom at Midnight in 1975? The authors who had interviewed him for 30 hours had then come in for criticism for reproducing Mountbatten’s description of Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Patel as “a pair of chastened schoolboys” when they allegedly requested him to return from Simla on September 6, 1947, to quell the Partition violence.A week later, Mountbatten used another damaging expression that the two “were like schoolboys, absolutely pole-axed. They did not know what had hit them.” None of this mattered to Mountbatten as he took great delight in the book’s success, offering copies to 0the Queen and Prince Charles.The authors added that in the years which followed, they remained in close contact with Mountbatten, who took them around his personal archives at the Broadlands Estate: “Well organised, fireproof cabinets, virtually every piece of paper bearing on his life, from the invitation cards to his christening to the menu of his last State dinner he had attended.”A year before his death, he surprised them by conveying that “it is you two who will write my biography.” They did not accept the offer as they felt that England would consider it almost an act of “treason to entrust your biography to an American and a Frenchman.”In 2002, a part of the Mountbatten Diaries appeared, duly edited by Lionel Carter, former Cambridge University librarian. This was Mountbatten’s Report on the Last Viceroyalty for the period from March 22, 1947, the day he arrived in India, to August 15, the day of Independence. Carter’s editorial introduction reflects Mountbatten’s personality, where he quotes Sir Ian Scott, Viceroy’s Deputy Private Secretary, that his ‘formidable and impressive exterior’ gave ‘full reign’ to his ‘vanity and conceit’.This compendium was the Viceroy’s official letters to Prime Minister Clement Attlee over the developing situation during that crucial period. Mountbatten released the first version in 1949. Normally, it should have been the government’s responsibility to publish government archives. Or, he should have at least sought government permission to publish them as they contained his brutally frank comments on different personalities. However, Mountbatten did not care and started distributing copies to the King and others, forcing the government to classify these diaries until July 2002, when Carter’s edited version came out.On November 18, during the present appeal hearing, it was mentioned that Mountbatten had wrongly ‘influenced’ Sir Cyril Radcliffe, Chair of the Indo-Pakistan Boundary Commission, on the demarcation of the Indo-Pakistan Boundary Award. This was another example of Mountbatten’s lack of propriety in thinking that he could do anything. Lionel Carter had confirmed this in 2002, saying that Mountbatten had influenced the transfer of three tehsils — Ferozepur, Zira and Fazilka — from Pakistan to India as desired by his friend, the Maharajah of Bikaner, who did not want the Ferozepur Headworks to go to Pakistan.There are various passages in this diary reflecting his nonchalant attitude towards the Indian leaders’priorities, like preventing the visits of Gandhi and Nehru to Kashmir till he visited the state from June 18 to 23: “One of the reasons for this visit was that by going, I hoped to keep Mahatma Gandhi and Pandit Nehru, both of whom wanted to go to Kashmir, from paying a visit at this time.” Then he quotes Sardar Patel, saying that neither should go but “if it is a choice between two evils, I consider Gandhiji’s visit would be the lesser evil.”Mountbatten had promised several things during that period without knowing anything about India or the gigantic problem he was facing, as his flamboyance did not match his capability. For this, he was sharply criticised by American author Stanley Wolpert in his book Shameful Flight. As an example, Mountbatten had assured former Congress President Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, on May 14, 1947, that he would take stern measures to crush the Partition violence to “nip the trouble in the bud”, including the use of “tanks and aeroplanes”. Nothing of that sort could be done.Lionel Carter ends his introduction by quoting from Sarvepalli Gopal’s review of Freedom at Midnight: “As time passes [Mountbatten] sees himself more and more at the centre of the stage, with superhuman god-like powers which reduce all others to pigmies…His vanity fed on itself till it borders on megalomania.”Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-mountbatten-diaries-are-back-in-focus-341568
23-11-2021||---||Closer to the edge||The past year has witnessed a spate of reports about Chinese ‘model villages’ coming up in disputed areas of its Himalayan border with India and Bhutan. In January 2021, NDTV had reported a Chinese village had come up on the banks of the Tsari Chu river in the Longju region, the site of the first Sino-Indian clashes in 1959. A passing reference to the earlier construction in the US Department of Defense’s annual China military power report added more grist to the mill even as the news channel came up with yet another report of a second model village, 93 km east of the one reported earlier.By pushing into unpopulated areas of the Himalayan region, Beijing is not only trying to establish the basis for their possession, but also taking care of border security.The latest report has been denied by the Indian Army which told the channel that the location ‘corresponding to the coordinated mentioned in your query lies to the north of the LAC.’ Earlier, the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, too, had said while there had been construction, ‘these so-called villages are well within their (Chinese) side of the LAC.’ The MEA, however, said China had been undertaking construction activities in the border areas, ‘including those that it has illegally occupied over the decades’ and that India had not accepted ‘such illegal occupation’.This confusion can be cleared by cutting through the web of officialese. The NDTV report says that the second enclave lies 6 km within India between the LAC and the international boundary. Actually, there is no ‘international boundary’ between India and China. Such boundaries are always delineated and then demarcated through the joint agreement between the two countries involved. What we have, and the Army and Rawat are correct on the score, is a Line of Actual Control (LAC).But these technicalities only serve to obfuscate the wider issue here, which is of populating the rugged Himalayan frontier on both sides. Within days of the end of the 19th Communist Party of China (CPC) Congress on October 24, 2017, Xinhua reported about a letter written by two sisters of a Tibetan herder family to chairman Xi, detailing their experiences in the border areas. Xi promptly replied, praising the girls and thanking them for their loyalty and the contribution they were making in safeguarding China’s territory.This was a signal, as clear as could be, that the Chinese had become concerned over the situation on their southern border with India and that those concerns were being taken up at the very apex level. For the Chinese, the wake-up call came from the Indian intervention in Doklam to prevent them from building a road to the Zompelri (Jampheri) ridge in what India recognised as Bhutanese territory. The confrontation had lasted several months, and then both sides agreed to pull back. No sooner it had happened than the Chinese went on an infrastructure construction spree, not just in northern Doklam, but along the entire LAC. This featured an upgradation of their military facilities and a new strategy of populating the frontier area.This was through a scheme of constructing Xiaokang (moderately prosperous) villages, aimed at serving two functions — to upgrade the physical quality of life of the border citizens, and to ensure border security. According to Jayadeva Ranade, president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, the plans call for the building of more than 600 such villages along the LAC over the next few years.The stoppage of India-Tibet border trade following the 1962 border war led to the abandonment of scores of frontier villages dependent on trade. In the ensuing years, the problem of depopulation of villages in the Himalayan region became worse. Land in the mountain region is meagre and making a living tough. It began with the migration of able-bodied men and was followed in a generation by their families who found life much easier in the plains. In 2017, a report said in Uttarakhand itself, some 3,000 villages had gone ‘ghost’, with houses locked up and abandoned. This is likely to be the pattern in other parts of the Himalayas as well.But the problem of depopulation is only one of the two drivers of this Chinese drive for border village construction. The other is politics. By pushing into unpopulated areas of the Himalayan region, Beijing is not only trying to establish the basis for their possession, but also taking care of border security.For this reason, there is need to think systematically about how the government can support habitation in the frontier areas. Building roads, tunnels and military facilities is important, but it is not enough. What people need is livelihood and a life. There are options that can be explored — growing Himalayan medicinal herbs as well as encouraging wool production, carpet weaving and trade in the villages adjacent to the border. Some of these may have to, as in the old days, be made semi-nomadic, with provision for relocating to lower areas in the harsh winter months. Perhaps the biggest drawback, and this affects the entire Himalayan zone, is the lack of medical infrastructure even in towns like Nainital or Shimla, leave alone the frontier regions.To counter this requires systematic planning and specialised administration, perhaps the revival of a frontier administrative service may not be a bad idea. But most important, this is something that needs money. It is time that the Government of India, too, realises that merely building up military capacity in the forward areas is not enough. Fellow columnist Devinder Sharma once mooted the idea that this expenditure be seen as an ecological tax for the value the Himalayas provide for the country’s larger ecosystem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/closer-to-the-edge-341559
