24-11-2021||---||Both e-commerce & physical retail need support||BIG Tech is coming under attack all over the world for various reasons. The tentacles of regulatory agencies in the US and the European Union as well as Australia and China are now tightening their grip over these multinational players. The reasons are multifarious. The concerns range from harmful content in Australia to China fining its own internet giants like Alibaba for violating anti-monopoly laws. Lawmakers in the US interrogated executives of the four Big Tech companies on anti-trust issues last year while the European Union has already levied hefty fines on some while continuing investigations against others in similar areas.India has been having its own battles with Big Tech in recent times. The latest area of conflict, however, may end up being the most path-breaking as it involves the high-value area of e-commerce and a clash with the country’s vast brick and mortar retail network.This follows the issuance of a new set of draft rules for e-commerce a few months ago. One of these related to the question of unfairly competing with third-party sellers by using privileged data available to the e-commerce platform, an issue flagged by the European Commission as well.While this continues to remain an issue of concern, the draft rules go much further on marketing and even curb steep discounts. They also stipulate that companies associated with the online marketplaces cannot be present on the site. This has naturally evoked a sharp reaction from e-tailers, not just Amazon and the Walmart-owned Flipkart, but also homegrown players like the Tatas and Reliance, which have big e-commerce plans.The plethora of conditions has even spurred internal strife within the government, with different agencies taking varying stances. The validity of the new rules issued by the Consumer Affairs Ministry is being questioned by the Finance Ministry and the Niti Aayog, with the Prime Minister’s Office likely to become a mediator.Common to all the objections, however, is the idea that the rules not only represent an overreach in trying to protect brick-and-mortar retailers, but also they are not in the consumers’ interests. Which is a surprise, given that the proposals emanate from the Consumer Affairs Ministry.A case in point is the provision to curb what are known as “flash sales” or heavy discounts on e-commerce marketplaces. These are usually carried out for mobile phones, thus worrying the cell phone manufacturers. The reasons for clamping down on such sales are not clear, barring the obvious one of trying to placate retailers in the physical space.Consumers’ interests cannot be served by denying them opportunities to buy mobile phones at cheaper rates. And this becomes important at a time when the country is marching inexorably towards digitisation. The pandemic has created a scenario in which the mobile phone has transformed into an essential commodity. Even the poorest of the poor aspire for a mobile phone now as it not only tracks funding from government schemes but has also become an enabler for children’s education. The availability of phones at cheaper rates, thus, needs to be encouraged rather than the reverse.Another questionable proposal is the mandatory registration of every e-commerce entity with the Industries Department. The purpose is hazy, given the fact that the offline retailers have no such requirement.The draft rules are also contradictory in some ways. For instance, the existing policy does not allow e-commerce marketplaces from controlling inventory sold on their platforms but the new proposals envisage a liability on them for negligent goods or services.There is also an overreach in terms of overlapping with the existing regulations imposed by other ministries. This includes proposals prohibiting the misuse of dominant market positions as well as rules for appointing grievance officers, both issues already dealt with separate legislations.In other words, the regulations being laid down for e-commerce operations have several lacunae while remaining lukewarm to the consumers’ interests.On the contrary, they seem to give paramount importance to the interests of trade and industry. The aim seems to be to protect retailers in the physical space from the potential adverse impact of online marketing platforms.The fact is that e-commerce in this country is not just here to stay, it is only going to become bigger. The speed of its expansion is not merely in big cities, as reports indicate that the fastest growth is in tier-2 and tier-3 cities where Amazon and Walmart-Flipkart are able to provide goods unavailable in local stores.It is also no longer just about the global Big Tech firms as domestic players are entering the arena rapidly. During the pandemic, it was indigenous grocery delivery apps that expanded their networks in a big way.Yet, it cannot be overemphasised that it was the local kirana store that came to the consumers’ rescue at the height of the lockdown when supply chains had broken down. It is undeniable that the enormous network of retail stores needs to be given greater assistance. The way to do so, however, is not to hobble the competition but to provide them greater financial and logistical support.The country’s traders have already faced an uphill task in complying with the provisions of the Goods and Services Tax. But it has been a productive exercise in terms of bringing the retail network gradually into the ambit of the formal economy. To carry this process further, government agencies need to provide more technical assistance for financial restructuring and banks need to give easier credit for inventory management, upgrading infrastructure and monitoring of supply chains.According to Kearney Research, the country’s retail industry is slated to grow by 9 per cent from $779 billion in 2019 to $1,407 billion by 2026. It accounts for over 10 per cent of the GDP and around 8 per cent employment. It is also the fifth largest global destination for foreign investment in the retail space.Given this potential, it is clear that both online and offline retail are going to grow rapidly in the next few years. In this backdrop, the aim should be to support both segments of the retail industry. But regulations must be devised to keep the consumers’0000interests as the paramount goal rather than to protect either online or offline retail players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/both-e-commerce-physical-retail-need-support-342026
24-11-2021||---||Hard to rule out China’s comeback in Nepal||THE Nepali journalist, a friend of long standing, responded with an emphatic “no” to my query whether China will make a comeback in Nepal to its heydays of four years ago when it helped to unite all the Left parties into a communist alliance, the Nepal Communist Party, which ruled with a two-thirds majority, had governments in six of the seven provinces, and swept 80 per cent of local bodies. It was an unprecedented stability for Nepal, which had averaged a term of 10 months for prime ministers in the last two decades.My friend elaborated, “China can never come back,” adding, “as long as KP Sharma Oli is the party chairman and supreme leader.” My British English teacher at college had warned: “Never use the word ‘never’ unless you mean never.” Oli will be elected chairman for five years next month at the fourth UML party general convention.The Chinese had urged Oli to give up one of the two posts — chairman or prime minister — for party unity and stability. Instead, Oli invited India’s R&AW chief Samant Goel to Kathmandu to mend relations with India. That lost him his coveted title of rashtravadi (nationalist).As long as Oli is the supremo of the party, no unification of Left parties is thinkable. What is needed is an UML minus Oli to even begin thinking of unity. The NCP is dismembered into UML-Oli, UML (Unified Socialist) Madhav Nepal and Maoist Prachanda. Recently, Prachanda extolled the virtues of unification and illustrated how the UML and Maoists helped in the passage of the 2015 Constitution. He also urged the UML (Unified Socialist) to consider unification with the Maoists.For the Chinese, even a whisper on reunification is like Tiger Balm.I returned to Nepal after 20 months of the Covid blockade to witness the five-party democratic alliance of the Nepali Congress, Maoists, UML (Unified Socialist), Janata Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Jan Morcha, led by Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, who was appointed by the Supreme Court, presiding over a stable alliance.The 2015 Constitution has no provision for dissolving the House, which is further insulated with a bar on any no-confidence motion for two years. Still, there are governance and foreign policy issues, like the crisis in the judiciary over the impeachment of Chief Justice Cholendra Bahadur Rana who brought the ruling dispensation into office and the controversial US-sponsored Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) worth $500 million.Covid appears to be under control despite the back-to-back celebrations of Dasehra, Diwali and Tihar. Fresh cases are in three digits and deaths declined to an average of one a day.The MCC grant is stuck since 2018 over conflicting political ideology. The Left parties feel it threatens Nepal’s independence and sovereignty. The Maoists want certain clauses of the agreement amended. The NC is cool about it and Deuba is hopeful about its success.Concern over Chinese sensitivities on the MCC is seen in the context of it being an instrument of the Indo-Pacific strategy to counter the BRI. American emissaries, including Assistant Secretary of State Donald Lu who was in Kathmandu last week, have expressed anxiety over its delay. The $500-million grant is for connectivity projects, including transmission lines, but as in Sri Lanka, the MCC is mired in politics and fear of Chinese retaliation.Bamdev Gautam, Left’s eternal optimist, who has quit the UML, said that the MCC will never pass in Parliament.With the surprise demise of the all-pervasive NCP, India has a level playing field in Nepal. Stung by the unfortunate events of 2015 — a non-inclusive Constitution and economic blockade which Madhesis consider as their third ‘andolan’ — India has recovered ground by not interfering in Nepal’s domestic affairs.It is China which has taken over that mantle. Its Ambassador Hou Yanqi’s overreach in Nepal’s internal affairs has helped in converting the anti-India sentiment into anti-China feeling for the first time. Chinese encroachment in the Humla region last year added to the anti-Beijing ire.From 18 hours of load-shedding till 2018, Nepal has now declared itself energy surplus (though many areas in the far west have no electricity because there are no transmission lines in those inaccessible areas). And, India will be the first buyer of power.Power exchange markets have opened and are active. Nepal’s peak demand is 1,500 MW while it is producing 2,000 MW. As many as 23 high-capacity transmission lines of 400 KV are to be constructed and at least one funded by the MCC to the southern border town of Butawal. Energy Minister Barsaman Pun says that Nepal will produce 15,000 MW by 2032, of which 50 per cent will be for export.Nepal has wasted its liquid gold due to mixing water with politics for very long.Nepal’s first Brahmin army chief in 200 years, Gen Prabhu Ram Sharma, visited India to be made an Honorary General in the Indian Army, a reciprocal tradition of the military connect between the two countries. The Bilateral Group on Security Cooperation, started in 2002 during the Maoist civil war, held its latest bi-annual meeting in Bengaluru last month.India completed the construction of 50,000 new homes in the Gorkha region to replace those destroyed in the 2015 earthquake in which India was the distinguished first responder. Nepal’s ex-servicemen, whom I met in Pokhara, have expressed grave concern that some Indian Gorkha regiments have begun recruiting Garhwalis and Kumaonis to fill the shortfall of Gorkhas of Indian domicile. Even so, no Indian politician or bureaucrat need doubt the loyalty of Nepalese recruits or ex-servicemen to India. As one Indian officer posted in Pokhara told me, “It’s like asking ‘whom do you love more?’ India and Nepal are like father and mother.”As a threat-sensitised soldier, I will take my Nepali journalist friend’s prediction of China never coming back to Nepal with a pinch of salt. Hou Yanqi not long ago danced into the hearts of thousands of Nepalis, singing their favourite song ‘resham firiri’ and keeping Left unity. She can do it again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hard-to-rule-out-chinas-comeback-in-nepal-342025
24-11-2021||---||Far removed from reality||THE BJP’s election manifestos were replete with promises and programmes for farmers. After a preface, the 2019 declaration began with national security and ‘nationalism’ and went straight to agriculture and farming, ostensibly in recognition of the electoral salience and significance of these sectors. The guarantees rolled out ceaselessly: a ‘mission’ to double farmers’ income by 2022, the Rs 6,000 disbursed to small and marginal farmers in three yearly tranches, pension and social security, Rs 25 lakh crore investment in the ‘agri-rural’ sector, insurance schemes and the works. In the battleground state of Uttar Pradesh, which votes early next year with Punjab, the assurances were eloquent: waiver of all farm loans and prospective lending at zero per cent interest, and an investment of Rs 150 crore in agriculture. There was not a word on the one issue that is exercising farmers even after the Centre revoked the three farm laws — to bring a legal guarantee through an Act to pay MSP for the principal cash crops.For decades, the BJP worked hard to avoid being typecast as a party representing traders and businessmen. It has been unable to transcend the classification.Varun Gandhi, the BJP’s Sultanpur MP—who supported the farmers’ agitation and endorsed their demands—continues to flag the issue as an area of major concern in UP, which it is, because while the state’s farmers recognised and appreciated the messages from their counterparts in Punjab and Haryana on the Centre’s ‘reforms’, their opposition emanated largely from the state’s unwillingness to raise the state advisory price or SAP of sugarcane. Over the years, sugarcane is cultivated in vast tracts of UP going beyond the ‘Jat belt’ of the west because it is commercially viable, is a perennial crop and lends itself to a host of by-products.In UP, SAP governs the price structure of sugarcane. It is determined by the state government. Every government demonstrably took into account the interests of all stakeholders in the sugar economy—and not just the growers—before fixing SAP, which is why the farmers felt short-changed by the political establishment and the market. The Yogi Adityanath regime was not an exception. It increased SAP by Rs 10 per quintal in October 2017 before the local body elections. The price stagnated at Rs 315 per quintal as compared with Punjab that pays Rs 360. After intense deliberations over the next quantum of hike, SAP went up by just Rs 25 a quintal. The announcement came on the eve of the ‘Bharat bandh’ called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.If SAP is one facet of farmers’ anxiety, the other issue is the absence of legal surety for the MSP that leaves not just the better off, but the small and marginal cultivators to the whims of the open market. The refrain in the countryside was legalise a reserve/floor price for the crops that becomes inviolable and binding on every buyer. Invariably, the open market refuses to procure the crops on the prescribed MSP while the state-owned mandis pick up a small portion. When the farmers complain that agriculture has become untenable, they have a point: this year, the current shortage of diammonium phosphate and urea because of a spurt in global prices and the Centre’s inability to import them on time forced farmers to buy these nutrients in the black market. As Pritam Singh, professor at UK’s Oxford Brookes Business School, prophetically wrote, ‘Even if the MSP is not abandoned temporarily due to strategic reasons, it should be kept in mind that the MSP would be used for paying the farmers only to the extent that it ensures the fulfilment of procurement targets decided by the government. Once this target is achieved, there would be no need for the government to purchase more. After that, the farmers, by losing this support structure, would become vulnerable to market fluctuations to push the price of their products downwards due to excess supply beyond the procurement targets.’ The prophecy mirrored the fears in the countryside.The trouble is that at every step, the BJP betrayed a lack of cogent understanding of farming. A political resolution adopted in its most recent national executive meet omitted an allusion to the farm laws. While the silence was interpreted in certain quarters as a ‘signal’ of serious rethink (the decision to revoke the laws came shortly thereafter), was it possible for the leadership to commit an about-turn in writing, considering that just months ago, in February 2021, a resolution passed at a meeting of the office-bearers lauded PM Modi for ushering in the reforms, described as ‘revolutionary’? The farm laws were supposed to be the BJP’s equivalent of the economic reforms brought in by PV Narasimha Rao amid dissent within the Congress and resistance from the Opposition.The BJP government at the Centre and the states regarded the farmers’ askance and treated their agitations as law and order issues. This attitude is not new. In Vasundhara Raje’s tenure as the Rajasthan CM, there were over a dozen instances of police firing on farmers, the last of which took place at Soyla village (Tonk) in 2005 and claimed five lives. In the Shivraj Singh Chouhan dispensation in Madhya Pradesh, farmers were shot dead when they had assembled at Mandsaur in 2017. BS Yediyurappa, advertised by the BJP as a prominent farmers’ leader, blotted his CV when a farmer was gunned down in his first term as CM in 2008 at a demonstration against fertiliser shortage. Would the son of a Central minister been as brazen as Ashish Mishra who rammed his SUV into a handful of protesting farmers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri? His father Ajay Mishra Teni is Home Minister Amit Shah’s junior even today and will likely campaign in the elections.For decades, the BJP worked hard to avoid being typecast as a party representing traders and businessmen. Events show that the party has not transcended the classification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/far-removed-from-reality-342024
