25-11-2021||---||New Quad may bolster India’s Gulf presence||ARMY Chief General MM Naravane’s recent visit to Israel has highlighted the significance of last month’s virtual meeting of foreign ministers of India, Israel, UAE and the US to form an “international forum for economic cooperation” to promote trade, infrastructure building, vaccines and maritime security in West Asia. Initiated by America after its retreat from Afghanistan, this grouping of culturally diverse countries sharing economic interests is being hailed in India as the ‘Middle East Quad’ (MEQ) or ‘West Asia Quad’ to distinguish it from the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, which focuses on maintaining the balance of power in America’s Indo-Pacific. The MEQ presents India with an unprecedented chance to strengthen its economic profile in West Asia.Essentially, the MEQ seems conceived to encourage greater commercial cooperation. But security cannot be absent. Since 80 per cent of China’s imported oil passes through the Indian Ocean which is dominated by the US, its recent decision to sell its iron friend, Pakistan, its most advanced warship to maintain the balance of power , may be one signal that it is throwing a spanner in America’s strategic and economic works in the Gulf area.That is unsurprising. America’s bases in Israel and the UAE give it a strategic presence in a Middle East riven by conflict and holding two-thirds of the world’s oil reserves.At another level, the pessimistic energy outlook, India’s need to modernise its defence infrastructure, and the rivalries of the US, UAE and Israel with Iran, imply that New Delhi’s shared interests with them must not alienate Teheran, especially since India wishes to develop the strategically important Chabahar port. India’s economic interests, therefore, run parallel to its partners’ security interests.The mini-multilateral MEQ challenges India to build on its close bilateral economic ties with both Israel and the UAE. All the more so because its refusal to join the Indo-Pacific’s Regional Comprehensive and Economic Partnership makes it look economically isolated and gives the impression that it cannot cope with competition from China.China is already India’s economic competitor in the UAE and Israel, which have gained investment through its Belt and Road Initiative. But India can yet become their attractive economic partner through investment and trade.In 2019, India’s cumulative investments in Israel amounted to $118.24 million. During the period from April 2000 to March 2021, Israel’s FDI in India was $224.76 million. India is the source of a mere 2.4 per cent of Israel’s imports; China of 12 per cent. Three per cent of Israel’s exports go to India, 9.6 per cent to China.India buys 43 per cent of Israeli arms exports to diversify sources of defence supplies; that amounts to 13 per cent of India’s weapons imports.India is well placed to compete with China in the UAE, which is the third-largest source of India's oil imports. India buys 7 per cent of the UAE’s exports, China 5 per cent. Sixteen per cent of the UAE’s imports come from China, 11 per cent from India. An India-UAE free trade deal is on the agenda.In the UAE, India has some economic advantage over China. In 2019, India-UAE trade was $ 59 billion, making the UAE India’s third-largest trading partner. Trade between China and the UAE is around $48 billion.Indian companies have invested around $85 billion in the UAE. The UAE’s investment in India — about $13-14 billion — makes it India’s 9th biggest foreign investor.In contrast, China’s overall direct investment in the UAE reached $650 million in 2019.However, China offers the UAE opportunities to increase its global connectivity. The Emirates need China as a major energy market and as a trans-shipment hub for China’s manufactured products to the Middle East, Europe and Africa.So India cannot be complacent: it faces competition from China in crucial areas including infrastructure, high-tech and healthcare. China is ramping up the delivery of Covid-19 vaccine to the UAE.Economics and strategy are linked, so India must contend with “China clout” in different ways. India will have to tread warily with Israel and the UAE when it comes to dealing with China. Having strong economic ties with Beijing, both countries have asserted that the MEQ is not anti-China and unlike India, neither has a border quarrel with China.At another level, the US has expressed concern over its Israeli ally’s strong economic and advanced technology ties with Beijing. China has developed and is managing three of four of Israel’s strategically important ports, including Haifa, which is situated on the Israeli Mediterranean between Europe, Africa and Asia. Israel does not want to alienate either its American security guarantor or its large Chinese investment partner, which can expand its connectivity by land and sea.India will have to navigate its way through these complex problems between partners very carefully.An economic forum cannot avoid security, especially since America’s withdrawal from Afghanistan — and its earlier pullout from Iraq — make it look weak in Southwest Asia and the Middle East, and as China tries to increase its economic influence in the oil-rich Gulf area. This, in turn, could help to strengthen China's strategic impact in West Asia.So the MEQ cannot ‘rescue’ India from China’s economic challenge which will continue to be buoyed up by its strong economy. Yet, there is considerable scope for India to enhance its presence in the Gulf area through trade and investment, if it can withstand the vagaries of Chinese competition and the involvement of its MEQ partners in West Asian conflicts. India must rise to the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/new-quad-may-bolster-indias-gulf-presence-342426
25-11-2021||---||Yogi’s long-term prospects hang on UP polls||INCREDIBLE as it may sound, Yogi Adityanath is set to become the first chief minister of a national party to complete a full five-year term in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous and politically significant state. In the game of musical chairs that has marked Lucknow thus far, only Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav — leaders of regional parties — hold the distinction of completing an uninterrupted five-year term since 1951. Perhaps the Congress, which was calling the shots in Uttar Pradesh till the 1980s, was wary of powerful regional satraps — from Govind Ballabh Pant to ND Tiwari — in the decades that saw Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira and Rajiv Gandhi serve as prime ministers.An outright victory in February 2022 can make 49-year-old Yogi Adityanath a contender for the post of prime minister in the post-Narendra Modi era. Uttar Pradesh is a state that sends 80 Lok Sabha MPs to Parliament. During the 2019 parliamentary polls, the BJP’s tally was 62, while in the 2017 Assembly polls, it won a staggering 312 out of 403 seats.In the race for the top post in 2024 (or 2025, when Modi will turn 75), Union Home Minister Amit Shah is seen as a ‘natural’ successor on account of his clout within the BJP.Number twos or the contenders for the top job in Indian politics have, however, had a chequered history. The country has had seven deputy prime ministers in Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Morarji Desai, Chaudhary Charan Singh, Jagjivan Ram, YB Chavan, Chaudhary Devi Lal and Lal Krishna Advani. Except for Morarji and Charan Singh, the others failed to make it to the top.By the time Mayawati completed a five-year term in March 2012, she had scored over GB Pant, Kamalapati Tripathi, Sampurnanand, Sucheta Kripalani, ND Tiwari, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Kalyan Singh and other chief ministers of the state since Independence. She was the first chief minister of UP to complete an uninterrupted term.Akhilesh equalled her record in March 2017, but Yogi Adityanath now has a chance to edge them out. There is a cliché too that the road to Delhi (read PM’s chair) goes via Lucknow. Both PV Narasimha Rao and Dr Manmohan Singh had, however, belied this platitude.Govind Ballabh Pant was a freedom fighter who, in 1937, became the chief minister of the then United Province. Pant served as UP chief minister four times — twice before Independence and twice after. But his stints were separated by the Assembly polls and his appointment as the country’s Home Minister in January 1955.Pant was replaced by Sampurnanand, a teacher and a towering figure during the freedom struggle. Though ‘Babu jee’ (as Sampurnanand was fondly called) had the longest stretch as chief minister from December 28, 1954 to December 7, 1960, his tenure was broken by the Assembly polls in April 1957. A firm believer in jyotish (astrology), Sampurnanand’s innings from 1957 to 1962 was cut short by intra-party dispute. A political crisis initiated by Kamalapati Tripathi and Chandra Bhanu Gupta saw Sampurnanand’s shift to the Jaipur Raj Bhawan in December 1960 as state Governor.Sampurnanand’s successor Chandra Bhanu Gupta’s uneasy ties with Indira Gandhi, one-upmanship with Kamalapati Tripathi and Hemvati Nandan Bahugana resulted in political instability and emergence of the first non-Congress regime in UP when Charan Singh became the CM in 1967. The period between 1962 and 1967 saw several chief ministers coming and going. Sucheta Kripalani led the Congress till March 1967 when another round of Assembly polls saw the party struggling. Gupta was back as chief minister in March-April 1967 but could not survive beyond 18 days.After a bout of Charan Singh’s rule and President’s Rule, Gupta returned to power but his government lasted for another eight months before Charan Singh was back with a ragtag non-Congress regime. Throughout the 1970s, the regimes of Charan Singh, Tribhuvan Narain Singh, HN Bahuguna, ND Tiwari. Ram Naresh Yadav and Banarsi Das kept collapsing, paving the way for four spells of President’s Rule.After the 1980 Congress victory, Sanjay Gandhi picked VP Singh, but Sanjay’s death and Indira’s insecure attitude towards Bahugana and others prompted another round of musical chairs that saw VP Singh shifting to Union Cabinet in 1982, and the emergence and exit of Sripat Mishra and ND Tiwari. Rajiv Gandhi’s personal preference was Vir Bahadur Singh. But the communal orgy of violence in Meerut and post-Bofors political exigencies forced Rajiv to draft Vir Bahadur in the Union Cabinet. UP was handed over to Tiwari who took the job for the third and last time as a Congress chief minister of undivided UP.Enter Mulayam Singh Yadav. Mulayam worked out a pact with the Congress to hoist himself as chief minister, but June 1991 Assembly polls saw a resurgent BJP winning the UP polls. Riding high on the Ayodhya plank, Kalyan Singh became the BJP’s mascot, but the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition marked Kalyan’s dismissal and a year of President’s Rule. December 1993 saw the historic but short-lived coming together of Mulayam and Mayawati under the power-sharing formula supervised by Kanshi Ram. Mulayam served as chief minister between December 1993 and June 1995.The masterstroke of bringing Dalits, minorities and backwards under one umbrella proved short-lived. Personality clashes, caste antipathy and jostling ambition led to ugly scenes on June 2, 1995 when halfway through the term, Mulayam sought to break the BSP ranks. Kanshi Ram and Mayawati tried to stage a counter-coup backed by the BJP.Even as Mayawati gathered her flock in the Lucknow state guest house and waited to be called for the floor test, Mulayam’s legislators and party workers stormed the guest house, reportedly to hijack the BSP MLAs. Mayhem followed and UP witnessed another round of President’s Rule.Mayawati subsequently teamed up with the BJP twice but on both occasions, the alliance fell even as chief ministers Mayawati, Kalyan Singh and Jagdambika Pal (who holds the dubious distinction of serving as chief minister for a day) came and went. The BJP’s own rule between 1997 and 2002 saw Kalyan Singh, Prakash Gupta and Rajnath Singh occupying the chair of chief minister.Then Mayawati returned, mustering a majority with BJP support. But once again, the experience proved bitter. Mulayam Singh was back with the support of BSP defectors and independents. His tenure provided some degree of political stability that had been missing since the exit of Sucheta Kripalani. In May 2007, Mulayam’s arch-rival Mayawati defied her critics and even surprised supporters by getting a landslide victory.Since 2017, the BJP has planted its saffron flag firmly in Uttar Pradesh, where its writ is being challenged in western UP by the farmers’ agitation (in spite of Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing the withdrawal of farm laws) and the Brahmin heartburn over the rise of the Thakurs and OBCs. Can Yogi Adityanath defy all odds to emerge as a prime ministerial contender?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/yogis-long-term-prospects-hang-on-up-polls-342425
25-11-2021||---||The road to Afghanistan||INDIA has taken a natural, but seldom used route for dealing with the challenges posed by the ISI-backed Taliban rule in Afghanistan. New Delhi has worked in close collaboration with Afghanistan’s neighbours, with whom India has excellent relations. They are Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan. As former republics of the Soviet Union, they enjoy Russian support and security guarantees. They also enjoy historical relations with neighbouring Iran. India, Iran and Russia have a history of working together in dealing with the Taliban, even before the US invaded Afghanistan, following the 9/11 attacks. Russia and Iran accepted the Indian invitation, which was not responded to positively by either China or Pakistan. The Pashtun-dominated Taliban, which has no significant political base even among fellow Pashtuns, in either Afghanistan or Pakistan, faces opposition from the Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras, Balochis and others, who constitute over 55% of Afghanistan’s population.India is now on the same page with Iran and the five Central Asian neighbours of Afghanistan who have serious concerns about Pakistan’s policies.India and Afghanistan’s neighbours are concerned because the Taliban have created a situation where its ethnic minorities, notably the Tajiks, are seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. Iran feels the fallout of the continuing Taliban persecution of Shia Hazaras in Afghanistan. Adding to the concerns of the neighbours is the huge cache of American arms, now in the possession of the Taliban. India has regular contacts with Afghanistan’s neighbours, as fellow members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. China is now, however, an enthusiastic supporter of the Taliban, with pretences of having good relations with all Central Asian countries. Russia, despite its concerns, would be reluctant to directly take on China on Afghanistan. Pakistan seeks ‘strategic depth’ in Afghanistan and uses Afghan soil as a base for providing haven to terror groups like the LeT and the JeM.The extent of ISI penetration of the Taliban was evident when the then ISI chief was enjoying international publicity in Kabul, on August 15, as the Taliban was set to seize control of Kabul. Pakistan’s then ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed arrived in Kabul and was, no doubt, feeling triumphant, as he had succeeded in forcing the then PM (designate), Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, to flee from Kabul to Kandahar, out of fear of being killed by the goons of the home minister (designate), the notorious Taliban leader, Sirajuddin Haqqani. Baradar returned to Kabul later, in the diminished role of deputy PM. Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund, one of Taliban’s founders, was named PM. His name figures on a UN terrorist blacklist. Mullah Hibatullah Akhundzada, earlier designated to be the Taliban’s supreme leader, sits in solitary splendour in Kandahar.The most powerful minister in the Afghan government is interior minister Sirajuddin Haqqani, who was responsible for the largest number of Taliban attacks on the US forces in Afghanistan. He was also associated with Osama bin Laden and the Al-Qaeda. The Haqqani Network is based in North Waziristan in Pakistan’s Pashtun-dominated Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and operates freely across the Durand Line. Kabul is now administered by Sirajuddin Haqqani’s brother, Khalil-ur-Rahman Haqqani. Sirajuddin Haqqani has a $5 million reward on his head. His family members have been ISI proteges.China and Pakistan have their own axe to grind in Afghanistan. The Taliban provide strategic depth to Pakistan, enabling it to arm and train its jihadis against India. The Taliban have not questioned Pakistani claims on its borders with Afghanistan on the Durand Line drawn by the British. Pakistan, however, now faces serious problems from the Tehriq-e-Taliban, a section of the Taliban, which refuses to accept the Durand Line. It claims that Afghanistan’s borders extend to the banks of the Indus at Attock. Pashtun tempers rose when Pakistan waged vicious attacks on Pashtun towns and villages. Thousands of tribal Pashtuns fled their homes. While the Taliban have facilitated a dialogue between the Pakistani Taliban and the government, the Pashtuns are not going to forget what transpired.India is now on the same page with Iran and the five Central Asian neighbours of Afghanistan who have serious concerns about Pakistan’s policies. The New Delhi meeting on November 10 emphasised that Afghanistan’s territory should not be used to shelter, train or finance terror acts. The Central Asian countries and Iran urged the provision of humanitarian assistance to all sections of people in Afghanistan. India has stepped in, offering 50,000 tonnes of wheat and essential medicines. Pakistan has been approached by India for transit facilities for the supplies. After stalling for some time, it reluctantly indicated that transit would be permitted. Afghanistan and the international community should be prepared for continuing nit-picking by Pakistan and delay in transit facilities.The Taliban have welcomed India’s readiness to supply wheat and called on Pakistan to facilitate its transportation. They are also aware of Chinese ambitions to exploit their vast natural resources, estimated at around $1 trillion. China will seek political and strategic space to get access to the bulk of these resources. Its main problem is that it has treated the Muslim population of Xinjiang brutally. How long can the Taliban, who claim to be champions of Islamic causes worldwide, look the other way? Afghanistan is set for a long period of instability, volatility and violence, including on its borders. Meanwhile, summing up Imran Khan’s problems, veteran Pakistani journalist Hamid Mir recently noted: ‘Khan is determined to secure a second term at any cost. General Bajwa may also like to extend his own term. Lt General Hameed seems to want to succeed him. But soon, the Generals won’t be able to coexist. The Prime Minister may choose between Bajwa and Hameed, but he has no choice between law and lawlessness’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-road-to-afghanistan-342424
