26-11-2021||---||Trinamool’s expansion plans face challenges||THE Trinamool Congress (TMC) has made it clear that it is tired of waiting for the national leadership of the Congress to get its act together. The party has decided to expand its footprint in the country, arguing that in due course, it would be the ‘real Congress’. Last week, former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar joined the TMC, as did former diplomat and Rajya Sabha MP Pavan Varma, ex-adviser to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, along with retired cricketer Kirti Azad, who has journeyed from the BJP to the Congress and now to the TMC. There is a flurry of activity around TMC chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, but what does it all add up to?A plan to expand in non-traditional areas is ambitious and could work only if the TMC does indeed become a magnet for disillusioned members of the Congress, the largest national party after the BJP. It’s worth remembering that one of the most significant Congress leaders in Assam, Sushmita Dev, is now a TMC Rajya Sabha MP. Indeed, it’s in the Northeast where the TMC has gained a foothold and seems to have occupied the Opposition space in BJP-ruled Tripura that was for decades ruled by the Left. So, in a sense, this TMC expansion challenges both Congress and the Left and works on Mamata Banerjee’s zest to defeat the BJP, besides her equations with satraps of other regional parties.It is also the first time in contemporary Indian politics that a party perceived as regional, which also benefits from tapping sub-nationalism in Bengal, is making a serious bid to go national and is in effect saying ‘Dilli Chalo’. Members such as Pavan Varma and Mumbai-based RTI activist Saket Gokhale will be visible as spokespersons of the TMC to give the party a more diverse texture, besides the many forceful speakers from Bengal. After a few days in Delhi, Mamata Banerjee will head to Mumbai to meet Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Indeed, the arithmetic behind the moves is to ensure that regardless of what happens in Uttar Pradesh, the two states that send the second and third largest contingents of MPs to Parliament — Maharashtra (48) and West Bengal (42) — bring down the BJP’s numbers in the 2024 General Election.The process from going local to going vocal (nationally) began after the TMC defeated the BJP in the Bengal Assembly elections in May this year. It’s since become clearer that the party leadership mantle will be passed on to the CM’s 34-year-old nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, an MP who has also been active in getting former TMC members who shifted to the BJP back into the fold, and in expanding the party in other parts, particularly Tripura and other areas of the Northeast. Simultaneously, the groundwork has begun under successful election strategist Prashant Kishor. His political consultancy, I-PAC, has been signed up for a five-year contract by the TMC, the longest commitment for the company that has a good success rate in managing elections in several states. From polling voters to detailing booths to messaging, I-PAC is recruiting youngsters under its ambitious expansion plans.The journey began with TMC strategists preparing a blueprint and first exploring if the Congress could be revitalised and made to work in harmony with strong regional forces. In most direct contests with the Congress in 2019, the BJP won over 90 per cent of the seats, but when confronted with a regional party, it won 52 per cent. Currently, the BJP has 12 chief ministers and 10 of them are in states where the Congress is the main Opposition party. The BJP rarely wins in states ruled by regional forces. But the team now working for the TMC concluded that under its current leadership, the Congress cannot be relied upon to lead a robust Opposition. The fact that the Congress has not considered removing its Bengal state unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, known for making disrespectful remarks about Mamata, possibly also rankled, even as this also reveals the Congress’ lack of application to building harmony within the Opposition space.There is a conundrum about Rahul Gandhi. Most Opposition parties, even allies, believe his approach to politics fundamentally amounts to holding his space in the troubled party and waiting for the BJP to defeat itself. The BJP, meanwhile, believes that as long as Rahul is pitted against Narendra Modi, it has the upper hand. The Prashant Kishor team, say sources, also checked out AAP as a vehicle for a national plan, but concluded that the young party’s vision currently seems to be confined to being a BJP-like party built around a charismatic leader. Besides, AAP has national ambitions of its own.Meanwhile, from within the Congress, Priyanka Gandhi is indeed on the ground in Uttar Pradesh. But overall, the Congress’ leadership strategy appears to be to remain on top of the Opposition ladder without doing much work. The TMC is now ready to challenge that model and it has nothing to lose by trying. But it’s an onerous task to conquer new territories without a traditional electoral base.The TMC’s plans will really work only if Congress members with a support base of their own start migrating to the party. And that would depend on the results of the forthcoming Assembly polls, leadership decisions within the Congress and the gains they could get from joining the TMC. But Mamata is certainly on a mission of expansion and outreach to other parties; she believes that her natural allies would be DMK, Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party, Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress Party and Telangana Rashtra Samithi. But should the SP-led alliance in Uttar Pradesh manage to defeat the BJP, all national-level Opposition calculations are likely to change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trinamools-expansion-plans-face-challenges-342820
26-11-2021||---||Misleading notion of ‘undefined boundary’||CHINA is the flavour of the season as far as books are concerned. As India goes on the back foot over territory, trade, border and high-table diplomacy, authors — diplomats, journalists, defence experts — are vying with each other to convince the ‘overinformed’ yet beleaguered Indians that all chaos, confusion and confrontation between New Delhi and Beijing originate from an ‘undefined boundary’ and the ‘fractured Himalayas’. And though the onus lies on both China and India to sit and resolve the boundary issue once and for all, the Communist Party of China (CPC) continues to be a difficult customer, especially the way it negotiates and resorts to a hard bargain.There is a tendency to avoid hurting the sensitivities and sentiments of the CPC even if it resorts to undiplomatic acts to harm India. Expectedly, we are witnessing unabashed Nehru-bashing. True or not, Nehru erred. But was it mala fide or motivated? No. It was a bona fide error of judgement born out of misjudged navigation by diplomats. The error was promptly rectified at the first available opportunity in the Lok Sabha on November 20, 1950: “Our maps show that the McMahon Line is our boundary and that’s our boundary, map or no map… and we will not let anybody come across that boundary”. How precise and pointed was the much-maligned PM’s declaration!Indeed, nothing could have been better than the Indian stand as China had just forcibly captured Tibet in October 1950, a diversionary tactic in the face of US-led forces threatening to cross the Korea-China border in June that year. India’s Home Minister Sardar Patel wrote on November 7, 1950, to Nehru about the ‘perfidy’ and ‘malevolence’ of the CPC-led Red Army and its gross inhumanity in the abode of the non-Chinese Buddhist lamas.The then PM Nehru’s firm stand notwithstanding, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) led by CPC dictator Mao Zedong brazenly violated the McMahon Line in 1962 and penetrated deep, inflicting a politico-diplomatic catastrophe. Nevertheless, by resorting to a unilateral ceasefire and a voluntary retreat to the pre-war position, 20 km behind the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the CPC stamped its political acceptability on the McMahon Line as the boundary between India and China. The CPC silently conceded that its pre-war border-stand was wrong, and the intrusion into India a monumental folly. The post-war act of China, therefore, was nothing but a belated recognition of the McMahon Line as de jure India-China boundary.That the rock-steady Indian stand on the border issue was justified and rational can be gauged from two comments of eminent westerners, whose sympathy and support invariably lay with the CPC as the victim, and democratic India as the implied devil. Gunnar Myrdal wrote in Asian Drama: “First…instinctive reaction of every new government” (the successor independent states of Asia, Africa etc.) “was to hold fast to territory bequeathed to it”. Why not? What’s wrong about it? If the British-ruled Indian territory went back to indigenous rulers on attaining freedom, why this remote remorse, cribbing and crying? Myrdal further said: “What the colonial power had ruled, the new state must rule.”Do western intellectuals expect or want former colonies which attained independence to be broken into pieces like the Balkans in eastern Europe? In Europe, only five or six states could be big powers with colonies; the vast landlocked East European soil, known as the Balkans, was rarely allowed to be strong, big or united. It was usually bruised and broken into a small, weak and submissive demography, schemed by Czarist Russia, Habsburg of western Europe, Hohenzollern of Prussia (Germany), Ottoman Empire of Turkey and British monarchy in the guise of finding a solution at a diplomatic conference such as the Congress of Berlin in 1878.Historian Arnold Toynbee said, “If anyone paid any attention to what Durand and McMahon were doing, they would have written it off as just another move in the immoral game of power that the British were playing… Consecration of these British-made lines as heirlooms in the states’ national heritages is an unexpected and unfortunate turn of the history’s wheel.”Toynbee saw only one side, ignoring the other one. What the British did may or may not be immoral, but all empires do that and end with empires with undefined/undemarcated/fluctuating borders owing to frequent victory or defeat in war. The Chinese empires did it for centuries. Russian empires lost sight and count of their oscillating boundaries in the vastness of Mackinder’s ‘Eurasian Heartland’. In comparison, the McMahon Line is a puny line which was made the boundary/border separating the remote Chinese empire’s unfulfilled desire of unconquered territory from the proximate demography of South Asia’s Indian geography.There simply cannot be any comparison or debate. Nehru was spot on. “The McMahon Line is our boundary… map or no map”. How many of his successors till date have had the intellectual honesty to make so simple and yet so correct a declaration? Why there’s no change in the stand Nehru took in Parliament 71 years ago?Regarding Kashmir, which acceded to India on October 26, 1947, several people are coming up with the same old argument — ‘undefined boundary’. They point to three overlapping boundaries in the Ladakh sector. But there are several questions: What did the Kashmir state’s map look like when Gulab Singh got it from the British in 1846? Subsequently, in what shape and size did Kashmir join India under Maharaja Hari Singh in 1947? Where’s that map? Isn’t it a fact that Hari Singh’s accession (to India) document had mentioned him as the ruler of Tibet also? These questions are all the more relevant because there was no sign of Chinese sovereignty over Tibet or in the vicinity of Kashmir’s Ladakh in 1947. Like Kashmir, Tibet too was indisputably an independent state.So, all these words about the border being ‘un-demarcated’ and ‘fractured’ would lose relevance once the 1846 and 1947 Kashmir maps surface, like the well-established/demarcated eastern border’s McMahon Line. Despite difficulties, the British did delineate India’s north-eastern sector with a recognisable line. The sooner Xi Jinping-led CPC realises and accepts this reality, the safer would be the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/misleading-notion-of-undefined-boundary-342819
26-11-2021||THIS week||The round goes to farmers||Modi should have learnt many lessons after his experience of dealing with the adamant farmers. He should think of reining in his over-vocal followers. The farmers have won a victory of sorts. Their resolve to continue until the three farm laws, that the government rushed through the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha without taking the beneficiaries into confidence, were withdrawn remained remarkably firm! And the mind game ended when the PM conceded their core demand. He had to surrender despite the dent in his image as a strong man and a strong leader. The downside of the Lakhimpur Kheri episode involving his minister’s son and the upcoming state elections left him with no choice.I do not know if this decision to withdraw the laws will change the course of elections. If the BJP loses in UP, the loss would have been attributed to the farmers’ agitation and now that charge cannot be made. There is a chance that Punjab’s farmers may be attracted to the new party formed by Capt Amarinder Singh, but most of my friends in Punjab do not expect Amarinder to benefit.In western UP, the farmers’ leader, Tikait, has become the undisputed leader. The Jats of western UP had voted BJP in the last elections. They could return to the party, especially if the MSP demand is conceded and the Lakhimpur Kheri matter is sorted out. Nerves had been strained since both sides had dug in their heels. Personal relations may have been strained beyond repair and that would need political jugglery of the most professional standards to chip in. The farmers of Punjab, Haryana and eastern UP will have to redefine their stands. It would be most interesting for the pundits to watch what happens.While the aftermath of the withdrawal of the three farm laws plays itself out and political alignments are redrawn, the civil society, bete noire of NSA Ajit Doval, came to the rescue of the beleaguered Muslim minority in Gurugram. This development is one that should give liberal democrats a big dollop of hope.Like the other two Abrahamic religions, Judaism and Christianity, Islam also sets aside one day in the week for community prayer when the entire congregation of believers living in a specified locality comes together to pray. They ignore status, class and caste (in the case of South Asians) and take their place next to each other in order of arrival time at the venue. The Jews observe the Sabbath on Saturdays. When Christianity was established two or more millennia later, Sunday was chosen by them as the day of prayer. Islam chose Friday to differentiate itself from the earlier two.I am not sure about the practice in Judaism, but Christians, on finding their numbers increasing and churches unable to accommodate all at any one time, prescribed different hours on Sundays. Common prayer was permitted even on Saturday evenings after sunset. Islam has not made that concession yet. Hence, the afternoon prayer on Friday is a must for all Muslims the world over. Since enough space is unavailable in mosques to accommodate their ever-increasing members, clerics have permitted prayer on open roads. This inconveniences other users of public roads.The faithful in Gurugram were allotted an open space in a maidan by the local body for their Friday prayer. This was resented by right-wing Hindus who made it impossible for the Muslims to pray peacefully. A local Hindu businessman is reported to have thrown open his unused shop and other unused enclosed rooms in his possession for the common prayer. He said he did not want his son to grow up hating people of other religions! Such a person needs to be encouraged and felicitated. He and his ilk will preserve the unity and integrity of this great country where many religions abound.Whether they were following Akshay Yadav’s footsteps, or their own intuitions, keepers of five gurdwaras in Gurugram offered their unused basements to their Muslim brothers for the prayers. Sikhs have always been open-minded and generous. In this case, too, they provided the grand gesture like they did during the farmers’ agitation when they opened road-side langar in true Sikh tradition.I harken back to my days as our ambassador to Romania. I was concurrently accredited to two other countries, one of them being Albania. Mother Teresa was an Albanian by birth. She used to visit Tirana, its capital, at times. I had occasion to meet her there. I was told she had cut the ribbon to allow entry to a mosque. She had been approached by a group of young boys who had grown up without a religious identity since Albania was officially an atheist state. She told me she had no qualms about cutting the ribbon since worship of divinity by any name, was welcome! Apparently, Akshay Yadav and the gurdwara keepers were on the same page as the Saint of Kolkata!The Hindu Right has succeeded in making gurdwara leaders change their stand on accommodating Muslims! It is not expected that places of worship will open their doors for worship by the followers of another religion. But the initial gesture speaks volumes of a community’s views on the hate and division being propagated. If more and more citizens, who I am sure think likewise but take the easier option of doing nothing about it, begin voicing their opposition to hate, a movement can be soon in place to unite this country. With the enemy in the East displaying its dragon’s talons, we need unity more than ever before.Modi should have learnt many lessons after his experience of dealing with the adamant farmers. He should think of reining in his over-vocal followers. I do not know whether he can pull off this transformation in the party’s strategy but he should consider it. If hate and division are crucial to electoral victory in 2024, the prayer of all true patriots for unity will remain where it now rests — merely a dream!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-round-goes-to-farmers-342818
