27-11-2021||---||Iran’s nuclear calculus of compellence||IRAN’S nuclear programme lies nestled in an intricate web of strategic possibilities. It is a fine example of how the complexities of the 21st century enable national assertions that are difficult to restrain. It is also instructive to see how its strategic location and domination of the hydrocarbon sea lanes gives Iran a compelling autonomy. As negotiations on the JCPOA (Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action) resume in Vienna on November 29, a view of the considerable implications is apt.The Iranian programme commenced with the vision of the Shah of Iran, enabled by the US Atoms for Peace programme in March 1967.The US provided a 5-MW research reactor, Iran signed the NPT and was ratified as a member. The Shah unfolded a plan for 23 nuclear power stations by 2000 AD, and the US moved the CENTO, Nuclear Science Institute, to Tehran from Baghdad in 1968. In 1976, the US built a reprocessing facility to extract plutonium, completing the nuclear fuel cycle in Iran.The Iranian Revolution of 1979 and the rise of Ayatollah Khomeni signalled the abrupt US exit (labelled The Great Satan). The US responded with increasing opposition to the Iranian programme. Several developed nations, however, exploited the vacuum due to its commercial promise and ensured vibrancy of the programme. It was in 1984 (during the Iran-Iraq war) that a West German intelligence report revealed that the Iranians were also pursuing the creation of a nuclear weapon with uranium from Pakistan.This ushered in an era of enhanced IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) scrutiny, together with UN and US restraints and sanctions. The formal IAEA acknowledgements commenced in 2003, when it was reported that Iran had failed to report its enrichment and reprocessing. In 2005, the UN Security Council imposed sanctions, demanding the suspension of enrichment.Iran, post the Islamic Revolution, has always claimed its inalienable right to a peaceful nuclear programme. Its nuclear weapons’ ambition, however, goes back to the ruminations of the Shah on the balance of power as well as its painful experience of the Iran-Iraq war (1980-88), when it feared a nuclear attack as well as contemplated its use in terminating the war.Iran developed a geographically distributed location profile for its facilities. While permitting the IAEA regular inspections, suspicions of its core weapons development programme continued. This resulted in a paradigm of sanctions and restrictions on Iran as well as a polarisation of the international community. Benefiting from Russia, and more significantly, China, the Iranian programme, despite the restrictions, raced on.The US and other UN Permanent Members realised that the economic debilitation of Iran had had a limited effect on its nuclear progress. Resultantly, in July 2015, a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was signed between the UN Permanent Members plus Germany (JCPOA P5+1) and Iran. The removal of sanctions was to be reciprocated by an Iranian reduction in stockpiles and no movement towards a weapons programme.Iran, however, continued with missile development and testing of MRBMs (medium-range ballistic missiles) as well as other eye-catching weapon programmes. Calling the JCPOA as an inadequate mechanism and deeply suspicious of the intentions of Iran, the then US President Trump withdrew from it in May 2018.The present Vienna initiative is because of President Biden’s commitment to move ahead on the JCPOA and comes on the heels of Iran and US indirect talks.AQ Khan, with his Pakistan-based proliferation network, reportedly helped Iran in the hope that their bomb would neutralise Israel. The geostrategic realities present the prospect of Saudi Arabia seeking a nuclear weapon if Iran develops one.Meanwhile, Pakistan and Iran are now bitterly opposed to each other in Afghanistan as well as on issues related to the Shia minority. Pakistan has been an ardent backer of the US sanctions on Iran. China, ignoring the sanctions, has been buying hydrocarbons from Iran, while supporting its nuclear programme. India has close relations with Iran, continues to import its oil and has convergence with Iran related to Afghanistan. Iran also provides a valuable access for India to the Central Asian Republics.In the nuclear domain, India is crowded in by two unpredictable and obdurate nuclear neighbours. In truth, despite all strategic equations and scenarios, in the nuclear domain between two or more potential adversaries, unintended consequences are critical. A nuclear Iran opposed to Israel and Saudi Arabia (among others), unleashing prospects for a nuclear Saudi Arabia, all in the Indian immediate neighbourhood of consequence, stretches the strategic envelope well beyond what the international community is equipped to deal with. Understandably, the Indian stand has been that Iran adheres to the IAEA regulations and safeguards.A far more significant observation is how Iran has made its nuclear ambitions central to its exercise of sovereign exceptionalism. The Iranian nuclear facilities and programme have been attacked, commencing from the Stuxnet attack of 2010 that reportedly destroyed many centrifuges to the recent reported sabotage at the Natanz facility in April 2021. There has been a chain of assassinations of nuclear scientists, the latest being Mohsen Fakhrizadeh in 2020.The Iranian economy has been severely mauled by sanctions and restrictions. Oil and petroleum products that account for 80 per cent of Iranian exports were down to 300,000 barrels per day from a pre-2012 level of 2.1 million barrels a day. None of this deterred the modernisation and production of the total facilities.With focused determination, Iran has upgraded and modernised its facilities as well as enhanced stockpiles and enrichment. It has assiduously followed a missile development plan. Once the US withdrew from the JCPOA, Iran said it was no longer bound by any restrictions and would progress as it saw best. President Ebrahim Raisi will, undoubtedly, take a hard line in the ensuing Vienna negotiations while the Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, has stated that they are in no hurry.The Chinese and Russian support, undoubtedly, gives Iran great comfort. Iran’s wider arc of influence, enhanced post the Iraq war and the survival of the Assad regime in Syria, is intoxicating. The performance of entities Iran supports such as Hezbollah and the Houthis is gratifying. Adherence to nuclear autonomy, additionally, by Iran as a symbol of national assertion is plainly apparent.We must accept that force and intimidation, coupled with economic pain, do not prevail on nations that have strategic assets and have chosen a path linked to deeply emotive issues. The present international order of competing power centres, with few convergences, provide willing partners to conscientious dissenters. The negotiations at Vienna are critical for the world and the region. Despite vocal initial positions, the hope is that flexible negotiations will lead to a rapprochement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/irans-nuclear-calculus-of-compellence-343194
27-11-2021||---||Modi lost on farm laws due to farmers’ unity||IN his seven years as India’s Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has seen only two major defeats. The first was in 2015, when PM Modi had to withdraw amendments to the Land Acquisition Act, because, as he said in his Mann Ki Baat, “Farmers were being misled and a fear psychosis created.” And now, in what is, perhaps, an even bigger climbdown, the PM has cancelled the farm laws that he had pushed through Parliament. This time, he didn’t blame the Opposition, but the government itself for failing “to explain to some farmers such a sacred thing which is absolutely pure and for the benefit of the farmers.”On the face of it, both these sets of laws were meant for farmers. The first, to let them monetise their land assets and exit agriculture if they wanted, and the second, to earn more by getting an unregulated and unmediated access to the market. In reality, neither had anything to do with farmers; they were meant for India Inc, especially Big Business. To understand this, we have to take a detour, outside agriculture, into the world of industry.During the 10-year rule of the UPA, the value of new projects announced by the private sector averaged about 16 per cent of the nominal GDP. This includes a peak of 32 per cent during the boom years between 2006-07 and 2008-09, and a slide to just 4 per cent in the last two years of UPA-2. Since then, the value of new private projects announced has languished at less than 5 per cent of the GDP. Private investments began to drop from 2010-11 and have never picked up since then.There is only one reason for this — Indians do not earn enough to buy the goods and services that our companies produce. In the mid-2000s, at the peak of the global financial bubble, money flowed into factories, offices, housing, roads, flyovers, airports, ports and power plants. The assumption was that the middle class was growing, and consumption demand would grow at a fast pace. So, there was a rush to build capacities to cater to the coming consumption explosion. This balloon was burst by the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09, and since then, India Inc has had to deal with a full-blown demand crisis.But capital cannot sit idle; it must constantly keep investing and expanding to survive. So, India’s captains of industry need avenues to invest their cash. One option was to export goods and services. ‘Make in India’ was one such attempt, but it failed because Indian companies didn’t have the experience or resources to compete with China when it came to high-value exports, and it wasn’t worth their while to compete with Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Vietnam, in low-margin goods.The other option was to target the top 5-7 per cent of Indians, who have some purchasing power. Now, the only thing the affluent buy, which is not produced by corporate India, is agricultural produce, because it has been historically barred from entering the farm sector. If Big Business could become dominant in India’s farm economy, then not only would it be able to control the distribution and retailing of food and vegetables, it could also reorient crop production to target the export market.The three farm laws, which are now being repealed, were meant to do exactly that: open the doors for Big Business to enter agriculture and give it institutional and legal protection to gradually take it over.The consensus in the commentariat is that these farm laws would have ultimately helped the farmer. The fit would have survived in farming, while the rest would have moved to better-paying professions within the wider agrarian sector, including things like food-processing, storage and retail. Even agricultural labourers were supposedly going to get a better deal from the corporatisation of farming.The problem, according to most analysts, was that the Modi government’s arrogance made it steamroll the laws without consulting farmers or even trying to convince them that these laws were good for them.But hubris alone cannot explain why these farm laws had to be withdrawn, especially since the Modi-Shah team always calculates the electoral fallout of policy decisions. What is more likely is that the Modi government assumed that small and marginal farmers would not be affected by the farm laws, because a majority of them do not have access to the APMC mandis or to government procurement at minimum support prices (MSP). The expectation was that the poor farmers would welcome the fact that the entry of corporates would weaken the hold of rich farmers, grain traders and moneylenders.The BJP clearly underestimated the role of MSP in the lives of poor farmers. The government’s own data shows that while only 5.8 per cent of the paddy farmers and 3.6 per cent of the wheat farmers sold to government agencies in 2018-19, 41 per cent and 37 per cent, respectively, were aware of the MSP. Farmers know through experience that those who get the MSP or are able to sell to the agencies, get the best prices. They also know that crops where a large chunk is procured by the government — paddy and wheat — have the most stable prices. So, the farmers want an extension of the MSP and government procurement, rather than its withdrawal.The farm laws were also brought by a government which had otherwise provided various ‘touch-points’ for the rural poor to access the state. The various schemes run by the Modi government have enabled the poorest to survive, at subsistence level, in an economic climate where getting work has become increasingly difficult. The poor, therefore, desire the presence of the government in their lives. Poor farmers would rather unite with rich farmers and traders who want government procurement to continue, instead of corporate ‘outsiders’ who could immiserise them.It is this unexpected, cross-class unity of farmers that forced the Modi government to repeal the farm laws. In a sense, it is a political defeat of Big Business and its attempts to usurp the space occupied by landlords and big farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/modi-lost-on-farm-laws-due-to-farmers-unity-343193
27-11-2021||---||It’s not shipshape||THE commissioning of two naval platforms in Mumbai over the past week — the guided-missile destroyer INS Visakhapatnam and the diesel submarine INS Vela is a significant punctuation in India’s warship building effort and is to be welcomed. The 7,400-tonne destroyer, with some state-of-the-art features, is a tribute to the professional acumen of India’s indigenous warship design capabilities and the submarine, built with French collaboration, will enhance a strategic niche competence.The Maritime Capability Perspective Plan that had envisioned a force of a 200-ship Navy by 2027 has now been trimmed to 170 platforms.This modest addition to India’s depleted naval inventory must be seen against the backdrop of China. In the period that India was commissioning naval platforms, media reports indicated that China was building a secret military facility in the UAE port of Khalifa and that this was being done furtively without the knowledge of the host country.The Chinese footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) is steadily increasing. Beijing acquired a military base at Djibouti in the Horn of Africa in 2017 and is heavily invested in ports in Pakistan and Sri Lanka. In essence, from Galwan to Gwadar, the military challenge from China is an abiding factor for the Indian security planner.Given the Covid-induced fiscal constraints that India is coping with, the Navy (often termed the Cinderella service since it receives the least funding support among the three armed forces) has had to trim its acquisition plans in a marked manner. The Maritime Capability Perspective Plan (MCPP) that had envisioned a force of a 200-ship Navy by 2027 has now been trimmed to 170 platforms.In contrast, the US think tank, Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) has estimated that if the current pace of warship-building is sustained by Beijing, the PLA navy could have 425 platforms by 2030. India may not seek or aspire for quantitative military equivalence with its northern neighbour, given that China is benchmarking itself apropos the US as a competitor/adversary. However, one statistic by way of the time taken to build a warship in India merits scrutiny.Construction on the destroyer Visakhapatnam began in October 2013 and the ship was launched in April 2015. Finally, after eight years from commencement, the warship was commissioned in late 2021.In comparison, in the past five years, Beijing has added between 14 and 22 platforms annually to its navy. A nation that aspires to acquire a credible trans-border maritime profile has to acquire a certain level of proven ship-design and nimble ship-building capability. India has been found wanting in the latter aspect.While India has the potential to be a maritime power that would enhance its composite national power and improve the socio-economic indicators of its sizeable demography — it lacks the requisite strategic perspicacity and national resolve.Naval power is only one attribute of a nation’s holistic maritime capability. Paradoxically, despite its favourable geography, wherein the Indian peninsula majestically dominates the Indian Ocean, allowing it to harness connectivity for trade and monitor the natural choke-points to ensure security — even 70-plus years after Independence — Delhi remains unable to realise its natural maritime potential.To his credit, PM Modi accorded the maritime domain a degree of political visibility when he coined the acronym SAGAR (security and growth for all in the region) for the IOR in 2015. However, in the intervening seven years there has not been any substantive enhancement of national maritime capability.In relation to hard naval power, the budgetary allocation for the silent service that had reached upwards of 18 per cent of the overall defence budget in FY 2012-13 has now shrunk to less than 14 per cent. Cost and time overruns in warship-building have become a tenacious constraint — barring a private sector exception. Indian ports and harbours are operating well below the globally accepted median of efficiency. It is a matter of shame that India, despite its economic and global trade status, does not have a single port on the list of global 20 major ports.Thus, while the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh asserted at the commissioning ceremony of INS Visakhapatnam that ‘We have every opportunity to build India into an indigenous ship-building hub’, the ground reality does not correspond with the political rhetoric.While it is gratifying that the Navy has placed orders with Indian shipyards for 39 of the 41 ships being built and the initiative is being heralded as a testament to the commitment to ‘atmanirbhar Bharat’, a reality check is more granular. The equipment on INS Visakhapatnam is illustrative. While the cost of the ship is disaggregated as being 75 per cent indigenous — or paid for in Indian rupees — the inventory that makes the platform a fighting unit is largely imported. The main gun is of Italian origin, the Barak missile and fire-control radar are from Israel and the gas turbines are from Ukraine. These details are glossed over and a more rosy picture is sought to be projected apropos of indigenisation.While no nation produces every bit of military equipment indigenously, a certain core competence in ordnance and propulsion is a must. India is yet to acquire that level of ‘atmanirbharta’, though the success in areas like sonars and electronic warfare is commendable.Accreting tangible maritime/naval capability is a long lead-time process and needs sustained policy support and assured funding. This has remained elusive. Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, who lays down office at the end of November, has a pithy yet persuasive policy prescription: contain China, punish Pakistan, reassure Russia, invigorate the IOR and upscale ties with the US.This is a template that needs to be internalised by the Indian higher defence establishment in the decades ahead as Delhi seeks to acquire an appropriate level of relevance in the IOR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/its-not-shipshape-343187
